the applicant was born in 1983 and is detained in sztum. at the time of the events in question, the applicant was serving a prison sentence in the barczewo prison. on 8 january 2011 the applicant’s grandmother died. on 10 january 2011 the applicant lodged a request with the director of prison and the penitentiary judge for leave to attend her funeral which was to take place on 12 january 2011. together with his application he submitted a statement from his sister e.k. who confirmed that she would personally collect the applicant from prison and bring him back after the funeral. on 11 january 2011 the penitentiary judge of the olsztyn regional court (sędzia penitencjarny sądu okręgowego w olsztynie) allowed the applicant to attend the funeral under prison officers’ escort. the reasoning of the decision read as follows:“in view of [the applicant’s] multiple convictions and his long term of imprisonment there is no guarantee that he will return to prison” 9. the applicant refused to attend the funeral, since he believed his appearance under escort of uniformed officers would create a disturbance during the ceremony. on the same day the applicant lodged an appeal with the olsztyn regional court (sąd okręgowy) complaining that the compassionate leave was granted under escort and also that he was only allowed to participate in the funeral (not the preceding church service). on 3 february 2011 the olsztyn regional court upheld the penitentiary judge’s decision and dismissed the appeal. the court stressed that the applicant had been allowed to participate in the funeral under prison officers’ escort. it further noted that the applicant was a habitual offender sentenced to a long term of imprisonment therefore there was no positive criminological prognosis and no guarantee that he would have returned to prison after the ceremony.
the applicant was born in 1982 and is currently detained in cricova. in december 2010 the applicant was arrested in the russian federation and extradited to moldova, where he was placed in detention on 29 december 2010 on the basis of the detention warrant of 14 february 2002. the applicant lodged a habeas corpus request in which he complained, inter alia, that he had not been informed about the detention warrant of 14 february 2002 within seventy-two hours, as provided by law, and that there were no relevant and sufficient reasons to deprive him of his liberty. during his detention the applicant was jailed in prison no. 13 in chişinău between 29 december 2010 and 22 march 2012 and after 10 january 2013. the toilets were separated from the rest of the cells by a wall which was seventy centimetres high or by a curtain and were located at a distance of some 1.5 metres from the table where the inmates served their meals. the inmates were allowed to take showers only once a week and were subjected to passive smoking. undoubtedly, progress has been achieved in improving conditions of detention. the authorities themselves pointed out that institution no. the special rapporteur was informed of government plans to close down this institution. whereas the special rapporteur notes that the minimum norms regarding nutrition of detainees (government decision n. 609 of 29 may 2006) are checked on a daily basis and that, according to the financial plan of the penitentiary department, the food budget for 2008 had almost doubled in comparison to 2004 and is set to rise further, he also received consistent allegations regarding the poor quality and quantity of food. ...” in its report for 2009 (page 117, “conditions of detention”), the centre for human rights in moldova (“the human rights centre”, which also acts as the moldovan ombudsman) found, inter alia, that:“regarding personal hygiene, clothing and bedding, despite [the fact that] government decision no. in this connection, the minister of justice provided information to the ombudsman about the expenditure on prisoners’ food in 2010. in the prisons, with the exception of taraclia prison no. 1, detainees are held in large-capacity cells insufficiently equipped for their daily needs, namely areas for sleeping, for everyday living and for sanitary equipment.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in naro-fominsk in the moscow region. she died of the wound shortly afterwards. then the officers questioning him showed him a call log from ms e.’s phone, informed him of the killing and suggested that he confess to mitigate his sentence. the applicant was not provided with legal assistance on 18 march 2004. no physical force was applied to the applicant. in the government’s submission, on 18 march 2004 the applicant complained to the town prosecutor’s office; however, he did not raise the issue of ill-treatment. a handwritten statement signed by the applicant and dated 19 march 2004 affirmed that the applicant’s rights had been explained to him; that he did not require legal assistance; that the “bodily injuries visible at [that] moment on [his] face and body [had been] inflicted on 11 march 2004 by [his] roommate dima”; and that police officers had not used force against him. in the early morning on 19 march 2004 the applicant was placed in a temporary detention centre (изолятор временного содержания, hereinafter “ivs”). according to the government, in the course of the interview he described how he had committed the crime. he also selected a knife similar to that used to stab ms e. from a selection of four knives available at a local shop. on 26 march 2004 the police transported the applicant to a remand prison. however, the staff on duty refused to admit the applicant as he had visible injuries. on 18 june 2004 mr a., an investigator with the town prosecutor’s office, refused to initiate criminal proceedings into the alleged ill-treatment. he observed that upon arrival at the ivs the applicant had had a bruise under his right eye and yet had made no complaints about his state of health, and noted that, according to the ivs logbook, an ambulance had been called for the applicant on account of an epileptic fit. the applicant raised the matter of ill-treatment before the regional court at his trial.
the applicants were born in 1983 and 2007 respectively and live in gevgelija, in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. on 31 may 2007, on an application by the father, the gevgelija social welfare centre (“the centre”) made an order specifying that he could see the second applicant at the first applicant’s house every friday for two hours. the court, noting the child’s young age, dismissed the first applicant’s defence (that she had not been consulted and notified about the centre’s order of 31 may 2007; that the child had not been developing properly at the time; and that the father had not shown any interest for the child) and sentenced her to six months’ imprisonment, suspended for one year. the first applicant was also ordered to allow the father to see the child within 30 days after the judgment would become final. after actions have been taken and facts have been established ... on a meeting held on 12 november 2007 the expert team found that no communication could yet be established with [the first applicant] and the parents could not agree on [the second applicant’s] right to have regular contacts and meetings with the non-cohabitant parent. the first applicant confirmed that she had received the enforcement order of 28 may 2008. she confirmed that the first applicant had been served with all the relevant orders the centre had made. in a judgment of the same date the first-instance court, presided over by judge i.s., lastly, it endorsed the reasons of the first-instance court regarding her custodial sentence. on 9 july 2009 the centre gave the father custody of the second applicant for fifteen days. on 30 july 2009, the date when the first applicant started serving the sentence, the centre gave the father, of its own motion and on the basis of section 87(6) of the family act (see paragraph 54 below), temporary custody of the second applicant pending the conclusion of custody proceedings which he had initiated in august 2008 (see paragraph 33 below). according to the first applicant, on 23 november 2009 a lawyer acting on her behalf contacted the centre to find out the whereabouts of her daughter and it was allegedly on that occasion that she was given the centre’s order of 30 july 2009 (see paragraph 26 above). on an application lodged by the first applicant, on 5 march 2010, the order of 10 february 2010 was replaced by a new order by the centre, dated 17 march 2010, according to which the first applicant was allowed to stay with the second applicant every second weekend in the month, from friday (3 p.m.) to monday (9 a.m.). it also admitted a report by the centre, dated 24 september 2009, in which welfare officers confirmed that the first applicant had the necessary capacity to provide basic care for the child, but that she had continuously prevented her from seeing the father. in this connection, the court stated:“the court took into consideration the [centre’s welfare officers’] opinion, but it has found that it would be in the best interests of the child, given the child’s (young) age and current stage of her development, for her to remain in the custody of the mother.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in oleksandrivka, kirovograd region. on 3 february 2007 the applicant was assaulted. according to the subsequent findings of medical experts, she sustained haematomas on her jaw, shoulder and hip, a bruise under her right eye, concussion, and a displaced rib fracture. the applicant alleges that her assailants were mr and mrs k., her daughter’s former parents-in-law, whereas the domestic authorities found that it was only mrs k. who had assaulted the applicant. on 4 february 2007 the applicant lodged a complaint with the police. on 5 february 2007 a forensic medical expert examined the applicant. the expert classified the injuries as “bodily harm of medium severity”. on 20 may 2007 the investigator suspended the investigation for failure to identify the perpetrator. on 6 october 2007 the investigator questioned mr and mrs k. 14. on 15 may 2008 the kirovograd regional police department informed the applicant that the police officers in charge of the case had been disciplined for omissions in the investigation. on 24 february 2009 the kirovograd regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) quashed that judgment, finding no evidence that mrs k.’s mother was dependent on her. on 1 july 2009 the investigator refused to institute criminal proceedings against mr k. 21. on 13 november 2009 the novomyrgorod prosecutor quashed the decision of 1 july 2009 not to institute criminal proceedings against mr k. subsequently the investigator again refused to institute criminal proceedings against mr k. 24. mrs k., the prosecutor and the applicant appealed. on 6 march 2012 the court of appeal quashed the judgment and discontinued the criminal proceedings against mrs k. as time-barred.
the first applicant was born in 1965 and lives in baku. the first applicant was also a candidate in the parliamentary elections of 2005. they were held, inter alia, on 11 and 12 march, 2 and 17 april, 22 may and 19 june 2011. according to the applicant, he was never provided with a copy of the administrative-offence report or with other documents in his case file. gave testimonies virtually identical to the above-mentioned report they had submitted to a superior police officer. the applicant’s father had let the police officers in. according to the transcript of the hearing before the sumgait court of appeal, the applicant claimed that he had not signed that statement. he urged the sumgait court of appeal to quash the first-instance court’s decision. it appears that the applicant refused legal assistance at the hearing before the sumgait court of appeal. in a report submitted to a superior police officer, police officer n.m. stated the following:“... at around 12.30 p.m. on 31 march 2011 on akhundov street [in sumgait] [we, the police officers,] noticed a person who was swearing loudly without addressing anyone in particular ... we approached him and ... brought him to police station no. issued an administrative-offence report in respect of the applicant. he was not given access to a lawyer after his arrest or while he was kept in police custody. the only witnesses questioned during the court hearing were police officers m.n., on 15 april 2011 the sumgait court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of the first-instance court, stating that its findings had been correct.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in kyiv. on 10 and 12 april 2010 k. underwent surgery twice in respect of the above-mentioned injuries and his spleen was removed. on 23 april 2010 the shevchenkivskyy prosecutor’s office refused to institute criminal proceedings against police officers in respect of k.’s ill-treatment for lack of corpus delicti in respect of their actions. he denied ever having seen k. in march 2010, let alone having physically assaulted him. on 8 july 2010 the shevchenkivskyy prosecutor’s office once again refused to institute criminal proceedings against the police officers in question, having found no evidence of criminal conduct. they also submitted that nobody had been violent towards him or had put him under any psychological pressure. he did not, however, lodge an application with the court on that occasion. according to the applicant, her son did intend to lodge an application regarding both his ill-treatment and the investigation into that allegation. the investigation was entrusted to the shevchenkivskyy police department. on 8 june 2011 the sizo deputy governor and the chief of the medical unit replied that, following a planned x-ray that day, k. had been diagnosed with infiltrative tuberculosis of the right lung and had been transferred to the sizo’s medical unit for treatment. in addition, he was classed as being in recovery following the removal of his spleen. on 20 october 2011 an ambulance was called for him. as indicated in the letter sent by the sizo management on 28 november 2011 in reply to the applicant’s lawyer’s inquiry of 13 october 2011, k. had an x-ray which revealed that the treatment of his tuberculosis was evolving positively. lastly, the applicant complained that the authorities had not provided her with all the information concerning her son’s health while he had still been alive, despite the numerous inquiries made by her lawyer. there is no information in the case file about any subsequent developments.
the applicants were born in 1988, 1989 and 1977 respectively. according to those administrative-arrest reports, copies of which were submitted to the court by the government, the first and second applicants had been subjected to administrative arrest at 7 p.m. on 22 may 2011. on 23 may 2011, the day after his arrest, the first applicant, mr agasif ibrahimov, was brought before the sabail district court. according to the applicant, the hearing, which began at 12.40 p.m., was very brief and members of the public, including human rights defenders and journalists, were not allowed to attend, even though the court had not taken a formal decision to close the hearing to the public. the applicant was not represented by any lawyer. according to the applicant, he was not given an opportunity to hire a lawyer of his own choice. 39 where administrative-offence reports were issued in their respect. the court found that the applicant had failed to stop participating in the unauthorised demonstration. the court convicted him under article 310.1 of the cao and sentenced him to seven days’ “administrative” detention. the applicant lodged an appeal before the baku court of appeal, arguing that his conviction was in violation of his rights because the demonstration in which he had participated had been peaceful. he also complained that his arrest had been unlawful and that the hearing before the first-instance court had not been fair. he requested the baku court of appeal to quash the first-instance court’s decision. the applicant was represented before the baku court of appeal by a lawyer of his own choice. on 31 may 2011 the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of the first-instance court, stating that its findings had been correct. the only witness questioned during the court hearing was police officer r.g.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in kharkiv. on 8 november 2008, at 11.15 a.m., the applicant came to the police station. she was made to wait there for about twenty minutes. they told her that her colleague, ms l., had already started to “crack”. having failed to obtain a confession from the applicant, t. and s. made her sit on a chair, put a plastic bag over her head and started to strangle her. at the same time they struck her head, face and mouth so that she could not bite through the bag. thereafter she was brought before a female officer, who conducted her formal questioning. she repeatedly refused to do so and professed her innocence. on 9 november 2008 (the day following her release) the applicant felt unwell and called an ambulance. on 9 november 2008 the hospital authorities informed the ordzhonikidze police department about the applicant’s injuries allegedly inflicted on her by police officers. on 12 december 2008 the ordzhonikidze prosecutor’s office opened a criminal case against the police officers on suspicion of their exceeding their powers by engaging in violent and degrading treatment. on 15 january 2009 the investigator seized the trousers which the applicant had been wearing on 8 november 2008. as regards the soft tissue contusions, the expert did not find it necessary to take that diagnosis into account as being based merely on a personal opinion of the doctor who had examined the applicant. this ruling was quashed by the court of appeal on 7 may 2009. on 30 september 2010 the ordzhonikidze court upheld that decision.
the applicant was born in 1989 and is detained in opole lubelskie. on 29 june 2007 the applicant was arrested and remanded in custody in the biała podlaska prison on suspicion of having committed a murder. he had a criminal record and had previously been detained. on 17 december 2009 he was convicted of a murder and sentenced to 25 years’ imprisonment. on an unspecified day in september 2007, the applicant was transferred to the lublin remand centre. on 3 october 2007 the lublin remand centre penitentiary commission also imposed the dangerous detainee regime on the applicant. subsequently, the commission extended the application of the dangerous detainee regime to the applicant on numerous occasions. it first noted that it was capable of examining whether the commission had remained within the limits of reasonableness and the limits of free assessment of circumstances of the case. it further held that the decision had been issued in accordance with the law and that it had been justified taking into account the applicant’s aggressive and vulgar behaviour in the remand centre, his refusing meals and his unrepentent attitude towards the offences of which he had been convicted by the first-instance court. the applicant appealed against the decisions of 23 december 2010 and 23 march 2011. he had access to a library and daily newspapers, and could listen to the radio. the cell there was equipped with a sanitary facility which was not separated from the rest of the cell. the applicant had to wear a red uniform designated for dangerous detainees, which was not warm enough in winter. according to the applicant, whenever he was outside his cell, including his appearances at court hearings, he had to wear joined shackles (kajdanki zespolone) on his hands and feet. some disciplinary measures had to be applied to the applicant because of his aggressive and vulgar attitude toward prison guards.
the applicant was born in 1927 and lives in zagreb. the applicant, as his spouse, was also a holder of a specially protected tenancy of that flat. however, state-owned flats were excluded. in 1995 the act amending the sale to occupier act (zakon o izmjenama i dopunama zakona o prodaji stanova na kojima postoji stanarsko pravo – hereinafter “the aptso”) allowed the sale of state-owned flats as well (see paragraph 22 below). the time-limit for lodging a request to purchase such a flat was set at sixty days. the applicant’s husband died on 15 april 2006. on 7 june 2006 the applicant lodged with the ministry of defence a request to purchase the flat she was occupying. the request was denied on the ground that it had been lodged outside the prescribed time-limit, which had expired on 31 december 1995. she relied on several decisions of the constitutional court ruling that there was no time-limit in respect of a holder of a specially protected tenancy lodging a request to purchase the respective state-owned flat (see paragraphs 24-26 below). the fact that there was no prescribed time-limit in place should not have been interpreted to the detriment of a plaintiff. the first-instance judgment was upheld by the zagreb county court on 12 october 2010. u-3551/02 of 25 may 2005) ... even though a request to purchase a flat had not been lodged before 31 december 1995. in such particular cases the constitutional court has adopted decisions based on particular circumstances. the applicant’s subsequent constitutional complaint was dismissed on 20 february 2013. the relevant part of that decision reads:“the constitutional court notes that the competent courts dismissed the applicant’s civil action on the grounds that she had not proved that any objective circumstances had prevented her from lodging a request to purchase the flat in issue within the prescribed time-limit.
the first applicant organisation is the vienna chamber of medical doctors (ärztekammer für wien). the chamber represents all medical practitioners in vienna and also has its own website. the letter was titled “locust funds want to take over medical practices” (“heuschreckenfonds wollen ordinationen übernehmen”). the second applicant then explained the assumed legal and organisational basis of such a plan: radiology services which were currently being provided by medical practices could, in future, also be offered by limited companies. the applicants contested the application. the injunction prevented the applicants from referring to the f. company as a “locust”, “locust company” or “locust fund”. the applicants appealed against the injunction. on 30 october 2007 the vienna court of appeal (oberlandesgericht wien) partly granted the appeal, and prohibited the applicants from alleging that the f. company was ruthless towards third parties and medical practitioners, and from calling it, inter alia, a “locust company”. the court of appeal found that the first applicant organisation had locus standi in the injunction proceedings. according to the court of appeal, the letter in issue pursued the interests of the chamber’s members, outside the chamber’s official sphere of activity. on 22 january 2008 the supreme court dismissed the extraordinary appeal. on 7 july 2008 the commercial court gave its judgment in the substantive proceedings and ordered the applicants to refrain from: repeating the statement that the f. company was ruthless towards third parties, in particular medical practitioners and patients; and stating that the f. company was a “locust company”, a “locust fund” or a “locust”. on 19 september 2008 the applicants lodged an appeal against that judgment. it referred to the extensive reasoning given in the interim injunction proceedings and added that, according to the case-law of the supreme court, the test used to verify whether a statement was covered by the right to freedom of expression required the assessment of whether a factual basis for such a statement existed; if a competitor participated in a public debate of general interest, freedom of expression had more weight with regard to the assessment of the statement than in the context of purely commercial communication. therefore, the expression used had turned into a statement of fact, giving the reader the impression that the f. company had already demonstrated unethical conduct which threatened the interests of doctors and patients.
the applicant was born in 1989 and is currently in detention in lublin. on an unspecified date before october 2011 the applicant was convicted of assault and of endangering lives through arson and extortion. the commission referred to the fact that the applicant had organised a collective protest in opole lubelskie prison, namely, a hunger strike by prisoners, and that he had planned an attack on a prison employee. the applicant did not appeal against the decision to impose the regime on him. the decision was reviewed and upheld by the commission every three months. on 12 january 2012 the commission again reviewed the situation and upheld its decision, considering that the applicant posed a serious danger to the security of the prison. the applicant did not appeal against that decision. on 11 april 2012 the commission reviewed and upheld its decision, relying on the same grounds as previously. on 16 may 2012 the commission examined the applicant’s appeal and upheld its earlier decision. it referred to the applicant’s conduct, finding that he had often behaved aggressively. it also referred to the applicant’s highly deficient moral character (wysoki stopień demoralizacji), and the fact that he had been the leader of a collective protest in opole lubelskie prison (the prisoners’ hunger strike) and had planned an attack on a prison employee. the applicant lodged a court appeal against the commission’s decision. the window was covered with a plastic blind. the applicant was subjected to a body search every time he left and entered the cell, which in practice meant that he had to strip naked in front of prison officers and was required to bend over to allow his anus to be examined. the shackles consisted of handcuffs and fetters joined together with chains.
the applicant was born in 1933 and lives in karabulak, ingushetia. mr apti dalakov was hit by a car and fell to the ground. a number of civilians present on the premises and the adjacent streets alerted the police officers to the fact that mr apti dalakov had not offered any resistance to his pursuers, that he had not been armed and that his pursuers had placed an object under his body; it turned out to be a hand grenade with its pin pulled. during the pursuit he warned mr apti dalakov that he would open fire if the latter did not stop. ... the armed men had refused to identify themselves or to give reasons for killing the young man. at about 5.30 p.m. they had received information that both men were heading in their direction. he checked mr apti dalakov’s pulse and confirmed that he was dead, then the witness and his colleagues called the mine squad and cordoned off the area. and granted them victim status in the criminal case. on 3 december 2007 the head of the investigating department overruled the decision of 2 november 2007 to terminate the criminal investigation as unsubstantiated at the request of the karabulak town prosecutor. however, this information was not examined further ...”the applicant was informed of the decision on 6 december 2007. in the documents submitted it is also stated that on the same date the same material was forwarded to the military investigations department of military unit no. on 28 february 2008 the military investigations department replied to the investigators that on 30 january 2008 they had refused to initiate criminal investigation into the killing owing to the lack of corpus delicti in the actions of the fsb officer a.k. this complaint was delivered on 19 march 2008. the court reasoned as follows:“... [the applicant] m. k. dalakov ... requested that his complaint be allowed and the refusal to initiate a criminal investigation into his nephew’s killing be declared unlawful ... that the police officers ... who had been present at the crime scene be questioned as witnesses, and that more witnesses to the crime, in addition to the fsb officers who had shot mr a. dalakov dead, be identified and questioned. according to article 125 of the russian code of criminal procedure, this complaint should have been examined within five days of its receipt.
at the material time all the applicants were detained in russian penal facilities. where relevant, the dates of their detention are listed in annex i. 5. while in detention, the applicants mr yevdokimov, mr rezanov, and mr morozov lodged defamation claims against private third parties; the applicants mr makhov, mr resin, mr anikanov, mr lebetskiy, mr gromovoy, mr gordeyev and mr vinokhodov brought claims seeking compensation for the allegedly inhuman conditions of their detention; and the applicant mr martirosyan lodged a civil claim for compensation, alleging that the criminal proceedings had been instituted unlawfully. none of the applicants were able to attend the hearings at which their claims were examined. the domestic courts refused them the possibility to be present at the hearing, on the ground that there was no domestic legal provision for bringing detainees to courts. in particular, they quoted article 77.1 of the code on the execution of sentences (see paragraph 11 below) and the relevant provisions of the code of civil procedure. in the other cases, the issue of the applicants’ presence in court was not addressed. the applicants appealed, raising the question of their appearance in court in the appeal statement. some submitted a separate request seeking leave to appear before the appeal court. the appeal courts either dismissed the applicants’ arguments or concluded that their absence from the court was in line with the legislation and did not contravene the principle of fairness. the applicants’ claims were refused at two levels of jurisdiction. the dates of the final judgments are set out in annex i.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in konstancin jeziorna. the meeting had been recorded by the latter and transcriptions from the recording were later included in the article published by his newspaper. after the case was revealed in the press, the public prosecutor at the warsaw court of appeal brought proceedings against the applicant, on 31 december 2002, on a charge of influence peddling (przestępstwo płatnej protekcji), under article 230 of the criminal code. on 14 january 2003, the commission, consisting of ten mps, began its work. on 25 june 2003 warsaw regional court dismissed the applicant’s claim, finding in particular as follows:“until the final conviction has been handed down, the complainant must be treated as a person presumed innocent. it is nevertheless true that he had been charged with specific offences, that a bill of indictment had been preferred against him, and that the matter is being examined by a parliamentary commission of inquiry. the image of lew rywin had appeared on a number of occasions in the media in connection with this matter. in the meantime, the criminal investigation and the work of the commission were ongoing. on 31 march 2004, after the closing of the witness hearings, the court made public all the evidence, including that which it had received from the commission. on 21 april 2004 the newspaper gazeta wyborcza published an article with the heading “before the judgment” (“przed wyrokiem”), beginning as follows:“the biggest corruption scandal of the third republic will certainly end in a failure for the justice system – regardless of the charges on which lew rywin is convicted or the sentence handed down. at the end of its last session on 5 april 2004, the commission adopted its final report, concluding that the applicant had acted alone. as to the applicant’s complaint that the testimony used in support of his conviction had been vitiated by the fact that the witnesses had been heard by the regional court after being questioned on the same circumstances by the commission, in public sittings that had received significant media attention, the court of appeal regarded it as ill-founded; testimony was always assessed by judges in accordance with the rules in article 7 of the code of criminal procedure and in the light of all the evidence. the commission may request the principal public prosecutor to carry out certain acts. the court shall, in its discretion, rule on questions of fact and of law and shall not be bound by any decisions of another court or body. any records of testimony taken from witnesses or defendants during an investigation, court proceedings or any other proceedings provided for by law may be read out in open court, unless any of the parties present [at the hearing] object thereto or it is indispensible for the court to gather the evidence itself.
the applicant was born in 1943 and is currently detained in riedstadt psychiatric hospital. the applicant has previous convictions for rape dating from 1968 and for indecent assault combined with causing bodily harm by dangerous means dating from 1990. the regional court found that this indicated an evolution in his behaviour. however, the expert opinion did not diagnose sexual sadism. on 13 may 2004 the applicant was transferred to the hanau clinic for forensic psychiatry. there was no call for therapy as the applicant neither suffered from his behaviour nor desired to change it. in each expert opinion the applicant was described as a classic instance of an erroneous hospital treatment order. the expert concluded that the applicant was suffering from sexual sadism, subject to the reservation that he had not examined the applicant in person but had based his evaluation on the medical files only. on 15 march 2011 the haina clinic for forensic psychiatry, where the applicant was detained, delivered an expert opinion on the necessity of the applicant’s further detention in hospital. this conclusion was drawn from the fact that the applicant’s behaviour during treatment never gave any grounds for diagnosing a mental disorder such as would have been expected from a person suffering from a psychiatric disorder. lastly, the regional court noted, but explicitly without basing its decision on this fact, that the expert opinion which had been delivered in the course of the re-opening proceedings of the criminal trial had confirmed the diagnosis of sadism. on 29 september 2011 the frankfurt am main court of appeal upheld the decision of the regional court. on 16 august 2012 the federal constitutional court (file no. the expert, who had not examined the applicant in person due to his refusal to permit such examination, found that the applicant was suffering from a disturbance of his sexual preference in the form of sadism and that the commission of further crimes was to be expected. the applicant’s appeal in this respect was dismissed by the court of appeal.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in st. the action was served on the applicant’s counsel on 18 june 2005. the applicant had assets in liechtenstein, specifically claims for salary and fees against emk and emk engineering, which both had their seat in liechtenstein. following a constitutional complaint of 22 february 2006, on 1 march 2006 the constitutional court granted the applicant’s application to have the court of appeal’s interlocutory decision be given suspensory effect. following the termination of the proceedings before the constitutional court, the regional court resumed the proceedings. it heard evidence from the parties, their counsel and twelve witnesses in person in hearings on 31 may, 28 june and 6 september 2007. she had been in possession of the shares in order to make a minority shareholder think that f.h. was no longer holding shares in the companies. transferring the shares to him as a gift in 2003 at the latest. 1 to the convention, the applicant complained, in particular, about the length of the proceedings. he further submitted in that context that he had not had at his disposal an effective remedy, such as an application to speed up the proceedings, in order to enforce his convention rights. on 8 may 2012 the applicant lodged a complaint alleging bias (running to twenty-seven pages plus annexes) against the five judges of the constitutional court called upon to decide on his complaint. on the same day, on 15 may 2012, the constitutional court delivered its judgment (file no. therefore, there had been a violation of article 6 § 1 of the convention. the judgment and the decision of 15 may 2012 were served on the applicant on 27 june 2012.
on 16 september 1982 the applicant was sentenced to life imprisonment for murder. in the course of the hearing the applicant dismissed his solicitor. at a hearing on 9 january 2004 the chairman indicated that he would allow the applicant to reopen the issue of whether or not he had committed the alleged assaults. a preliminary hearing date was fixed for 16 march 2004. on 17 may 2004 the applicant’s solicitors wrote to the smith panel to complain about the late submission of the witness statements and the decision to permit the complainant to be called as a witness. on 23 august 2004 the applicant wrote directly to the smith panel to complain about the delays in his case. on 4 july 2006 the applicant filed a notice of appeal against the judgment of the high court in which he argued that the smith panel had misdirected itself as to the standard of proof required to establish the allegations against him; that the procedure before the smith panel had been unfair and in breach of articles 5 § 4 and 6 of the convention, most notably because the applicant’s nieces should have been required to give evidence; and finally, that there had not been a “speedy determination” of the lawfulness of his detention. on the question of fairness the court observed that the applicant had suffered no disadvantage on account of the decision not to subpoena his nieces. he also sought damages in respect of that violation and an order for bail. their lordships considered that the procedure adopted in respect of the subpoenaing of the complainant had not been unfair because it had not disadvantaged the applicant. they therefore considered that from 29 november 2001 – when the matter was first referred to the lsrc – until 3 august 2005 – the date of the smith panel’s decision – the lsrc had taken reasonable steps to proceed to a hearing and that any delays had been mostly out of its control. the sole issue was therefore that of current risk. the judicial review application was remitted to the high court. on 14 june 2011 the court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal against this decision. on the advice of counsel given on 20 june 2011 the applicant did not pursue an appeal to the supreme court.
the applicants were born in 1976 and 1975 respectively and live in moscow. it appears that by 2009 the company was in substantial debt and continued to make losses. on 1 september 2009 kirovles terminated the contract with vlk. on 9 december 2010 the kirov regional department of the prosecutor’s office (later replaced by the investigative committee of the russian federation – “the investigative committee”) opened an inquiry on suspicion that the applicants had defrauded kirovles by inducing its director to enter into a loss-making transaction. he had therefore terminated the contract. they also claimed that the contract had been entered into under pressure from both applicants, whom their director had perceived as acting for the governor. on 11 january 2011 the investigative committee decided not to open a criminal investigation against either applicant for lack of corpus delicti. it was he himself who had ultimately taken the decision to terminate the contract between kirovles and vlk as a result of a series of working meetings between him, x and both applicants. witness mr k., deputy chief of the kirov regional forestry department, stated that the first applicant had insisted on an independent audit of kirovles and proposed restructuring it to prevent financial manipulation by x. seven other witnesses, all managers of vlk, gave details about vlk’s work to find customers for kirovles in accordance with the contract. on 26 september 2012 the deputy prosecutor general granted x’s request to conclude a plea-bargaining agreement and to have his criminal case examined in accelerated proceedings. on 9 january 2013 the judgment against x acquired legal force. however, it stressed that the first applicant had not been accused, or convicted, of any abuse of his official position at the governor’s office:“mr navalnyy [is not suspected of] committing a crime by abuse of his official position; consequently, the defence’s arguments that the governor’s volunteer consultant had no powers to give binding instructions to the companies’ management do not refute the accusation [or] prove that it was impossible for mr navalnyy to commit the crime and order its execution.” the court estimated that the damage caused to kirovles amounted to rub 16,165,826. on 1 and 2 april 2014 the regional court, sitting in a single judge formation, refused to give them leave to appeal. on 28 february 2014 the basmannyy district court ordered that the first applicant be placed under house arrest pending another, unrelated, criminal case against him.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in słomczyn. on 8 april 2009 the warsaw wola district court (sąd rejonowy) remanded the applicant in custody, relying on the reasonable suspicion that he had committed the offences in question. the court considered that, whereas the statements of a co-accused were the key evidence against the applicant, they were corroborated by the other evidence gathered in the case. the bill of indictment concerned altogether nine accused charged with thirty six offences. the applicant’s appeal against the decision of that court of 23 december 2010 was dismissed by the warsaw court of appeal (sąd apelacyjny) on 20 january 2011. it considered that the reasons previously given remained valid. the court also referred to the fact, relied on by the court which had imposed the detention on the applicant (see paragraph 8 above), that one of the charges against him concerned witness tampering by means of violence. on 18 april 2013 the warsaw court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal against the above mentioned decision. on 5 june 2013 the applicant’s detention on remand was lifted. the proceedings are still pending before the warsaw regional court. the court also referred to the severity of the anticipated penalty and the need to secure the proper conduct of the proceedings. it considered that the risk that the applicant might obstruct the proceedings resulted from the gravity of accusations against him. on 5 september 2013 the bill of indictment containing 187 pages was lodged with the warsaw regional court. the prosecutor requested the trial court to hear fifty-eight witnesses. the bail was paid and the applicant was released on 2 july 2014.
the applicant is a moldovan national belonging to the german ethnic minority. neither the applicant nor his lawyer was present at the hearing. the metal truck he was transported in when being brought before the investigator was suffocating, and he was placed in a cell without a toilet for hours on end (while waiting to be interviewed by the investigator) and suffered numerous asthma attacks. in the winter the heating was on for only a few hours a day and, as at the tiraspol police headquarters, the detainees were allowed to shower only once a week (all the detainees in his cell had a combined total of twenty minutes in which to take a shower with cold water). his parents requested on many occasions that their son be seen by a lung specialist. on an unknown date in 2009 the applicant’s mother asked for the applicant to be transferred to a specialist hospital, as bronchial asthma was one of the illnesses listed by the “mrt ministry of the interior” as a reason warranting a transfer to hospital. on 30 september 2009 an “mrt presidential adviser” acknowledged that there was no reason to refuse the pastor access and that such a refusal was incompatible with the “mrt constitution and laws”. according to an article dated 13 april 2007 from regnum, one of the leading russian online news agencies at the relevant time, the russian ambassador to moldova had given a speech in tiraspol the previous day in which he declared that russia would continue its support for the “mrt” and would never give up its interests there. the expert heard complaints that the defence in general was disadvantaged in comparison with the prosecution. special training is needed for those judges involved in juvenile justice matters. office of the un high commissioner for human rights] and the international bar association have jointly developed extensive guidance material on human rights in the administration of justice, which might also be used for the training of legal professionals working in the transnistrian region. at the end of the visit, the cpt’s delegation requested the authorities to take steps without delay to ensure that all penitentiary establishments are supplied on a regular basis with medicines of various types and, in particular, with a suitable range of anti‑tuberculosis drugs. the cpt has already highlighted the poor material conditions of detention which prevailed in the establishments visited and has made recommendations designed to address the fundamental problem of overcrowding (cf. the commander of the operative group of russian forces reported in may that surplus stocks of 40,000 small arms and light weapons stored by russian forces in the transdniestrian region have been destroyed. in catan and others (cited above, §§ 64-73) the court summarised the content of various reports by intergovernmental and non-governmental organisations concerning the situation in the transdniestrian region of moldova and the russian military personnel and equipment stationed there during 2003 and 2009.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in kaunas. the purchase agreement indicated that the nominal value of the land was 2,976 lithuanian litai (ltl  approximately 862 euros (eur)). the applicant subsequently obtained a building permit and built a storehouse on the land. in december 2003 the kaunas county administration (hereinafter “the kca”) brought a claim before the kaunas district court (kauno rajono apylinkės teismas) seeking the annulment of the administrative decisions and the purchase agreements on the basis of which plots of land had been sold to the applicant and to several other individuals. the kca argued that the land in question had to be returned in natura to its former owners and thus had been sold to the applicant and other individuals unlawfully. on 7 february 2005 the kaunas regional court partially quashed the first-instance judgment. thus, in accordance with the civil code, the applicant should have received the monetary equivalent of what she had paid in 1995. the court remitted that part of the case for re-examination in order to assess the monetary equivalent. on 3 october 2005 the supreme court upheld the regional court’s judgment. during those proceedings, the applicant argued that the unlawful allocation and sale of the land had resulted from the state authorities’ negligence. on 6 march 2008 the kaunas regional court dismissed the applicant’s request for compensation equating to the full market value of the land. the court awarded her the nominal value of the land in 1995, which it assessed to be ltl 29.70 (eur 8.60). the court also noted that if the applicant considered that she had suffered pecuniary damage, she had the right to institute separate proceedings against the state for damages. on 27 january 2009 the supreme court upheld the judgment of the court of appeal; however, it partially amended the reasoning. as a result, the applicant’s good faith had been irrelevant in determining the amount of compensation and should not have been examined.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, are similar to those in association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos. 33810/07 and 18817/08, §§ 12-41, 24 may 2011). they have the same historical context and relate to the same domestic criminal proceedings. these operations caused many civilian deaths and casualties. 94/2010 of 10 february 2010, that thousands of servicemen, equipped with combat tanks and other armed vehicles, were deployed in bucharest and other cities. during the period of 17 to 30 december 1989 they used considerable quantities of ammunition against the demonstrators. the applicants are people whose relatives were shot and killed in the events which took place between 17 and 30 december in bucharest, except for the applicant in application no. 45779/14, whose husband was killed in reșița and the applicant in application no. 24127/14, whose son was killed in braşov. in 1990, military prosecutors in bucharest, timişoara, oradea, constanţa, craiova, bacău, târgu mureş and cluj opened investigations into the use of force and the unlawful deprivation of liberty of the participants in demonstrations in the final days of december 1989. the most important procedural steps undertaken between 1990 and 2009 were summarised in association “21 december 1989” and others (cited above, §§ 12-41). subsequent developments are described below. on 18 october 2010 the military prosecutor’s office at the high court of cassation and justice decided not to institute criminal proceedings with regard to the acts committed by the military, finding that the applicants’ complaints were partly statute-barred and partly ill-founded. in february 2014, after the entry into force of the new code of criminal procedure, jurisdiction was again relinquished in favour of the military prosecuting authorities and the file was registered under the domestic case file no. the parties have not submitted any information on whether there was an appeal against that decision.
the applicant was born in 1989 and lives in istanbul. on 21 and 31 august 2004 she took the practical selection tests performing on the bağlama[1]. referring to the report issued by that hospital’s medical board on 16 september 2004, he informed the chief medical officer that none of the seven sections of the music academy could be deemed not to require eyesight. on 24 september 2004 the applicant’s parents, acting in her name and on her behalf, lodged with istanbul administrative court (“the administrative court”) an action against the administration of istanbul technical university to set aside the music academy’s decision not to enrol their daughter. counsel for the applicant submitted that she had satisfied all those criteria. it stated that article 4 of the principles governing admissions and enrolment in the music academy set out the “no disability” criterion. 2577, there had been two preconditions for obtaining a stay of execution: the existence of damage which was irreparable or difficult to repair, and the apparent unlawfulness of the administrative act in question. they also submitted that such refusal was unlawful. the only reason for the refusal of enrolment had been her blindness. on 18 july 2005 they lodged an appeal with the istanbul court administrative requesting the setting aside of the decision not to enrol the applicant. furthermore, that condition is mentioned on the form distributed to applicants listing the documents required for final enrolment. it transpires from the defence of the respondent administration that in the 1970s, when the music academy was set up, it had enrolled a number of blind students on a trial basis, but, in the absence of teaching staff conversant with the braille alphabet and having regard to the various difficulties encountered, that experiment was discontinued. on 18 april 2006 the applicant’s parents, acting in her name and on her behalf, lodged an appeal on points of law with the council of state against the 14 october 2005 decision of the administrative court (see paragraph 27 above). they submitted that that decision was contrary to the constitution, to act no. moreover, it transpired from the judgment of the council of state that the reporting judge had come down in favour of admitting the appeal on points of law.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in orsk, the orenburg region. and that he had stayed there until 8 p.m. 8. the head of the police department, p., and police officer e. interviewed him about his alleged involvement in thefts from certain shops. the applicant denied involvement in the thefts. the applicant felt severe pain in his back. when p. and e. both came out k. untied the applicant’s legs and demanded that the applicant write a statement of “surrender and confession”. on 15 february 2005 the orsk police department was alerted by the town hospital that the applicant had been taken to hospital with injuries allegedly inflicted by police officers. on 21 february 2005 the applicant’s father complained to the sovetskiy district prosecutor’s office that the applicant had been the victim of police officers’ unlawful actions. in the presence of the attesting witnesses the applicant had jumped from his chair and hit his head against the glass door of a bookcase. e. had provided the applicant with first aid, had drawn up the record of his being conveyed to the police station, and had transferred him to operative officer k. some twenty minutes later k. had brought the applicant back, as the applicant was complaining of feeling unwell. on 22 february 2005 the head of the police department p. stated that at 7-7.30 p.m. on 15 february 2005 he had been informed that the applicant had been brought to the police station on suspicion of having committed a theft. p. gave statements similar to those by e. about the applicant hitting the bookcase with his head. the applicant had been fingerprinted and photographed. the applicant complained of recurring headaches. then medical assistant n. had examined the applicant.
the applicant first visited cyprus in 1991. as a result of this marriage he obtained cypriot nationality in september 2000. two years later the applicant divorced his wife and married his second wife, a syrian national. he and the syrian national divorced in 2005. on 23 july 2007, on the basis of the report of the investigative committee, the council of ministers decided to deprive the applicant of his cypriot nationality on public interest grounds, pursuant to section 113 of the census bureau law of 2002 (see relevant domestic law and practice at paragraph 37 below). these were served on the applicant on 22 september 2010 while he was in hospital recovering from a road accident. after that he was detained at a police station in pera chorio nisou (nicosia district) and was transferred to the hospital on various occasions, where he remained in police custody. on 16 december 2010, the applicant withdrew his application for suspension of his deportation because he had decided to leave cyprus voluntarily. 1226/07 (the appeal against removal of citizenship: see paragraph 9 above). he did not and claims that he thus remained in detention. on 31 december 2010, the applicant applied to the supreme court for a writ of habeas corpus (application no. on 29 january 2011 the applicant was deported to syria. on 28 november 2012, the applicant withdrew his recourse against the deportation and detention orders (recourse no. the applicant returned to cyprus on 20 march 2012. the civil registry and migration department refused this application on 11 june 2012, stating that it considered the applicant a threat to public order for the same reasons for which he had been deprived of cypriot nationality and then deported on 29 january 2011.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in brčko, bosnia and herzegovina. she submitted that she had been educated in croatia and that she had lived in zagreb for seventeen years. she also explained that she wanted to live with d.b., with whom she had been in a relationship for two years, and with whom she wanted to establish a household and start a business. had been in a relationship since october 2009 and that in order to maintain their relationship they had been travelling to see each other. in the period between 16 september and 4 december 2011. ...it follows that the [same-sex union] act does not define a same-sex union as a family and the family act does not cover same-sex unions. therefore, the appellant wrongly considers that the first-instance body should have applied section 56 § 4 of the aliens act in her case ... because that provision clearly provides that exceptionally to the provision defining immediate family members, ‘other relative’ could be so considered if there are specific personal or serious humanitarian reasons for a family reunification in croatia.” on 24 july 2012 the applicant lodged an administrative action with the zagreb administrative court (upravni sud u zagrebu), arguing that she had been discriminated against in comparison to different-sex couples who had a possibility to seek family reunification under the aliens act. the zagreb administrative court dismissed the applicant’s action on 30 january 2013. thus, union between two same-sex persons cannot be considered under the relevant legal provisions as marriage or an extramarital relationship. which is not in dispute between the parties. it therefore follows that the plaintiff cannot be considered an immediate family member within the meaning of section 56 § 1(1) and (2) of the [aliens] act and thus she did not justify the purpose (in the concrete case: family reunification) for which a temporary residence of an alien in croatia can be granted ...in view of the cited legal provisions, and the facts of the case, this court finds that in the concrete case it was not possible to grant the plaintiff’s request.” discrimination means difference in the treatment of persons in the same or relevantly similar situations without an objective and reasonable justification. article 14 of the constitution contains constitutional guarantee against discrimination on any ground in securing a concrete right.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in st petersburg. the first twin died nine hours after her birth. the second twin, who was transferred to a resuscitation and intensive therapy unit at one of the st petersburg children’s hospitals (“the children’s hospital”) twenty hours after his birth, survived. hospitals] have waiting lists – a brutal practice. thus in ... april at ... a.m. in maternity hospital no. ... [ in a very serious condition ... the death [of my granddaughter] has shocked our family. on 15 june and 1 august 2003 d. sent two more telegrams to the president of the russian federation, stating:“i am informing you for the second time that emergency neonatal resuscitation for premature babies in st petersburg is being provided on the basis of a waiting list. who is responsible for the deaths of these children? it was concluded that she had been born with severe respiratory distress syndrome complicated by an air leak syndrome, and that she had been provided with treatment which had been entirely appropriate, given the seriousness of the condition and the nature of the disease. the report also noted that the second twin had suffered from respiratory distress syndrome as well, but to a much lesser extent. the letter of 12 september 2003 was the subject of proceedings brought by the applicant against the committee, about which no further information is available. on 3 december 2003 the applicant received a letter from the committee with similar contents to the letter of 12 september 2003 that it had sent to d., stating, in particular, that her children’s medical records had been examined by the panel of experts. a representative of the committee denied the applicant’s allegations. it was the report prepared as a result of that examination, and not the applicant’s medical records per se, which had been transferred to the ministry. she had therefore complied with that time-limit.
the applicant was born in 1964 and is currently detained in a psychiatric hospital in lippstadt. on 21 january 1983 the münster regional court convicted the applicant of attempted rape together with sexual assault and dangerous assault and of attempted murder and assault. this damage, combined with failings in his upbringing (he had repeatedly been hit by his father with a stick himself), had caused a consciousness disorder and the sadistic sexual tendencies the applicant had disclosed in his offence. the criminal proceedings in this respect were discontinued with regard to his previous conviction. the regional court noted that external psychiatric expert t., in his report dated 28 january 2010, had diagnosed the applicant, whom he had examined in person, with an abnormality of the sex chromosomes (so-called klinefelter syndrome). in assessing the risk emanating from the applicant, the expert considered that it had to be taken into account that the applicant had already committed a number of sadistic offences against children. there was a risk that, if the applicant were overstrained or frustrated, he might commit offences as a result of sadistic tendencies. the expert stated, however, that it was impossible for him to assess how far the applicant was still driven by sadistic fantasies. however, he was still unable to reflect on the motives for his offence. despite the fact that the applicant had proved reliable during leave from detention during recent years, it could not be expected with sufficient probability that the applicant would not reoffend if released. on 23 february 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal against the regional court’s decision. by submissions dated 1 april 2011, the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the federal constitutional court. however, he had repeatedly declined offers to restart such individual or group therapy. when granted leave under escort several times per year, he has visited members of his family. on 18 january 2012 the paderborn regional court, endorsing the reasons given in its previous decision, ordered the applicant’s continued detention in a psychiatric hospital.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in st petersburg. she had a garage and a small storage building (‘the construction’) in yerevan measuring 21 sq. m. in total, that she had apparently built without authorisation. on 26 august 2005 a lease agreement, valid until 22 july 2010, was concluded between the mayor of yerevan and the applicant. on 5 september 2005, based on the mayor’s decision of 22 july 2005, the applicant received an ownership certificate in respect of the construction. on 20 july 2006 the mayor of yerevan lodged a claim against the applicant with the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan seeking to invalidate her ownership certificate in respect of the construction and the lease, on the basis of the decision of 19 june 2006. this power of attorney was then signed and sealed by g. 13. on the same day the district court also examined the mayor’s claim and decided to grant it. the relevant parts of its judgment read as follows:“...the defendant [the applicant] was duly notified about the date and the place of the court hearing but has failed to appear before the court while the court has not accepted the power of the advocate who has appeared on her behalf as her representative, on the ground that the power of attorney was not duly certified. it appears from the postal envelope that the copy of the judgment was delivered to the applicant’s local post office on 18 november 2006 and was received by the applicant on 20 november 2006. he claimed that the provisions of the civil legislation did not require that a power of attorney issued to an advocate be certified by a notary. the relevant parts of this decision state the following:“the civil chamber of the court of cassation ... having examined the appeal on points of law against the decision of 1 november 2006 ...lodged by [the applicant’s] representative [g.] ... found that it should be returned for the following reasons:according to article 230 § 1 (4.1) of the code of civil procedure of the republic of armenia, an appeal on points of law should contain one of the grounds stated in article 231.2 § 1 of the code of civil procedure. in such circumstances, the violations of the above-mentioned requirements serve as a basis for returning the appeal on points of law. ...in view of the above reasoning ... the court of cassation decides to return the appeal on points of law against the decision of ... of 1 november 2006 lodged by [the applicant’s] representative [g.]...” 21. on 15 february 2007 the court of cassation declared the appeal on points of law inadmissible for lack of merit.
the applicant was born in 1961 and is currently detained. on the same day, the applicant was taken to the sumy regional police headquarters, where he was allegedly beaten up by police officers from the odessa regional police. an investigator from the odessa regional prosecutor’s office, the applicant was arrested on 30 june 2003 as a suspect in the criminal case. the applicant refused to sign the report. thereafter, the applicant was questioned by i.g. on 8 july 2003 the applicant was transferred to the odessa temporary detention facility (ізолятор тимчасового тримання, “the itt”). according to the applicant, the itt had initially refused to admit him because of his injuries and a medical officer arranged for him to attend the local hospital for a medical examination. with the robbery and murder of three persons. that the police officers had beaten him and put psychological pressure on him in order to force him to confess. on 23 october 2003 the itt informed him about the injuries observed on the applicant on 8 july 2003 and about the disagreement as to their full extent which had occurred on that day. on 4 may 2004 the applicant concluded a contract with mr p. sushko, who represented him in the proceedings thereafter. retracted all their confessions, which they claimed had been given under duress, and asserted their innocence. guilty of murder and sentenced them to life imprisonment with confiscation of their property. in the presence of their lawyers, and on the applicant’s written confession of 2 july 2003 made in the absence of his lawyer. on 11 april 2006 the supreme court upheld the applicant’s conviction.
he is polish and lives in kent, the united kingdom. in 2005 the couple moved to the united kingdom. parental responsibility was exercised jointly by both parents. on 21 september 2012 the applicant applied to the united kingdom central authority for a return order for the child under the hague convention. submitted that in 2011 she and her husband had become distant from each other; the applicant had lost interest in his family and had been spending his spare time playing computer games. the applicant and his lawyer attended the hearing. on the merits, the grudziądz district court considered that it was called to examine “the relationship between the child and [each of] the parents, her physical and psychological development and also, any [possible] physical or psychological harm [which could occur] in the event of the child’s return to her father without the mother.” the domestic court did not rule on that application. he did not rely on article 21 of the hague convention. on 28 february 2013 the grudziądz district court, with d.k. as a result, a systematic invocation of the said exceptions, substituting the forum chosen by the abductor for that of the child’s residence, would lead to the collapse of the whole structure of the convention by depriving it of the spirit of mutual confidence which is its inspiration...” (§34, pp. in all actions concerning children, whether undertaken by public or private social welfare institutions, courts of law, administrative authorities or legislative bodies, the best interests of the child shall be a primary consideration...article 7 1. a court to which an application for return of a child is made as mentioned in paragraph 1 shall act expeditiously in proceedings on the application, using the most expeditious procedures available in national law. a court cannot refuse to return a child unless the person who requested the return of the child has been given an opportunity to be heard. article 201 this convention shall not affect any obligations which a contracting state may have towards a non-contracting state under an international instrument dealing with matters governed by this convention.
the first applicant was born in 1971 and is serving a prison sentence in the vologda region. he remained in custody pending investigation and trial. on 24 july 2006 the vologda town court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to nine and a half years’ imprisonment. on 7 december 2006 the regional court examined the applicant’s case on appeal. prior to the appeal hearing via video link. in order to make sure that she had a sufficiently thorough knowledge of the case as to be able to carry out his defence effectively. on 12 april 2007 the applicant asked the supreme court (acting as the appeal court) in writing to appoint a lawyer to represent him. according to the applicant, the quality of the sound was very poor. on 16 september 2010 the court gave notice of the application to the government. the applicant participated in the proceedings by means of a video link. on 19 may 2011 the applicant discussed his case with m. by means of a video link. the applicant informed the court that he had discussed the case with m. by means of a video link. the court heard the applicant, m., and the prosecutor. m. did not submit any grounds for appeal; she only made oral submissions to the court that appeared to be based on the grounds for appeal originally filed by the applicant. the supreme court upheld the applicant’s conviction in substance, but reduced his sentence to sixteen and a half years’ imprisonment.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in bucharest. on 20 march 2009 the nap started a criminal investigation in respect of the applicant on the ground that he was an accomplice to an offence of abuse of position committed by the rector of the university of agronomy. on 23 march 2009 the nap started another criminal investigation in respect of the applicant in connection with the offence of active bribery on account of the influence exercised on the nap officer in charge of the inquiry. when the applicant arrived at nap headquarters the questioning of one of his co-accused, s.i.c, was in progress and lasted until 7.50 p.m. 17. subsequently, another co-accused, p.p.d., two lawyers chosen by the applicant were called and invited to nap headquarters to assist him. the government did not contend that they had informed the applicant that he had been free to leave; on the contrary, in their written submissions to the court they maintained that the applicant had remained at their disposal for questioning between 3 p.m. and 11.30 p.m. 22. in this connection it stressed that the applicant had not evaded criminal proceedings, but had complied with every summons from the prosecution service. the applicant contested the measure before the bucharest court of appeal, arguing that the prosecutor’s decision did not provide sufficient reasons for the extension of the restrictive measure, adding that he had willingly attended each time he had been summoned by the investigators. he stated that he needed to leave the country as he had been invited to a business meeting abroad. at the same time, it stressed that maintaining the restriction would not prevent the applicant from contacting all the parties in the case and influencing them. it dismissed the applicant’s complaint, and upheld the nap’s decision to extend the restriction. an appeal on points of law lodged by the nap was dismissed by the high court of cassation and justice on 3 july 2009. on 21 december 2012 the file was registered with the bucharest court of appeal. according to the most recent information provided by the applicant, the criminal proceedings against him are still pending.
the applicant was born in 1938 and lives in sibiu. the applicant firstly complained that, despite repeated requests, dr c.c.r. he included the results of various blood tests made by l.m. the report noted that hospital practice had not been adhered to as the patient should have been admitted to the gastroenterology section, given the diagnosis. nevertheless, the conclusion was that the treatment received by l.m. was adequate and correct and there was no indication of medical error. on 11 april 2007, in a briefly-worded decision based on the forensic medical report, the prosecutor’s office of the sibiu county court decided not to commence criminal proceedings against the two doctors as there had been no finding of medical errors. a complaint by the applicant against the two decisions was allowed by the timişoara district court on 16 april 2008. in january 2011 the family doctor, m.l.i., was admitted were questioned in february 2011. on 27 february 2012 a statement from the applicant was taken by the prosecutor. he further requested a confrontation with the two doctors under investigation. on 4 april 2012 two doctors specialising in gastroenterology, called as witnesses by the applicant, testified before the prosecutor that the diagnosis and treatment applied by drs c.c.r. however, the prosecutor observed that all the medical reports drafted in the case had concluded that the patient’s diagnosis had been correct and that he had had the appropriate treatment. it gave its decision on 27 february 2006, ruling that no medical errors had been made.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in stockholm. the show was broadcast live with a few recorded features. in the show, the applicant, who was unknown to the broader public, appeared in pictures and was mentioned by name. he was singled out as the central figure of organised crime within media and advertising and as being guilty of several counts of fraud and other economic offences. it was sent by satellite link from sweden to the london-based company viasat broadcasting uk ltd and from there sent unaltered to a satellite which transmitted the programme to the swedish audience. even if it was viewable in the united kingdom, which is doubtful, it would have been watched there by a small audience. it was presented in the swedish language for a swedish-speaking audience, and was sponsored by companies competing in the swedish market. x disputed the claim on the grounds, inter alia, that he was not the responsible editor of the show and that he enjoyed the freedom to communicate information as provided for under chapter 10, section 2 of the constitutional law and as clarified by the supreme court (högsta domstolen) in the case nja 2005 p. 884 (see paragraphs 32 and 33 below). the court finally drew the parties’ attention to the supreme court case nja 2005 p. 884. the applicant appealed, repeating what he had stated in his earlier submissions. the applicant also submitted that swedish courts were competent to examine the case under the brussels i regulation (see further paragraph 35 below). x contested the arguments and submitted that it was the company viasat broadcasting uk ltd, whose seat was in the united kingdom, which was responsible for the programme service and decided on the final content of the programmes. it further stated that the burden of proof concerning the applicability of the constitutional law rested on the applicant and that he had not, in response to x’s refutation, established that the decisions concerning the programme content were taken in sweden. on 21 september 2009 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s referral request and refused leave to appeal in the case. the criminal proceedings were finalised by a supreme court decision to refuse leave to appeal on 4 october 2010.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in mežica. thus undertaking criminal prosecution as private prosecutor. on 16 november 2006 the ljubljana district court handed down its judgment and found a.š. guilty of the criminal offence of defamation, giving him a suspended sentence of one month in prison and ordering him to pay the costs of the proceedings. both parties appealed against the judgment before the ljubljana higher court. the applicant did not institute separate civil proceedings for compensation. in that response, the supreme state prosecutor agreed that the criminal action had been brought out of time. however, neither the applicant nor his representative were served with that response; nor were they ever served with the request for the protection of legality. and a lump sum covering court fees of 600 euros (eur). not being aware that the request for the protection of legality had already been decided, on 3 september 2008 the applicant’s representative requested the relevant documentation from the ljubljana district court. on 5 september 2008 the ljubljana district court informed the applicant’s representative that the case-file documents had been with the supreme court since 30 june 2008. on 12 september 2008 the supreme court informed the applicant’s representative that a.š. had lodged a request for the protection of legality which had been upheld on 28 august 2008. on 20 november 2008 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint. citing articles 14, 22 and 23 of the constitution, the applicant claimed that he had not been afforded equality before the law and that his right to judicial protection and his right to equal protection had been violated as he had not been given the opportunity to participate in the proceedings before the supreme court.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in buivydiškės, vilnius region. in 1991 the lithuanian parliament enacted the law on land reform which provided that residents of rural areas had the right to acquire land for individual farming (asmeninio ūkio žemė) from the state, in accordance with the requirements set out in the relevant legal instruments (see “relevant domestic law” below). it indicated the amount of land to which each listed individual was entitled but did not specify actual plots. it ordered matininkai to amend the delimitation and allocation of plots accordingly and to prepare all the necessary documents by 15 october 2002. they were informed that the preparation of the land allocation plan in the area was ongoing. on 13 october 2006 the vilnius regional administrative court dismissed the claim. in august 2008 the applicant asked the vca to inform her whether the supreme administrative court’s judgment of 30 may 2008 had been enforced. the applicant was not included on that list. the applicant was offered four plots of land (different from the two which had been previously offered to her – see paragraph 40 above) amounting to a total of two hectares. on 31 december 2014 the nls approved the land allocation plan of the buivydiškės cadastral area and a list of over twenty individuals who had been allocated specific plots of land. in september 2015 the nls informed the applicant that she had to pay a fee of eur 157 for registering the four plots in the property register, and that that fee would be subsequently refunded to her in the price of the land. in july 2007 the applicant and her husband submitted a complaint against the vca to the vilnius regional commission of administrative disputes (hereinafter – “the commission”). the court also noted that the applicant and her husband had repeatedly asked the vca for information about the implementation of the land reform and about the plot assigned to them, that they had petitioned several state institutions (see paragraphs 54-57 below), and that the lengthy non-enforcement of the supreme administrative court’s judgment of 5 may 2007, as well as the vca’s evasiveness concerning their requests, had caused them inconvenience and negative feelings. in april 2006 the applicant and her husband submitted a complaint to the parliamentary ombudsperson, stating that they still had not been given the land assigned to them in 1995. that same month a group of residents of buivydiškės, including the applicant’s husband, submitted a complaint to the parliamentary subcommittee on the rule of law, complaining about the actions of the vca in the implementation of the land reform.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in chelyabinsk. 3 of the chelyabinsk region and underwent two courses of chemotherapy. in december 2012 a court authorised the applicant’s early release on health grounds. on 13 march 2014 a medical panel, comprising the deputy head of the prison tuberculosis hospital and doctors from the same hospital, examined the applicant and diagnosed him with progressive non-hodgkin lymphoma in acute iii b stage, with lesions of the cervical, axillary and abdominal lymph nodes. it was once again noted that the applicant was eligible for release on health grounds. he submitted that his disease had progressed to its final stage and that he had relatives who could take care of him. on 12 september 2014 the metallurgicheskiy district court held a hearing. the certificate also indicated that an oncologist had examined the applicant four times, once in march and september 2014 and twice in october 2014. the complaints also contained a request for a medical examination and for his early release on health grounds. in particular, in their answer to the first question concerning the adequacy of the applicant’s treatment, the government stressed that the applicant had regularly undergone in-patient treatment and examinations in relation to his oncological illness. the government continued by indicating that he would be provided with chemotherapy as soon as the general blood test results allowed and the applicant consented. 54 of the government of the russian federation. another examination of the applicant by the hospital medical panel had been scheduled for november 2014. the applicant informed the court that on 28 november 2014, acting upon his appeal, the chelyabinsk regional court had quashed the decision of 12 september 2014 and ordered his release. on an unspecified date after 28 november 2014 the applicant was released.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in izhevsk. on 27 august 2008 the police arrested the applicant in the street on suspicion of being drunk. he was taken to the police station where he was held for more than two hours. the police charged the applicant with public drunkenness and told him to pay a fine. further to a complaint by the applicant, on 8 december 2008 the pervomayskiy district court of izhevsk quashed the police decision, finding that the charge had not been supported by evidence. the applicant brought a claim for compensation for pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage in connection with his arrest and detention. by a judgment of 16 november 2009, the pervomayskiy district court dismissed his claim. noting that the claim arising out of administrative detention fell outside the exhaustive list of examples of strict liability under article 1100 of the civil code, the court held that the lawful actions of the police officers could not give rise to liability in tort. it acknowledged that the applicant must have suffered frustration and anxiety as a result of his detention, but determined that his suffering had been “of no legal consequence”. on 3 march 2010 the supreme court of the udmurtiya republic upheld the district court’s decision on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1982 and is currently detained in gorodyshche prison. on 30 november 2008 the applicant, mr a.s. the applicant had four prior convictions for theft, burglary, robbery and carjacking. on 5 december 2008 v.s. was arrested and questioned. the bruises on his wrists were soft and pink in colour. the applicant confirmed the account of events he had given on 6 and 8 december 2008, including the statement that at n.’s house he had used the knife to cut paintings out of their frames, and added that there had been no plan to murder n. but simply to burgle his house. according to the government, on 6 february 2009 the applicant was familiarised with the medical expert’s report of 6 december 2008 and made no comments or requests. in the course of the questioning the investigator asked the applicant why he had not initially joined his co-defendants in attacking n. the applicant refused to answer. stated that it had been the applicant who had stabbed n.  in the course of a confrontation between the applicant and a.s., in support of his request he stated that he had been ill-treated in the course of and following his arrest. he also asked for police detectives i.kot., the lrpo indicated that the chervonograd prosecutor’s office should undertake a number of additional measures to establish the circumstances of the incident, most notably: (i) interview ms z. whom the applicant had been going to meet when he had been arrested; (ii) identify the ambulance staff who had visited the applicant on 6 december 2008 and interview them; (iii) interview the forensic medical expert to find out whether the injuries observed by the expert on the applicant on 6 december 2008 were consistent with the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment. the decision was based on the statements of the police detectives and the expert report of 6 december 2010. on 15 march 2013 the chervonograd court granted the applicant’s claim and ordered the chervonograd prosecutor’s office to create an entry in the register of investigations in order to investigate the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment. in the course of his arrest and on the way to the pustomyty police station, where his arrest had been recorded.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in hamburg. the applicant is a civil servant working as a lawyer for the hamburg tax authorities. in this capacity he opened a bank account for the association. in 2000 the applicant left the board of the association. he explained, convincingly, that he had nothing to do with the email address “sternschnuppe756” or the bank account of the “red aid” association. the search warrant authorised the search and seizure of computers and documents containing information about the sale of the fake watch and the computer programmes. on 8 december 2004 the applicant’s (shared) flat in hamburg was searched. the police found none of the items they were searching for. the amount and quality of the hashish was asserted by an expert. the amount was enough for 2606 consumption units. the applicant, represented by counsel, lodged a complaint against the search warrant before the criminal courts arguing that the warrant, and consequently the search, had been unlawful and had infringed his constitutional right to respect for his home under article 13 of the german constitution (“the basic law”; see paragraph 22, below). considering that it was legally unclear whether or not the court of appeal’s findings regarding the admissibility of the evidence found during the house search were binding on the lower courts, the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the federal constitutional court. on 27 december 2006 the federal constitutional court rejected the complaint as inadmissible. it took the view that, considering the seriousness of the crime of drug possession and the substantial amount of hashish found, the public interest in prosecution outweighed the applicant’s interest in respect for his home because the applicant’s rights had not been deliberately infringed, the house search had not been arbitrary and the amount of hashish found would theoretically have justified a house search. as the applicant was a civil servant, disciplinary proceedings were initiated in view of the criminal charges against him.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in suceava. at the relevant time, he was a journalist for a local newspaper monitorul de suceava (hereafter “the newspaper”). the article, accompanied by a photograph of s.a., an inhabitant of verneşti is wanted by police officers throughout the country, as he is the main suspect in a case of breaking and entering at the headquarters of the psd in suceava. the night before christmas eve 2002 was marked by bad luck for the psd in suceava, as thieves visited their headquarters. who has been missing from his place of residence since that date. see photo) fled in order to avoid criminal investigation for the offence of aggravated theft and so a general search has been instituted and his photograph has been sent to judicial service police officers throughout the country. if the person is not found within ninety days, the police launch a national search. the employees of the suceava county police inspectorate promptly informed me that there had been a mistake and that the general search for my son had been called off. my wish would be to have the article retracted.” the letter was published unedited, but nothing else was done since then. considered that the article contained serious allegations which considerably affected his public image, causing him personal suffering. on 17 october 2003, the head of the police department of suceava informed the first-instance court that:“in response to your letter in which you enquire whether on 25 august 2003 a general search order was outstanding against s.a. ... 124000 of the general inspectorate of the romanian police a general search order was issued in respect of this person as he was attempting to avoid criminal investigation while under suspicion of theft. the relevant excerpts from the judgment read as follows:“taking into account the fact that the applicant obtained information concerning the suspect from the judicial office within the general police inspectorate, he cannot be found to have deliberately (mens rea) defamed the plaintiff ...under the civil limb of the action, defamation concerns public communication of a distorted, negative image of a person, which is likely to cause him or her personal suffering and damage to reputation, leading to changes such as social embarrassment and injury to self-esteem.
the applicants were employed by hk komgrap ad komgrap-makiš doo, a company based in belgrade (hereinafter “the debtor”). at the relevant time, the company was predominantly socially-owned. since the debtor had failed to fulfil its obligations towards its employees, the applicants brought a civil claim seeking payment of salary arrears and various social security contributions. on 23 june 2003 the belgrade second municipal court (drugi opštinski sud u beogradu) ordered the debtor to pay to the applicants certain sums in respect of salary arrears and various social security contributions. this judgment became final and enforceable on 25 july 2005. on 18 january 2006 the said court ordered the enforcement of the judgment and awarded the applicants the costs incurred in the enforcement proceedings. the government maintained that the debtor had been sold in 2007 to a private company. the applicants disagreed and claimed that it was, in fact, a different company that had been privatised in 2007. the government submitted that bankruptcy proceedings had been instituted in respect of the debtor on 22 july 2010 and had been terminated on 10 june 2013. the applicants disagreed and claimed that it was, in fact, a different company that went into bankruptcy in 2013. in their additional observations the government submitted that bankruptcy proceedings had been instituted in respect of the debtor on 24 july 2013 and had been terminated on 8 november 2013 when the decision to institute bankruptcy proceedings had been quashed. on 27 october 2010 the applicants lodged a constitutional appeal, seeking redress for the non-enforcement of the judgment in question. on 27 november 2013 the constitutional court held that the applicants had suffered a breach of the “right to a trial within a reasonable time” with regard to the enforcement proceedings. the court, however, did not award them compensation for non-pecuniary damage, finding that only the period after the applicants had continued the enforcement proceedings following the death of their relatives (on 9 july 2013 and 15 may 2013, respectively) could be taken into account. the court ordered the acceleration of the proceedings and declared that the applicants were entitled to compensation for the non-pecuniary damage suffered in the amount of eur 800 each, converted into the national currency at the rate applicable at the date of settlement.
the applicant was born in 1941 and lives in murmansk. the applicant sued the local office of the pension fund, claiming that her monthly pension had been miscalculated. on 12 september 2003 the pervomayskiy district court of murmansk granted her claim and ordered that the pension due to the applicant be recalculated and increased. no appeal was lodged against that judgment and on 23 september 2003 it became final and enforceable. on 11 august 2005 the pervomayskiy district court of murmansk quashed the judgment of 12 september 2003 and reopened the proceedings after an application by the respondent authority on the grounds that new circumstances had come to light. on 23 august 2005 the same court rejected the applicant’s pension recalculation claim.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in chisinau. in january 2008 the balti police organised an undercover operation with the purpose of apprehending a criminal group specialised in the production and circulation of forged documents. he was therefore interested in obtaining a romanian passport which would facilitate his plans. both men agreed to let each other know in the event that one of them found an easy way of obtaining a romanian passport. both d. and z. confirmed during the subsequent court proceedings that it was d. who had recommended z. to the applicant in march 2008. the applicant informed e. that he had found a person, z., who could help in exchange for eur 1,500 and proposed to put e. in contact with z. however, e. refused to get into direct contact with z. and informed the applicant that he did not have the money at the time. the applicant accepted e.’s proposal and agreed to arrange a meeting with t. 10. this information was contested by z. during proceedings, who stated that he had informed the applicant from the very beginning that t.’s romanian identity card was going to be false and that he was to avoid travelling to romania with it. on 16 april 2008 the applicant met with t. and gave him the identity card in exchange for the rest of the money. on 17 april 2008 an official criminal investigation was initiated against the applicant on charges of manufacturing and trading with forged official documents. during the criminal proceedings the applicant argued inter alia that he had been entrapped by e. and t. and requested that they be heard in court. during the appeal proceedings, the applicant asked again that e. and t. be heard in court. initially the court of appeal agreed to hear them; however, later it decided otherwise. moreover, according to the law, they could not be heard unless they agreed to that. on 8 july 2009 the supreme court of justice dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law and upheld the previous judgments.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in shadrinsk. on 20 august 2003 the shadrinsk town court of the kurgan region convicted him of murder and sentenced him to ten years’ imprisonment. on 29 october 2003 the kurgan regional court upheld the conviction on appeal. the applicant is hiv-positive and at the material time also suffered from tuberculosis and hepatitis. according to the applicant, the wards were severely overcrowded. for instance, ward 25 measured approximately 80 square metres, was equipped with fifteen two-tier bunk beds and housed twenty-seven inmates. according to the government, ward 24 measured 61.49 square metres, had sixteen sleeping places and accommodated up to sixteen inmates. finally, ward 28 measured 49.4 square metres and accommodated fifteen inmates. the applicant was provided with an individual sleeping place at all times. on 14 april 2009 the director of the federal service for the execution of sentences sent a letter to the heads of russian penal facilities, reminding them that charging visitors and detainees for family visits was in breach of article 89 of the code on the execution of sentences (see paragraph 17 below) and that facility administrations must bear the costs of providing rooms for long-term visits. on 22 april 2009 the applicant was authorised to see his two daughters on a long-term family visit. he calculated that a three-day visit from them would cost rub 1,920, which was far beyond their means. on 22 august 2009 the applicant’s daughters visited their father again, this time free of charge. on 29 april 2010 the applicant received a letter from the court dated 19 march 2010 in the correspondence department of the of-73/2 correctional facility, to which he had been transferred in february 2010. it was handed over to him in an open envelope and he was told to sign a copy which had been attached to his personal file.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in chisinau. at the time of the events in question, the applicant was a high-ranking police officer. on 5 september 2008 the criminal investigation into the circumstances of the case was completed and the case was referred to a trial court for determination. on 21 october 2009 the applicant was found guilty of having committed other offences than that for which he had been put in detention on remand and sentenced to five years and nine months’ imprisonment. the offences of which the applicant was found guilty concerned negligence, abuse of power and aiding and abetting in the commission of an offence. on 21 june 2010 the judgment was set aside by the chisinau court of appeal and the applicant was released from detention. between his arrest and his sentencing the applicant was detained on remand. the applicant was detained in two detention facilities. between his arrest and 17 november 2008 he was detained in solitary confinement at the detention facility of the centre for fighting economic crime and corruption (cfecc) and between 17 november 2008 and 21 june 2010 he was held in prison no. according to the applicant, the conditions of detention in prison no. 13 were tantamount to inhuman and degrading treatment. in particular, the cells were dirty and overcrowded. in the cell in which the applicant was detained, each inmate had only 2.5 square metres of available space. the food was of a very poor quality, the inmates smoked, and he was held along with detainees convicted of violent crimes who threatened him with violence on account of his status as a police officer. they recommended he be hospitalised for in-patient treatment.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in chișinău. the search lasted for approximately half an hour. the detainees were then ordered back into the cell. on 6 december 2006 a prosecutor from the chișinău military prosecutor’s office decided not to start a criminal investigation into the complaints made by the applicant and other detainees. 20 had confirmed, in their complaints and statements made to the investigator during the criminal investigation, that the masked men who had entered the cell on 28 october 2006 had caused great disorder, had insulted the detainees, and had hit them with rubber truncheons. according to the statement of detainee s.b., at the end of the search the leader of the masked men did not identify himself and did not fill in any report about the incident. one detainee, (v.s.), who had been taking his daily exercise during the search, confirmed seeing upon his return great disorder in the cell, with all the food and personal items broken up and thrown to the ground, and the detainees cleaning up the mess and complaining about being hit during the search. 13, stated that after the search on 28 october 2006 he saw disorder in cell no. later on the applicant complained of pain in his foot and was taken to the emergency hospital, from which he returned with his foot in plaster. 13, on 28 october 2006 at 5 p.m he saw the applicant, who complained that he had been beaten up earlier, during the search. he had not witnessed any disorder or violence towards the detainees. someone could be heard hitting the door from the inside and the applicant’s voice shouting “i’m going to kill myself, i’m going to cut myself” and “where is the map with documents, they took my map with documents”. on 10 march 2008 the deputy prosecutor general quashed the decision of 15 february 2008 and ordered a more thorough investigation. however, the investigating judge did not have the competence to evaluate evidence in a criminal or civil trial.
mr gerardo menéndez garcía (“the first applicant”) was born in 1964 and lives in gargantada (langreo). mr sigifredo álvarez gonzález (“the second applicant”) was born in 1956 and lives in sant jordi de cercs (barcelona). on 2000 the applicants acted as intermediary (purchase agent) in the sale of three cars, sold to a company. as a result of this sale, on 20 november 2000 criminal investigations were instituted by the gijón no. 1 investigating judge against the applicants and other eight suspects for fraud and forgery of documents. on 16 april 2001 and 18 april 2001, respectively, the applicants were detained, charged with document forgery and informed about the rights they were entitled as detainees. they were subsequently interrogated by the guardia civil in the presence of their lawyer. on 6 may 2009 the hearings before the asturias audiencia provincial took place. on 5 june 2009 the asturias audiencia provincial sentenced the first applicant to a three years and six months’ imprisonment, and the second applicant to a five years’ imprisonment for fraud and document forgery. the asturias audiencia provincial refused the applicants’ request to reduce the sentence in view of the undue delay of proceedings, as prescribed in article 21 of the criminal code. the asturias audiencia provincial acknowledged that the proceedings had been “unusually” long, but this was due to the complexity of the case, namely the difficulties in gathering evidences within different jurisdictions, the great number of parties involved, the difficulty faced when trying to notify some of the defendants, as well as the applicants’ conduct, whose lawyers had lacked celerity in presenting their submissions. the applicants lodged a cassation appeal before the supreme court. on 27 may 2010 the supreme court partially ruled in favour of the applicants and sentenced them both to three years and eight months’ imprisonment for fraud. however, the supreme court rejected the claims of undue delay of proceedings. both applicants lodged an amparo appeal with the constitutional court complaining, inter alia, about the undue length of the proceedings.
the applicant is a limited liability company registered under hungarian law, with its seat in budapest. on 24 november 1998 the applicant initiated a civil lawsuit against two companies requesting the court to declare invalid a real estate sale and purchase agreement concluded between these two companies. the budapest regional court dismissed the applicant’s claim on 26 february 2004. on appeal, the budapest court of appeal quashed the judgment on 5 november 2004. the first-instance court re-heard the case and dismissed the applicant’s claim on 13 october 2005. on appeal, the second-instance court upheld the judgment on 9 november 2006. the applicant challenged the judgment before the supreme court which quashed it on 13 september 2007. in the resumed proceedings the budapest court of appeal quashed, on 20 march 2008, the first-instance court’s judgment. on 18 march 2009 the budapest regional court as first‑instance court dismissed the applicant’s claim. on appeal, the budapest court of appeal upheld the judgment on 17 december 2009. the applicant challenged the judgment before the supreme court but to no avail. the supreme court upheld the final and binding judgment on 13 september 2010 (served on 27 october 2010).
the applicant, mr mikhail novruk, is a moldovan national who was born in 1972. on 4 october 2010 the sovetskiy district court of vladivostok, dismissed a challenge by the applicant to that decision, finding in particular that the federal migration service had been required by law to reject his application for a residence permit. in 2003, ms kravchenko married mr d., a russian national. he acquired russian nationality by birth. further to the district court’s decision, ms kravchenko lodged a new application for a residence permit. on 8 february 2011 the moscow city court dismissed ms kravchenko’s appeal against the district court’s judgment, finding that “there were no grounds to vary the judgment, because the moscow division of the federal migration service had actually complied with it”. the hospital reported the results of his test to the st petersburg division of the federal migration service, which issued a decision of 4 june 2008 on the undesirability of mr khalupa’s stay in russia because he would pose a “real threat to public health”. nevertheless, on 12 september 2011 the deputy director of the st petersburg division of the federal migration service informed mr khalupa and ms e. that their applications for review of the decision of 4 june 2008 had been refused. that judgment was upheld on appeal on 16 may 2012 by the moscow city court. in 1966 her parents took ms ostrovskaya and her sister to live in the uzbek soviet socialist republic of the ussr. on 21 november 2012 the sverdlovsk regional court heard an appeal by v.v. the judgment became final and enforceable. had been infected with hiv and had avoided treatment. on 19 february 2014 the sverdlovsk regional court refused leave to appeal to the cassation instance. the government also produced a copy of the statement signed by mr x on 1 june 2014.
from 1996 onwards the applicant, a former police officer discharged for health reasons, enjoyed disability benefits under the labour disablement insurance act (wet op de arbeidsongeschiktheidsverzekering – “wao”). this he did by running a one-man business as a trainer teaching people how to deal with stress. in september 1999 the applicant’s business was transformed into a limited liability company. the applicant was its managing director and its only employee; he entered its employ on 1 october 1999. on 3 september 2003 mr d., an official of the social-security authority (by this time re-named employee insurances schemes implementing body (uitvoeringsinstituut werknemersverzekeringen; “uwv”)) submitted an extensive investigation report implicating the applicant and his wife in suspected social-security fraud. on 28 january 2004 uwv gave a decision reducing the applicant’s wao benefits with retroactive effect. on 3 march 2004 uwv gave a second decision ordering the applicant to repay the excess. as relevant to the case before the court, the applicant argued that as from 1999 he had kept the competent authorities informed of developments as they occurred, withholding no information, and invoked the arrangement which he had agreed with mr g. he named mr s. as a witness. its reasoning included the following:“the [applicant] has also stated that [uwv] officials had agreed with him that he would be permitted to earn unlimited income in addition to his wao benefits for a period of five years. he asked for them both to be heard as a witness in order to prove the existence of the agreement. he did not, however, himself summon mr g. and mr s. as witnesses by registered letter or bailiff’s writ. the applicant did not bring mr g. and mr s. along but restated his request to have them heard as witnesses. in response to a question by the court, the applicant acknowledged that he had made no attempt to summon mr g. and mr s. himself or bring them along to the hearing of either the regional court or the central appeals tribunal, as permitted by section 8:60(4) of the general administrative law act (algemene wet bestuursrecht; see paragraph 25 below). on 20 january 2006 the single-judge chamber of the criminal division (politierechter) of the roermond regional court convicted the applicant. the suspect understood these arrangements in the sense that he would in principle be allowed to earn unlimited additional income without losing his benefits.
the applicant was born in 1997 and lives in deva. who was under fourteen and hence not criminally liable. on the same day the five suspects were called into the police station for questioning. on 11 march 2009 a forensic report found that no traces of violence had been detected on the applicant’s body. to have sex with him on several occasions, alleging that he had threatened that he would beat her if she told anyone. declared that he had had sex with the applicant in the autumn of 2008. declared that the applicant had told them she had had an intimate relationship with j.v. for the crime of sexual intercourse with a minor on repeated occasions. were given administrative fines for the same crime. the applicant declared before the court that j.v. the applicant’s representative submitted that the decision of the first instance court had not been impartial since it had been based only on the statement of the accused, together with statements by the other perpetrators and two witnesses – all related to the accused. the hunedoara county court decided to allow the applicant’s appeal, holding that:“according to the provisions of article 197 of the criminal code, the crime of rape is ‘sexual intercourse of any kind with a person ... taking advantage of the [person’s] lack of capacity to defend herself or to express her will [original emphasis]...’. as well as the account of the events given by the other perpetrators. based on these testimonies and the fact that the victim had not told her parents about the alleged abuse, the court drew the conclusion that the instances of sexual intercourse had always been initiated by the applicant and dismissed the theory that the victim might have lacked capacity to express her will. the findings of the forensic psychiatric report of 7 july 2009 were not mentioned or discussed in any way by the court.
between 2005 and 2006 the applicants successfully sued the authorities for miscalculating social benefits. on various dates the supervisory review courts quashed the judgments delivered in the applicants’ favour after applications by the defendant authorities, considering that the lower courts had misapplied substantive or procedural law (for more details see the appendix). on 3 july 1986 the applicant was sentenced to three and a half years’ imprisonment. on an unspecified date the applicant lodged an application with the sovetskiy district court, claiming 3,973,578 russian roubles (rub) in compensation for pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage on the grounds of wrongful prosecution. on 24 may 1999 the sovetskiy district court allowed the applicant’s claim in part, awarding him rub 43,568 in compensation for unpaid salary, the confiscation of his car, and judicial costs and expenses. on an unspecified date the applicant brought a similar set of proceedings against the ministry of finance, claiming compensation for wrongful prosecution in 1997. on 27 july 2006 the leninskiy district court granted the applicant’s claim in full and awarded him rub 761,815 in compensation for unpaid salary; the confiscation of his car and other property; rent for his flat; travel expenses; and judicial costs and expenses. no appeal against the judgment was lodged and it became final. on 1 february 2007 the presidium of the rostov regional court quashed that judgment by way of supervisory review on the grounds that the same issue had already been decided by the judgment of 24 may 1999 and that there had been no grounds to examine the complaint a second time.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in london. the applicant and his wife divorced on 27 august 2004. on 6 july 2005 the applicant’s former wife issued an application for him to be committed to prison for breach of the undertaking and injunction. his position as regards legal aid was due to be reviewed shortly after the hearing. the applicant contacted lawyers from prison in order to appeal his committal but, having accepted instructions, they failed to assist him. he subsequently obtained legal aid and legal representation to pursue those proceedings. in particular, he did not ask anything as to the circumstances in which he was unrepresented. in the absence of evidence of intransigence on the part of the applicant, and he noted that there was none, there was no reason why the applicant should not be represented. he sought an extension of time for lodging his claim. on 25 february 2009 the high court dismissed his claim and refused the extension of time. as to the false imprisonment claim, blake j referred to the long‑standing recognition in the case-law that there was immunity from suit for a claim based on alleged errors of a circuit judge of competent jurisdiction that resulted in detention, in the absence of malice. the applicant’s claim accordingly failed. as to the claim under article 5 of the convention, blake j referred to this court’s judgments in the cases of benham v. the united kingdom [gc], 10 june 1996, reports of judgments and decisions 1996‑iii, perks and others v. the united kingdom, nos. 25277/94 and others, 12 october 1999 and lloyd and others v. the united kingdom, nos. the applicant sought leave to appeal out of time.
the applicants were born in 1985 and live in vanadzor and gyumri, armenia. on 11 may 2004 the second applicant addressed a letter to the military prosecutor of armenia in which he retracted his confession, claiming that he and the other two applicants had nothing to do with the murder. that night at around 3.30 a.m. i was taken down to the stepanakert military police department’s detention facility, where there were three other persons... i, musa and razmik were kept in that facility until the morning of 23 april. by a letter of 10 june 2004 the military prosecutor informed the first applicant and his lawyer, in reply to their complaints, that:“the first investigative measures involving [the applicants] were carried out on 21 april 2004 at the martakert garrison military prosecutor’s office where they were questioned as witnesses. and requesting that he be removed from the case. and requesting that he be removed from the case on the ground that the investigator had, inter alia, ill-treated the third applicant in stepanakert, including by administering blows to his head with the handle of his pistol. on the same date the military prosecutor rejected the third applicant’s motion of 16 june 2004 on similar grounds. the lawyer requested that the first applicant be released immediately. had entered the office and started beating him and forcing him to admit that it was he and the other two applicants who had killed the two servicemen. submitted that he had been present during the second applicant’s questioning at the stepanakert military police department and no beatings or violence had been inflicted on the second applicant by investigators a.h. submitted that the applicants had been admitted to the arrest facility when he was on duty. by a letter of 26 december 2005 the general prosecutor’s office informed the applicants that, during the court examination of the criminal case against them, the syunik regional court, guided by article 17 § 4 of the ccp, had taken the necessary measures to verify the statements alleging that they had been subjected by the investigators to coercion during the investigation, and found them to be unsubstantiated in its judgment of 18 may 2005. military police officer m. stated that he had been absent from the stepanakert military police department during the period when the applicants were taken there and he had never encountered them. in reply to the investigator’s question as to whether he had seen any injuries on the third applicant or received from him any complaints of ill-treatment, h.m. according to the applicants, a number of former servicemen of their military unit and also a few civilians testified during the trial that they had been locked up during various periods at the beginning of 2004 at the martakert garrison military prosecutor’s office and the stepanakert military police department and questioned in connection with the murders.
on 11 may 1995 the fier commission recognised the applicant’s and other heirs’ inherited property rights over a plot of land measuring 55,200 sq. it also decided that the commission would decide on the compensation of the remaining plot at a further moment. on an unspecified date the applicant lodged a civil action seeking the vacation of the property, which was occupied by third parties. the parties failed to provide information about the progress of this set of proceedings. on 14 april 2008 the applicants requested that unoccupied plots measuring 3,142 sq. m, situated within the plot measuring 10,600 sq. on 3 december 2008 the tirana commission rejected their application since the plot of land was occupied. to date, no compensation has been paid in respect of the plot of land measuring 10,600 sq. m. since the plots of land were occupied, the applicant would be compensated in one of the ways provided by law. he submitted an english translation of a notarised document, which recognised him as the sole testamentary heir in respect of the property situated in elbasan. the original document, no copy of which was submitted to the court, appears to have been issued by a notary of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. m was occupied, the applicants would be compensated in one of the ways provided by law. on 23 september 1996 the tirana commission recognised, amongst others, the applicants’ inherited property rights over a plot of land measuring 208,696 sq. since the remaining plot measuring 201,244 sq. on 22 december 2007 the agency decided to award financial compensation to the applicants in respect of 200 sq.
the applicant was born in 1972 and is currently serving a sentence in prison no. he stated that, in the course of the latter, he had used a firearm against the victim. during the questioning, the applicant, apart from giving information on the robberies, reiterated his statements regarding the shooting which had occurred in yevpatoriya. on 22 november 2001, in the presence of his lawyer, the applicant was charged with murder and attempted murder, and questioned as an accused. he waived his right to a lawyer during questioning. on 18 november 2002 amended charges were brought against the applicant and he was questioned again. according to the government, no investigative measures were conducted that day. on 12 june 2003 the applicant requested the court of appeal to change his preventive measure to a non-custodial one. on 29 april 2004 the supreme court heard the applicant’s appeal in the presence of the prosecutor. on 20 august 2004, in the presence of his lawyer, amended charges were brought against the applicant. in the part of the judgment which concerns the murder charges, the court referred, in particular, to the “testimonies given by the applicant as a suspect and an accused, including in the presence of a lawyer”. in this context, when finding the applicant guilty of armed robberies, the court held that, having been informed of his procedural rights, the applicant had voluntarily waived his right to legal representation and that such a waiver had been lawfully accepted by the investigative authorities as robbery charges could not lead to a life sentence. the governor further informed her that, according to medical documents concerning k., g., k.i., in kharkiv sizo the applicant was held in cells nos. there was natural ventilation and light through windows; artificial lighting allowed inmates to read and write without damaging their eyesight.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in burgas. at about 6 a.m. on 11 july 2007 several police officers visited the applicant’s home with a summons for him to report to the police station in the neighbouring town of pomorie “as a witness” in relation to an investigation. the applicant alleged that he was not at home at the time and that he was alerted by phone by his wife. on the summons, on the other hand, it is noted that he refused to accept receipt. the detention order stated that he was being detained on the basis of section 63(1)(1) “in connection with an offence under article 195 of the criminal code”, which refers to theft. during his detention, the applicant was transported to a police station in burgas and then back to the police station in pomorie, where his fingerprints were taken. he was not interviewed, and no further investigative steps involving his participation were taken. at about 12 a.m. the applicant was allowed to meet with a lawyer retained by his wife, who insisted that the police release him. immediately after his release the applicant applied for judicial review of the detention order. in the framework of the ensuing proceedings the police presented an order dated 10 july 2007 and signed by a police investigator in pomorie. they stated that the case file concerning the applicant contained no further documents. the order stated that a theft had been committed by an unknown person in a hotel in pomorie and instructed the police to take the appropriate measures to search for the perpetrator. the burgas administrative court heard the case on 28 november 2007. it accepted the order mentioned in the preceding paragraph as evidence. in a judgment of 21 december 2007 it upheld the detention order, holding that the applicant’s detention had been in accordance with the law.
the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in baku. the applicant has collaborated with other ngos in azerbaijan on various projects. the applicant has been involved in the preparation of various reports relating to human rights issues in azerbaijan. the description of charges consisted of a single sentence which was one page long. he was accused of acquiring profit, “by paying money to himself and other people involved in the projects in the guise of salaries and service fees” in the amount of 147,900.85 azerbaijani new manats (azn), having acquired that money through, “illegal entrepreneurial activity in respect of grants which, as an official, he had failed to register with the relevant executive authority, even though he had a professional obligation to do so”. on 4 august 2014 the applicant appealed against the detention order. among other things, the applicant highlighted the factual circumstances which supported his argument for less restrictive measures, including the fact that he had returned to the country from kyiv knowing that he was under investigation and had complied with all orders to produce documents and appear for questioning, and that he, as a human rights defender, was a respected public figure with strong ties to the community. on 12 december 2014 the applicant appealed against the nasimi district court’s decision of 10 december 2014, reiterating his arguments in detail. the applicant’s criminal trial began in january 2015. these organisations always orchestrate the ugly plans of several interested circles against azerbaijan and act as mercenaries. around the time of the applicant’s arrest and thereafter, the same newspaper and online news portals affiliated with the authorities published a number of pejorative articles calling the applicant an “american agent”, with headlines such as “american agent rasul jafarov detained for three months”, “the rights of rasul jafarov, another agent, limited”, and “search of the flat of american agent rasul jafarov”. in an interview published on 2 september 2014 y.m., capital punishment must be the gravest punishment for them. ədalətsiz və qərəzli hökm çıxarmaz, nə də onun kimisi hakim işləməzdi”). on 29 march 2015 mr bagirov sent a letter to the head of the prison service of the ministry of justice asking for a meeting with six of his clients who were held in detention, including the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1948 and lives in plovdiv. in the beginning of 2002 the applicant began to experience pain in the left side of her chest, for which in february 2002 she underwent a bone scintigraphy. he told her that the suspected metastasis was very small, could not be localised visually, and had to be precisely localised before any surgery. however, he reassured her that the available imaging results were sufficient. a computerised axial tomography scan carried out the same month found that parts of the fourth and fifth left ribs had been removed and that the sixth left rib was fractured. in late 2003 the applicant complained about the operation to the ministry of health. the ministry ordered the plovdiv regional health inspectorate to carry out an inquiry and, based on its findings, on 23 january 2004 informed the applicant that in view of the inconclusive results of the medical imaging tests, the operating team had chosen to make a wide opening in the thorax, enabling them to inspect the left side of the thoracic wall from the fourth to the ninth ribs. the reference to the eighth and ninth ribs in the operation report had been a clerical mistake. however, on 5 january 2005 the court, finding that the applicant had not specified whether her preferred defendant was dr k.m. on 26 october 2005 the court heard the new expert, including his answers to questions put by counsel for the applicant. he explained in detail why he stood by his conclusions. furthermore, the evidence did not categorically prove that the applicant still had a metastasis in her sixth left rib, especially bearing in mind the lack of other metastases after the operation. the other two experts expressed the same views as those set out in the thoracic surgeon’s supplementary report (see paragraph 31 above), and came to the conclusion that the operation had been required and that the operating team had not acted out of line with good medical practice. on an unknown later date in 2006 the plovdiv court of appeal upheld the lower court’s judgment. the applicant again attempted to appeal on points of law.
the applicant was born in 1949 in the khabarovsk region. he remained in detention throughout the investigation and trial. when the applicant arrived at the colony the resident doctor noted that he had a first-degree disability: he was totally blind as a result of mature cataracts in both eyes. his blindness, which had developed during his detention, meant that he was unable to move around alone. 10 for special-needs detainees, which comprised a separate dormitory. the unit had a dormitory measuring 149.6 square metres, a dining room, a toilet, showers, and several offices for administrative and medical personnel. he regularly stumbled over objects, slipped and fell. on 21 february 2011 and 19 november 2012 a medical commission confirmed the applicant’s disability. in september 2014 the inmate who had been assisting the applicant was released from detention and the applicant was left to fend for himself. according to a certificate issued by the authorities, he refused the assistance of other inmates. on 8 february 2013 the applicant asked for a medical examination to determine whether his state of health warranted his early release. on 16 april 2013 the district court dismissed the application. 21 of the supreme court of russia dated 20 december 2011 (see paragraph 26 below), the court noted that the fact that the applicant’s illness was included in the list provided for by government decree no. 54 did not automatically mean that he would be released. the court cited the gravity of the crimes committed by the applicant and the length of the prison term he had yet to serve.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in fontanelas. he publicly declared his homosexuality in 2008. between midnight and 1 a.m. on 28 december 2009, a live talk show, five minutes to midnight (5 para a meia-noite) was broadcast on one of the channels of the national television service, rtp2. and featured two famous people from the media as guests. the possible answers to the question included the name of three female television hosts and the applicant’s; the latter being the “correct” one. who is the best female portuguese tv host? i will obviously exclude option a, definitely. from the other three, i think they are all gorgeous. she was the one telling me not to say it, that it could be bad.” and the directors of programming and content. on an unspecified date the applicant sought to intervene in the proceedings as an assistant to the public prosecutor (assistente) and lodged private prosecution submissions (acusação particular) with the lisbon criminal investigation court (tribunal de instrução criminal) against the defendants. they challenged his prosecution submissions by requesting that a judicial investigation be opened (requerimento de abertura de instrução). in relation to the individual defendants, the judge decided that there was insufficient evidence of any defamation and insults by them, thus the case was unable to be brought to trial. the [assistente] is a public figure and so must be used to having his characteristics captured by comedians in order to promote humour; it being public knowledge that [the applicant’s characteristics] reflect behaviour that is attributed to the female gender, such as his way of expressing himself, his colourful [feminine] clothes, and the fact that he has always lived in a world of women (see, for example, the programmes he has always presented on television). the [assistente] has recently made his homosexuality public, and the defendants never intended to criticise his sexual orientation ...”with regard to the two defendant companies, the proceedings were discontinued pursuant to article 11 of the criminal code, which excludes “legal persons” from liability for defamation and insult.
the applicant was born in 1978 and until his arrest lived in krasnoyarsk. on 27 december 2007 the krasnoyarsk regional court found him guilty as charged and sentenced him to twenty-four years and eleven months’ imprisonment. on several occasions before his arrest the applicant underwent inpatient and outpatient treatment in civilian hospitals. between 1999 and 2001 he was treated for cerebral concussion, cerebral contusion, vertebral contusion, knee pain and a duodenal ulcer. according to the applicant, in 2005 and in 2006 he complained to the prison doctor about various health problems, including stomach pain, but his complaints remained unnoticed by the authorities. in august 2007 the applicant received injections of drotaverine allegedly provided by his mother, a retired doctor, to relieve his stomach pain. multiple tests performed there led to him being diagnosed with first-stage myopia, a duodenal ulcer in remission and duodenitis associated with cicatricial deformation of the duodenum bulb. the resident doctor saw him in october 2009 and january 2010, prescribing him drug treatment and a special diet. the applicant’s medical records do not contain any information indicating that the doctor’s recommendations were followed. the next recurrence of the applicant’s ulcer occurred in autumn 2010. however, the medical records contain no information concerning the actual provision of the prescribed drugs to the applicant. in the beginning of 2012 the applicant underwent a magnetic resonance imaging scan of the brain and spine in a civilian hospital. after the applicant’s return to the prison his treatment continued in line with the recommendations of the prison hospital doctors. he was put on a list of detainees for close medical supervision. on 18 september 2013 the applicant was seen by doctors from the mobile prison hospital and underwent a fibrogastroduodenoscopy.
the first applicant, partners 2000 kft, is a hungarian limited liability company with its seat in nyárliget. it is owned and run by the second applicant. the second applicant is a hungarian national, who was born in 1972 and lives in sopron. the fourth applicant is the second and third applicants’ minor child, born in 2000. on 11 september 2012 parliament enacted act no. cxxxiv of 2012 on the repression of smoking of the youth and on tobacco retail. the act was published on 24 september 2012. the time-limit for applying was 22 february 2013. legal persons were not entitled to apply. which contained the detailed rules for the operations of the future concession-holders, was published on 8 june 2013, that is, after the completion of the tendering process, the results of which had become public on 22 april 2013. the decision about the tenders was taken by nd zrt itself. the first applicant, partners 2000 kft had been active in tobacco retail for several years. since, however, it was not entitled to apply for a concession under the new law, the second applicant applied personally for one, on several occasions. however, nd zrt turned down his applications, informing him that he had not obtained a tobacco retail concession. no compensation is available for ex-tobacco-retailers who, by not being awarded a concession, lost part of their livelihood.
the applicant was born in 1964 and, until his arrest, lived in st petersburg. 78 of the federal service for the execution of sentences (“prison hospital no. on 13 august 2010 the applicant was discharged from the hospital and transferred to facility no. on 14 december 2010 an independent cardiologist, dr f., chosen by the applicant’s wife, issued a report assessing the quality of the applicant’s treatment in detention. 1 where his condition was brought under control. in the meantime, in march 2011 dr f. studied the applicant’s clinical records and recommended that he undergo a coronary angiography examination, as well as haemodialysis to define the correct treatment and to prevent possible progress of his kidney disease. another examination of the applicant by dr f. and an independent cardiologist, dr m., on 22 april 2011 led to the following opinion: the applicant had received adequate hypotensive therapy, which had nevertheless resulted in the aggravation of his hypercreatinemia. on one occasion in june 2011 he refused to take a certain medicine, having noted that he had already taken similar drugs earlier that day. the two doctors therefore recommended his admission to hospital. he underwent a number of tests in the hospital. they noted that the applicant’s state of health called for vascular surgery, drug treatment and the limitation of stress. 21, where he spent the first two weeks of june 2013. according to the applicant, following his discharge from the ward he was immediately sent to saransk for the recommended examinations. symptomatic treatment was prescribed for his kidney disease. on 24 january 2014 the applicant underwent a coronary angiography examination in saransk town hospital.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in samobor. the child was born with multiple physical and mental disabilities. after the birth the child underwent a number of medical treatments and his condition was under the constant supervision of the competent social care services. in april 2008 an expert commission diagnosed him with incurable cerebral palsy, grave mental retardation and epilepsy. in september 2008 the social services declared the child 100% disabled. on 19 october 2006, after he had bought the house in samobor, the applicant submitted a tax exemption request to the tax authorities. in his request the applicant argued that the flat which he owned did not meet the housing needs of his family since it was very difficult, and in fact becoming impossible, to take his disabled child out of the flat from the third floor without a lift, given that he was in a wheelchair. the applicant therefore submitted that he had bought the house in order to cater for his son’s needs. on 6 may 2009 the samobor tax office (ministarstvo financija – porezna uprava, područni ured zagreb, ispostava samobor) dismissed the applicant’s request, giving the following reasons:“section 11(9) of the real property transfer tax act ... provides for tax exemption for citizens who are buying their first real property in order to meet their housing needs, under conditions which must be cumulatively satisfied, including the requirement that the taxpayer in question, or his or her family members, do not have another flat or a house meeting their housing needs. it further lays down conditions which the citizen must meet in order to demonstrate that he or she is buying his or her first real property in order to meet his or her housing needs. given the rationale of the cited provisions and the facts of the case as established beyond doubt during the proceedings, [the ministry] considers that the first-instance authority was justified in rejecting the appellant’s request for tax exemption ... the right to tax exemption exists if the citizen, or his or her immediate family members, at the time of purchase [of the real property], do not own, or did not own, another real property meeting their housing needs or a flat, a holiday house or other real property of a significant value. he also emphasised that the house was the first real property in respect of which he had sought a real property transfer tax exemption. he argued, in particular, that the competent administrative authorities had failed to correct the factual inequality inherent in his particular situation with regard to the ordinary meaning of the term basic infrastructural requirements meeting the housing needs of his family. on 26 september 2012 the constitutional court, endorsing the reasoning of the lower bodies, dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint as ill-founded on the grounds that there was no violation of his constitutional rights. in addition, he had been involved in various therapeutic and social assistance activities, and for the period between 29 june 2010 and 2 october 2011 the applicant’s wife had been granted special status related to her child’s disability and had received inter alia, monthly payments of hrk 2,500 (approximately eur 300).
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in roman. informed her daughter that she needed to be hospitalised for further investigations because an imminent premature birth was suspected. from the cuza-vodă clinic located in iaşi. her condition worsened during the transport. the applicant’s granddaughter died on 12 october 2001 from cardiac arrest, despite resuscitation manoeuvres. furthermore, with careful monitoring of the mother and of the foetus as well as prompt treatment, the deaths might have been avoided. she also requested to be informed of the outcome of the investigation. at the time there was another patient in the hospital suffering from mushroom poisoning. by a judgment of 20 november 2009, the iaşi district court allowed the applicant’s and her son-in-law’s challenge against the order of 4 may 2004, cancelled the order, and referred the file back to the prosecutor’s office for criminal proceedings to be opened against dr i.m. had administered medical treatment in accordance with his professional obligations, and, if such treatment had been inappropriate, whether this had had any causal link with the deaths of the applicant’s daughter and grand-daughter. consequently, the medical staff responsible for the transfer by ambulance should be heard. the applicant challenged the order before the superior prosecutor. she argued amongst other things, that the investigating authorities had delayed the investigation of the case, although she had repeatedly asked for a speedy investigation. also, she had not been notified without undue delay of the outcome of the criminal investigation, although on 6 february 2004 the suceava police department had informed her that she would be notified about the outcome of the investigation. on 21 july 2011, the file was registered with the suceava district court.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in szeged. the applicant had a car accident in 1993, sustained serious injuries and, as a consequence, her loss of capacity to work was assessed to be 67 per cent. an insurance company was obliged to pay a monthly allowance to the applicant. in order to redeem the monthly allowance, the insurance company offered 4,400,000 hungarian forints (17,600 euros) to the applicant as compensation for all damages she has suffered. the applicant and the insurance company concluded an agreement on the lump sum on 25 february 1999. subsequently, the applicant realised that the lump sum paid by the insurance company did not cover all her damages, believing that the calculation method applied by the insurance company was mistaken. consequently, on 7 august 2003 the applicant initiated a civil lawsuit against the insurance company requesting the court to declare the agreement invalid and to oblige the insurance company to pay compensation for damages. the budapest regional court delivered a partial judgment on 18 april 2006 in which dismissed the applicant’s claim on the alleged invalidity of the parties’ agreement. on appeal, the budapest court of appeal upheld the partial judgment on 21 february 2007. the applicant challenged the partial judgment before the supreme court which upheld it on 17 october 2007. as to the remainder, the budapest regional court in its judgment delivered on 11 june 2007 partly found for the applicant in respect of the damage claim. on appeal, the budapest court of appeal reversed the judgment and dismissed the applicant’s claim on 23 april 2008. the applicant challenged the judgment before the supreme court but to no avail. the supreme court upheld the final and binding judgment on 11 february 2009.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in sweden. the applicant replied that it was a private matter “in [his] heart”, adding: “it has nothing to do with this but if you want to ask questions you may. the migration board official asked why, if the applicant did not wish to rely on his conversion as a ground for asylum, he had nevertheless handed in the certificate from the pastor, to which the applicant replied: “i don’t know. he had been arrested once again in september 2009 and imprisoned for twenty days. following his release in a park, he had found that his business premises had been searched. in conclusion, the migration board found that the applicant had not shown that he was in need of protection in sweden. as regards the latter he handed in a baptism certificate of 31 january 2010. his computer had been taken from his business premises while he was in prison. it was much the same as the material he had had on his computer in 2007. on 9 march 2011 the migration court rejected the appeal. the applicant had only stated that he had participated in the campaign for the opposition before the elections in 2009 by joining demonstrations and having contact with the student movement and students in order to help them with their web pages. for these reasons, it considered that the applicant had not made out that the iranian authorities had a special interest in him and that therefore he was in need of protection. he maintained his need for political asylum. this was the reason why he, in response to a direct question by the migration court, had stated that he was no longer relying on his conversion as a ground for asylum. he submitted that since he had not previously relied on his conversion, it should be regarded as a new circumstance.
the applicant was born in 1992 and lives in novosibirsk. on 28 february 2005 the grandfather’s guardianship was revoked but he was reinstated as guardian at the beginning of 2006. moreover, following the fourth inquiry, he was placed in a temporary detention centre for juvenile offenders on 21 september 2004 for thirty days. he was not informed of the reasons for his arrest. on 3 february 2005 the applicant’s grandfather complained to the prosecutor’s office of the sovetskiy district of novosibirsk that the applicant, a minor suffering from a psychological disorder, had been intimidated and then questioned in the absence of his guardian and that his confession had been obtained under duress. on 21 february 2005 the sovetskiy district court held a hearing at which the applicant and his grandfather attended and submitted medical certificates confirming that the applicant suffered from a psychological disorder and enuresis. 163, often played truant from school, and stopped attending school entirely from december onwards. on 27 december 2004 [the applicant] committed another offence proscribed by article 163 of the criminal code of the russian federation; a criminal case was not opened because he had not reached the age of criminal responsibility. [the applicant] refused to provide any explanations. the prosecutor asked the court to accept the request and to place [the applicant] in the temporary detention centre for juvenile offenders, taking into account that the documents presented by [the applicant’s] guardian did not confirm that [the applicant] had been at a doctor’s surgery on 27 december 2004 at 1 p.m. or that he had been unable to commit the criminal offence, particularly taking into account the [applicant’s] personality and the fact that he had already committed a number of offences. on a few occasions they were given a chess set and other board games. it could be seen from the staff list of the centre submitted by the government that the medical unit was staffed by a paediatrician, two nurses and a psychologist. it could be seen from the temporary detention centre’s “accounting and statistical record” concerning the applicant that he had not informed the doctor about his enuresis. detention for behaviour correction therefore had no basis in domestic law. it remitted the case for a fresh examination on appeal.
the applicants are a mother and child born in 1990 and 2012 respectively. on 16 january 2012 the first applicant, who was in the fifth month of pregnancy, was detained by the police on suspicion of robbery. on 12 november 2012 the first applicant wrote in a statement for the sizo administration (see paragraphs 41 and 76) that the maternity hospital staff had treated her well, that she had not been handcuffed or shackled, and that the two female security officers who had been on her ward had been helping her take care of the baby. gave a written statement to the prosecution authorities. specified that the first applicant had not been shackled during the delivery or subsequently during breastfeeding. the cell had three windows measuring over eight square metres in total. the toilet and shower were separated from the living area. on 1 and 2 february 2012 the local sanitary and epidemiological service inspected the sizo in the context of an unspecified investigation. she alleged, in particular, that the conditions in the sizo were not adequate for her baby. the applicants’ case received some media coverage. in the first two statements ms m. described the conditions of her detention in cell no. in her third statement, ms m. stated that the food in the sizo had been poor. on 25 may 2012 the applicants were discharged from the maternity hospital. on 28 august 2012 the first applicant’s lawyer asked the kharkiv sizo administration to provide him with details of when the second applicant had been examined by a paediatrician and whether the conditions of detention had been appropriate for such a small baby. on 18 october 2012 the chief doctor of the children’s hospital wrote to the first applicant’s lawyer, in reply to an enquiry made on 10 october 2012, to say that hospital was in charge of the medical supervision of children in the kharkiv sizo where needed, subject to the sizo administration making the relevant application.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in new delhi, india. he married a latvian national on 2 july 1999. on 21 september 2004 the office of citizenship and migration affairs refused to grant the permanent residence permit to the applicant on the grounds that he had submitted false information and did not have sufficient financial means to stay in latvia. according to the government, on 30 september 2004 the applicant’s wife wrote the office of citizenship and migration affairs a short letter stating that “my husband ... was refused a permanent residence permit; i would like to object to this.” she asked for help and for the applicant to be refused leave to remain in latvia. meanwhile, on 9 december 2004, the applicant’s wife applied to the office of citizenship and migration affairs with a view to withdrawing the applicant’s permanent residence permit and expelling him from latvia on the grounds that he presented threats to her life and health and those of their children. on 14 april 2005 the applicant’s wife applied to the ministry of the interior claiming that notwithstanding her previous letters expressing her wish for the applicant to leave the country their relations had improved and she wished to maintain her family and not to separate the applicant from their children. nor were there any reasons detected why the applicant’s family could not join the applicant in india and enjoy their family life there. on 1 february 2005 the office of citizenship and migration affairs adopted decision no. the applicant was asked to indicate by 2 may 2005 if he would agree for the court to examine his case in written proceedings (rakstveida procedūra). his wife was invited as a third party to the proceedings. the applicant did not lodge an appeal against this decision with the administrative courts. on 13 july 2005 this decision was sent to the accommodation centre for foreign detainees in olaine. it was not served on the applicant because meanwhile, on 12 july 2005, the applicant had been expelled from latvia to india. accordingly, the above decision was adopted.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in tula. on 9 march 2009 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of a flagrant breach of public peace and order, committed in concert by an organised group. the perpetrators used improvised weapons and acted in an organised group during the late hours of the day. on an unspecified date the applicant lodged an appeal against the decision of 10 march 2009. the crime was committed in concert with other persons. some of them have not been identified by the investigating authorities to date. he does not have a registered address in the moscow region. under article 97 of the code of criminal procedure, a preventive measure can be imposed if there is evidence that a defendant might abscond or interfere with the administration of justice in his case. on 18 may 2009 the city court upheld the decision of 27 april 2009 on appeal. the applicant argued against the extension of his pre-trial detention. he had no intention of doing so or of absconding. they were not living at their registered address. he submitted that on 16 june 2009 his wife had given birth to their child. the court discerns no circumstances that would allow it to change the preventive measure imposed on [the applicant], regard being had to the seriousness of the charges, the factual circumstances and his character. in particular, [the applicant] does not have a registered address in moscow or the moscow region.
the applicant is a journalist by profession. the incident, in which three people had died and eight others had been injured, had caused much emotion and controversy in switzerland. profession: nursing assistant ... it is 8.15 p.m. on tuesday 8 july 2003, in the austere premises of the lausanne criminal investigation department. this algerian citizen is withdrawn, introverted, inscrutable, indeed completely impenetrable. and yet the questions are flying from all sides. however, criminal proceedings were brought against the applicant on the initiative of the public prosecutor for having published secret documents. complicity in such acts is also punishable (see paragraph 2). according to case-law, this provision proceeds from a formal conception of secrecy. the law also specifies that the following are bound by secrecy vis-à-vis anyone who does not have access to the case file: the judges and judicial staff (save in cases where disclosure would facilitate the investigation or is justified on public-order, administrative or judicial grounds; see article 185 cpp/vd), and also the parties, their friends and relatives, their lawyers, the latter’s associates, consultants and staff, and any experts and witnesses. lastly, the law provides for a range of exceptions. the present case therefore concerns secrecy imposed by the law rather than by an official decision. furthermore, in so far as the impugned publication concerned excerpts from records of interviews of the accused and reproduced certain letters sent by the latter to the investigating judge, this evidence can validly be classified secret, by prohibiting public access to it, as provided by the legislation of the canton of vaud. regardless of the guarantee of the presumption of innocence and the inferences concerning the detainee’s character which might be drawn during the criminal proceedings from such correspondence, the detainee, whose liberty is considerably restricted, even in respect of everyday acts relating to his private life, or indeed intimate sphere, can expect the authority restricting his liberty to protect him from public exposure of the practical details of his life as a remand prisoner and as a person facing charges (see article 13 of the constitution). in short, the appellant submits that he had the professional duty (under former article 32 of the criminal code) as a journalist to publish the information in question because of what he describes as the obvious interest in the ‘lausanne bridge’ case for the population of french-speaking switzerland. it suggested that the case had already been tried in the author’s view, in the sense that the fatalities on the lausanne bridge had been caused not by an ordinary motorist but by a ‘mad driver’, a man ‘oblivious to the events and all the hubbub around him’; the journalist concluded by wondering whether the driver was in fact doing his best to ‘make himself impossible to defend’.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in šibenik. on 26 august 2005 the šibenik municipal state attorney’s office opened an investigation against the applicant on suspicion of the theft of a mobile telephone from e.r., on 20 september 2005 an investigating judge of the šibenik county court heard the applicant, who denied the charges against him. he had approached the house the children had come from and had knocked at the door, but no one had answered. when he was back at home, two young women had come to ask for the mobile telephone belonging to one of them, but he told them he had not taken it. in response to a request for international legal assistance from the croatian prosecuting authorities, on 9 june 2006 the chomutovo county court in the czech republic heard evidence from e.r. during his trial before the šibenik municipal court the applicant gave oral evidence on 18 may 2010. he reiterated the statement he had given before the investigating judge. over the behaviour of her children, he had not stolen her mobile telephone. ’s questioning as evidence without examining her directly. had no reason “to blame the accused without basis”. had never been summoned to a hearing during his trial before the šibenik municipal court and that he had had no opportunity to question her. ’s mobile telephone had not been found in his possession. the relevant part of the appeal judgment reads as follows:“in the reasoning of its judgment, the [first-instance] court stated the reasons why it had decided ... to read out the statement of the witness-victim e.r., ... this decision of the first-instance court did not violate the defence rights of the accused ......... it should also be said that the mobile telephone could not have been found in the accused’s possession because nobody looked for it.
the applicants were born in 1966 and 2007 respectively and live in st petersburg. between 1983 and january 2012 he lived in st petersburg neuropsychological care home no. in a certificate dated 26 may 2011 a municipal custody and guardianship agency confirmed that the second applicant was living temporarily at the children’s home at the first applicant’s request pending the allocation of social housing to him, and that he visited her there. he was able to cook and kept his room in the care home clean and orderly. there was also a separate desk equipped for the child. (b)  oral submissions and witness statements 25. the first applicant’s lawyer thus insisted that the second applicant should be transferred into his care. they stated, in particular, that the first applicant had a mental disability and had lived for all his life in a closed specialist institution; he would therefore be unable to ensure proper hygienic care of the girl or her adequate development, while it was impossible to entrust any such care to the second applicant’s mother as she was legally incapacitated. ms o. expressed her certainty that the first applicant would be fully able to fulfil his parental obligations and take good care of the second applicant. the first applicant also claimed that during the second applicant’s stay at the children’s home, her mother had been allowed to visit her. in particular, by a judgment of 20 september 2012, the zelenogorskiy district court of st petersburg restored, with reference to a psychiatric report, ms n.s. the judgment entered into force on 25 october 2012. a representative of the children’s home confirmed in court that the first applicant regularly visited the second applicant, that close emotional ties had formed between them and that the girl missed her father when he left. on 8 april 2013 the district court gave its judgment. the court went on to note that the legal capacity of ms n.s.,
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in plasencia. 1 sentenced the applicant to six months’ imprisonment for serious disobedience to public authority (desobediencia grave a la autoridad). in fact, the applicant had proceeded to have the forum webpage removed altogether, despite the police officer’s request to leave it unchanged. as regards the charges for defamation and false accusation of a crime, the judge held that there were reasonable doubts as to whether the applicant had been aware of the messages in question before his police interview and that he should therefore be acquitted in that regard. both the prosecution and defence appealed against the judgment before the cáceres audiencia provincial. the applicant did not request a hearing, nor did the audiencia provincial order one. instead, the court watched a video-recording of the trial. on 16 may 2011 the audiencia provincial upheld the applicant’s conviction for serious disobedience to public authority and, unlike the first-instance judge, found him guilty of continuous and false accusation of a crime (delito continuado de calumnias). his punishment was a daily fine of 15 euros (eur) for a period of eighteen months. in finding the applicant guilty, the appellate court stated that it had relied on the facts established by the first-instance judge and on the testimony given by the complainants, the applicant and the witnesses in the earlier trial. ...it is undisputed that documentary evidence does not require judicial immediacy for its assessment because it is written down and can be read and interpreted in the light of the circumstances of the case, which had been perfectly outlined in the complainants’ brief and proved in the hearing, both with respect to what was written on the forum and the people against whom those expressions were directed. it is worth remembering that we are speaking here of a small town where everybody knows each other, where everybody runs into each other, where everybody attends the same places, where everyday life is routine and there is little room for novelties, where anything breaking the monotony is something which attracts public attention, where the genealogy of every inhabitant is known to the rest. and we disagree for the following two reasons. the applicant applied to the audiencia provincial to have the previous proceedings before it declared void. the applicant lodged an amparo appeal with the constitutional court.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in wiener neustadt, austria. it was full of parasitic insects and rats. the water was yellow because the pipes were rusted, but he had to drink it in the absence of an alternative. in the absence of changes of clothes or incontinence pads, he had to wait for the next day for bathing, which happened only once a week. 80, designed for six detainees and measuring 15 square meters. 609 concerning the minimal norms of food for detainees. in an appeal to the chișinău court of appeal on 18 february 2011 the applicant referred to his poor state of health as a reason for his release; he was ill with prostate cancer. that request was refused on 20 april 2011 by the buiucani district court. 13 as to the specific treatment given to him. in an appeal of 1 july 2011 the applicant repeated his submissions made before the buiucani district court. conditions of detention”) the human rights centre (the moldovan ombudsman institution) found, inter alia, that:“... [t]he prisons department informed the ombudsman that meat and fish products are provided [to detainees] whenever possible. in its report for 2011 (page 71 et seq., “ all of them noted problems concerning conditions of detention, and a significant proportion also noted problems with medical assistance. the report noted the continuing problem of insufficient access to daylight in the cells, in which the windows are covered with layers of metal bars, the lack of ventilation, increased humidity in the cells, very worn-out bed linen, the separation of the toilet from the rest of the cell by a cellophane sheet, or the lack of any type of separation. 13 and, if that was impossible, the urgent improvement of conditions of detention there.
the applicant was born in 1989 and lives in kresttsy, novgorod region. on an unspecified date the applicant was charged with theft. on 28 july 2004 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of having committed a murder. the applicant was 15 years old at the time of the arrest. the other participants in the crime confessed and incriminated [the applicant]. on 27 september 2004 the novgorod town court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention until 8 november 2004 noting as follows:“regard being had to the [applicant’s] character and the seriousness of the charges against him, the court considers that it is not possible to lift or replace the earlier imposed preventive measure because [the applicant] may interfere with the establishment of the truth or abscond.” on 4 november 2004 the town court extended the applicant’s detention until 8 january 2005. it reiterated verbatim its earlier reasoning. on 14 february 2005 the regional court fixed the preliminary hearing of the applicant’s case for 24 february 2005. both the applicant and his lawyer appealed. his mother could not control his behavior; she did not pay due attention to his upbringing and had no influence over him. on 17 october 2005 the regional court extended the applicant’s and two other defendants’ detention until 27 january 2006. on 15 december 2005 the supreme court upheld the decision of 17 october 2005 on appeal. the court reiterated verbatim its reasoning of 17 october 2005. on 27 september 2006 the supreme court of russia upheld, in substance, the applicant’s conviction on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in london. upon arrival they received a further briefing from dci c, which commenced at 8.50 a.m. the briefing was not recorded but it appears that dci c confirmed the terrorists had the capacity to attach a device to themselves that would be difficult to detect. the cctv on the bus did not capture the entire journey due to vibrations but mr de menezes was recorded as being on the bus by 9.39 a.m. at this point the surveillance team described him as “a good possible likeness” to hussain osman. at 9.45 p.m. on 22 july 2005 the anti-terrorist branch formally handed over control of the scene to the dps as they were satisfied that mr de menezes was not connected to the attempted bombings. ... ... ... 20.32 detective chief inspector c, the silver commander, was effectively the ground commander with responsibility for so12, so13 and [so19] officers. as the ipcc did not consider that trojan 80, trojan 84 and dci c had been in a position to influence the outcome of events, it was of the opinion that they could not be held responsible. more detailed reasons were provided in a fifty-page review note dated 9 march 2006 as well as in a final review note of 9 july 2006. he also considered the possibility of prosecuting commander dick for offences under sections 7 and 33 of the 1974 act, but, having applied the relevant criteria, found that the prosecution of her or of any of the other individual officers under these provisions would not be in accordance with health and safety executive policy. likewise, the prosecutor considered that there was insufficient evidence to prosecute trojan 80, dci c or the surveillance teams for gross negligence manslaughter. there is no doubt that the officers intended to kill mr de menezes when they fired. first, ... that [she] failed to ensure that the block on scotia road was kept under careful surveillance control and that tactics were employed to ensure that all suspects could be identified and stopped before reaching a bus stop. secondly, it is alleged that [the dso] failed to keep herself informed of where surveillance and firearms officers were as mr de menezes was travelling from tulse hill towards stockwell. the third point made in criticism of [trojan 80] is that he failed to pass on to [the dso] accurate information about the position of the [sfos] in the minutes after it became apparent that mr de menezes was leaving the bus. the claimant subsequently agreed that no further action would be taken in relation to these grounds because, inter alia, even if the judicial review was successful the only remedy for the family would be for the court to order a fresh inquest and the claimant did not “see any great benefit in re-hearing all the evidence to enable a different jury to come to a verdict, particularly bearing in mind the very high cost of holding such an inquest”. there has been a structured rotation of teams between counter-terrorism and crime operations to familiarise personnel in both types of operation.
the applicants were born in 1960 and 1956 respectively and live in riga. upon being summoned by the knab, on 12 april 2005 the second applicant went to its offices, where he was questioned by two investigators, h. and j. initially, he refused to cooperate and instead asked j. questions about his duties. he asked her to withdraw cash from the company’s account. their phone conversations were intercepted and recorded. the next day, the second applicant arranged another meeting, during which he gave the investigator lvl 27,000. on the same day he was arrested by knab officers. the second applicant was charged as a suspect. moreover, the document had been classified as a state secret. the first applicant did not appeal against that reply to a more senior prosecutor. it appears that on 18 october 2005 the representative of the first applicant sent a complaint about the activities of knab officials in relation to the phone tapping to the prosecutor general’s office. on 2 november 2005 the riga city vidzeme district court, acting as a first-instance court and presided over by judge b.t., the second applicant submitted an appeal concerning the severity of his sentence. during the hearing, the prosecutor confirmed orally that judicial authorisation had been obtained. the appellate court stated, inter alia, “the court recognises all the evidence in the criminal case as admissible, on the grounds that the factual information has been obtained and established (nostiprinātas) in line with procedure and in accordance with the order set out by law ...”. on 19 january 2007 the senate of the supreme court dismissed the appeal on points of law in open court.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in yerevan. m. plot of land situated in a suburb of yerevan. it appears that the applicant used this property for the following ten years. the certificate further stated that, by virtue of article 118 § 4 of the land code (lc), the applicant enjoyed a right of lease in respect of the plot of land for a period of 99 years. the applicant regularly paid property tax on both the building and the plot of land in the following years. when she later applied to the local branch of the state real estate registry to have her ownership right registered, she was informed that the plot of land in question overlapped with the neighbouring plot of land. she requested that the auction be cancelled in its part concerning the overlapping part of the plot, the money paid for that part be returned and a new sale contract be concluded in respect of the remaining part of her plot. on 24 february 2009 the local branch of the state real estate registry addressed a letter to the mayor’s office stating, in reply to an inquiry by the mayor dated 17 february 2009, that the registration of the applicant’s ownership and lease rights had been performed on 9 april 2002 on the basis of the judgment of the shengavit district court of yerevan of 8 june 2001. by failing to do so, and adopting a judgment affecting their rights in their absence, the district court had also violated the procedural law. the mayor’s office further claimed that it had become aware of the contested judgment by a letter from the local branch of the state real estate registry dated 24 february 2009, which had been received by the mayor’s office on 18 march 2009. it finally added that the letter of the judicial department of armenia of 6 february 2009 had been accompanied by a copy of another judgment of the shengavit district court, dated 26 june 2001, which was unrelated to the present case. on an unspecified date, the applicant lodged a reply to the appeals. the court of appeal found, in particular, that the shengavit district court had applied articles 178 and 187 of the cc, which were not applicable to the case, and failed to apply articles 168 and 188 of the cc, thereby reaching incorrect findings. hence, only the state could have acquired ownership rights in respect of that building. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law.
the first applicant was born in 1992, the second applicant in 1995, and the third applicant in 1993. the first and second applicants’ mother submitted with regard to the third applicant that she had travelled with o.b. according to the applicants’ account, even though girls had been in the sauna naked, o.b. – the second applicant likewise told the psychologist that she had been very surprised about all the girls attending the sauna naked and o.b. she had tried to persuade the girls that it was not normal and had gone to the sauna dressed in a swimsuit. the report referred to the applicant’s character report from her previous school, which stated that on 1 september 2009 the applicant had been observed in a tense condition, unwilling to participate in extracurricular activities, in low spirits and suffering from loss of concentration. he had not known how it had come about that girls had been in the sauna naked. stated that in summer 2009 he had massaged the first applicant on her hip muscle. on 21 january 2010 the mother of the third applicant gave evidence. gave evidence that she had been coached by o.b. however, if a male was present in the sauna together with girls, it was recommended that they all wear swimwear. she concluded that the investigation had revealed that the sauna sessions had been voluntary. they furnished the report by the psychologist, k.v., by a final decision of 6 february 2012 that request was dismissed. they had trusted and obeyed a person of the age of majority and could not have fully protected themselves against interference with their privacy.
mr dzhabarov was born in 1975 and lives in burgas. the police issued an order for mr petkov’s detention for twenty-four hours at 1.30 p.m. that order likewise said that he was being detained under section 63(1)(1) of the miaa, but in his case in conjunction with 198 § 1 of the criminal code 1968, which criminalises robbery. the lack of such suspicion was also demonstrated by the absence of any evidence in the police file. he did however ask the supreme administrative court to award him the costs incurred in the appeal proceedings. the supreme administrative court upheld the lower court’s judgment. it held that the detention order, which had been issued at 12 noon on 20 december 2007, was chiefly tainted by the undisputed lack of contemporaneous evidence that mr dzhabarov might have been implicated in an offence. he alleged, inter alia, that his detention had been unlawful and had caused him psychological trauma. he had not provided any evidence, in particular medical expert reports, on that point. on 10 march 2008 the stara zagora administrative court quashed the order. in a bench ruling of 18 november 2009 (опр. on 29 september 2010 the burgas administrative court dismissed the claim. in the meantime, two plain-clothes officers arrived at the station; it later transpired that they were officers of the national security agency. they interviewed ms nikolova without identifying themselves and without explaining the reasons why she was detained. there was no evidence, however, that the applicant’s act had prejudiced the state or those two persons, both of whom, when interviewed, had stated that they had not suffered any negative consequences as a result of the applicant’s divulging their personal data to mr b.t. in january 2010 ms nikolova brought a claim under section 1(1) of the state and municipalities liability for damage act 1988 (see paragraph 47 below) against the blagoevgrad regional directorate of the ministry of internal affairs and the national security agency.
the present case concerns the applicant’s trial and conviction before a judge and jury at the central criminal court for the murder of a mr jon bartlett. the facts of the case may be summarised as follows. mr bartlett was shot dead at about 7.40 pm on 31 march 2006. the defence objected to their admission in evidence but the judge ruled that they should be admitted. thirdly, he said that he was satisfied the evidence in question was “extremely important”. ms willott’s evidence was not challenged and was read to the jury. a third eye-witness, a ten-year old boy, also gave evidence that the gunman had been in his mid-thirties and had been wearing a baseball cap. a police superintendent also gave evidence of the enquiries into mr pearman. a photograph of mr pearman was also adduced in evidence. the allegation against pearman had been made late, and given that on the appellant’s case he had known of pearman’s responsibility for the murder within days of its being committed, it is to be inferred that it was deliberately made late so as to make it more difficult for the crown to investigate it. as it was, because of the lateness of the allegation, the telephone records for telephones used in the murder for which pearman had been convicted only went back to 23 april 2006. (ii) seton and bartlett were involved in drugs together; there was evidence that seton was in debt to bartlett and that bartlett was pressing for payment. if all three were involved in a drugs deal, it is curious indeed that the appellant did not have pearman’s telephone number and could not and did not telephone him direct. (ix) similarly, kate botwright described the driver of the vectra car, seen by her together with the ava van, as in his late teens or early 20s, with short brown hair and wearing a baseball cap. (xii) lastly, evidence was given that on a previous occasion seton had had a connection with a firearm.
the applicant was born in 1936 and lives in sofia. in 1997 the compensation for owners of nationalised real property act (“the 1997 compensation law”) entered into force. as he received no reply, at some point in 1998 the applicant challenged the governor’s silence in court. instead of ruling on the compensation, the sofia city court archived the case; it was only put back on the case roll on 5 july 2002 when the applicant complained. the sofia city court, sitting in its administrative bench, delivered a decision on 19 july 2005. the decision became enforceable on 6 september 2005. on 26 june 2006 the applicant transmitted to the regional governor a copy of the final court decision of 19 july 2005, asking that it be enforced. he sent another request to that effect on 8 august 2006. he also pointed out that it was clear from the judicial decision that the heirs in question were two – himself and a sibling of his; pursuant to section 5(1) of the inheritance act 1949 he was eligible to receive half of the inheritance and, therefore, half of the compensation awarded by the court. on 3 april 2007 the bailiff sent an invitation for voluntary compliance to the governor, signalling that a failure to act upon the 19 july 2005 decision attracted a pecuniary sanction. on 25 april 2007 the applicant wrote to the regional governor that the ordinance in question did not apply to his case, as it only concerned situations in which the administrative body itself was called upon to determine the compensation amount. the bailiff sent another letter to the regional governor on 27 april 2007, inviting him to enforce the court decision. the bailiff specified that the costs and expenses which the governor was requested to pay related to the enforcement proceedings, that a writ of execution was not necessary in order to claim or collect those expenses, and that they had increased with the passage of time. the deputy regional governor replied on 27 april 2009 that the compensation proceedings had not been completed because of the applicant’s failure to submit the requested declaration about his share of the inheritance in accordance with the inheritance act 1949. on 11 may 2009 the applicant challenged the fine in court.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in budapest. the applicant intended to organise a demonstration protesting against “the persecution of national radicalism”. it was planned to take place between 4 p.m. and 7 p.m. on 15 august 2009. the venue was venyige street in budapest xth district, in front of budapest penitentiary. parallel to the main driveway, there is a service lane, of a width equivalent to that of two cars; this area is normally used as a car park. in the applicant’s submissions, this latter section could have accommodated largely all the participants, without them creating any major traffic incident. iii of 1989 on the right of assembly, indicated that a maximum of 200 participants were to be expected. this notification was made at 5.40 p.m. on 12 august 2009. it was of the view that there was no alternative route for the traffic in the neighbourhood, and consequently the demonstration would impede traffic inordinately. because of this prohibition, the demonstration did not take place. on 17 august 2009 the applicant requested judicial review of the police decision. he explained inter alia that he had not specified the agenda because the meeting had been intended as a rather small one and that therefore the actual course of events, such as speeches or discussion, was hard to predict. on 19 august 2009 the budapest regional court rejected the applicant’s complaint. the court relied on the expert opinion provided by the traffic division of budapest police department, in whose view the demonstration would have significantly impeded the traffic heading to the shops located in venyige street, a dead end, to the local waste disposal site and to the suppliers’ entrance of budapest prison; and the disruption caused by the crowd might have extended to maglódi road, a major thoroughfare in the vicinity with lines of city transport involved. relying on that reasoning, the court endorsed the police decision.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in porto. on 28 april 2009 the applicant lodged a request to be granted permanent disability with respect to work before the state’s attorney’s office of the porto labour court as a consequence of a labour accident that she had suffered and with regard to which she was claiming damages and compensation. on 27 may 2009 the applicant supplied statements to the state’s attorney’s office in which she confirmed she was receiving medical care. on the same day the state’s attorney’s office request the applicant to provide her medical reports, which she submitted on 28 and 29 july 2009. meanwhile, the applicant’s employee was notified to provide information on the applicant’s work accident, which was done on 16 june 2009. on 4 november 2010 the applicant informed the porto labour court of her new address and that she had not been certified as medically fit yet. the medical report was submitted by the forensic institute on 3 march 2011 in which it referred that further clinical data and an additional examination were still needed. on 12 october 2011 the forensic institute submitted its final report. on 24 october 2011 the state’s attorney’s office scheduled a conciliatory hearing between the parties on 23 november 2011. the conciliatory hearing was adjourned to 24 january 2012 due to the lack of notification of the applicant’s employer. on 24 january 2012 the hearing was again adjourned to 14 march 2012 at the request of the applicant. on this date the conciliatory stage ended without an agreement between the parties. between 8 june 2012 and 21 november 2012 several procedural steps took place, mostly notifications, provision of information from the parties to the porto labour court and a medical examination at the request of the applicant. the hearing started on 20 february and continued on 28 february 2013. on 8 march 2013 the porto labour court delivered its decision in which it ruled against the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in kaliningrad. on unspecified date the applicant bought a house in kaliningrad. on 18 august 2003 her ownership of the house was registered in the consolidated state register of real estate titles and transactions (единый государственный реестр прав на недвижимое имущество и сделок с ним, “the land register”) and it remains there to date. on 20 april 2005 a judge of the lomonosovskiy district court of arkhangelsk issued an interlocutory injunction prohibiting the applicant from selling the house. on 15 march 2006 the oktyabrskiy district court of arkhangelsk found m. guilty of fraud. the court ordered the seizure and sale of the house in order to pay m.’s debt to the victims of the crime. it considered that this finding was not based on any legal provision and failed to take into account the purchase contract concerning the house. the regional court thus remitted that specific issue for fresh consideration in civil proceedings. on an unspecified date the bank sued m. for additional damages and sought reimbursement by means of the sale of the house. the applicant was also summoned to the proceedings as a defendant. it held that the applicant had always demonstrated her intention to be the owner of the disputed house, notably by systematically paying all charges and taxes relating to the house, and that her mother was living in it. on 16 april 2008 the applicant applied to the tsentralnyy district court of kaliningrad for the revocation of the interlocutory decision of 20 april 2005 by the lomonosovskiy district court of arkhangelsk to seize the house. on 4 may 2008 the bank lodged an application for supervisory review. on 18 august 2008 the presidium of the kaliningrad regional court quashed the judgment of 17 september 2007, as upheld on 19 december 2007, and ordered the seizure of the house from the applicant in order to pay m.’s debt to the bank. on 2 april 2010 at the bailiff’s request the tsentralnyy district court stayed the enforcement proceedings pending examination of the applicant’s case by the court.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in krasnodar. on 24 march 2009 the military court of novorossiysk garrison (новороссийский гарнизонный военный суд) convicted the applicant of laundering of the proceeds of crime and sentenced him to a fine. on 21 may 2009 the military court of the north-caucasian command (северо-кавказский окружной военный суд) acquitted the applicant on appeal. on 21 july 2009 the presidium of the military court of the north‑caucasian command, on a public prosecutor’s initiative, annulled the judgment of 21 may 2009 by way of supervisory review and remitted the case for fresh consideration to the appeal court. the annulment was reasoned by two main arguments: (1) unresolved contradictions between witnesses’ statements pertaining to the applicant’s criminal intent, and (2) absence in the appeal judgment of a summary of the arguments presented by the prosecution during the appeal proceedings. on 6 august 2009 the military court of the north-caucasian command, acting on appeal, reversed the judgment of 24 march 2009 and remitted the case for fresh consideration to the trial court. in 2010 the criminal proceedings against the applicant were terminated due to decriminalization of his actions under the domestic law.
the applicants were claimants in civil proceedings. in the applications trapeznikov v. russia and bychkov and others v. russia, the applicants were former participants of the chernobyl clean-up operation who sued the relevant authorities for an inflation adjustment to their social benefits. in the application markova v. russia, the applicant sought the eviction of her late son’s wife and her granddaughter from the flat she was living in, alleging that she was the sole owner because her son had renounced his share in the flat in her favour. in the application ryabchikov v. russia, the applicant inherited a house in accordance with a will drawn up by his late mother. later he discovered that she had two plots of land which she transferred back in 1994 to an agricultural company to which she was a member. the applicant sought to recover the property of these two plots of land alleging that the transfer had not been duly formalised and that consequently the land formed part of his inheritance. in all of the applications, the first-instance courts found for the applicants, the judgments were upheld on appeal and they became enforceable. subsequently, at the defendants’ requests, the presidia of the relevant regional courts quashed the judgments by way of supervisory review. in the applications trapeznikov and bychkov and others, the presidia found that the lower courts failed to take into account the specific method of calculation of indexation established by the government for this particular category of social benefits. in the applications markova and ryabchikov, they concluded that the findings of the lower courts favorable to the applicants were based on the retrospective application of the law (see appendix).
on 8 april 1998 the applicant requested the bucharest commission for implementing law no. 9/1998 (the county commission) to award compensation for a property owned by his ancestors and taken over by the bulgarian state. on 15 december 2000 the commission issued a decision proposing payment of compensation in the amount of rol 2,013,957,441 (approximately eur 88,000 at the time). that decision, according to the law, had to be validated by a central commission within sixty days. as the central commission did not issue any decision, the applicant brought a court action aimed at obliging the central commission to act in accordance with the law. the applicant also asked for the amounts granted by the county commission to be adjusted for inflation when payment was made. the applicant’s action was dismissed on 17 february 2002 by the bucharest county court, which held that the sixty-day deadline was not compulsory, but rather advisory. the court also held that the adjustment of the amounts granted was indeed prescribed by article 8 § 3 of the law, but any adjustment was to be made at the time payment was actually made, once the central commission had ratified or otherwise the county commission decision. on 23 june 2003 the bucharest court of appeal allowed the applicant’s claim, and ordered that the central commission issue a decision ratifying or otherwise the proposal made by the county commission on 15 december 2000. the court held that the claim concerning the adjustment of the amounts granted as compensation was to be dealt with during the enforcement stage. on 29 august 2003 the central commission ratified the county commission decision of 15 december 2000. the compensation, representing at that time approximately eur 54,000, was paid to the applicant on 22 november 2003. by a decision of 16 april 2004, the bucharest county court ruled in the applicant’s favour. the county court established that in accordance with article 8 § 2 of law no. on 21 february 2005 the bucharest court of appeal reversed the decision, and ruled that the applicant was not entitled to an adjustment for inflation.
the applicant was born in 1936 and lives in skokie, usa. on 31 august 1998 the applicant lodged a request with the bucharest commission for implementing law no. 9/1998 (the county commission) seeking compensation for assets owned by her ancestors and transferred to the bulgarian state. on 29 april 2004 the county commission issued a decision whereby the applicant was entitled to compensation of rol 4,991,284,506 (approximately eur 123,500 at the time). between 2005 and 2008 the applicant lodged several applications with the national authority for property restitution (hereinafter “the national authority”) and the president of romania for payment of the compensation. on each occasion, the applicant was informed that her file was subject to ratification by the responsible authority for implementing law no. on 20 february 2009 the national authority issued the ratification decision, confirming the applicant’s entitlement to ron 499,128.43 (approximately eur 117,000 at the time). the decision mentioned that the payment would be made in two annual instalments, as provided for by the methodological rules for the implementation of the law, in force since 30 november 1998 and amended on 26 october 2007. to date, the applicant has not received the compensation or any indication as to when such compensation would be paid.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in linz. both were suspected of human trafficking. of having accepted money for facilitating the illegal entry or transit of nineteen nationals from moldova to austria or through austria to italy. and transmitted to him information concerning the criminal investigation proceedings against t.s. on 24 september 2007, the linz public prosecutor requested the inclusion of a further file regarding the falsification of evidence in a case not related to that of o.g. the file was included in the preliminary investigation against the applicant and the requested evidence was gathered. again, it appears that no formal decision was sent to the applicant in this regard. on 17 june 2011 the linz regional court acquitted the applicant on all counts. following the notice of the investigating judge of 31 october 2006 the disciplinary prosecutor (disziplinaranwalt) on 13 december 2006 applied to introduce disciplinary proceedings against the applicant on charges of double representation and falsification of evidence. it held that because of the accusations against the applicant the imposed interim measure was proportionate. moreover, the measure imposed upon the applicant had been proportionate. if not, he asked to have the interim measure withdrawn as the criminal proceedings were still pending. as the preliminary measure imposed on the applicant had not been a “criminal charge” in the sense of article 6 of the convention, an oral hearing had not been compulsory. on 17 june 2011, after the applicant had been acquitted on all counts by the linz regional court, he lodged another request with the bar association to have the interim measure withdrawn referring to the court’s decision. on 30 january 2012 he was summoned to a hearing by the disciplinary council on 27 february 2012.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in yerevan. m. and a plot of land measuring 770.3 sq. on an unspecified date the applicant lodged a civil claim against several individuals, who were apparently his relatives residing in the house (hereafter, the respondents), seeking to terminate their right of use of accommodation in respect of a part of the house by paying compensation and to evict them. the applicant’s mother also lodged a similar claim. on 14 september 2006 the shengavit district court of yerevan dismissed the applicant’s and his mother’s claims and granted the respondents’ counter-claim. on an unspecified date the applicant lodged an appeal against the judgment of the district court. at the same time it dismissed the respondents’ counter‑claim. this judgment became immediately effective and was subject to appeal on points of law within six months from the date of its delivery. on 24 april 2007 the respondents lodged an appeal on points of law with the court of cassation against this judgment, claiming that it had been adopted in violation of substantive law. as a ground for admitting their appeal, the respondents submitted, pursuant to article 231.2 § 1 (1) and (3) of the code of civil procedure (the ccp), that the judicial act to be adopted by the court of cassation might have a significant impact on the uniform application of the law and that the violation of the substantive law might cause grave consequences. on 2 may 2007 the court of cassation decided to return the respondents’ appeal as inadmissible for lack of merit. in particular, the court of cassation considers the arguments raised in the appeal on points of law concerning a possible judicial error and its consequences, in the circumstances of the case, to be unfounded.” this decision became final from the moment of its pronouncement and was not subject to appeal. on 19 july 2007 the respondents lodged another appeal on points of law with the court of cassation against the judgment of the court of appeal of 19 january 2007, alleging violations of substantive and procedural law. on 15 november 2007 an ownership certificate was issued in the name of the respondents in respect of 115.4 sq.
on 30 may 2003 the gjirokastra commission recognised, amongst others, the applicants’ inherited property rights over an agricultural land measuring 655,400 sq. m. the applicants and other heirs would be awarded compensation in the sum of 2,297,398 albanian leks (“all”) in respect of the entire land. since the remaining plot measuring 2,500 sq. m, which was situated within the village boundaries and used to be arable land, was occupied, the applicant and other heirs would be compensated in state bonds in the event the buildings located on the land were not privatised (“u kompensohet me obligacion shtetëror sipërfaqja 2,500 m2 ish tokë arë, brenda vijave kufizuese të zvarishtit, në rast se objektet (...) nuk do të privatizohen”). the commission stated that the applicant owned one sixths of the land. on 21 december 1998 the korça commission recognised, amongst others, the applicant’s inherited property rights over another plot of arable land and meadow measuring 19,796 sq. m. since the arable land and meadow were occupied, the applicant would be compensated in state bonds equivalent to a financial amount of all 36,890. m. since the plots of land were occupied, the applicant and other heirs would be compensated in kind in respect of a plot measuring 10,000 sq. m and in state bonds in respect of another plot measuring 750 sq. m. no decision was taken in respect of any right to compensation as regards the remaining plot measuring 6,750 sq. on 13 december 1996 the devoll commission recognised the applicants’ inherited property rights over an agricultural land measuring 27,200 sq. m. the applicants would be awarded compensation by way of state bonds in the sum of all 367,000. on 23 june 1995 the tirana commission recognised the applicant’s inherited property rights over a plot of land measuring 836 sq. since the remaining plot was occupied, the applicant would be compensated in one of the ways provided by law. on 17 march 2008 the agency on restitution and compensation of properties amended in part the commission decision and decided that the applicant would be compensated in one of the ways provided by law even in respect of the plot of land measuring 513 sq.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the applicants, are similar to those in association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos. 33810/07 and 18817/08, §§ 12-41, 24 may 2011). they have the same historical context and relate to the same domestic criminal proceedings. between 17 and 28 december 1989, many people, including the applicants and the close relatives involved in this case, took part in anti‑communist demonstrations in bucharest, timișoara, slobozia, vișina and țăndărei, which led to the fall of the communist regime. they were injured or killed by gunfire during the demonstrations, which took place on 17 december 1989 in timișoara, and in bucharest and other cities across the country from 21 to 28 december 1989. in 1990, following the overthrow of the communist regime, the military prosecutor’s office opened a criminal investigation into the december 1989 armed crackdown on the anti-communist demonstrations in bucharest and the other cities. as regards the events in other cities, the criminal investigation is still pending before the prosecuting authorities. the most important procedural steps were summarised in association “21 december 1989” and others (cited above, §§ 12-41). subsequent developments in the investigation are as follows. on 18 october 2010, the military prosecutor’s office at the high court of cassation and justice decided not to institute criminal proceedings with regard to the acts committed by the military, finding that the applicants’ complaints were partly statute-barred and partly ill-founded. the investigation into crimes committed by civilians, members of patriotic guards, members of militia and prison staff was severed from the case file and jurisdiction was relinquished in favour of the prosecuting authorities at the high court of cassation and justice. on 9 march 2012 - following the opening of the classified information in the criminal investigation file to the public in 2010 - the case was re-registered with a view to an investigation in the light of the newly available data. following the entry into force of the new code of criminal procedure in february 2014, jurisdiction over the case was relinquished in favour of the military prosecutor’s office. it also found that some of the facts which had been investigated could not be classified as criminal offences; and that some of the facts were res judicata. the parties have not submitted any information on whether there was an appeal against that decision.
the applicants were born in 1978 and 1986 respectively and live in bucharest and curtea de argeş respectively. several individuals who had actively expressed their disapproval over the gay march were stopped by the police, their pictures taken and their identity papers checked and noted. as recommended in the same leaflet, they wore no distinctive clothing or badges that would identify them as having participated in the march. one of them tried to protect the others with his body, but the second applicant remained exposed and suffered several blows. the victims asked him to take pictures of the incident, which he did. they informed the police about the offensive remarks made during the attack. according to the applicants, the police agents were surprised when they realised that the applicants and the other victims, although gay, were affluent individuals with regular jobs and positions of responsibility. on 5 june 2006 the applicants’ representative submitted to the police several pictures of the attack taken by z.e. the first applicant was also shown pictures taken by the police during the march. on 8 june 2006 the police received copies of fifteen police reports drawn up on the day of the march concerning administrative fines imposed on counter-demonstrators. as it appeared that nothing was happening in the case, the applicants sought information on the progress of the investigation by means of letters sent by accept on 25 september 2006, 28 march 2007 and 20 july 2011. the actions undertaken by the police to identify the other individuals remained without success. on 10 june 2011 the police stated their view that the investigation should come to an end and asked the prosecutor’s office not to institute criminal proceedings in the case. moreover, all the actions undertaken by police in order to identify the alleged culprits had failed. on 12 november 2012 the district court dismissed the complaint lodged against the prosecutor’s decision of 18 june 2012 as a mere reiteration of that already dealt with by the court in its decision of 9 august 2012.
the applicant, who is of roma origin, was born in 1988 and lives in gyöngyöspata, a village of 2,800 people, about 450 of whom are of roma origin. on 6, 9, and 10 march 2011, during the demonstration and the marches, there was a considerable police presence in gyöngyöspata. one of the men continued threatening them by yelling that he would build a house in the roma neighbourhood “out of their blood”. as having participated in the incident that morning. on 7 april 2011 the applicant lodged a criminal complaint against “unknown perpetrators” with the heves county regional police department, alleging offences of violence against a member of an ethnic group, harassment and attempted grievous bodily assault. on 12 april 2011 the applicant was heard as a witness concerning the events. she testified that three men and a woman had passed by her house and one of them, brandishing a whip, had threatened to build a house out of her blood. on 14 september 2011 a hearing was held in the ensuing minor offence proceedings in which mr s.t. questioned as a witness, maintained that two of the persons subject to the proceedings had been wielding an axe and a whip and had threatened the inhabitants of the roma settlement that they would kill them and paint the houses with their blood. who had threatened the inhabitants of the roma settlement. the applicant, who was also heard as a witness, identified mr s.t. on 20 october 2011, in the criminal proceedings on charges of harassment, the applicant’s lawyer requested the gyöngyös district prosecutor’s office to open an investigation into “violence against a member of an ethnic group” under article 174/b (1) of the criminal code. on 2 february 2012 the gyöngyös police department discontinued the investigation into harassment on the grounds that none of the witnesses heard had substantiated the applicant’s allegation that she had been threatened. and two other individuals suspected of the offences. this decision was served on the applicant on 2 april 2012, informing the applicant of the possibility to pursue substitute private prosecution proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1944 and lives in bucharest. in 1984, the applicant, a professional photographer, took a number of photographs of landscapes in călăraşi county that had been commissioned for commercial publication in an album. the album was not, in the event, published, but the photographs were retained by f.g., in 2004, the applicant discovered by chance that an album named “călăraşi county” had been published by a company run by f.g. was credited as the photographer, and not the applicant. the applicant lodged a criminal complaint against f.g. had committed one of the offences provided for by articles 140‑142 of law 8/1996 on copyright and neighbouring rights (“law 8/1996”). a) of law 8/1996 had been infringed, the rco forwarded the applicant’s complaint, together with the accompanying documents, to the călăraşi police department on 5 november 2004. on 8 november 2004, an expert report was ordered by the călăraşi police department. the report, dated 24 december 2004, confirmed that the photographs had been taken by the applicant. the applicant lodged a complaint against that decision with the chief prosecutor. the latter confirmed the decision not to open an investigation. a complaint lodged by the applicant with the călăraşi county court was allowed on 24 november 2005. it added that the procedure stipulated by law 8/1996 was a special procedure for the punishment of offences related to copyright, which was justified by the complexity and exceptional nature of such cases. no reference was made to the civil complaint lodged by the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in cluj‑napoca. the applicant is the son and heir of mr c. pleş. he replaced his father in the domestic proceedings after his death. the applicant’s father was shot on 21 december 1989 while participating in a demonstration organised in cluj against n. ceauşescu. following surgery, two lobes of his right lung were removed. he was left with a breathing deficit of over 30%, paresis of his right arm, and a permanent disability that prevented him from continuing to work to support his family. furthermore, in subsequent years he was hospitalised many times because of serious breathing problems. criminal proceedings were instituted against the army commanders who had ordered the shooting of demonstrators during the events of december 1989 in cluj. on 17 may 2004 the applicant’s father died. he was replaced as a civil party in the proceedings by the applicant. the grounds of appeal of the civil parties were not identical. in most of the cases they concerned the amount of damages awarded. the applicant complained that the first-instance court had not granted him the requested compensation for non-pecuniary damage. by a decision of 20 march 2006, a panel of nine judges of the high court of cassation and justice dismissed all the appeals lodged by the civil parties. the court of last resort referred to the general provisions of the code of criminal procedure and civil code concerning compensation for damages in the context of civil actions joined to criminal proceedings (see paragraph 13 below) and without examining in particular any of the civil parties’ appeals, it dismissed all the appeals as ill‑founded.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in novi pazar. she was employed by dp “raška holding kompanija” ad, a socially-owned company based in novi pazar (hereinafter “the debtor”). on 30 june 2004, 25 september 2009 and 21 december 2009 respectively, the novi pazar municipal court ordered the debtor to pay the applicant certain amounts on account of salary arrears and social insurance contributions, plus the costs of the civil proceedings. these judgments became final on 15 september 2004, 20 october 2009 and 5 october 2010 respectively. on 5 october 2004 and 11 july 2011 respectively, upon the applicant’s request to that effect, the novi pazar municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said judgments; it further ordered the debtor to pay the applicant the enforcement costs. on 11 september 2013 the kraljevo commercial court opened preliminary insolvency proceedings against the debtor. on 25 october 2013 the same court opened insolvency proceedings against the debtor. the insolvency proceedings are still ongoing.
he is currently serving a prison sentence in the pravieniškės correctional home (pravieniškių pataisos namai – atviroji kolonija). on 14 june 2010 the applicant was transferred to kaunas remand prison (kauno tardymo izoliatorius). according to a document issued by that prison, the average space per prisoner in the cells where the applicant was held varied, but was sometimes less than three square metres per inmate. by a decision of 19 november 2013, the vilnius regional administrative court held that the applicant had missed the three years’ statutory deadline to lodge a claim for damages, because he had been released from lukiškės remand prison on 14 june 2010. the doctors recommended that he continue to take the medications he had been prescribed. he had some diagnostic tests and was treated with medications. in reply to a complaint by the applicant’s lawyer, on 14 may 2012 the prison department hospital noted that it had rigorously adhered to the instructions from cardiologists of category iii medical care institutions (see paragraph 65 below). the applicant’s medical record shows that a number of tests had been performed on him, the doctors concluded that his state of health was “unchanged (be pakitimų)” and “satisfactory (patenkinama)”. in november 2012 the applicant was taken to the prison department hospital for a planned consultation with a cardiologist. the detention was then prolonged a number of times. moreover, there was evidence in the file that the applicant had attempted to influence other suspects, thus impeding the criminal investigation. the lawyer argued that her client would not receive proper medical assistance, as regarded his regime and diet, in the prison department hospital. she asked that a milder remand measure than pre-trial detention be ordered. the last pre-trial detention order was upheld on 19 october 2012 by the court of appeal. the applicant was to remain detained until the judgment became final.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in barnaul. in 2001 he became a suspect and then an accused in a criminal case concerning fraud. during the investigation of the criminal case the applicant was under a written undertaking not to leave his place of residence. in march 2003 the prosecutor referred the criminal case to the industrialnyy district court of barnaul (“the district court”) for trial. on 19 september 2003 the district court ordered the applicant’s detention pending trial following the complaints by one of the victims and a witness about threats expressed by the applicant in their respect. on 22 september 2003 the applicant’s representatives lodged a cassation appeal against the detention order of 19 september 2003 with the regional court via the district court. on 6 october 2003 the district court forwarded that appeal to the regional court and set its examination on 27 november 2003. on 8 october 2003 the district court forwarded a copy of the applicant’s appeal to other participants of the criminal proceedings and informed them that they had until 22 october 2003 to submit their comments, if any. submitted her comments on the applicant’s grounds of appeal. on 19 november 2003 the regional court received all materials related to the applicant’s appeal against the detention order of 19 september 2003. on 27 november 2003 the regional court examined and rejected the applicant’s appeal. the district court subsequently extended the applicant’s detention on several occasions. on 30 september 2004 the applicant was released under a written undertaking. on 13 december 2005 the district court found the applicant guilty of fraud and sentenced him to two years’ imprisonment. on 18 may 2006 the regional court upheld the applicant’s conviction.
the applicant was born in 1952 and lives in rostov region. he took part in the clean-up operation at the chernobyl nuclear disaster site. he was subsequently registered disabled, and became entitled to various social benefits. in february 2003 the applicant brought proceedings claiming that his benefits should be increased in accordance with a particular method. the adjustment method suggested by the applicant was approved by the domestic courts, which in addition increased the social benefits to which he was entitled to in 2002 in accordance with this same method (judgment of 25 february 2003). in june 2003 the applicant brought a similar set of proceedings in respect of social benefits to which he was entitled to during the first six months of 2003. relying on their previous judgment by which they approved the adjustment method suggested by the applicant, the domestic courts increased his social benefits for the new period accordingly (judgment of 18 june 2003). in october 2003 the judgment of 25 february 2003 approving the adjustment method suggested by the applicant was quashed by a supervisory review court. in march 2004 the domestic courts quashed on the basis of newly discovered circumstances the judgment delivered on 18 june 2003 on the ground that it was based on the judgment delivered in february 2003 but quashed since then by way of supervisory review. both judgments, of february and june 2003, remained unenforced prior to their quashing. in 2006 the applicant brought proceedings against welfare authorities claiming arrears for various benefits as well as indexation of those benefits. the zernogradskiy district court of the rostov region granted the applicant’s claims (judgment of 19 june 2006, upheld on 18 july 2006). this judgment remained unenforced for fourteen months.
the municipal unitary enterprise sysolskoye proizvodstvennoye obyedineniye “zhilkomkhoz” (муп сысольское производственное объединение «жилкомхоз», hereinafter “the company”) was set up by a decision of the administration of the sysolskiy district. it provided maintenance services in respect of municipal housing, including heating and water supply, maintenance of the sewage systems and renovation and maintenance of the municipal housing stock. the company had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to it in order to carry out its statutory activities. according to its statutory articles all of the company’s property as well as obtained profits belonged to the municipal estate. on 3 march 2006 the commercial court of the komi republic commenced insolvency proceedings and appointed an external administrator to oversee the company’s administration. on 29 september 2006 the commercial court of the komi republic ordered the insolvency proceedings in respect of the company. on 28 august 2008 the commercial court of the komi republic discontinued the insolvency proceedings and ordered the respondent company’s liquidation. the creditors’ claims, which had not been satisfied during the liquidation procedure, including the applicants’ claims, were considered as settled. on an unspecified date in 2006 the applicants brought proceedings against the debtor company seeking salary arrears and other work-related payments. on 9 august 2006 and 30 october 2006 the justice of the peace of the sysolskiy court circuit of the komi republic awarded the applicants salary arrears (the amounts are specified in the appendix, column no. 2) and compensation for non-pecuniary damage against their employer. on 10 october 2006 and 10 november 2006 respectively the sysolskiy district court upheld those judgments on appeal and they became final.
the applicants were born in 1957, 1961, 1966, 1970 and 1946 respectively and lived until their arrest in st petersburg. the applicants were arrested on the following dates:-  mr gimranov and mr dodonov on 26 january 1999;-  mr denisov on 13 february 1999;-  mr shutov on 16 february 1999; and-  mr filimonov on 7 march 2001. all of the extensions were upheld on appeal. the trial continued, with few interruptions, until 15 february 2006. their request was not considered by the court because mr shutov was not present in court. on 24 september 2004 the applicants unsuccessfully challenged the professional judge and applied for an examination of their case by a jury. on 15 june 2000 mr denisov and g., the lawyer representing him at the time, signed a form acknowledging that they had received sixty-five files of the criminal case for review. on 10 november 2004 the city court ruled that mr denisov would be allowed to review the transcript of the hearings from which he had been removed at the end of the deliberations. on 2 december 2004 mr denisov’s lawyer k. informed the city court that he had reviewed the case documents and had digital copies of them. in particular, he stated that each detainee in his cell had only been allocated 1.5 square metres of space. the request had been granted only in part. on 27 february 2006 mr shutov filed a statement of appeal against his conviction. on 30 august 2006 he was informed that the hearing of his case on appeal would start on 16 november 2006 in the supreme court of russia (hereinafter “the appellate court”). (b)  mr dodonov’s request to participate in appeal proceedings 51. on 29 june 2006 the appellate court granted mr dodonov’s request to participate in the appeal hearing of his case.
the applicant was born in 1971 and is currently in detention in warsaw. on 17 january 2006 the applicant was arrested and detained on remand. he was suspected of the murder of two people and of inciting the murder of another person who had intended to testify against him in a separate set of proceedings. he was subsequently convicted several times for various offences. in particular, on 27 february 2013 the warsaw regional court convicted him of murder. the commission approves the proposals of the directors of the protection and prison wings. the applicant did not appeal against that decision. the commission reviewed and upheld its decision to classify the applicant as a dangerous detainee on several occasions. all the decisions were based on the same pattern of wording, which read as follows:“the commission has decided to extend [the applicant’s categorisation as a dangerous detainee] as the reasons for his placement in a cell in conditions which provide increased protection for society and for the security of the remand centre have not ceased to exist.” an appeal by the applicant against the latter decision was the only one he made against the series of decisions to impose and extend the dangerous detainee regime on him. on 30 january 2013 the warsaw regional court dismissed the appeal. the court held that the decision had been lawful. on 21 november 2013 the commission lifted the dangerous detainee regime applied to the applicant. the applicant was kept in a cell which was constantly monitored via closed‑circuit television. he was subjected to a body search every time he left or entered the cell, which meant in practice that he had to strip naked in front of prison officers.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in the united states of america. in the meantime, on the assumption that the landowners’ properties would be restored in natura by the commission on property restitution and compensation, in january and february 1996, the applicant concluded two agreements with one of the landowners, who was acting on his own and the remaining heirs’ behalf, whereby the applicant would assist the landowners in the process of the privatisation of installations and fuel tanks on the land (see paragraphs 21-22 below). it therefore ordered that these objects be restored at no cost. the domestic courts ruled in favour of the landowners. m having already been decided upon by the authorities. the claim was signed by their lawyer, to whom they had given power of attorney. on 27 july 2005 the applicant requested the court to stay the proceedings pending the outcome of a criminal complaint he had lodged with the district prosecutor’s office against the landowners alleging forgery of documents. the applicant argued that a number of factors pointed to his having lawful property rights over the fuel tanks and installations, such as the fact that all the agreements and contracts were lawful and valid, the property had been registered in his name, he had represented the landowners in the domestic proceedings and he had taken legal action to defend their interests. it found them to be fictitious on the grounds that they had been concluded at a time when the said property in question was being administered by the state, no property rights having been transferred to the landowners. it further ordered that the entry of 23 may 1996 (see paragraph 23 above) in the immovable property register be erased. (b)  proceedings before the court of appeal 34. in this connection, the withdrawal of the presiding judge of the bench had not been accepted by the president of the district court and his four requests for the withdrawal of the bench were rejected, no such mention having been made in the hearing records. on 29 march 2007 the applicant challenged the new composition of the bench, submitting that the hcj should appoint judges from other ordinary appellate courts instead of the military court of appeal. in his view, the court had rejected all of the applicant’s requests without giving any reasons in the decision. on 18 march 2010 the applicant lodged an eighty-three page constitutional appeal.
the applicants were born in 1959 and 1947 respectively and live in the village of sinemorets, on the southern black sea coast. the two of them have lived as a family since 1989. they submitted that they put all their savings into the reconstruction of the cabin, converting it into a solid one-storey brick house. they did not apply for a building permit. the reconstruction took place in 2004-05. in 2006 two of the other co-owners of the plot formally notified the first applicant that they did not agree with the reconstruction. on an appeal by the claimants, on 7 june 2009 the burgas regional court quashed that judgment and made a declaration in the terms sought by the claimants, finding that they were the owners of 140.57 out of the total of 625 shares of the plot and the house built in the place of the old cabin. the first applicant attempted to appeal on points of law, but in a decision of 22 june 2009 (опр. the applicants used the money to buy a second-hand car. in september 2011, prompted by some of the other co-owners of the plot, municipal officers inspected the house and found that it had been constructed illegally. if she failed to do so in good time, the authorities would enforce it at her expense. the first applicant sought judicial review of that decision. on 10 december 2014 the burgas administrative court dismissed the claim. the evidence clearly showed that the applicants had constructed the house in 2004-05 without obtaining a building permit, which under section 225(2)(2) of the 2001 act (see paragraph 26 below) was grounds for its demolition. on an unspecified date in the second half of october 2015, again after notice of the application had been given to the government, a social worker interviewed the first applicant and explained to her the possibilities to request social services.
the applicants were born in 1950, 1979, 1988, 1958, 1947, 1927 and 1932 respectively. they live in plovdiv, apart from ms asthig hampartsum bedrosyan, who lives in new york, united states of america. before her death in 2014, ms anaiys hampartsum shirin lived in burgas. in 1949 the building was declared a cultural monument. after that, the building was the subject of substantial renovation work, in particular after a fire destroyed part of it in 1978. after the adoption of the restitution of property expropriated under building planning legislation act (“the restitution act”) in 1992 (see paragraph 15 below), some of the applicants and other heirs of the original owners (from whom the remaining applicants succeeded in the course of the domestic proceedings) applied for the revocation of the expropriation. in a judgment of 9 october 1997 the plovdiv regional court upheld the administrative decision. however, in a final judgment of 2 october 1998 the supreme administrative court reversed. it found that the applicants’ property had been taken under legislation regulating expropriations made with a view to carrying out public works, namely expropriations intended to be followed by the construction of new buildings or infrastructure. the property in issue, however, had been declared a cultural monument, and had been expropriated to be used as such, thus the expropriation had been in breach of the law. lastly, it was noted that the property still existed. all of those factors meant that the preconditions for restitution had been fulfilled. the parties disagreed as to whether the applicants had also received compensation in the form of other property at the time of the expropriation, and whether they had to return that as well. the action was dismissed by a final judgment of the supreme court of cassation of 8 june 2007. according to the supreme court of cassation, the defendants to the rei vindicatio action, namely the plovdiv municipality and the fund, had not participated in the earlier judicial proceedings and therefore were not bound by the judgment of 2 october 1998.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in tallinn. he had sustained serious head injuries which had been life-threatening and caused him permanent health damage. were discontinued after his death in a car accident on 25 february 2007. the county court found that the witness statements were incoherent and that some were contradictory. by a judgment of 30 april 2007 the county court acquitted him. he did not request a re-examination of the witnesses. however, the applicant informed the court in writing that he did not wish to take part and asked for the case to be examined in his absence. the court of appeal assessed the evidence differently, based on the material in the case file, and found that the applicant’s guilt was established. the fact that she could not describe his clothing did not discredit her evidence. a person could only focus on a single detail rather than on the full picture. similar considerations were applied to k.m., another witness) – who had been together at the time of the events – had taken note of different aspects of the events did not render those statements unreliable; rather, it reflected the fact that the perception and memory of different people differed. ’s statements in the identification report and in court, and therefore considered that the rejection of his statements as evidence had been not justified either. in conclusion, the court of appeal considered that k.a. had been friends, whereas the other witnesses had had no connection with them.
the applicant was born in 1953 on the island of aruba. taking into consideration that the risk of recidivism is for the time being very high, even if treatment would possibly start immediately, and that, consequently, intensive surveillance is of primordial importance (such surveillance being impossible in the national mental hospital), and the fact that the defendant is not to be considered criminally insane within the meaning of the law, admission to the national mental hospital is wholly contra-indicated. although the applicant submitted that he had spent some time in the observation section, the government stated during the hearing before the grand chamber on 14 january 2015 that while he was detained in curaçao the applicant had not been placed in either unit. in a letter of 26 april 1982 the applicant requested that the minister of justice of curaçao review his life sentence and give him some kind of relief. this wish of the petitioner ought now to be acted upon. in my opinion it cannot be excluded that this solidly built 51-year-old man, with his serious criminal behaviour ..., and currently in the prime of his life, will once again reoffend. a section entitled “the position of the relatives of the victim” reads as follows:“the relatives indicated at the hearing that they did not agree with a possible release of the convicted person. the relatives have told the rapporteur that they feel insecure at the mere thought of the convicted person being released. as already mentioned, no such discussions or treatment have taken place. in anticipation of the periodic review of life sentences to be introduced in the curaçao criminal code, the procurator general, in a letter of 9 september 2011, requested a psychiatric examination of the applicant. ...[the applicant] has been detained for a very long time, and as a result his feeling of well-being has deteriorated. the first of these reports, which was issued by the kia on 25 may 2012, included the following:“[the applicant] is a calm, quiet man of 59 who has never been given a disciplinary punishment during his detention. ... he continues to be a person with a serious disability. in an email of 29 july 2014 to the applicant’s representative, the senior social worker in the aruba prison stated that there was nothing in the prison’s medical file on the applicant, who had been transferred to aruba in 1999, to suggest that he had undergone any treatment by a psychiatrist or a psychologist. the applicant had visited the social work department of the prison with some regularity in order to talk or to organise practical matters.
the applicant party is a turkish political party based in ankara. 2820 on political parties (“the political parties act”). the decisions delivered by the constitutional court in this regard are final. the constitutional court carried out a preliminary inspection on 1 july 2010 for the 2007 accounts and on 6 april 2011 for the 2008 and 2009 accounts. on 7 march 2012 the constitutional court delivered its decision regarding the final accounts of the applicant party for the year 2007, which was followed by decisions pertaining to the 2008 and 2009 accounts, both delivered on 11 july 2012. it also held that the income obtained in the period under review had been mostly in compliance with the rules on funding as set out in the political parties act. under section 70 of the political parties act, ‘all expenses of a political party shall be incurred on behalf of the legal personality of that political party’ and pursuant to section 75 of the same act, ‘at the end of its inspection, the constitutional court shall determine the accuracy and the lawfulness of the political party’s income and expenses, and shall order the registration of unlawful income and expenses as revenue with the state treasury’. who appears to have hosted six dinners in 2008 in connection with election work. similarly, meals offered to persons who provided various services to the applicant party, but who were legally employed by other public or private bodies, such as police officers, municipality employees, journalists or gardeners, could not qualify as legitimate expenses under the political parties act because any meal costs had to be met by the relevant person’s respective employers and not by the applicant party. blankets, umbrellas and raincoats purchased for use at the party headquarters were also found to be personal expenses, whereas no such finding was made for clothes and dishwashers purchased for the use of personnel. another payment that was considered unlawful by the constitutional court was made to halk tv, a nationwide television channel, for the live broadcasting of political rallies and activities attended by the applicant party’s leader and coverage of the party’s parliamentary group meetings, press conferences, and important statements made by the party’s senior management, as well as the distribution of that material to other media outlets. the constitutional court warned the applicant party to submit such bank statements with its consolidated accounts to demonstrate that the payments in question had indeed been made. yet another warning was issued about the incompatibility between the party’s expenses and its inventory, in that a number of items allegedly purchased for the party (three televisions and one computer) had not been registered in the inventory. the amount deducted thus totalled approximately try 3,549,000 (approximately eur 1,527,000 on 10 january 2013). on 31 october 2012 the applicant party received a letter from the ankara governor’s office ordering it to pay the amounts indicated in the constitutional court decisions concerning the review of the 2008 and 2009 final accounts, plus interest, which totalled approximately try 3,738,700 (approximately eur 1,604,000 as at 31 october 2012), within ten days of the receipt of the letter.
the applicants’ seventeen close relatives were members of an outlawed organisation in turkey, namely the maoist communist party (hereinafter “the mkp”). ökkeş karaoğlu was the eighth applicant ms hatice karaoğlu’s son;ix. the photographs and video footage taken by the families while the bodies were being prepared for burial were submitted to the court. the terrorist group opened fire on the helicopter. despite warnings to surrender issued by the security forces, the terrorists opened fire and injured a soldier. on 29 june 2005, at the request of the relatives of the deceased, the prosecutor asked the forensic medicine institute to examine the clothes and bodies of the deceased with a view to establishing whether the security forces had opened fire from a distance without issuing any warning to surrender. according to one of those documents which, in effect, is a list of the documents forwarded to the prosecutor by the military, two of the documents handed over to the prosecutor were a twelve-page military order, drawn up on 15 june 2005, for the carrying out of the operation and a sketch of the operation area. also on 18 june 2005, the applicants’ legal representative ms meral hanbayat submitted a petition to the prosecutor’s office in malatya and asked the prosecutor to order the carrying out of necessary forensic examinations on the body and clothes of the second applicant’s son, aydın hanbayat, with a view to establishing the distance from which he had been shot. thus, a decision was taken to bring the bodies to the town of ovacık in a military helicopter. bullets and shrapnel found in the bodies were also sent for further analysis. it appears from the kemah prosecutor’s file that on 9 june 2005 the security forces had obtained authorisation from a judge to intercept the applicants’ relatives’ mobile telephones, and telephone conversations some of the applicants’ relatives had had with a number of local people, including the men who were subsequently arrested for providing them with logistical support, were intercepted by the authorities between 9 and 17 june 2005. on 1 july 2005 the three applicants mentioned above (see paragraph 42) lodged an objection to the ovacık magistrates’ court’s decision to restrict their access to the investigation file and asked for that decision to be set aside. on various dates the ovacık prosecutor asked his colleagues in various towns and cities to take statements from the applicants living within their jurisdictions. on 23 november 2005 the applicants asked the ovacık prosecutor to give them a copy of the autopsy report and a copy of the document pertaining to the examination of the clothes removed from the bodies of their relatives. that was why they could not be formally identified in ovacık.
the applicant was born in 1952 and lives in zagreb. they relied on extensive material obtained in the course of a preliminary investigation. the case immediately attracted wide media interest and coverage. he submitted extensive medical documentation showing that he had suffered a stroke in 2007. on 28 june 2011 the applicant lodged an objection against the indictment, arguing that it was not supported by any relevant evidence. on 12 september 2011 a three-judge panel of the zagreb county court dismissed the applicant’s objection against the indictment as ill-founded on the grounds that there was sufficient evidence supporting the conclusion that there was a reasonable suspicion that he had committed the offences for which he had been charged. on 4 october 2011 the zagreb county court commissioned an expert report concerning the possibility of the applicant following the trial. in the further course of the proceedings a number of hearings were held before the zagreb county court. later during his confinement he was also treated in a special rehabilitation hospital in krapinske toplice. these particularly grave circumstances of the offences concern, in the view of this panel, the manner in which the civilians ... were unlawfully and arbitrarily deprived of their liberty, how their property was confiscated without any legal basis, how they were physically and mentally ill-treated (often by the use of electric shocks) and eventually killed; and the fact that some of these unlawful acts were committed on the basis of the defendant’s orders, while the others he did not prevent although he was aware of them ...” 26. the applicant appealed against that decision, reiterating his previous arguments, and on 18 march 2011 a three-judge panel of the zagreb county court dismissed his appeal as ill-founded, relying on the same grounds as those in its previous decisions. on 9 may 2011 the investigating judge extended the applicant’s detention for a further month under article 102 § 1 (2) and (4) of the code of criminal procedure (risk of collusion and gravity of charges), reiterating his previous arguments concerning the gravity of the charges and finding that five more witnesses needed to be questioned. following the submission of the indictment against the applicant to the zagreb county court (see paragraph 12 above), on 10 june 2011 a three-judge panel of that court extended the applicant’s detention pending trial under article 102 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure (gravity of charges). the relevant part of the decision reads:“in view of the competence of the supreme court as the highest court ensuring the coherent application of the law and the equality of everyone in its application (article 116 § 1 of the constitution), the likelihood of a prison sentence within the given term and the particularly grave circumstances of the offence, the constitutional court finds that the supreme court and the zagreb county court satisfied the relevant opinions and requirements when extending the pre-trial detention under article 102 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure ...” 37. the applicant challenged that decision before the supreme court and on 29 february 2012 the supreme court dismissed his appeal as ill-founded on the grounds that no doubts had been raised as to the findings of the zagreb county court.
the applicants were born in 1953 and 1950 respectively and live in ankara. meanwhile, on 6 august 2006 a gendarmerie officer, ş.k., according to a confiscation report drafted at 1.40 p.m. on that day and signed by ş.k. this document had the same content as the suicide note found in the car. on the same day a further fingerprint analysis report was also issued. they complained, in particular, about the failure of the public prosecutor to take statements from their son’s wife, the psychiatrist who had been treating mr hüseyin başbilen, and other possible witnesses, to have the deceased’s computer, his emails and the transcripts of his telephone conversations examined and to determine the date the suicide note file had been created on his computer. in february and march 2011, upon the ankara public prosecutor’s instructions, the computer files were examined by police officers attached to the technical bureau at the anti-terror department of the ankara police headquarters, who prepared two reports. made a statement to the ankara public prosecutor. his colleagues also noted that the project on which he had been working had not been a critically important project and that his death had not had an impact on its running. following an instruction received from the ankara public prosecutor, the anti-terror branch of the ankara police headquarters sent a list of names and email addresses found on hüseyin başbilen’s computer to the istanbul police headquarters. he also did not have any knowledge of the whereabouts of the documents in the briefcase found at the crime scene. the officials had not considered the documents important. on 21 september 2011 the deputy legal advisor at the air force command informed the ankara public prosecutor that the air force had not asked aselsan to develop software. in particular, he requested and received documents concerning his bank accounts from several banks. on 7 august 2014 the deputy commander of the ankara gendarmerie command sent a list of gendarmerie officers to be included in the task force, and a table containing the instructions given by the ankara public prosecutor, to the ankara public prosecutor’s office.
the applicants were born in 1962 and 1958 respectively and live in sisak. the applicants objected to the indictment. it acquitted the second applicant on the grounds of lack of evidence. the relevant part of the decision reads:“the impugned conduct of both accused, which includes ill-treatment and other extreme forms of inhumane treatment of civilians, and in the case of the accused vladimir milanković also of prisoners of war, some of whom were killed, as well as the failure to prevent such conduct by [vladimir milanković’s subordinates] ... suggests a particularly high level of brutality, mercilessness and unimaginable cruelty. the first applicant appealed against that decision to the supreme court. on 15 november 2012 the supreme court dismissed his appeal as ill-founded on the grounds that the osijek county court had correctly established all the relevant circumstances of the case warranting the extension of his detention. on 28 march 2013 a three-judge panel of the osijek county court extended the first applicant’s detention under article 102 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure (gravity of charges), reiterating its previous arguments. on 27 september 2013 the supreme court dismissed his appeal as ill-founded, endorsing the reasoning of the osijek county court. the first applicant challenged the decision of the supreme court by lodging a constitutional complaint before the constitutional court. the second applicant challenged that decision before the supreme court. ’s] sons z. and b. were taken to an improvised detention camp and beaten up, after which they disappeared. in the view of this second-instance court, the particularly grave circumstances of the offence surpass the usual circumstances and consequences of such offences and thus justify the detention under article 102 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure. on 18 april 2013 the constitutional court dismissed his complaint as ill-founded on the grounds that the lower courts, when extending his detention, had provided relevant and sufficient reasons. thus in the appellant’s case what the constitutional court indicated in its decision ... of 27 september 2013 was confirmed: that ‘every further reliance on the risk of public disturbance as a ground for extending the appellant’s detention could ... turn that ground for detention into a strong basis [for detention], which would mean in practice a constitutionally unacceptable and prohibited obligatory deprivation of liberty’. ...the constitutional court finds that from the perspective of the appellant’s constitutional right to liberty it is irrelevant that the [osijek county court] in its decision of 2 december 2013 to terminate the detention referred to the (forthcoming) judgment of 9 december 2013 by which the appellant was acquitted.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in chişinău. on 4 february 2011, when the applicant was about to be transferred from comrat to chisinau, he cut open his abdomen as a sign of protest. the last judgment in the proceedings complained of by the applicant is dated 18 october 2011 and was issued by the comrat court of appeal. 5 in cahul (between 18 april 2011 and 8 october 2012). the government provided documents according to which the applicant was seen by doctors and medication was prescribed for him. undoubtedly, progress has been achieved in improving conditions of detention. however, some of the institutions visited by the special rapporteur were heavily overcrowded. the authorities themselves pointed out that institution no. the special rapporteur was informed of government plans to close down this institution. whereas the special rapporteur notes that the minimum norms regarding nutrition of detainees (government decision n. 609 of 29 may 2006) are checked on a daily basis and that, according to the financial plan of the penitentiary department, the food budget for 2008 had almost doubled in comparison to 2004 and is set to rise further, he also received consistent allegations regarding the poor quality and quantity of food. ...” this situation has been seen repeatedly during visits by the centre’s staff to the chişinău pre-trial detention centre. the daily cost of feeding a detainee in 2010 was mdl 10.24, whilst the daily budgetary need was mdl 12.35. in the prisons, with the exception of taraclia prison no. 1, detainees are held in large-capacity cells insufficiently equipped for their daily needs, namely areas for sleeping, for everyday living and for sanitary equipment. detainees are held in extremely overcrowded, dark, damp and unventilated spaces full of cigarette smoke.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in bucharest. on 11 october 2009 the ecopolis association, founded by the applicant and four other associates, opened proceedings before the bucharest district court to seek registration in the register of associations and foundations kept by that court. it also asked the court to grant it legal personality. the association’s goal, as declared in its memorandum of association (act constitutiv) and in article 2 of its articles of association (statutul asociației), was that of promoting the principles of sustainable development at the public policy level in romania (promovarea principiilor dezvoltării durabile la nivelul politicilor publice din românia). the court held that the organisation had attached all the lawfully required documents to the application for registration and that the documents had complied both in form and content with the requirements set out by government ordinance no. moreover, the goal set by the association complied with the provisions of articles 1 and 4 of that ordinance. it argued that it interpreted the association’s declared goal as belonging to the field of activities of a political party. that interpretation was supported by the association’s objectives and by the activities it planned, as set out in articles 7 and 8 of the articles of association. however, a political party could not be registered under the provisions of government ordinance no. by a final judgment of 10 february 2010 the bucharest county court allowed the appeal on points of law by the public prosecutor’s office and rejected the organisation’s request for registration. it held that the goal of the association, as declared in its memorandum and articles of association, was that of promoting the principles of sustainable development at the public policy level in romania. also, according to article 7 of its articles of association, one of the association’s objectives was to increase expertise in the development of sustainable public policies in romania. the court considered that the concepts used by the organisation had been very general and had run the risk of being understood as belonging to the field of activities of political parties. the association’s objectives could likewise have been interpreted as belonging to the realm of activity of a political party, although government ordinance no. 26/2000 expressly prohibited the use of the ordinance for the registration of political parties.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in zagreb. the applicant was a co-owner of a block of flats on the island of vir. on 31 march 2006 one of the building inspectors ordered that the block of flats be demolished within three days from the date of service of the decision. the applicant lodged an appeal against the demolition order, submitting that the time-limit for compliance was too short and that the block of flats was not within the protected coastal area. on 15 may 2006 the appeal section of the legal department at the inspectorate (odsjek za postupak u drugom stupnju – “the second-instance body”) dismissed the appeal, finding that the block of flats had been built without a building permit. meanwhile, on 4 may 2006 the building inspector issued an administrative enforcement order (zaključak o dozvoli izvršenja), stating that the demolition order of 31 march 2006 had become enforceable on 6 april 2006 and that the co-owners had not complied with it within the given time-limit. he therefore ordered that the demolition be carried out by a third party after 11 may 2006, at the expense of the co-owners. the applicant lodged an appeal against the administrative enforcement order, submitting that it was not sufficiently reasoned and that the construction of the block of flats could be retrospectively approved. on 23 may 2006 the second-instance body dismissed the appeal as ill-founded. on 27 june 2006 the co-owners had the block of flats demolished. meanwhile, on 26 june 2006 the applicant lodged an administrative complaint with the administrative court, repeating the arguments made in her appeal and seeking damages for the demolition. since it was not clear whether the applicant was complaining about the second-instance decision concerning the demolition order or the administrative enforcement, on 11 july 2006 the administrative court requested her to specify which she wished to contest. on 30 august 2006 the applicant replied that she was seeking annulment of the second-instance decision of 15 may 2006 concerning the demolition order. on 22 april 2010 the administrative court dismissed her complaint as ill-founded, but addressed it as if it had been about the second-instance decision of 23 may 2006 concerning the administrative enforcement. this decision was served on the applicant’s representative on 7 january 2011.
this application was lodged on 27 april 2007 by marina viktorovna novikova, who was born in 1972 and lives in moscow. thus, she made no written or oral submissions to the court. having examined the file, on 15 november 2006 the judge considered that the applicant had been apprised of the hearing but had refused to sign the summons. referring to the arrest record, the offence record and g.’s report (see above), the court considered that the applicant had participated in a demonstration after which some five people and the applicant had been arrested. on 25 may 2011 the kaliningrad regional court upheld the judgment. this application was lodged on 10 november 2012 by viktor mikhaylovich savchenko, who was born in 1967 and lives in the village of platonovo-petrovka in the rostov region. on 7 february 2012 the rostov regional court upheld the judgment on appeal. he is represented by konstantin ilyich terekhov, a lawyer practising in moscow. it appears that soon thereafter five police officers approached and warned those present that a meeting required prior notification to the authorities. he was accused of holding a public event without giving prior notice. the applicant agreed to go with the police to the police station. at 1.30 p.m. on 10 november 2012 the applicant held a solo demonstration in front of the maritime university in astrakhan, to express his disagreement with the recent decision to close the university. the applicant was holding a poster that read “to close the university is to commit a crime”. it appears that a. was also taken to the police station. according to the government, the applicant was a “participant” in a demonstration with a. 46.
the applicant submitted that he was born in 1978 in marseille. on 26 january 2010, after the owners of the building in question reported him to the police with false claims concerning drugs, he was assaulted by the police and arrested without a warrant. the ombudsman replied by a letter dated 4 september 2013 that she would contact him with the outcome of her investigation into his complaint when this was concluded. following a police investigation, on 1 february 2010, the district court of paphos issued an arrest warrant on the ground that there was reasonable suspicion based on evidence that the applicant had been involved in forgery and in circulating a forged document. the applicant then replied in english: “my passport is not false, it’s real.” on 10 april 2013 he appeared before the paphos district court. on 28 november 2013 the applicant was interviewed by members of the aliens and immigration office. he claimed that his detention was unlawful. it was therefore up to the aliens and immigration office to persuade the applicant to disclose his identity. he did not receive any medical treatment for twenty-four hours. on 22 april 2013, at 9.50 a.m, the applicant and two other detainees were taken to the television room in another wing. according to the other two statements the applicant was immobilised. the government also submitted a copy of a letter dated 16 october 2014 sent by the prison administrator to the ministry of justice concerning the present case describing the incident, in which it was stated that following the applicant’s attempt to hit the escorting guard, two of the prisoners and the other guard on duty pushed him aside and immobilised him. on 3 june 2013 the doctor stated that the applicant complained about pain in the right side of the chest but the clinical examinations did not reveal anything. on 21 june 2013, the date on which the applicant was released following the suspension of his sentence (see paragraph 42 above), he was informed by the prison guard in charge of his release that if he wished to have his x-rays he should apply directly to nicosia general hospital.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in kavadarci. in april 2000, while criminal proceedings were pending against a certain mr i.a., on 13 june 2000 the skopje court of first instance (“the trial court”) convicted mr i.a. of smuggling nearly 9 tonnes of sugar, which he had transported in the lorry in november 1997. on 17 september 2003 the trial court convicted mr i.a. in the absence of an appeal, the judgment became final on 29 october 2003. had died on 21 march 2005 and that the confiscation order accordingly could not be enforced. there had been no injunction restricting the sale of the lorry. lastly, he stated that he had sought, in separate civil proceedings, return of the lorry (see paragraph 14 below). on 20 november 2006 the execution-of-sanctions judge of the trial court rejected the objection as inadmissible, finding that the applicant had no procedural standing. on 2 march 2007 the applicant informed the first-instance court that mr i.a. on 10 may 2007 the first-instance court dismissed the applicant’s claim. in accordance with article 68 (3) of the [criminal code], and not from the [respondent state] ...the court dismisses as groundless the argument that at the moment of confiscation of the [lorry] in question it was not owned by [mr i.a.] the court also considers groundless the [applicant’s] representative’s arguments that under section 129(5) of the criminal proceedings act the final decision for confiscation of the [lorry] could be amended with a decision in civil proceedings if there were a dispute concerning the ownership of the confiscated items, given that this provision would have been applied if the [lorry] had been sold to the [applicant] before the offence was committed and had, under any legal basis, remained in the factual possession of the convicted [mr i.a.] from disposing of the lorry or to seize the lorry at the time the offence had been discovered.
the applicants were born in 1970 and 1956 respectively and live in daugavpils. on 16 november 2011 the vid dispatched officers to company m. in order to verify the information received with an inspection (apskate), under article 2561 of the code of administrative violations (administratīvo pārkāpumu kodekss). from that moment on, he was under the constant watch of the officers and was not permitted to use the telephone. at 12.10 p.m. the second applicant made a written request to i.r., as regards his handcuffing, the first applicant submitted that when the officers had handcuffed him a criminal investigation had not yet been opened. who had advised her that unless she had been detained she had a right to leave. several times to allow her to stay on the office premises as she had been tired. she had therefore been compelled to participate in the inspection. furthermore, once the inspection had resumed at 7.15 p.m., the second applicant had had an opportunity to invite her lawyer, i.b. on 14 and 17 february 2012 the applicants appealed against the aforementioned decisions. had ordered them to participate in the inspection. the applicants had familiarised themselves with the inspection record and had signed it. furthermore, during the inspection the first and second applicants had been assisted by two lawyers. at quarter past midnight on 17 november 2011 they had commenced an “inspection of an area inaccessible to the public” (publiski nepieejamas teritorijas apskate) under article 2561 of the code of administrative violations, based on a prosecutor’s authorisation. in view of the information received from the vid, the first applicant had been handcuffed under section 161(1)3) and 4) of that legislation on the grounds that he had failed to comply with lawful requests made by the vid officers and to protect an object under guard from unlawful threat.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in rastatt. he has a daughter, h., born on 29 june 2003. on 11 july 2005 the family court granted this request. on 28 october 2005 the applicant requested the family court to impose a coercive fine on the mother in order to enforce contact rights. the applicant’s constitutional complaint (no. on 2 september 2010, after having heard the child again, the family court, at the mother’s request, suspended the applicant’s contact until the conclusion of the main proceedings and rejected his requests for a coercive fine. the mother appealed against this decision. according to him, the child had cried and left the room when he had started talking about her father. she longed for the dispute between her parents to come to an end so that she would no longer be exposed to a conflict of loyalties. the family court’s decision had failed to take this “prerequisite” into account. the parents had not undertaken any steps in this direction. when heard in the court of appeal on 6 september 2012, the expert had clarified that if the parents did not change their way of communicating, which would necessitate at least some form of professional help such as mediation, it would cause more harm to attempt to reinstate contact than to exclude it altogether. it is not possible to solve the child’s dilemma by specifying the arrangements for contact ... or by appointing a custodian. it is up to the mother to overcome her aversion to the father, and up to the father to learn that contact can only be reinstated through patience, restraint and understanding of both the mother’s and child’s feelings. by a judgment given on 6 february 2013 (no.
the applicant was born in 1966 and is currently in detention in daugavpils. he had pain around the waist area and was nauseous. had entered the cell in order to calm him down. as he had been in pain, he had continued to ask for medical assistance. it stated that on 6 may 2006 (two days prior to the incident at issue) the applicant underwent an x-ray examination which revealed a fracture to his lumbar vertebrae. on 17 may 2006 the applicant’s complaint of 10 may 2006 regarding the incident was received by the internal security office of the state police (valsts policijas iekšējās drošības birojs). in the meantime, a senior inspector questioned the applicant on 5 july 2006. on 26 october 2006 the senior inspector closed the investigation. she found that at approximately 1.30 p.m. on 8 may 2006 the applicant had been swearing and banging on the door of the holding cell while asking the escort officers to call an ambulance for the second time. had entered the cell in order to calm him down and the applicant had attempted to hit him. while the expert report of 19 september 2006 indicated that the applicant had been diagnosed with a moderately severe injury in the form of a fracture of a lumbar vertebra, the possibility could not be excluded that this injury had been caused by the applicant’s falling against a hard object, which corresponded to the escort officers’ account of the incident. there was no evidence that the applicant had fallen against a hard object. the deputy chief prosecutor referred the case back to the internal security office of the state police. stated that they could not recall in which holding cell the applicant had been placed. the senior inspector had not verified the evidence of a.p.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in tetovo. on 12 april 2006, the applicant concluded a sales contract (купопродажен договор) with a sh.a., on 15 may 2007 the applicant lent the vehicle to his company. on 6 october 2008 the ministry of the interior temporarily seized the vehicle and its registration certificate (сообраќајна дозвола) from the applicant in order to examine the vehicle’s chassis (проверка на шасија). a record of temporarily seized objects (потврда за привремено одземени предмети) was issued. of charges of forgery of a document (“фалсификување исправа“) concerning the vehicle’s chassis number and rejected an indictment brought by a public prosecutor against a certain i.s. the court found that during the trial it had not been established that sh.a. on 3 december 2010 the first-instance court heard evidence from the applicant, who stated that he had bought the vehicle from sh.a. he further stated that he could not have been aware at the time that the chassis number of the vehicle had been forged. on 6 december 2010 the first-instance court, relying on article 100‑a (3) of the criminal code (“the code”, see paragraph 17 below), found that there were no grounds for confiscation of the applicant’s vehicle. the applicant had not known nor could he have known that the vehicle had been used to commit a crime. the court also ordered that the registration certificate be returned to the applicant. it also referred to section 532(1) of the criminal proceedings act (see paragraph 18 below) and found that, irrespective of the fact that there had been no proceedings against the applicant and that he was not an offender, it was necessary to confiscate the vehicle for general safety reasons. on 11 march 2011 the applicant appealed arguing that the first-instance court had wrongly applied article 100-a (2) and (3) of the code and that he had not known that the vehicle had been used to commit a crime. it appears that the latter decision was served on the applicant on 2 june 2011.
at the time of the events, she was living with her daughter, who was a minor, in a flat in kyiv. following the arrest, the police officers found that a driving licence he had shown them did not bear all the requisite information and had a series number linked to another person in the police database. on that day the police recorded telephone conversations between b. and the applicant which suggested that certain documents relating to his driving licence and his study in the driving school had been kept in her flat. only the investigator was present at the hearing. upon their arrival, the investigator and the other police officers present found that the flat was locked and that nobody responded when they rang the bell. the police officers called a task force to open the door to the flat. the list included, among other things: floppy disks, compact discs, vehicle registration certificates, keys, a box containing cash, certificates issued in b.’s name, a painting and an icon. on 5 july 2005 the applicant was granted victim status and her civil claim was admitted to the file. it considered that the mobile phones had not been included in the list of seized items owing to a technical mistake. the applicant challenged that decision in court. as of 22 july 2011 the investigation was ongoing. on 16 june 2005 the kyiv transport prosecutor, having conducted a pre-investigation inquiry, refused to commence criminal proceedings in relation to the possible abuse of power or ultra vires actions by the police officers during the search of the applicant’s flat. the prosecutor also stated that the search had been carried out in accordance with established procedure; it had been observed by two attesting witnesses and the representative of the building maintenance organisation, as required by the domestic law. on 8 september 2005 the kyiv court of appeal upheld the decision of 7 july 2005, finding that the prosecutor had lawfully refused to open an investigation. the applicant’s contentions were dismissed as groundless.
the applicant was born in 1946 and lives in adana. furthermore, it took a considerable amount of time before the authorities attended the scene. mr macir was taken to a police station on the pretext of giving a statement but was instead questioned about his relationship with the applicant’s husband. while she was detained, the police questioned her about the death of her father. admitted membership of hizbullah, and told the authorities that he had taken part in the killing of the applicant’s husband and his friend r.ç. he gave a detailed account of the assassination and described the role played by his co-assassins. on 10 february 2005 the applicant applied to the adana prosecutor’s office, seeking information and copies of the documents from the investigation file. when the applicant insisted on obtaining copies of all the investigation documents so that she could make an application to the european court of human rights, the prosecutor told her that he could not give her those documents because they would be used against turkey. she also shared with the prosecutor the evidence in her possession and informed him of her allegations. the applicant’s husband sefer cerf died as a result of an armed attack carried out on 3 october 1994. was arrested and confessed to the killings. on 9 august 2000 criminal proceedings were brought against a.a. was found guilty and sentenced to fourteen years’ imprisonment. was detained in a prison between 17 july 2000 and 23 march 2006 and between 8 and 22 january 2013. on 30 december 2009 the diyarbakır assize court handed down its 1,153-page judgment.
the applicant was born in 1988 and lives in zagreb. who was a war veteran, killed the applicant’s mother and her parents and then committed suicide. on 19 june 1996 his request was dismissed by the competent zagreb office of the ministry of defence (ministarstvo obrane) in charge of war veterans’ affairs on the grounds that the war veteran status of his father had not been established. in july 1996 the applicant challenged that decision before the ministry of defence, which accepted his appeal and on 12 december 1997 quashed the first-instance decision and remitted the case for re-examination on the grounds that the nature of the applicant’s request had not been adequately established. it also questioned two witnesses concerning the applicant’s father’s wartime service. in an expert report dated 10 june 2007 addressed to the zagreb office, the centre concluded, on the basis of the available medical reports and the statements of witnesses, that the applicant’s father had not developed any symptoms resulting in a psychiatric diagnosis linked to his participation in the war and that his suicide could not be attributed to his wartime service. this expert report was not forwarded to the applicant. on 26 september 2007 the zagreb office dismissed the applicant’s request for the family disability benefit referring to the centre’s expert report, which had not established any link between his father’s suicide and his participation in the war. the applicant further contended that another expert report should be commissioned from one of the permanent court experts in psychiatry, since the report produced by the centre raised the issue of its independence. on 4 december 2008 the administrative court dismissed the applicant’s action as ill-founded. the defendant therefore correctly dismissed the appeal against the first-instance decision and thereby it did not act contrary to the relevant law. although the defendant did not expressly reply to the appeal arguments concerning the necessity to request a report with regard to [ž.l. ’s] act of triple murder, [the court finds] that it could not be a decisive factor for a decision in the proceedings at hand. the constitutional court therefore finds that the present case does not raise an issue of the complainant’s constitutional rights. thus, there is no constitutional law issue in the case for the constitutional court to decide on. ...”
the applicant was born in 1992, and at the time of the introduction of the application was detained in lyster barracks detention centre, in ħal far. the return decision stated that she was a prohibited immigrant by virtue of article 5 of the immigration act (chapter 217 of the laws of malta) because she was in malta “without means of subsistence and liable to become a charge on public funds”. on 9 may 2012 the applicant was assisted to submit a preliminary questionnaire (pq), thereby registering her wish to apply for asylum under article 8 of the refugees act, chapter 420 of the laws of malta. the board notes that you travelled to libya in december 2011, first via kenya and then via sudan. you also claim that your brother had been killed by a terrorist islamic organization, al shabab, because they thought he worked for the government. however, you also claim that if there was peace back home, you would be prepared to return. she showed signs of severe anxiety and depression which got worse following the refusal of her asylum request. she had several appointments in hospital was also taken to emergency by ambulance after collapsing in detention. every time we visit she is in her bed crying and showing signs of severe anxiety.” on 10 august 2013, that is just under one year after the referral, the interviewers verbally informed her that she would be released. however, in spite of the fact that this procedure can have a determining impact on the continued detention of individuals detained in terms of the immigration act, it was not adequately regulated by law or by publicly available rules or procedures. she suffered “fits” and was waiting for an appointment. according to the documents provided by the applicant, after her initial hospitalisation, and apart from the two visits mentioned above, she was seen by a doctor at the state hospital around sixteen times between may and september 2012, and each time was prescribed medication. in none of these occasions was she kept under observation overnight, or hospitalised. the applicant highlighted the lack of female staff - in particular she noted that every morning male soldiers barged into her dormitory while the inmates were still asleep to make a head count, during which they removed the sheets to check for their presence.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in turkey. the list had been prepared by the human rights centre “memorial”, a non-governmental organisation based in moscow, and included the applicant’s name. he lived in zahedan for two years without experiencing any major problems. subsequently, he registered with the van police headquarters and started the domestic temporary asylum procedure. although the applicant did not receive such a notice, at 2 p.m. on 12 september 2008 he went to the police station for signature, as part of his weekly routine. their personal items, including identity documents, money and telephones, were confiscated. the asylum seekers contacted some other uzbeks who had managed to escape deportation from turkey and obtained the ransom fee. the smugglers made them walk for three days to yüksekova, a town close to the iranian border of turkey, where they were released. after re-entering turkey illegally, the applicant went back to van together with the other uzbek asylum seekers. the same evening, they were deported to iran once again. in his reply dated 22 april 2009, in his capacity as head of the human rights commission of the van governor’s office, the deputy governor of van informed the applicant’s representative that the applicant and the other deportees had been removed to iran in compliance with the legislation in force and that iran was a safe third country where the applicant had lived before he had arrived in turkey in 2007. when the applicant applied for asylum in turkey in december 2007, he informed the authorities that he had been granted refugee status in iran by the unhcr. he subsequently repeated his asylum request. he was subsequently deported to iran, a safe third country, where he was recognised as a refugee by the unhcr. according to the government, the applicant was not deprived of his liberty.
the applicant was born in 1982 and until his arrest lived in moscow. on 24 january 2013 the applicant was accused of aggravated fraud. he applied to the city court to be released on bail because of his worsening health. it also addressed his arguments that he had become paraplegic and thus no longer posed a flight risk. throughout his detention he slept on an individual prison bunk. 20, where he underwent a medical expert examination and received treatment. the doctors were, however, unable to ensure any improvement in his conditions. there is nothing to suggest that his treatment was interrupted during that period. meanwhile, the applicant’s lawyer asked an independent medical specialist to provide an opinion on the quality of medical care afforded to the applicant in the remand prison. 77/1 was not licensed to provide neurological treatment or perform neurosurgery. in the early hours of 1 march 2014 the applicant was taken in a gazel minivan designed to transfer the seriously ill, to a moscow train station. on the morning of 6 march 2014 the applicant was taken in the same prison van to correctional colony no. the parties disagreed whether the vehicles used to transfer the applicant, with the exception of the gazel minivan, were equipped to accommodate ill inmates. personal care workers provided him with bedside care, including basic nursing procedures. the sverdlovskiy district court of kostroma granted the request and on 3 july 2014 ordered his release.
the applicants were born in 1968 and 1973 and live in belgrade (the first applicant) and skopje (the second applicant). as established in the criminal proceedings described below, on 7 january 2007, during a search carried out by the macedonian customs at the blace border crossing (between the respondent state and kosovo[1]) 434.555 kg of cocaine were found hidden in rectangular packs submerged in hermetically sealed cans of acrylic paint. on this occasion, the second applicant confirmed that he had known the first applicant for many years and that on 29 december 2006 she had contacted him regarding the transportation of acrylic paint from bar to greece. she had given him the telephone number of a certain n. (a forwarding agent) in montenegro regarding the shipment. on 9 january 2007 the first applicant appointed mr d. dangov to represent her in the proceedings. on 9 may 2007 the first applicant’s lawyer requested permission to inspect the case file. the first applicant denied that she was aware that drugs had been planted in the cans. j. also had given her the contact details of a buyer in greece regarding paint from a third container (the subject of the proceedings) and the telephone numbers of n.v. on 7 january 2007 the truck had been searched and the cans had been examined in a special x-ray van. sandra called me and introduced herself as working for (the first applicant’s) company. she asked me to prepare documentation so that the container would be transported to greece, to thessaloniki instead of to belgrade ... i do not know [the applicants]. on 8 january 2007 43 packages were brought into the laboratory. 1399/07 was presented at a hearing dated 15 november 2007 in the presence of the applicants and their representatives. as to the applicants’ objections regarding the expert evidence, the trial court stated:“... [the applicants’] request for an alternative expert examination of the quality and quantity of seized packages by an independent institution is not allowed since the expert evidence adduced by the court was produced by the ministry of the interior; in accordance with the criminal proceedings act, an expert report may be drawn up by a state body; in more complex cases, such as the present one, such expert examination is entrusted, in principle, to a state body. and the court’s conclusion regarding the economic rationale for importing paint from venezuela were not conclusive given the fact that he was the driver whom the first applicant had engaged to transport the paint from bar to greece.
the applicant was born in 1946 and lives in nazran, the republic of ingushetia. on 31 october 2009 the press office of the ministry of the interior of the chechen republic (министерство внутренних дел чеченской республики) (hereinafter “the chechen mvd”) published information on its official website concerning the special operation conducted in kalinin. he had told her that a special operation had been carried out in the village, during which a man had entered her property. she had tried to call her after lunch, but there had been no answer. a member of illegal armed groups, had been hiding there. officers of other law-enforcement agencies had also participated in the operation. on 27 april 2010 the investigators questioned taxi driver mr yu.a.b. on 1 december 2010 (the date on the document appears to be incorrect, see paragraphs 59, 64 and 94) the investigators questioned the chechen president mr kadyrov, who stated that “many” special operations had been conducted in the chechen republic around that time and that the heads of the law-enforcement agencies reported the results to him. however, officers from the leninskiy rovd in grozny have not been providing operational support ... repeated requests for information to the chief of the leninskiy rovd [have met with] formal and incomplete replies ... [even though] in reply to the repeated request of 6 december 2009 it was stated that the police officers had examined the crime scene again and had found burnt passports, one for use in russia (internal) and another (foreign) one for use abroad. in addition, the brother of the abducted ms gaysanova, mr i. gaysanov, has not been identified and questioned. on 14 june 2011 the investigators obtained two dvds from the chechen mvd information centre containing the video footage of the special operation on 31 october 2009 and incorporated them into the investigation file as evidence. the letter stressed that the leninskiy rovd, the argun ovd, the 8th company of the 2nd regiment of the mvd traffic police and the minister himself had persistently disregarded the investigators’ repeated requests for information concerning the officers who had participated in the special operation on 31 october 2009. on 15 july 2011 the investigation was again resumed but suspended on 15 august 2011. on 26 june 2013 the investigation was resumed owing to the need to take a number of steps such as questioning the chechen president mr kadyrov and the applicant’s neighbour mr r.m. on 26 august 2011 the investigators informed the applicant that they had granted her request.
on 31 october 2002 the bucharest commission for the enforcement of law no. the land was located on v. street, in bucharest. the applicant informed those authorities that on 17 september 2007 the sdc had, by letter, dismissed his request for the removal of the fence built by his neighbour. he stated inter alia that in its letter to him of 17 september 2007 the sdc had indicated that the neighbour who was the target of his complaint had had a building permit for the fence. consequently, their findings had had no bearing on his claim. moreover, his requests of 23 november 2007 had not received any answers. on 9 may 2008, at the first-instance court’s instruction, the applicant specified his court action. moreover, the neighbour in question could not be identified because the applicant had not specified that neighbour’s address. the administrative authorities could not have been considered to have been inactive as long as the applicant had failed to specify which of the owners of the neighbouring plots of land had diminished the width of the road. but the neighbour whose property had been located opposite his who had blocked the street by building the fence. the authorities had not asked him to provide the name of the owner of the fence; indeed, it was the duty of the public servants – not the applicant – to inform the mayor of bucharest of the impugned person’s identity. 5) that, inter alia, his complaint concerning the occupation of part of v. street had concerned not c.m. on 19 september 2008 the public domain administration attached to the office of the mayor of bucharest district no. by a final judgment of 3 november 2008 the bucharest court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law against the judgment of 17 june 2008. had been the owner of the land to which the applicant had been referring.
on 11 august 2000 the vukovar county state attorney’s office (županijsko državno odvjetništvo u vukovaru) asked an investigating judge of the vukovar county court (županijski sud u vukovaru) to open an investigation in respect of the applicant, in his capacity of the director of company m., in connection with suspicion of several charges of economic crime. in the resumed proceedings, and after the 2010 confiscation of the proceeds of crime act (see paragraph 36 below) had entered into force, on 27 june 2012 the vukovar county state attorney’s office requested the vukovar county court that several items of the applicant’s real property be seized (ten plots of land, two houses and a commercial building) so as to secure effective enforcement of a probable confiscation order in the amount of approximately eur 1,060,000. he contended that he had taken a bank loan which was secured by a mortgage on his real property and that the loan would not be extended due to the seizure of his property, which could lead to his total bankruptcy and destruction of his business. on 18 october 2012 the applicant’s representative received a summons by the vukovar county court to appear before a three-judge panel of that court on 30 october 2012, without specifying the exact reason for the summons. 145/2010), and also in view of section 12 of the confiscation of the proceeds of crime act, this panel finds that it is presumed that there is a danger that the claim of the republic of croatia with regard to confiscation of the proceeds of crime would not be enforceable or that its enforcement would be difficult without ordering of a restraint measure. under article 82 of the criminal code no one can retain the proceeds of crime. the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on 27 december 2012. on 18 february 2013 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint before the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) challenging the decisions of the lower courts on the seizure of his property. on 20 february 2013 the applicant requested the vukovar county court that the seizure order be lifted or reassessed. he also contended that the value of the seized property significantly surpassed the alleged pecuniary gain obtained, which had endangered the normal functioning of his business. it follows from the final indictment of the vukovar county state attorney’s office ... that there is a reasonable suspicion that the accused antun džinić, by the offences listed in count 4 (a), (b) and (c) [of the indictment], obtained pecuniary gain in the total amount of hrk 1,800,857. according to this estimate, the total value of the seized property corresponded to some eur 9,887,084. the applicant thus contended that there was a gross disproportionality between the alleged pecuniary gain obtained by the commission of the offences referred to in the indictment and the value of the seized property, which imposed on him an excessive individual burden. the applicant challenged this decision before the constitutional court and on 7 february 2014 the constitutional court declared it inadmissible, reiterating its previous reasoning (see paragraph 25 above). the case is pending on appeal before the supreme court.
the applicant, mr michał ojczyk, is a polish national who was born in 1977 and is currently in detention in łódź remand centre in poland. the applicant submitted that he had been detained in łódź remand centre from 17 august 2005 to 26 april 2010. in their observations, the government submitted that the applicant had been detained in the remand centre from 17 august 2005 to 17 july 2008 and that from 17 july 2008 to 13 august 2009 he had been detained in łódź prison. from 13 august 2009 to 8 january 2010 the applicant had been at liberty on a temporary release, while from 8 january to 26 april 2010 he had again been detained in łódź remand centre. from 17 august 2005 to 17 july 2008 and from 8 january to 26 april 2010 the applicant was detained in łódź remand centre. the figure shows the degree by which the number of prisoners exceeds the maximum allowed capacity of a particular detention facility, which, in turn, is calculated on the basis of the standard of 3 sq. overall capacity at łódź remand centre was exceeded on average by 26.8% in that period. m and the occupancy rate fluctuated between two and six people. he alleged that the cells had been badly ventilated. it appears that the applicant had one hot shower per week and one hour of outdoor exercise per day. the overall capacity of łódź prison from 17 july 2008 to 13 august 2009 was exceeded on average by 10.4%. he claimed 290,000 polish zlotys (pln – 37,500 euros (eur)) in compensation. on 28 april 2010 the łódź regional court (sąd okręgowy) dismissed the applicant’s action. the court held that the award was adequate redress for the period in which the applicant had been detained in permanently overcrowded cells. the applicant submitted a certificate to the court issued by łódź remand centre confirming the above dates.
the applicants, mr gergely karácsony, mr péter szilágyi, mr dávid dorosz and ms rebeka katalin szabó, were born in 1975, 1981, 1985 and 1977 respectively and live in budapest. subsequently, they placed it next to the secretary of state’s seat. interventions from the government mps: - rules of procedure! constant interventions from the government mps. i request the ushers to remove the placard. ( interventions from the government mps: how could they get that in? – [ on 21 may 2013 during the final vote on bill no. i ask my colleagues to untie and remove the banner. ( on 24 may 2013 the speaker submitted a proposal to fine mr dorosz and ms szabó huf 70,000 (eur 240) each for their conduct, as recorded in the minutes and considered to be gravely offensive to parliamentary order, in application of sections 49(4) and 49(7) of the parliament act. no other reasons were specified in the proposal. in protest during the final vote on the bill, ms lengyel placed a small, golden wheelbarrow filled with soil on the table in front of the prime minister, while ms szél and ms osztolykán unfurled a banner displaying the words “land distribution instead of land robbery!” the minutes of the session read as follows:“speaker: the next point on the agenda is the vote on the amendments submitted prior to the final vote on the transfer of agricultural and forestry land bill and the final vote. strong applause from the ruling parliamentary group). szilvia lengyel places a small golden wheelbarrow filled with soil on the table in front of the prime minister. i request technical assistance to enable the vote to take place. (
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in moscow. on 21 june 2001 the investigation of the criminal case against the applicant was terminated and he began examining the case file. on 28 september 2001 the applicant was remanded in custody and placed in a specialised detention facility at the moscow clinical hospital no. 20 owing to a provisional diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction, arterial hypertension and an exacerbating duodenal ulcer. he stayed there until 20 november 2001, following which he was transferred to a remand prison. the attending doctor found the applicant fit to participate in the investigative actions. on the same date the applicant brought an application for release. on 20 november 2001 the moscow city court upheld the above decision on appeal. on 22 november 2001, 21 january and 9 april 2002 the deputy prosecutor general extended the applicant’s detention until 28 january, 28 april and 28 june 2002 respectively. meanwhile, on 15 january 2002 the forensic medical expert did not confirm the applicant’s medical diagnosis. such extensions were granted upon the prosecutor’s request on 16 december 2002, 19 march, 23 june, 24 september, 23 december 2003 and 24 march 2004. those decisions were upheld on appeal by the moscow city court on 21 january, 27 may, an unknown date and 3 december 2003, 23 march and 29 april 2004 respectively. on 17 august 2004 the moscow city court reduced the sentence to six years and upheld the rest of the judgment on appeal. in reply to the applicant’s argument regarding the alleged unlawfulness of the composition of the trial court, the city court held that the composition of the court had remained unchanged throughout the trial in accordance with article 242 of the code of criminal procedure, and that the participation of lay judges, who had also been involved in the examination of another case, had had no legal consequences and had not amounted to a violation of the law. on 9 march 2005 the sukhinichskiy district court, kaluga region, ordered the applicant’s conditional early release.
the applicant was born in 1967 and is currently serving a sentence of imprisonment in a correctional colony in the republic of bashkortostan. he alleged that he had been beaten up by officers of the organised crime department for his refusal to make self-incriminating statements. on 27 january 2005 the investigator again ordered a review of the applicant’s medical file by a forensic medical expert. in the meantime, on 27 april 2005 the investigator appointed a panel to conduct a forensic medical examination of the applicant. suffers ... from osteochondrosis of the lumbar region. had been taken to the organised crime department. who submitted that in september 2004 m. bor. in the course of operational proceedings it had become apparent that the applicant, yam., further submitted that he had not known about the abduction of the applicant and yam. had left and he had not known his whereabouts;-  the questioning of the applicant’s step-daughter, z., to the effect that the applicant had been friends with yam. on 2 august 2005 the tyumen regional court (“the regional court”) quashed the extension order of 15 march 2005 on appeal (considered in the applicant’s absence) and remitted the matter for fresh examination by a different bench. on 19 january 2007 the supreme court upheld the above decision on appeal. on the same day they expressed their wish to study the case file, both together and separately. on 14 november 2006 the regional court held on appeal that the applicant and his lawyer should be allowed to study all the case file material, including audio and video tapes and physical evidence, until the expiry of the deadline for the conclusion of the pre-trial investigation (extended by then until 27 november 2006). following an application by the applicant and his lawyer in the course of the trial, the latter was afforded an opportunity to study the case file between 4 december and 28 december 2006.
the applicant, ms gabriele fürst-pfeifer, is an austrian national who was born in 1964 and lives in mödling. specialised in the psychological examination of children and adolescents, her focus is mainly on custody and contact-rights-related disputes. as a result of the article the applicant was confronted with questions related to it from colleagues and patients, and proceedings were initiated at the wiener neustadt regional court to clarify whether she was still fit to work as a court-appointed expert. in the course of those proceedings the applicant’s mental status was also set to be examined. she sought damages under section 8a of the media act (mediengesetz) and the publication of the judgment claiming that the article and in particular the passages dealing with the psychological expert report on the applicant had violated her intimate personal sphere and compromised her publicly. however, she did not argue that the expert report had been obtained unlawfully. pölten) allowed the applicant’s action, ordered the publisher to pay damages in the amount of 5,000 euros (eur) and the operative part of the judgment to be published. furthermore, the publisher was to bear the costs of the proceedings. the publisher appealed on points of law and fact, as well as against the sentence (berufung wegen nichtigkeit, schuld und strafe). furthermore, the court did not find the article to be incomplete or manipulative, but sufficiently well-balanced and faithful to the different sides of the story in that it also referred to the fact that the applicant’s integrity had never been questioned in ten years; the court also asked for statements from the vice-president of the wiener neustadt regional court, a member of the green party, and the youth advocate of the regional government of lower austria. even though the impugned expert opinion dated from 1993 and concerned a period in the applicant’s life prior even to that date, the reporting in question touched sufficiently upon the present public activities of the applicant. in the meantime the applicant lodged an action with the innsbruck regional court on 7 april 2009. that the applicant’s psychological illness was directly linked to the intimate personal sphere was beyond doubt. the article did not indicate however that the applicant was not competent to exercise her profession as a psychological expert. furthermore, the published information was true.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in kazan. on 24 november 2006 the novo-savinovskiy district court of kazan (ново-савиновский районный суда города казани) acquitted the applicant on four counts of drug-dealing, convicted her on one count and sentenced her to eight years’ imprisonment and a fine. on 13 february 2007 the supreme court of republic of tatarstan (верховный суд республики татарстан) upheld the judgment on appeal with minor changes. on 2 july 2008 the presidium of the supreme court of the republic of tatarstan in supervisory review proceedings annulled the judgment on the applicant’s request, because she was formally indicted outside the prescribed statutory time-limits. on 15 october 2008 the novo-savinovskiy district court of kazan acquitted the applicant on the same grounds after re-calculation of the applicable time-limits for investigative actions. on 18 november 2008 the supreme court of the republic of tatarstan upheld the judgment on appeal. on 18 february 2009 the presidium of the supreme court of the republic of tatarstan in supervisory review proceedings annulled the judgments on the prosecutor’s request. the annulment was reasoned by three main arguments: 1) in the opinion of the supervisory court all of the evidence was collected within the statutory time-limits, 2) the lower courts having examining all the evidence during the hearings did not mention them in the judgments and only gave reasons for dismissing them, and 3) formal indictment of the applicant outside of the statutory time-limits should not have led to acquittal in any event. on 9 october 2009 the applicant was convicted, sentenced to five years’ imprisonment, suspended for five years, and fined.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. he was certified as third-degree disabled, the lowest category. p. had approached the applicant who had taken him to some bushes and raped. during the rape p. had seen a. and e. passing by the bushes. the applicant had been fishing from the opposite bank of the pond. on 26 july 2005 the applicant asked the authorities to appoint him a lawyer. on 30 august 2005 he was assigned a lawyer under legal aid scheme. witness a. told the court that he had seen the applicant raping p. on 10 april 2005 in some bushes near the pond. p.’s mother also said that the applicant’s mother had told her that p. had come to the apartment where the applicant lived and the applicant’s grandmother had ousted him. all of those witnesses were questioned by the trial court in the presence of the applicant and his lawyer. in particular, the p., trial court had failed to establish on which dates p. had been raped, and the medical examination of the victim had revealed no injuries on the child’s body. the court granted the request and ordered the bailiffs to bring the applicant to the court hearing. the court of appeal did not question any witnesses; nor did it administer or assess any new evidence. on 2 april 2007 the court requested the applicant to provide: (i) documentary evidence supporting his allegations of ill-treatment; (ii) copies of the complaints of ill-treatment lodged with the domestic authorities; (iii) copies of the applicant’s and his lawyer’s appeals in cassation, stamped by the supreme court to prove their receipt; and (iv) a copy of the supreme court’s decision as soon as it would be available. on 6 september 2007 the applicant informed the court that the supreme court had left his request for copies of documents unanswered.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in barking. on 31 march 2005 the applicant was served with the decision to make a deportation order. one month later an application was submitted to the iranian authorities for an emergency travel document to enable him to travel there. the iranian embassy initially agreed to this proposal, but later refused. as a consequence, the applicant was once again liable to detention. on 27 december 2007 group 4 securicor reported that they had on two occasions attempted to visit the applicant at his nominated address to install the equipment required for electronic tagging. on 8 january 2008 an authority was issued for the applicant’s detention and on 14 january he was detained while reporting to the immigration authorities. on 26 february 2008 the claim for judicial review launched on 13 september 2007 was dismissed. on 25 july 2008 the applicant was alleged to have displayed “inappropriate behaviour” to a female member of immigration staff at a detention centre. his behaviour was also alleged to have been disruptive. however, no prosecution was ever mounted. on 17 march 2009, 9 june 2009 and 7 october 2009 the applicant made three applications for bail to the asylum and immigration tribunal. on 4 december 2009 the high court granted the applicant permission to apply for judicial review and the home office was ordered to release him on bail within forty-eight hours. counsel for the secretary of state for the home department argued – and the court appears to have accepted – that the first period could not be in question legally, since the applicant had been released for one month pursuant to a court order and the order enforcing release had been discharged. however, even given those factors, the judge found that there had to come a time when such a sterile tactic as merely sitting and waiting while repeatedly urging the applicant to change his mind, in full expectation that he would not, ceased to be detention genuinely for the purpose of deportation.
the applicant was born in 1999 and lives in pleven. the applicant also asked to have a lawyer appointed. in their view, such protection would only be provided in a secure centre with a restrictive regime. in its reasoning the court held that despite the judicial decision of 1 april 2013 in which a compromise solution had been adopted for the applicant, namely the confirmation and extension of her placement in the children’s crisis centre, she was still failing to abide by the institution’s internal rules, was not returning to the centre by the designated time after school, was in contact with individuals identified as “delinquents” and was still behaving rudely and aggressively towards the social workers at the centre. the court noted that educational measures had already been imposed on her, but they had not produced a positive result. she challenged the measure imposed on her, arguing in particular that the court had not specified its duration, that her mother had not been given a hearing by the first-instance court and that she herself had not committed any criminal acts. on 15 september 2013 the applicant was taken to the podem school. three pupils had been awarded the certificate in 2013 with an overall average mark of 3.67 out of 6, the minimum pass mark being 3. the applicant further submitted that her telephone conversations were monitored by a supervisor. when submitting their observations on the admissibility and merits of the application, the government included a report dated 30 january 2015 by the head of the podem school about the applicant’s situation. according to the report, during her previous placement in the open door centre, the applicant had been aggressive towards the staff, had encouraged other girls to engage in prostitution and had run away on two occasions (4 and 27 february 2013). according to the report, the podem school offered an educational environment with experts qualified to work as teachers or supervisors in accordance with the requirements of the ministry of education and science. each time, the applicant had returned late to the podem school. as far as the programme for social integration and rehabilitation is concerned, the reports state that, in addition to staff shortages, the existing groups of more than seven or eight children in difficulty cannot be effectively supervised, the activities on offer do not follow an appropriate methodology for vulnerable children, and no arrangements are made at the institutions to encourage contact between the children and their families, a shortcoming identified as a cause of aggressive behaviour. it appears that, following the 2009 report by the state agency for child protection, the ministry of education and science undertook to reform the secure institutions for juveniles in order to ensure that the system was entirely focused on the child and offered an individually tailored approach.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in shostka. the police examined the scene of the accident immediately. the medical examination of mr v. was also conducted. on 17 november 2003 the shostka district police department instituted a criminal investigation into the road traffic accident. on 27 december 2003, after a number of forensic medical examinations and on the basis of witnesses’ testimonies, the investigative officer terminated the criminal proceedings on the ground that it was impossible to establish who was responsible for the accident. on 4 february 2004 the investigative officer of the shostka district police department decided to resume the investigation on account of its incompleteness and the necessity to conduct further investigative actions. between february 2004 and april 2005 six more decisions to discontinue the criminal proceedings for lack of corpus delicti in the driver’s actions were taken (on 5 february, 5 march, 15 april, 17 august, 7 october, 23 december 2004). the latter authority referred, in particular, to the failure of the inquiring officers to question additional witnesses and to reconcile factual discrepancies between the experts’ conclusions and the accounts of some witnesses, the completion of technical examinations, including reconstruction of the events. on 1 july 2008 this resolution was quashed and the case was remitted for additional investigation. on 24 july 2008 the shostka prosecutor’s office instituted criminal proceedings against mr v. on 11 august 2008 the criminal case was referred to the shostka local court for consideration on the merits. on 12 march 2011 the shostka local court sentenced mr v. to five years’ imprisonment combined with a driving ban for three years and awarded pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage to the applicant and other victims (two more persons were injured in the traffic accident). on 28 july 2011 the sumy court of appeal quashed the judgment of 12 march 2011, terminated the criminal proceedings and amnestied mr v. it also left civil claims without examination, indicating that they could be examined in the context of civil proceedings. on 29 august 2011 the applicant instituted separate civil proceedings against mr v. 18. on 29 march 2012 the higher specialised civil and criminal court upheld the decision of the appellate court in the criminal case against mr v. 19. on 8 january 2013 the higher specialised civil and criminal court of ukraine upheld the decision of the sumy court of appeal of 15 august 2012 allowing the applicant’s civil claim and ordering payment of pecuniary and non-pecuniary damages relating to his wife’s death in the amount of uah 10,774.32.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in garkalne (riga district). street in riga which differed from the address previously notified to the cypriot court. it ordered the recognition and enforcement of the limassol district court’s judgment of 24 may 2004 and the entry in the garkalne municipal land register of a charge on the property owned by the applicant in that municipality. the applicant was also ordered to pay the costs. the court considers the arguments advanced by the applicant, p. avotiņš, to be well‑founded, to the effect that he did not receive the order ... of 27 february 2006 until 16 june 2006, this being attested to by the reference in the list of consultations [appended to the case file] and by the fact that the order, served [on the applicant] by the court, was returned on 10 april 2006 ... it is apparent from the documents appended to the appeal that the applicant has not lived at the declared address in [č.] lodged an appeal against that judgment with the senate of the supreme court, which examined it on 31 january 2007. case c‑400/10 ppu, judgment of 5 october 2010):“53. v secretary of state for the home department (joined cases c-411/10 and c-493/10, judgment of 21 december 2011, ecr i-13905), given in the context of the application of regulation no 343/2003 establishing the criteria and mechanisms for determining the member state responsible for examining an asylum application lodged in one of the member states by a third-country national (“the dublin regulation”), the cjeu held:“77. consideration of the texts which constitute the common european asylum system shows that it was conceived in a context making it possible to assume that all the participating states, whether member states or third states, observe fundamental rights, including the rights based on the geneva convention and the 1967 protocol, and on the echr, and that the member states can have confidence in each other in that regard. it follows from all of the foregoing considerations that, as stated by the advocate general in paragraph 131 of her opinion, an application of regulation no 343/2003 on the basis of the conclusive presumption that the asylum seeker’s fundamental rights will be observed in the member state primarily responsible for his application is incompatible with the duty of the member states to interpret and apply regulation no 343/2003 in a manner consistent with fundamental rights. a judgment given in a member state shall be recognised in the other member states without any special procedure being required. considerable changes have accordingly been made to the brussels convention mechanism. in the original proceedings in the state in which the judgment was given, it follows from the combined application of articles 26(2) of regulation no 44/2001 and article 19(1) of regulation no 1348/2000, that the court hearing the case must stay the proceedings so long as it is not shown that the defendant has been able to receive the document which instituted the proceedings or an equivalent document in sufficient time to enable him to arrange for his defence, or that all necessary steps have been taken to this end. article 34(2) of regulation no 44/2001, unlike article 27(2) of the convention, does not necessarily require the document which instituted the proceedings to be duly served, but does require that the rights of the defence are effectively respected ... 76. at the material time the relevant sections of the latvian civil procedure law (civilprocesa likums) read as follows:section 8(1)“the court shall establish the circumstances of the case by assessing evidence obtained in accordance with the law.”
all applicants were former employees of “leteks” u stečaju (the debtor), which was, at the relevant time, a company predominantly comprised of socially-owned capital. since the debtor failed to fulfil its contractual obligations towards its employees, on an unspecified date, the applicants instituted civil proceedings against it. on 18 april 2008 the leskovac municipal court ordered the debtor to pay the applicants specified amounts on account of salary arrears, plus the costs and expenses of the civil proceedings. on 3 october 2010 the above judgment became final. between 20 november 2008 and 30 november 2009 all applicants filed separate requests for the enforcement of the above judgment. the leskovac municipal court ultimately accepted the applicants’ requests and issued the enforcement orders, respectively. the essential information as to the enforcement proceedings in respect of each application is outlined in the annex to this judgment. the applicants duly submitted their respective claims. on an unspecified date the applicants’ claims based on the judgment of 18 april 2008 were formally recognised. the insolvency proceedings against the debtor are still ongoing. on 31 march 2010, the applicants lodged a constitutional appeal. on 8 july 2013 the constitutional court dismissed the appeal in respect of all applicants except the applicants ms jagoda jančić (application no. 62499/10), mr predrag stamenković (application no. 63100/10) and ms stana stanković (application no. on 18 september 2013 the constitutional court also found a violation of the right to a hearing within a reasonable time, in respect of ms jančić, mr stamenković and ms stanković.
the applicant was born in 1968 and, prior to his conviction, lived in yaroslavl. on 15 april 2008 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of fraud. the judge found that (1) the applicant was suspected of serious crimes, (2) he might abscond, (3) he might put pressure on witnesses, or (4) he might interfere with the investigation. on 25 april 2008 the yaroslavl regional court upheld the detention order of 16 april 2008 on appeal. the applicant remained in detention pending investigation and trial. the courts extended his detention, using the same stereotyped formula as described above. on 16 march 2009 he was committed for trial before the kirovskiy district court of yaroslavl. on 27 october 2009 he was convicted of the charges and sentenced to seven years’ imprisonment. on 29 december 2009 the yaroslavl regional court quashed the judgment on appeal and remitted the case to the first-instance court for a fresh examination. on 25 january 2010 the trial court ordered his release on bail. on 27 january 2010 the bail was paid and the applicant was released. on 19 october 2010 the yaroslavl regional court upheld the judgment on appeal. on 2 december 2014 the government submitted a unilateral declaration. they acknowledged that the applicant had been detained “between 15 april 2008 and 27 october 2009 ... without relevant and sufficient grounds”, in breach of the requirements of article 5 § 3 of the convention. on 2 february 2015 the applicant replied that he had taken note of the government’s acknowledgment of the violation, but that the amount of compensation was not acceptable to him.
the applicant was born in 1955 and is currently detained in iași prison. by a final decision of 2013 the applicant was convicted of fraud and sentenced to a term of imprisonment. he had been detained in several prisons since 18 october 2011. in respect of the establishments in which he had been detained, the applicant alleged that he had been kept in overcrowded cells with poor conditions of hygiene. the government submitted that in all the cells occupied by him, the applicant had had his own bed. the cells had natural and artificial light and were ventilated through windows. the detention cells were disinfected daily with chlorine. the detainees were provided with cleaning materials and they were responsible for cleaning the cells. the detainees were entitled to two showers per week. the applicant was detained in gherla prison between 18 october and 22 november 2011. he occupied the following cells: (i) cell no. the applicant was detained in focșani prison on several occasions: between 2 and 9 march 2012, 11 and 18 january, 5 and 19 february, and 2 and 5 april 2013. e 1.8, which measured 21.22 square metres and which he shared with ten co‑detainees for seven days; (ii) cell no. for the rest of the period of detention until the present, the applicant has been detained in iași prison, in cells e 4.4., e 3.3, e 5.12, e 6.6, e 6.9, which each measured 33.30 square metres and which he shared with twenty‑five co-detainees.
the applicant was born in 1978 and until his arrest lived in sarapul, the republic of udmurtiya. the living space was further diminished by six bunk beds and a table. in late june 2007 the applicant was placed in cell no. it was designed for ten detainees but only accommodated five. shortly after the applicant was returned to cell no. he did not describe his further transfers between the cells, only claiming that the conditions of his detention had been deplorable. due to the security considerations involved, punishment cells designed for solitary confinement had no such partition, but were equipped with a curtain. the applicant had been able take a shower once a week for at least fifteen minutes. on the day of his arrest, 18 october 2006, the applicant was seen by a prison paramedic, who performed a general check-up, noting, inter alia, that the applicant’s lungs were clear. the next day a prison doctor confirmed that he was in good health. the prison doctor studied the x-ray record and recommended the applicant’s transfer to the prison hospital. five days later the applicant was admitted to the prison hospital. a sputum smear test performed on admission led to his being diagnosed with infiltrative tuberculosis at the stage of lung tissue destruction, with inactive mycobacterium tuberculosis (“mbt”). in early march 2008 the applicant was examined by a commission of doctors and certified as having a second-degree disability. according to the applicant, one of the drugs was out of stock.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in voronezh. воронежа, “the tsentralniy ovd”) for having employed offensive language in public. he submitted that after the interview the policemen had ill-treated him. a few hours later, the applicant was released. on 8 march 2008 the applicant paid a visit to voronezh town clinical hospital no. it further concluded that the injuries in question did not entail any permanent damage to health or disability. on 19 march 2008 the applicant lodged an application with the tsentralniy district investigation department of the investigative committee at the voronezh regional prosecutor’s office (следственный отдел по центральному району г. on 23 march 2008 an investigator of the district investigation department rejected the applicant’s request as unfounded for lack evidence of a crime. thereafter the applicant’s request was repeatedly rejected and re‑examined. who submitted that on 7 march 2008 at about 6.10 p.m. he and police officer s.s. who submitted that on 7 march 2008 at about 7.00 p.m. the applicant was brought to the tsentralniy ovd; he had had no visible injuries and had been behaving calmly, and no physical force or measures of restraint had been applied to him;-  the statements of police officers s.sh. on an unspecified date in the end of march 2011 the applicant was questioned as a victim. on an unspecified date in april 2011 the investigator appointed a doctor to carry out a forensic medical examination. on 6 june 2011 the applicant participated in an onsite verification of his statements and in an identity parade of the police officers. of the tsentralniy ovd were presented for identification; however, none were recognised by the applicant.
the applicants were born, respectively, in 1971 in togo and in 1979 in ghana. he had met her during one of four visits to ghana made in the five years prior to their marriage. the appeal did not have suspensive effect. he entered denmark in 1993 at the age of 22 and became a danish national on 22 april 2002. [ in this connection, the high court finds that the refusal did not bar [the applicants] from exercising their right to family life in ghana or in a country other than denmark. according to the relevant explanatory report, article 5 of the european convention on nationality must be taken to mean that article 5 § 1 concerns the conditions for acquiring nationality while article 5 § 2 concerns the principle of non-discrimination. in the view of the high court, any difference in treatment between danish nationals of danish extraction and danish nationals of foreign extraction can therefore be justified by this aim as regards the right to spousal reunion if a danish national of foreign extraction has no such lasting and strong attachment to denmark. it stated as follows:“in its decision of 27 august 2004, the ministry of integration refused the application from [the second applicant] for a residence permit on the grounds that the aggregate ties of herself and her spouse [the first applicant] with denmark were not stronger than their aggregate ties with ghana (see section 9, subsection 7, of the aliens act). until 2002, danish nationals had had a general exemption from the attachment requirement. a consequence of this current state of the law is that different groups of danish nationals are subject to differences in treatment in relation to their possibility of being reunited with family members in denmark, as persons who have been danish nationals for 28 years are in a better position than persons who have been danish nationals for fewer than 28 years. this also applies to danish nationals who have stayed abroad for a shorter or longer period, for example in connection with education or work. in 2003 he married [the second applicant] and applied for reunion with his spouse in denmark. in mrs balkandali’s case, the application was refused after she had resided in the united kingdom for eight years, two of which as a british national. more specifically, they stated as follows:“as stated by the majority, the requirement of section 9, subsection 7, of the aliens act that the spouses’ or cohabitants’ aggregate ties with denmark must be stronger than their aggregate ties with another country (the attachment requirement) does not apply when the resident person has been a danish national for 28 years (the 28‑year rule). difference in treatment based on nationality must be seen, inter alia, in the light of the right of danish nationals to settle in denmark, and no significance can be attributed to the fact that such discrimination is not considered contrary to article 14 read in conjunction with article 8 when assessing whether it is permissible to implement a scheme implying a difference in treatment between different groups of danish nationals.
the applicant was born in 1992 and lives in cotiglet, romania. at the time of the events complained of, she was aged fourteen years and four months. lastly, the doctor mentioned that the applicant was in a state of anxiety and fear, and he recommended psychological counselling and possibly a neuropsychiatric examination. on 15 february 2007 the applicant was admitted to the oradea psychiatric hospital. she received treatment with neurotropic drugs, anxiolytics and vitamins. she also mentioned that, all the way to the deserted house, m.i.c. the applicant gave another detailed account of the facts in a statement drafted on 18 january 2007. lastly, she mentioned that she had never had sex before the incident of 13 january and that m.c., stated to the police on 22 january 2007 that he had heard m.c. he denied having touched or spoken to the applicant. he had just walked behind her and continued on his way past the deserted house. had twice had sexual intercourse with her without her consent. claimed that the applicant had been scared when she had returned to the wake. it rejected her claim for civil damages, considering that the medical conditions described in the forensic reports had no connection with the incident at issue. on 27 february 2008 the bihor county court decided to increase the sentences imposed on the two defendants to three years’ imprisonment for m.c.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lived until his arrest in moscow, having worked as a notary. on 22 november 2003 the khamovnicheskiy district prosecutor in moscow opened a criminal investigation into the attempted murder of a certain mr p. police officers questioned the applicant. the district court found that other measures of restraint could not be applied because the circumstances which had prompted the applicant’s arrest had not changed. on 27 september 2005 the court extended the applicant’s detention until 9 december 2005, having noted, inter alia, that the applicant had only read three, and his lawyer nine, volumes and that they therefore needed additional time. during a hearing of 15 february 2006 the applicant’s lawyer asked the city court to release the applicant, arguing that his detention pending trial was not based on sufficient and valid reasons and was therefore in breach of article 5 § 3 of the convention. seventeen days later his lawyer received a letter from the presiding judge, stating that the appeal could not be accepted because russian procedural law did not provide for the possibility to appeal against intermediate decisions issued by a trial court. the applicant also complained about the conditions surrounding his transport to and from the courthouse. the government stressed that he had not suffered any epileptic fits and had been regularly seen by prison doctors. once, on 12 april 2006, the applicant had been seen by a prison doctor after he had lost consciousness in a prison van. according to the applicant, the medical records had not reflected his actual state of health in detention. according to the detainees, the applicant had had frequent epileptic seizures. as a result of another seizure, he had inadvertently poured hot water over himself. the applicant had further alleged that the authorities had not provided him with the required medical attention or drugs necessary to treat his epilepsy or at least to decrease the frequency of seizures, of which they had been fully aware. (c)  requests for medical examination 39. two days later the request was refused as unsubstantiated.
the applicants were born in 1943 and 1942 respectively and live in odessa. on 30 april 2002 the applicants’ daughter was struck by a car driven by p. as she was crossing the street. she died in hospital following the accident. between april 2002 and october 2010 the prosecution authorities delivered at least ten decisions refusing to institute or discontinuing criminal proceedings in respect of p. owing to a lack of corpus delicti in his actions. all those decisions were quashed by the supervising authorities as unsubstantiated and further investigations were ordered. on 9 july 2009 the first applicant lodged a civil claim against p. within the criminal proceedings. on 15 july 2009 he was attributed the status of an aggrieved party in those proceedings. on 26 october 2010 the odessa suvorivskyy district court discontinued the criminal proceedings against p. as time-barred. on 20 november 2012 the higher specialised court also issued a separate ruling, by which it brought to the attention of the court of appeal and the odessa regional prosecutor’s office a number of shortcomings in the proceedings. it stated, in particular, that the pre-trial investigation had been perfunctory and lengthy. since 2002, there had been hardly any investigative measures. guidelines as regards remedying shortcomings in the investigation had been ignored. the overall duration of the investigation, over ten years, had been unjustified. in summary, the higher specialised court held that the criminal investigation in question had not complied with domestic legislation or the convention. it therefore instructed the aforementioned authorities to take measures to prevent similar violations in the future.
the applicant was born in 1946 and lives in zagreb. in 1965 the sisak ironworks (željezara sisak), a socially-owned company, granted a specially protected tenancy to its employee s.k. both being of serbian national origin, left the town of sisak and went to live with their relatives in rijeka. in may 1991 the socially-owned company sisak ironworks was transformed into a joint-stock company and became sisak ironworks holding (željezara sisak holding). it remained state-owned and state-controlled. another company was sisak ironworks fortis, which was privatised in july 1995. the applicant and his family moved to sisak as displaced persons. the applicant found employment with sisak ironworks fortis. according to the applicant the flat was allocated to him and his family by his employer. according to the government, during the proceedings before the domestic courts the applicant did not produce any document which showed the flat as having been allocated to him. seeking the termination of their specially protected tenancy of the flat at issue. that judgment was upheld by the sisak county court on 24 march 1992 and thus became final. after the croatian authorities had gained control over petrinja in 1995, the applicant and his family sought reconstruction assistance for their house in petrinja to be repaired, under the reconstruction act (see paragraph 28 below). the applicant and his family confirmed to the administrative authorities that they had returned to petrinja on 16 january 1998. therefore, the impugned contract of sale was contrary to morals and constitutional principles and therefore null and void under section 103(1) of the obligations act.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in naujoji akmenė. he was diagnosed with sluggish schizophrenia, which he had developed during military service. he was admitted to the trauma unit of a hospital. in reply to a prosecutor’s request for information, on 14 november 2006 the akmenė district psychiatric health centre (akmenės rajono psichikos sveikatos centras) confirmed that the applicant had been attending there since 1999, and continued to be treated there for schizophrenia. he even attempted to take his own life by setting himself on fire. at a public hearing on 31 january 2007 the akmenė district court, relying on articles 465-468 of the code of civil procedure, granted the prosecutor’s request for the applicant to be declared incapacitated, on the grounds that he could not understand or control his actions. a stamp on the letter indicates that it was received by the akmenė district court on 5 february 2007. it was granted the same day, and a lawyer was appointed to represent him. the government submitted to the court an extract from the applicant’s medical records, which indicated that he had been at the šiauliai psychiatric hospital from 9 march until 22 june 2007. the government submitted that the court decision of 13 march 2007 had been handed to the applicant by his treating doctor on 15 march 2007. having been released from the psychiatric hospital, on 26 november 2008 the applicant approached the legal aid service. on 31 december 2008 the legal aid service refused the request as having no prospect of success. as to the appointment of the applicant’s mother as his legal guardian, the legal aid service indicated that he had given no grounds for doubting her ability to perform her duties as guardian and the administrator of his property. his guardian had helped him with daily chores. by a final ruling of 11 november 2014, the šiauliai regional court held that the applicant’s complaints about events in 2004 were unfounded.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in klaipėda. the following day, 25 october 2007, a brazilian doctor, p.c.j., preservation of the body by chemical means irreparably altered the chemical composition of the blood, and therefore there had been no reason to carry out a further examination of the body. the vega’s logbook had had no entry about v.b. when examining the applicant’s complaint, the sli had obtained internal correspondence between limarko and the vega, which showed that the working conditions on the ship had been hard – the ship’s machinery, including the main engine, would often break down, and the engine emitted combustion gases into the ship; there had also been frequent fires. repairs had taken place in the summer of 2007, and the problems had finally been solved in november 2007. on 31 december 2008 the pre-trial investigation was discontinued by the prosecutor for a second time. the court observed that on 10 september 2008 the applicant had asked the prosecutor to order an expert examination to establish whether the constant breathing of combustion gases could cause a heart attack, and to ask the brazilian authorities to provide the report on her husband’s autopsy and the results of blood tests, as those documents had not been present among those brought back with v.b. the sli noted that the circumstances of v.b. on 22 july 2009 the applicant wrote to the prosecutor, questioning why limarko had not requested that the brazilian authorities perform a test for toxic substances in the body as such an examination could have been performed within four to six weeks. failures of the main engine meant that fires on the ship had been frequent, happening almost daily. on 7 january 2010, in reply to a request made the same day by the prosecutor, the lithuanian maritime safety administration (lietuvos saugios laivybos administracija) noted that the vega had been taken off the register of lithuanian ships, because a foreign company, pantex trading limited (nevis), had bought the ship. on 25 february 2010 the investigators again provided the case file to the applicant. by a final ruling of 12 september 2011, the klaipėda regional court dismissed the appeal. could have died from his heart condition.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in nova gorica. the facts of the case, as submitted by the applicant, may be summarised as follows. the time-limit for appealing against the judgment expired at midnight on 28 june 2011. the next day, after the expiry of the time-limit, the applicant’s lawyer sent the appeal against the first-instance judgment, consisting of six pages, by registered mail. on 30 july 2011 the applicant appealed against this decision, arguing that she had lodged her appeal by fax within the prescribed period. subsequently, this information was sent to the higher court. the burden of proof that the appeal had been lodged in due time was on the applicant. however, the confirmation page made no reference to the type of document sent, its content and to which case it referred. furthermore, as regards her failure to prove the content of the fax that had been sent to the local court on 28 june 2011, the applicant submitted: firstly, that the confirmation page from her lawyer’s fax machine had showed the date of the transmission, the number of pages sent and the time it had taken to deliver the document to the receiving machine; secondly, on the following day, 29 june 2011, the applicant had lodged the relevant document by registered mail which, according to her, proved that the document in question was in fact the appeal against the judgment of 24 may 2011. on 20 june 2013 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law. such a risk was borne by the applicant in the same manner as if the document were sent by regular – as opposed to registered – mail, whereby the risk of late receipt of a motion was borne by the sender. on 11 november 2013 the constitutional court dismissed the constitutional complaint for lack of significant disadvantage and for not raising an important constitutional question. on 15 november 2013 this decision was served on the applicant. on 7 february 2012 the local court dismissed the applicant’s request. the applicant lodged an appeal which she subsequently withdrew.
the applicant, mr vladislav andreyevich gankin, was born in 1954 and lives in volzhskiy, the volgograd region. in may 2006 the applicant lodged a civil claim seeking to recover excess service fees paid. on 3 october 2007 the volzhskiy town court of the volgograd region heard the case in the applicant’s presence and rejected his claim. the applicant appealed to the volgograd regional court. the applicant, ms olga ivanovna shevchenok, was born in 1958 and lives in tyumen. in january 2007 the applicant brought a defamation action against a third party. the applicant was present and pleaded her case in person. on 18 march 2007 she lodged a statement of appeal, in which she indicated her post-office box number. the government stated that on 12 april 2007 a judicial summons was sent to the applicant’s post‑office box. on 2 may 2007 the tyumen regional court examined and dismissed the applicant’s appeal in her absence, without examining the issue of whether she had been notified. the applicant, mr aleksey dmitriyevich belkin, was born in 1952 and lives in neya, the kostroma region. both parties appealed against the judgment. he claimed he had not received the summons or the telephone call. three postal notices were then sent to the applicant inviting him to pick up the letter from the post office: on 18 and 24 october and 7 november 2011. according to the applicant he received the postal notice only on 11 november 2011.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in strumica. at the time when the criminal proceedings (see paragraphs 11-32 below) were initiated, there were four judges working in the criminal section of the strumica court of first instance (“the trial court”): judges m.a., worked on cases concerning minor offences, and judge s.d. she was appointed as a judge in february 2005. became president of the criminal section of the trial court. heard evidence from five eyewitnesses, two experts and the victims’ representative. the applicant’s representative was only present when two of the eyewitnesses gave their statements. finally, he stated that he hoped that the president of the trial court would ask the president of the štip court of appeal (“the appellate court”) to assign the case to another first-instance court. on 13 july 2007 the president of the trial court upheld the latest application for the exclusion of judge t.d. the applicant asked the trial court to examine the experts who had prepared both reports, in order to clarify their findings, which he described as contradictory. at that hearing the trial court commissioned a fresh expert report (вештачењето да се обнови со други вештаци) to be prepared by three experts from the bureau, not those who had drawn up the report of 14 march 2007 (see paragraph 14 above). on 31 january 2008 a fresh expert report was issued by the bureau (“the third expert report”). on 5 march 2008 the applicant’s lawyer, in his closing remarks, submitted that the trial court was adjudicating a case concerning an incident in which their colleague’s daughter had died. he argued that the practice in similar cases was that the judges withdrew in order not to cast doubt on the court’s impartiality. it based its findings on the third expert report and the oral evidence.
the applicants were born in 1971 and 1975 respectively and live in the city of komsomolsk. on 27 may 2006 mr s., driving a bus, hit the applicants’ minor son who was later that day brought to hospital with severe injuries. on the same day police examined the scene of the accident, questioned s. and several other witnesses. on 1 june 2006 the applicants’ son died of numerous serious injuries caused by the above traffic accident. in particular, the police were instructed to find and examine the direct witness of the accident who was an employee of the komsomolsk department of state postal service (later it turned out to be b.). the case was transferred to the police for further inquiries. on 6 july 2006 the poltava regional police department instituted criminal proceedings into the traffic accident which led to the child’s death. on 13 july 2006 the applicants were officially recognised as aggrieved parties in the criminal proceedings. between may 2006 and april 2007 the police conducted two technical and two medical forensic expert examinations, on-site traffic accident reconstructions, questioned s., the applicants and several other witnesses. from april 2007 until october 2009 the investigation was terminated on numerous occasions for lack of corpus delicti in the actions of s. subsequently it was resumed by the investigator (in november 2007) or the above decisions were quashed by higher prosecutor’s office, due to various omissions in the investigation and with instructions to carry out further actions with a view to collecting evidence. on several occasions the criminal investigation was suspended because it was not possible to establish a person liable for the traffic accident. during the above period the police investigator examined several witnesses (including b. on 7 september 2009) and conducted one reconstruction. between september 2010 and march 2012 the police conducted three additional technical forensic expert examinations, several on-site traffic accident reconstructions and questioned several witnesses. on 5 october 2010 s. was for the first time officially recognised as a suspect in the criminal proceedings. on 26 march 2012 the case was referred to the komsomolsk court.
the applicant company, instytut ekonomichnykh reform (a limited liability company), is the editorial body of the evening news newspaper (вечерние вести), registered in ukraine. in the 1990s ms ganna german worked as a newspaper journalist in lviv. fresh parliamentary elections were originally scheduled for 27 may 2007 but were postponed; they eventually took place on 30 september 2007. she uses not only words but intonation, communicating non-verbally as well ... of course, she is such a professional ...i thought that after her speech another five hundred thousand would join the party of regions. i used to think that one could easily debate with ganna german. he is a great guy ...”what if i were given more than a thousand bucks a month? at least ten thousand bucks, but all in one go. or for a monthly salary of eight hundred dollars. according to [the] ozhegov [dictionary], “demagoguery” is “influencing the feelings and instincts of those with low-level awareness on the basis of the deliberate distortion of facts”. it is not possible to argue logically with them. an intelligent man can hardly stay emotionally composed listening to them. rather, the statements in question constituted statements of fact which had not been verified or proved by either of the defendants, and were negative and insulting to the plaintiff. i believe that all journalists dream of selling themselves for a flat in kyiv, even those who already have one ... i listened to ganna german and i wish i were as lucky as she is. being aware that the member of parliament’s status act provided for housing support, the author speculated that he might be willing to change his views in exchange for a flat in kyiv. for the applicant company, the plaintiff’s failure to formulate a specific retraction illustrated the rationale behind section 47-1 of the information act, under which value judgments were not subject to retraction.
at the time of lodging his application, he had been placed in a supervised residential facility in springe (germany). following five convictions for offences including burglary and dangerous assault, in 1977 the hildesheim regional court convicted the applicant of committing offences while in a drunken state. the hildesheim regional court found that the applicant had attacked his victims in a violent manner. they had been sleeping in an abandoned building. he did not suffer from any other pathological mental disorder within the meaning of article 21 of the criminal code. his personality differed from that of the majority of the population in that he lacked empathy and saw himself as a strong and dominating man, without that difference being of a pathological nature. in view of another prison sentence he had served, by 7 august 2000 he had spent ten years in preventive detention. the applicant served that sentence in 2002. on 19 july 2011 the göttingen regional court again ordered the applicant’s continued preventive detention in a psychiatric hospital, under article 67d § 3 of the criminal code (see paragraph 31 below). this diagnosis had further been confirmed by the applicant’s treating doctors at moringen hospital. that risk was particularly high when the applicant – whom the expert had concluded abused alcohol without being addicted, as defined by the icd-10 – was drunk. moreover, it had not been found by the experts or the domestic courts that his alleged mental disorder had caused the offences in question, nor that he was or had ever been an alcoholic. from march 2011 to august 2012 the applicant was authorised to reside provisionally in friedland castle in northeim, a supervised residential facility. the applicant continued his work therapy in moringen hospital. he no longer received any specific treatment for his mental condition or the alcohol abuse with which he had been diagnosed.
the applicants were born in 1955 and live in baku. yunusovun hal-hazırkı sağlamlıq durumu ilə əlaqədar onunla istintaq hərəkətlərinin aparılması mümkündür”). on the same day the prosecutor lodged a request with the nasimi district court asking it to replace the second applicant’s placement under police supervision with detention pending trial. the letter also indicated that on 19 august 2014 she had been examined by an endocrinologist from the ministry of health, who had recommended that she continue her previous treatment. in march 2015 the eyesight in her left eye had drastically deteriorated. it further appears from the extracts of the first applicant’s detention facility medical records (məhkumun tibbi kitabçası) submitted by the government that on 31 july 2014 the doctor recommended that the first applicant continue the medical treatment for diabetes prescribed by her previous doctor, the drug galvus. on 12 december 2014 the first applicant’s lawyer lodged a request with the prosecution authorities, complaining of the deterioration of her state of health in detention and asking for a forensic medical examination. -  on 3 october 2014 she underwent a prophylactic medical examination and was provided with medication brought in by her friends. -  on 15, 21, 25 and 26 november she refused to be examined. -  on 12 december 2014 she was provided with medication brought in by her friends. it further appears from a medical certificate dated 29 september 2014 from the head of the medical service of the detention facility that the second applicant’s state of health was satisfactory and that he had not sought medical attention during his pre-trial detention. they were not accompanied by any medical documents. no medical documents were attached to the information report. the reports dated 19 november and 2 december 2015 contained information relating to the first applicant’s blood pressure and sugar level and indicated that on 3 and 7 october 2015 the first applicant had refused to be examined by the doctors. the court was not provided with a copy of this decision.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in kremenchuk. her body was naked and had numerous injuries. according to the information submitted by the government, on 20 june 1998 a post mortem was carried out. it established that m. had been strangled and that her body had been dragged to the place where it had been discovered. there was no indication that she had been raped. on 24 june 1998 the applicant was admitted to the proceedings as an aggrieved party. on 28 june 1998 the police inspected the scene of the crime. samples of the coal and the bags were collected as material evidence. on 1 october 1998 the police seized one of m.’s shoes, which had been discovered by a villager at some distance from the crime scene. the witness also submitted that b. had apparently had the car seat covers changed shortly thereafter. that belated inspection produced no tangible results. the investigation of m.’s murder has been unsuccessful. in the remaining instances the investigation was resumed without any further details being given in the respective decisions. as regards the applicant’s requests for access to the case file, they were rejected on the grounds that under the applicable procedural legislation, an aggrieved party could only have such access after the pre-trial investigation had been completed. there is no information in the case file about any developments in the investigation after 2010.
the applicant company specialises in taking soil samples by way of drilling for geological examination, inter alia, for the purpose of assessing suitability for building sites and for the construction of wells. the vtv contained rules about contributions and entitlements in relation to both the zvk and the holiday and wage equalisation fund of the construction industry (urlaubs- und lohnausgleichskasse der bauwirtschaft, “ulak”), which jointly comprised the social welfare fund in the building industry which went by the common name “soka-bau”. the applicant company was not a member of an employers’ association that was party to the relevant collective agreements. it was thus not directly bound by any collective agreements by virtue of such membership. the applicant company did not react to this letter. on 28 april 2005 the applicant company’s lawyer sent a letter to the social welfare fund, objecting to being registered with the fund. the applicant company was further ordered to submit copies of the wage slips issued to its employees between january 2006 and june 2007. 6, listed drilling as an activity within its scope. it argued that it was obliged to contribute to a fund jointly set up by the employers’ association and the trade union, even though it did not belong to either of these associations. the applicant company further complained that it was prevented from founding its own association, due to a lack of funds. it observed that the generally binding effect did not entail an obligation to adhere either to one of the employers’ associations or to the social welfare fund. referring to the case-law of the federal constitutional court (decision of 15 july 1980, 1 bvr 24/74, see relevant domestic law and practice paragraph 27), the labour court of appeal conceded that the applicant company, which was not a member of one of the employers’ associations, had the disadvantage of not being able to assert its interests by exercising control over the activities of the social welfare fund via these associations. the right to participate in the decision-making process within these associations was reserved to members of the respective association. in so far as this fact exerted a certain pressure to become a member of one of the employers’ associations, this was, however, not sufficient to amount to a violation of the negative aspect of its right to freedom of association. on 10 december 2008 the federal labour court rejected the applicant company’s complaint against the refusal to grant leave to appeal.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in bad dürkheim, germany. on 2 february 2001, the main shareholder of demirbank, namely cıngıllı holding a.ş., brought administrative proceedings against the banking regulation and supervision agency (bankalar düzenleme ve denetleme kurumu – hereinafter “the agency”) before the ankara administrative court, seeking a ruling setting aside the decision of 6 december 2000 to transfer demirbank to the fund. the company further stated that prior to november 2000 demirbank had never encountered major financial problems. however, no such warning had been given in the instant case. lastly, the company stated that following the transfer of the bank to the fund, a general assembly composed of the fund’s officials had exonerated the former managers of demirbank, holding that they had not been at fault in the incident leading to the bank’s transfer. on 18 december 2003 the joint administrative chambers of the supreme administrative court decided to quash the decision of 3 june 2003. a further appeal and a request for rectification lodged by the agency were rejected on 14 april 2005 and 15 december 2005 respectively. following the transfer of demirbank to the fund, the applicant applied to the board claiming compensation. a rectification request lodged by the agency was rejected on 26 may 2005. the court held that the applicant should have initiated proceedings within sixty days of the date on which demirbank’s equities had been transferred to the fund’s account at the stock exchange, namely 31 january 2001 (see paragraph 7 above). subsequently, the applicant initiated another set of proceedings before the ankara administrative court, claiming that the agency should enforce the above-mentioned judgments and that his rights as a shareholder of demirbank should be reinstated. he argued that the bank still owned a certain amount of assets following its sale to hsbc and that restitution was therefore possible to a certain extent. on 30 november 2007, the ankara administrative court dismissed the case. it found that the applicant could not be considered as “concerned” as he had not been a party to the annulment proceedings (iptal davası) brought by the main shareholders.
the applicants are a married couple, mrs r.b.a.b. the immigration authorities conducted interviews with the first and second applicants on 8 may 2001 (eerste gehoor) and 9 august 2001 (nader gehoor). in the light of various contradictions in the statements given by the first and second applicants, their inability to answer basic questions about the respective tribes they claimed to belong to, and the second applicant’s inability to provide simple topographic details of the city and the surroundings of the place where he claimed he had grown up and/or to provide any details about the m. opposition movement (goal, members, structure, leader) for which he claimed to have been active, the deputy minister concluded that no credence could be attached to the applicants’ asylum statement. in two separate decisions of 20 june 2005 the minister rejected the first and second applicants’ asylum request on the grounds detailed in her notice of intention. women with a higher education in larger towns will generally not have their daughters circumcised. the refusal thus reasoned cannot be upheld. no further appeal lay against this ruling. the interpretation of this legislative provision is left to the judge. in practice, perpetrators of genital mutilation are not prosecuted. in 2008 sudan pledged to eradicate fgm within 10 years. in so far as known, fgm is practiced by all north-sudanese population groups (arab and non-arab). ‘the dangers that female genital mutilation and cutting create for girls and women have been recognized by the government, religious leaders, health professionals, community elders and individual families in sudan, and we applaud the collective efforts now being taken to eradicate the practice entirely. the “joint evaluation of the unfpa-unicef joint programme on fgm/c: accelerating change 2008–2012” in respect of sudan, published in july 2013, includes the following:“in 1983, when sharia law was introduced, the article prohibiting fgm/c was removed from the penal code. the states of south darfur and red sea passed laws prohibiting fgm/c as a harmful practice affecting the health of children. fgm/c is traditionally practiced in the country.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in tbilisi. at 3.50 p.m. on 19 february 2005 the applicant was arrested as a suspect in a criminal case. on 21 february 2005 he was charged with multiple episodes of fraud. the applicant was released at 4.00 p.m. on the same day. on 25 february 2005 the appeals chamber of the supreme court of georgia, reversing the lower-instance decision, placed the applicant in pre-trial detention for three months. it justified its decision solely by noting that the applicant had been charged with a serious crime carrying a possible penalty of more than five years’ imprisonment. this fact in itself, in the supreme court’s view, substantiated the risk of the applicant absconding, given that article 151 § 3 of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccp”), as in force at the material time, provided that the seriousness of an offence could constitute grounds for the imposition of pre-trial detention. on 25 march 2005 amendments were introduced to article 151 §§ 1 and 4 of the ccp; those amendments, inter alia, provided that, subject to assessment by the national courts, pre-trial detention should in principle only be the last resort in cases where it is demonstrated that a more lenient measure of restraint would not suffice in view of the profile of the accused and the concrete circumstances of the case in question. on 18 may 2005 the investigative panel of the tbilisi district court, having heard the prosecutor’s argument that more time was needed to finalise the investigation, extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention for another two months, until 22 july 2005. the applicant’s reasons for his objection to any prolongation (his good reputation and family situation; the absence of previous convictions; and formal assurances from several public persons, including a member of parliament) were dismissed by the court. on 23 may 2005 the appeals chamber of the tbilisi district court upheld the order of 18 may 2005. on 15 june 2005 the applicant requested that his pre-trial detention be replaced by a more lenient measure of restraint. the prosecutor agreed to the applicant’s request. on 9 july 2005 the tbilisi district court released the applicant on bail on payment of a security of gel 5,000 (approximately eur 1,800). at the time of submission of the present application, while the applicant contended that he was unable to have certain unspecified witnesses examined and to obtain expert opinions pertinent to his case, the criminal proceedings against him were still pending.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in komsomolskoye village in the kharkiv region. he was informed of his right to have access to a lawyer as from the first interrogation. at the same time on the same day the applicant also signed a record confirming that he had been informed about his rights as a suspect, in particular the right to remain silent and to consult a lawyer. he denied any involvement in the alleged offence. on 25 january 2005 the applicant was formally charged with aggravated burglary. on 27 january 2005 he signed another such record using the same wording. on 1 march 2005 the applicant stood trial before the pavlograd court sitting in a single judge formation, assisted by a clerk. according to the trial record, the trial unfolded as follows:(a)  only the applicant and b. were present at the opening of the trial, the prosecutor, p. and the witnesses being absent. (d)  the judge read out the indictment and asked the applicant whether he understood the charges and how he wished to plead. (e)  the applicant responded that he understood the charges, pleaded guilty and refused to testify. he again pleaded guilty and stated that he did not wish to testify. he stated that the evidence of his guilt was “admissible and sufficient,” asked the court not to call the absent witnesses since he was ashamed of his actions, and asked the court to dispense with the examination of evidence, pursuant to article 299 of the code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 30 below). according to the applicant, this record of the trial was inaccurate. when the judge had assured him that he would receive a lenient sentence if he pleaded guilty, he had followed the judge’s instructions. the applicant also alleged that the court of appeal had erred in failing to take into account the time he had served in prison in russia.
the applicant was born in 1947 and lives in plovdiv. on 1 february 2002 the persons recognised as owners of the flat at issue (the pre-nationalisation owners) sold it to a mr and mrs p. soon after that, mr and mrs p. brought rei vindicatio proceedings against the applicant, who was still living in the property. their claim was allowed at first instance by the plovdiv district court on 24 october 2002. even though the rei vindicatio proceedings after that remained the subject of appeals, the applicant vacated the property on 10 january 2003. she moved to a house she owned in the village of hrabrino, where she registered her address on 4 february 2003. on 4 may 2005 mr and mrs p. brought another action against the applicant, for unjust enrichment, alleging that she had had no valid legal grounds to live in their flat between 1 february 2002 and 10 january 2003, and seeking compensation. the summons was sent to the mayor of hrabrino for delivery to the applicant. however, in a letter to the district court dated 16 june 2005, the mayor sent the summons back, stating that “no such person has been registered” as living in the village. upon an appeal by mr and mrs p., in a judgment of 10 july 2006 which was final, the plovdiv regional court ordered the applicant to pay the claimants an additional bgn 1,006.21. the applicant became aware of the proceedings and the judgments against her on 22 february 2008, when she received a notice from a bailiff to pay the sums due. the applicant points to several additional facts. in 2004, she was appointed as a juror at the plovdiv district court for the period between 2005 and 2009 and she received notifications of the court hearings she needed to attend at another address she had provided to the authorities (the address of her brother in plovdiv). at that same address, in 2007 and 2008, she received two summonses related to other unspecified proceedings brought against her by mr and mrs p. at that same address, in february 2008, she received the bailiff’s notice mentioned in the previous paragraph. the applicant is a well-known piano teacher at the academy of music, dance and fine arts in plovdiv whose place of work could have been known to the authorities. in the months after february 2008 the applicant paid the sums owed by her in full.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in srebrenica, a town in the republika srpska (one of the two constituent entities of bosnia and herzegovina[1]). the applicant is a member of the party for bosnia and herzegovina (stranka za bih; “the bh party”) and a founding member of the srebrenica intellectuals’ club (klub intelektualaca srebrenice). on 1 august 2006 the cec rejected the applicant’s request for the reconsideration of that decision. it held that the applicant’s candidacy was in contravention of the constitution and the election act 2001. on 29 september 2006 the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina held that there had been no violation of that provision (decision no. it would have been otiose, reduced to empty words. i accept that there different parts of the constitution appear to have conflicting values and objectives, but constitutions are never entirely coherent. they are always shaped by, and are a compromise between, conflicting values and objectives. the task of the constitutional court under article vi is to give effect to the constitution, with all its inconsistencies, and make it as effective as possible in all the circumstances. for this reason, i would have dismissed this appeal as ill-founded even had i disagreed with the conclusion of the majority of the constitutional court that there is an objective and rational justification for the difference of treatment. such a tribunal has no duty to uphold the constitution. contrary to the statements of the majority (§ 22), it seems to me that the current situation in bosnia and herzegovina does not justify at this moment the differential treatment of the appellant’s candidacy in relation to the candidacy of other candidates who are the serbs and are directly elected from the territory of the republika srpska, nor it serves a legitimate aim, such as preservation of peace, continuation of dialogue or creation of conditions for amending the provisions of the constitution of bih and election law. 36/00), stressing the equality of all constituent peoples in both entities and excluding in consequence the minority status of any constituent people in any entity. therefore the only legitimate aim appropriated in the current situation in bih consists of excluding the territorial criterion in presidential elections. on 5 july 2010 the applicant again submitted his candidacy to the cec.
the applicant was born in 1924 and lives in cologne. in 2006 the applicant initiated proceedings under the criminal rehabilitation act (strafrechtliches rehabilitierungsgesetz) on behalf of his late father. he claimed that the expropriation and other measures had a penal character, although his father’s guilt had been determined not by a court but by an administrative body. in particular, the 1946 and 1947 provisions on which the measures against his father had been taken could now be qualified as criminal prosecution. new research had shown that their objective was to punish individual germans for alleged wrongdoing. on 21 july 2008 the applicant’s lawyers published a press release under the following title:“turnaround in the assessment of the communist industrial reform? at the same time they communicated the date, time and place of the hearing. on 8 august 2008 the regional court cancelled the hearing foreseen for 19 august and set a time-limit for written procedure ending on 15 september 2008. the date for a hearing, according to section 11 § 3, second sentence, of the criminal rehabilitation act (see paragraph 13 below) had been set to give the applicant the opportunity to illustrate (erläutern) his legal opinion, which conflicted with that of the regional court and the dresden court of appeal and was supported by particularly extensive factual submissions. this indicated that the hearing was to be used as a public forum. against this background, the court refrained from holding a hearing. the expropriation measures did not result in further consequences to his detriment. on 26 november 2010 the dresden court of appeal, without holding an oral hearing, dismissed the applicant’s appeal, fully endorsing the regional court’s reasons. it added that the documents submitted proved neither the penal character of the measures in question nor that there had been an arrest warrant. an oral hearing was not necessary as the documents presented were sufficient for the case to be assessed.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in astrakhan. on 13 august 2004 the applicant was informed that the investigation had been completed and that the case file had been submitted to the district court for trial. on 7 april 2005 the district court dismissed the application for release and extended the applicant’s detention pending trial for another two months, until 16 june 2005. on 21 july 2005 the regional court upheld the above decision on appeal. during the hearing, the applicant requested that the court let his sister represent him. on 9 june 2006 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 15 july 2006. the applicant subsequently underwent scheduled health examinations. in connection with this application, on 21 april 2006 he was referred to the prison hospital in ik-2 correctional colony for examination and treatment. several times during his detention in iz-30/1 the applicant applied for treatment for acute toothache. however, he was informed on each occasion that there was no dentist on the medical staff of the remand prison. in october 2005 a dentist was recruited by the remand prison. the only treatment available was extraction and there was a three-week waiting list. a medical certificate issued by the applicant’s dentist (who had provided dental care to the applicant since 2001, up to his detention) confirmed in january 2009 that there were no traces of dental care having been provided to the applicant in the period between june 2004 and january 2009 and noted a serious worsening of the state of the latter’s teeth. furthermore, a prescription was given to the applicant to purchase more efficient medication. the inspection revealed, inter alia, that there was a problem of deficient health care in the remand prison.
the applicant was born in 1966 and is detained in the suwałki prison. the extradition request, arrest warrant and detention order were sent to the netherlands. on 8 april 2004 the suwałki regional prosecutor indicted the applicant before the augustów district court. the case was then transferred to the lublin district court, where the trial commenced on 21 september 2004. the court held many hearings and heard witnesses. according to the government, the file was examined on 14 november and 2 december 2007, 3 january, 7, 17 and 31 march and 5 may 2008 at the very least. at the applicant’s request the trial court provided him with translations of documents. he contended that he had argued with the incumbent lawyer and could not communicate with him. on 27 january 2010 the lublin regional court (iv ka 338/06) convicted the applicant as charged. a lawyer from białystok, appointed for him by the court. in the cassation appeal he further argued that the trial court never actually provided the applicant with copies of the translated documents although it had agreed to do it. in the more recent requests the remand centre authorities pointed out that the applicant had not taken any active part in the “social rehabilitation process” and had been of low moral character. the applicant also appealed against the commission’s decision of 29 april 2011 and on 6 september 2011 the białystok regional court upheld it. in addition to that, the applicant submitted that he had appealed against the decision of 4 august 2011 which was dismissed on 11 october 2011. from the list of visits submitted by the government and not contested by the applicant, it appears that between 2004 and 2009 he had had between two and four visits every year at least.
the applicant was born in 1946 and lives in bucharest. she underwent surgery five days later and was released from hospital on 14 may 2002. the police opened an investigation to clarify the circumstances of the accident. on 5 july 2002 the police officer in charge of the investigation ordered a technical expert report. on 23 august 2002 a forensic medical report was attached to the investigation file. the driver, who had been turning his vehicle at the time, had not breached any traffic regulations. the applicant took note of the expert opinions on 23 november 2004. on 31 january 2005 the prosecutor’s office attached to the bucharest district court decided not to prosecute the driver, since the fault of the accident lay entirely with the applicant. she lodged an appeal on points of law (recurs) against that judgment. on 4 august 2005 her appeal was allowed by the bucharest county court, which decided to send the case back to the prosecutor for a more thorough investigation since numerous facts had not been clarified. on 29 december 2005 the applicant made enquiries with the prosecutor’s office about the status of the investigation.[1] 20. on 26 april 2006 the same eyewitness was interviewed again. the applicant’s complaint against the prosecutors’ decisions was allowed by the bucharest district court on 8 may 2007. on 27 august 2008 the bucharest district court rejected the applicant’s claim. the judgment became final on 15 october 2008 when an appeal by the applicant was dismissed by the bucharest county court.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in pozuelo de alarcón (madrid). that decision was formally served on 13 june 2005. this law legalised same-sex marriage in spain. in a judgment of 14 november 2005 the social tribunal ruled for the applicant. 13/2005, which was already in force and deemed constitutional by the tribunal. 13/2005 that parliament’s intention had been that surviving partners of same-sex couples who had been prevented from marrying under the former legislation could access a survivor’s pension on a similar footing to same-sex couples who could marry after the entering into force of that act. 13/2005 and that, accordingly, additional provision no. as to the degree of retroactivity that should be given to additional provision 10 (2) of law no. 13/2005 that marriage between same-sex couples was recognised and that this law affected other rights for those persons who would wish to marry thereafter. the court further stated that even though law no. the court referred to constitutional case-law dating from 1994 according to which the requisite of heterosexuality for the purposes of marriage was fully constitutional and that it was within the margin of appreciation of the public authorities to treat heterosexual marriages more favourably than homosexual partnerships. in this connection, the court maintained that despite the reference in the preamble of law no. 10 (2) was, as the constitutional court had established, of a provisional or transitory nature and had been envisaged for those specific cases in which one of the partners had died before the entry into force of law no. it had not been intended to govern future situations. relying on articles 14 (principle of equality and prohibition of discrimination) and 24 § 1 (right to effective judicial protection), the applicant lodged an amparo appeal with the constitutional court.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in warsaw. no mention was made of the degree to which standards had been breached or of the kind of standards concerned in each case. the station owned by the complainant in the subsequent criminal proceedings (see paragraphs 12‑26 below) was included into the list with the following information: “diesel – good quality, gasoline – bad quality”. in a reply of 7 september 2006 the publisher replied that their article had been based on the report of the competition and consumer rights office. he submitted that the press report had damaged his reputation and good name; that he sold fuel bought from renowned suppliers; that he did not adulterate it; and that the data published by the office had not indicated that he had done so. the applicant had not committed a criminal offence as information published in the impugned article had been based on official data publicly available via the internet. on 18 june 2009 the warsaw regional court allowed the appeal. however, this decision had been premature as a hearing should have been held in order to establish all the relevant facts. the court acknowledged that the applicant had relied on the official report, but noted that phrases such as “fuel crooks” had not been included therein. 500 euros (eur)), ordered him to pay pln 500 (approx. the court noted concordant testimony from a number of witnesses that the problem of selling adulterated motor fuel had been a serious one and that it had given rise to an ongoing discussion and to measures being taken by the state authorities in order to prevent and penalise it. it accepted that it had been an issue of public interest. had not corresponded to the official standards. it could be restricted for the purposes of, inter alia, the protection of the rights of others. eur 2,500) to the plaintiff and to apologise to the plaintiff.
the case originated in an application (no. 71256/11) against hungary lodged with the court under article 34 of the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (“the convention”) by six hungarian nationals, mr lászló haraszthy, mr györgy lászló márton, mr gábor horn, ms nóra siska, mr zoltán pintér and ms  mária  terézia  oszter (“the applicants”), on 11 november 2011. the applicants were represented by mr i. p. horváth, a lawyer practising in budapest. the hungarian government (“the government”) were represented by mr z. tallódi, agent, ministry of justice. on 31 august 2015 the applicants’ complaints under article 1 of protocol no. 1 to the convention concerning the imposition of 98% tax on their severance payment were communicated to the government. it will be payable within three months from the date of notification of the decision taken by the court. in the event of failure to pay this sum within the said three-month period, the government undertook to pay simple interest on it, from the expiry of that period until settlement, at a rate equal to the marginal lending rate of the european central bank during the default period plus three percentage points. the payment will constitute the final resolution of the case in respect of these five applicants. the sixth applicant, ms mária terézia oszter was born in 1949 and lives in budakeszi. from 1 july 1997 she was employed at the state-owned national asset management ltd. her employment was terminated on 30 may 2011. a certain part of her severance payment was subject to special tax at a 98% rate. accordingly, special tax was levied on her severance payment in the amount of huf 2,195,835 (approximately eur 7,300).
the applicant was born on 30 august 1949 and lives in nicosia. the applicant was employed at the department of lands and surveys on 1 december 1971. on 1 january 1996 he was promoted to the position of assistant officer and on 2 february 1998 he was authorised by the director of the department to sign payment orders as authorising officer. on 13 june 2005 the psc decided to dismiss the applicant. the conception and planning of the crimes committed showed a well-set-up fraud which had dealt a blow to the prestige and credibility of the procedures of the department of lands and surveys and also to the image of the public service in general. in reaching its decision the psc observed that it had taken into account the circumstances and conditions under which the applicant had committed the offences. the psc also noted that it had taken into consideration what had been said by the applicant’s counsel in mitigation, in particular, the applicant’s personal and family circumstances, as well as the fact that he had undertaken to compensate for the damage and/or part of the damage suffered by the republic as a consequence of his criminal acts. this entailed the loss of a retirement lump sum and a monthly pension. lastly, the psc decided that the part of the applicant’s salary that had been withheld during the period of his suspension from service would not be returned to him. on 23 march 2006 the applicant withdrew his appeal. this amounted to 15,600 euros (eur) per year. on 7 may 2007 the supreme court dismissed the recourse, but did not award costs against the applicant in view of the nature of the legal issues raised. drawing guidance from the court’s case-law, and in particular the judgments in the case of azinas v. cyprus (no. the psc had had a variety of available penalties at its disposal, such as compulsory retirement, which did not bring about the forfeiture of the pension. in the present case, although the applicant had been deprived of his retirement benefits as a public servant, he had been entitled to receive benefits from the social insurance fund, which were calculated on the basis of contributions made by the employer and the employee.
the first applicant was born in 1978 and lives in tsentrelnye koryaki in the kamchatka region. on 29 june 2005 the first applicant was charged with theft. by a judgment of 1 march 2006, upheld on appeal on 2 may 2006, the district court convicted the first applicant as charged and sentenced him to ten years’ imprisonment. on 10 april 2005 ms f. complained of having been raped by three unidentified individuals. he and the government provided differing versions of how he was arrested. according to the second applicant, at around 12 noon he was stopped in the street by police and escorted to the local police station. between 12.25 p.m and 12.33 p.m. he took part in an identification parade, as a result of which he was identified by the victim as one of the individuals who had raped her. a record of his arrest was not drawn up until 11.35 p.m. 17. according to the government, the second applicant was taken to the police station as a witness. had he tried to leave, he would have been stopped by the police officers who were standing guard at the doors of the offices. among other things, he complained that his detention was unlawful, on the grounds that he had been brought before a judge more than forty-eight hours after his actual arrest and the town court had not established any “exceptional circumstances”, as required by the ccrp in order to place a suspect in detention (see paragraph 33 below). on 16 may 2005 the vladimir regional court (“the regional court”) upheld the order of 13 april 2005. it considered that the second applicant had been apprehended as indicated in the arrest record. it further found that the town court had based its decision on sufficient grounds. the detainees did not have access to fresh air, sunlight or drinking water.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in the village of patiltė (utena region). the prison regulations were explained to him, which included a prohibition on prisoners growing beards (see paragraph 17 below). the applicant signed to confirm that he had read and understood the rules. he stated that he had been diagnosed with tongue cancer and had undergone radiation treatment, and therefore shaving irritated his skin. on 17 october 2007 the applicant was examined by the correctional facility’s medical personnel. the subsequent medical report stated that no traces of irritation had been found on the applicant’s skin and that, according to the applicant himself, the main reason why he wanted to grow a beard was that his electric razor was almost broken and he could not afford to buy a new one. on 23 october 2007 the prison department denied the applicant’s request, based on the results of the examination. on 5 december 2007 the applicant submitted a complaint to the vilnius regional administrative court. he argued that there was no law prohibiting beards in prison, so the marijampolė correctional facility did not have the right to establish such a prohibition in its internal regulations. on 21 april 2008 the vilnius regional administrative court upheld the applicant’s complaint. the court acknowledged that prisons were in principle justified in having rules on prisoners’ beards in so far as it was necessary for hygiene-related reasons. however, it dismissed the prison department’s argument that the prohibition on beards was necessary for the purpose of the swift identification of prisoners, and held that such a restriction was contrary to the requirement to reintegrate prisoners into society. accordingly, the court concluded that the prohibition on the applicant having a beard was against the law and was neither necessary nor proportionate. however, on 24 march 2009 the supreme administrative court overturned the first-instance judgment. the court also noted that although prisoners’ human rights and fundamental freedoms could only be restricted by laws and not by legal acts of a lower order, the desire to grow a beard could not be considered as such a right or freedom.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in kyiv. on 30 june 2004 the darnytskyy district court of kyiv found that the applicant had committed the following crimes: appropriation of private property by means of fraud or abuse of trust, theft of property and theft of official documents. the court sentenced her to five years’ imprisonment suspended for three years with probation. on 23 december 2004 the applicant’s conviction was upheld by the kyiv court of appeal. she appealed on points of law to the supreme court. on 31 may 2005 a three-judge panel of the supreme court considered the applicant’s appeal on points of law in accordance with article 394 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure (by virtue of which it could either dismiss the appeal or assign the case for further consideration with the participation of all the parties). the supreme court did not notify the applicant or her lawyer of that hearing. the prosecutor was present and made oral representations during the hearing. having regard to his opinion and the material in the case file, the panel dismissed the appeal as unsubstantiated. in a letter dated 12 september 2005 the supreme court notified the applicant, enclosing a copy of its decision. she received the letter on 16 september 2005.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in baku. demonstrations were planned to be held on 2 april 2011 and 20 october 2012 in baku. the applicant attended both demonstrations, but shortly after they had begun the police started to disperse those who had gathered. according to him, at the second demonstration he was arrested by people in plain clothes. in the first case the applicant refused to sign the administrative offence report. in both cases he was not given access to a lawyer after the arrest or while he was in police custody. on the day of his arrest, namely 2 april 2011 in the first case and 20 october 2012 in the second case, the applicant was brought before a first-instance court, the nasimi district court and the binagadi district court respectively. according to him, the hearing before the court in both cases was very brief. according to the applicant, in both cases he was not given an opportunity to appoint a lawyer of his own choosing. at the hearing in the first case the applicant was not represented by a lawyer. according to documents submitted by the government, he refused the assistance of a state-funded lawyer and decided to defend himself in person. according to the transcript of the court hearing in the second case, in his oral submissions the state-funded lawyer briefly asked the court to impose on the applicant a light punishment in view of his young age. he testified that the applicant had staged an unauthorised demonstration. on unspecified dates the applicant lodged appeals with the baku court of appeal, arguing that his convictions were in violation of his rights because the demonstrations in which he had participated or attempted to participate had been peaceful. the applicant also complained that his arrests had been unlawful and that the hearings before the respective first-instance courts had not been fair.
the applicants, who are husband and wife, were born in 1932 and 1926, respectively, and live in bat-yam, israel. in 1990s the applicants emigrated from the ussr to israel and obtained israeli nationality. before emigrating, they were receiving old-age pensions from the soviet authorities. once the applicants left the ussr, the payments were discontinued in accordance with the ussr pension law in force at the material time. on 4 august 2006 the applicants brought civil proceedings against the competent regional department of the pension fund of the russian federation (пенсионный фонд российской федерации) (hereinafter “the pension fund”) seeking reinstatement of their right to the pension payments. on 4 december 2006 the kirovskiy district court of astrakhan found in the applicants’ favour and ordered the pension fund to set up monthly pension payments backdated to 15 june 1998. on 12 january 2007 the astrakhan regional court upheld the judgment on appeal and it became binding and enforceable. on 10 july 2007 the pension fund lodged an application for supervisory review, seeking to have the judgments quashed. the application was addressed to the president of the supreme court. on 27 july 2007 a judge of the supreme court requested the case file from the district court and subsequently suspended enforcement of the judgment of 4 december 2006. on 4 december 2007 another judge of the supreme court sent the case for supervisory review to the astrakhan regional court. on 22 january 2008 the astrakhan regional court dismissed the supervisory review application and endorsed the judgment of 4 december 2006, as upheld on 12 january 2007. on 8 april 2008 the pension fund lodged another application for supervisory review, again addressed to the president of the supreme court. on 24 june 2008 a judge of the supreme court sent the case for supervisory review by the civil chamber of the supreme court. on 1 august 2008 the civil chamber of supreme court quashed the judgment of 4 december 2006, as upheld on 12 january 2007, and rejected the applicants’ claims.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in petrozavodsk, in the republic of kareliya. she was a municipal unitary enterprise employee in petrozavodsk, working for auto transport column 1126 (“avtokolonna 1126”, hereafter “the company”). avtokolonna 1126 was set up in accordance with a decision of the administration of the town of petrozavodsk (“the town administration”), and provided public transport services in the town on a commercial basis. 39483/05 and 40527/10, §§ 55-75, 9 october 2014 for further details on the company’s status). consequently, it was unable to pay its employees on time. in 2004 the town administration asked the legislative body of the republic of kareliya to consider allocating additional funds to cover the company’s debt, but to no avail. the debt which had accumulated in respect of the unpaid salaries was not transferred, and remained with the applicant’s employer. on 18 may 2004 the petrozavodsk town court awarded the applicant 21,830 russian roubles (rub) in respect of salary arrears, default interest and non-pecuniary damage. the judgment became final ten days later. according to a payment note on a writ of execution of 20 july 2006, at some point the company paid the applicant rub 9,206. the remainder of the judgment debt has remained unpaid. on 10 april 2006 a justice of the peace of the 11th court circuit of petrozavodsk ordered the company to pay the applicant rub 614 in compensation for non-pecuniary damage. the award became final ten days later, but was not paid to the applicant. creditors’ claims which had not been satisfied during the liquidation proceedings, including the applicant’s remaining claims, were considered settled. it appears that the judgment was not appealed against.
the first applicant was born in 1941 and lives in amman (jordan). that ordinance was initially valid until 30 june 2010 and was then extended until 30 june 2013. in support of its decisions, it observed that the applicants’ names appeared on the lists of individuals and entities drawn up by the sanctions committee, that switzerland was bound by the resolutions of the security council and that it could only delete a name from the annex to the iraq ordinance where the relevant decision had been taken by the sanctions committee. it indicated that an administrative-law appeal could be lodged with the federal court against its decisions. the applicants took the view that the federal court, and before that the federal department for economic affairs, had jurisdiction to review the legality and the conformity with the convention and the iccpr of the 1518 sanctions committee’s decision to add their names to the list provided for in paragraph 23 (b) of resolution 1483 (2003). a copy of these observations was sent to the federal department for economic affairs for information purposes. on 18 january 2008 the applicants wrote to the federal court drawing its attention to the opinion delivered on 16 january 2008 by the advocate general in the case of yassin abdullah kadi, then pending before the court of justice of the european communities (“the cjec”, which on 1 december 2009 became known as the court of justice of the european union, “the cjeu”), and reiterating their request of 10 december 2007 to present oral argument. where the committee agrees, decisions may be taken by a written procedure. 7.2  article 190 of the constitution does not, however, provide for any rule of conflict between the various norms of international law that are equally binding on switzerland. 15 on article 53 vclt and the references cited). moreover, neither the european convention on human rights nor the international covenant on civil and political rights contains clauses which would, in themselves or by virtue of another treaty, prevail over the conflict clause that is enshrined in both article 103 of the charter and article 30 § 1 vclt. covenant on civil and political rights, ccpr commentary, kehl 2005, no. the latter opinion seems to correspond to that of the (former) commission on human rights [recte: human rights committee], which found that the list of non-derogable rights in article 4, paragraph 2, iccpr might admittedly be related to, but not identical with, the question whether certain human rights corresponded to peremptory norms of general international law (general comments 29/72 of 24 july 2001 under article 40, paragraph 4, iccpr, ch. he also fully availed himself of the right provided for in article 4 of the confiscation ordinance by lodging the present administrative appeal. in a further complaint, lastly, the appellant contended that the refusal to annul the decision of the federal department for economic affairs of 16 november 2006 for a breach of procedural safeguards ran counter to the position defended on many occasions by switzerland, the federal council or the federal department for foreign affairs, asserting an intangible principle of respect for human rights.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in podgorica, but is currently detained at the institute for execution of criminal sanctions (zavod za izvršenje krivičnih sankcija; “iecs” hereinafter) in spuž. on 19 february 2011 the applicant was detained on suspicion that he had committed a murder. on 21 february 2011 the high court (viši sud) in podgorica issued a detention order against the applicant. the decisions of 17 may and 18 july 2011 are in the case file. the decision of 18 july 2011 specified nothing in this regard. the decision, in its reasoning part, specified as follows:“on 16 may 2011 the high state prosecutor in podgorica lodged an indictment kt.br. [the applicant] was detained pursuant to decision kri.br. the same day the applicant was served with the stamped and signed decision of 22 september 2011. on 29 september the applicant filed another appeal. by 4 november 2011 the applicant filed a constitutional appeal, submitting a number of complaints, one of them being that s.v. this decision was not submitted to the case-file. on 22 march 2012 the applicant filed a constitutional appeal complaining that his detention had not been extended within the statutory time-limit of two months, that the copy of the relevant decision had not been signed and stamped, and that the presumption of innocence had been violated by the high court’s decision. he relied, inter alia, on articles 5 and 6 of the convention. on 22 march 2013, as submitted by the government, the high court issued a first-instance decision on the charges against the applicant. there is also no information in the case-file as to whether the criminal proceedings against the applicant have ended in the meantime and if so what the outcome was.
he is currently detained in kostroma region. on 21 september 2005 he was arrested by the ukrainian border police for an unlawful attempt to cross the border. the investigator assigned a legal-aid lawyer and questioned the applicant in his presence. the applicant again confessed to the arson attack. on 1 december 2005 the request was granted. the applicant was to be detained until 16 april 2006. lastly, he asked that his presence at the trial be ensured, as he doubted the efficiency of the legal aid. he noted that he had never met with his legal guardian. the court was to decide on the applicant’s continued detention and the need for his personal presence at trial. the applicant submitted that on 5 october 2005 he had still been in detention in ukraine and therefore he could not have blown up a car in russia on the same day. on 27 february 2006 a higher-ranking prosecutor overturned the decision of 20 january 2006 with an order to verify whether the applicant had had any injuries on his admission to the detention facility. a report prepared by the detention authorities for the applicant’s examination by a psychiatric commission indicated that there were no peculiarities in his general behaviour. on admission to oryol psychiatric hospital in june 2006 the applicant behaved aggressively. a scheduled break in his treatment followed. the submitted documents indicate that during his treatment the applicant was subjected to regular x-ray examinations, and blood and sputum tests.
the applicant was born in 1955 in the village of z., the omsk region. on 9 march 2007 the district court concluded that the circumstances which had called for the applicant’s arrest and detention had not changed. the detention order was upheld on appeal on 10 september 2007, including a specific reference to the detention authorities’ consent to ensure the applicant’s prompt admission to a civilian hospital if necessary. on 30 november 2007 the russkaya polyana district court held a preliminary hearing in the case in which it extended the applicant’s detention in view of the continued presence of the factors which had initially warranted his arrest. the criminal proceedings against the applicant were stayed. three days later the applicant was released from detention. a consultation by a proctologist was recommended. it is apparent from a certificate signed by the detention authorities that the applicant received a small number of absorbent briefs from his relatives. on 2 february 2007, again at the initiative of the applicant’s lawyer, a senior doctor from the state regional civilian hospital, dr z., visited him and recorded a further deterioration of his health in the form of an inflammation of the prolapsed part of his bowels. on 2 april 2007 dr z. visited the applicant and confirmed the diagnosis. after another stay in the penitentiary hospital, from 6 september to 3 october 2007, the applicant was taken back to the prison medical unit. lavatory pans in the cells had been separated from the living area by a partition. the applicant had been given a bucket for his daily washing needs. in 2012 the applicant’s lawyer questioned three inmates, mr p., mr. the applicant submitted that during his detention in the remand prison he had only been able to take a shower once a week.
the applicant was born in 1981 and is currently detained in giurgiu prison. on 30 december 2010 the applicant was detained pending trial, on suspicion of drug-trafficking offences. the applicant was detained in rahova prison from: 17 july 2012 to 23 july 2013; 25 july to 17 october 2013; 31 october 2013 to 12 may 2014; and 14 may to 28 july 2014. he had had to share a cell measuring twenty-four square metres with nine other detainees. the furniture and the ten beds in the cell had taken up part of the available living space. these detainees had either represented a hazard for the other inmates in the cell, or had not allowed them to rest properly. also, during the summer, running water had only been available six hours a day and not at all during the night, even if the detainees had needed to use the toilet. the cells had bathrooms with two sinks and a shower. detainees had permanent access to sanitary facilities. cells had furniture, in particular, bunk beds, small tables, small benches and television stands. detainees were allowed to wash their underwear and bedlinen in the prison laundry room weekly. food quality and quantity was also checked by a detainee representative before it was distributed. moreover, when his visitors had brought him food from home, the prison authorities had only allowed him to receive canned food, fruits and vegetables. the national prisons agency informed the government that, during his detention in rahova prison, the applicant had been provided with a diet appropriate for muslims, and any pork had been replaced with beef. during his detention the applicant had been visited on several occasions, but had only received one parcel.
on 13 february 2009 the applicant was arrested and taken into custody on suspicion of using drugs and providing drugs to third persons. on 16 february 2009 the applicant’s statement was taken by the istanbul assize court and she was released on the same day. on 19 february 2009 the public prosecutor lodged an objection to this decision and on 23 february 2009 the istanbul assize court issued an arrest warrant against the applicant. on 24 february 2009 the applicant was placed in detention on remand. on 4 april 2009 the public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment, charging the applicant with using drugs and providing drugs to third persons under articles 188 § 3, 188 § 4 and 191 § 1 of the criminal code. on 15 may 2009 and 24 june 2009 respectively the istanbul assize court on the basis of the case file dismissed release requests lodged by the applicant. on 9 june 2009 and 21 july 2009 respectively the istanbul assize court further dismissed the objections lodged by the applicant against the above-mentioned decisions, without holding oral hearings. on 1 october 2009 the istanbul assize court held its first hearing and the applicant appeared before the court. on the same day the trial court released the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in góis. at the relevant time, the applicant was a chief corporal in the national republican guard (guarda nacional republicana), working at the góis territorial post. on 21 june 2010 the inquiry was discontinued. he then became aware of the email of 7 november 2009 and its content. on 30 july 2010 the disciplinary proceedings against commander m.c. were discontinued on the grounds that there was insufficient evidence to take disciplinary action. the decision to discontinue the disciplinary proceedings also took into account the decision of the lousã public prosecutor’s office to discontinue the criminal proceedings against commander m.c. ’s honesty, honour and professional reputation, which the applicant had intentionally attacked. the court described its findings of fact and the manner in which it had assessed the evidence, and held as follows:“... since the existence of such a rumor has not been proved in any way, the court is fully convinced that the defendant’s intention was to undermine the honour of the offended party, once he knew that this was just a rumour and that therefore he was making an allegation that was not true. ...the disclosure of irregular situations has to be seen as a duty (as the performance of an obligation) when it falls within the competence and responsibilities of the whistle-blower and when it does not go beyond the facts which were effectively observed. [ on an unknown date the applicant appealed against the judgment to the coimbra court of appeal. on 20 february 2013 the official in charge of the inquiry within the disciplinary proceedings against the applicant submitted a final report in which he concluded that the applicant had breached his duties. had imposed on the applicant before the latter had sent the impugned email. however, the official responsible for the report considered that fact to be innocuous and irrelevant. according to the material submitted in the case file, it seems that the applicant did not lodge an appeal against the disciplinary sanction with the minister of home affairs.
the applicants were born in 1947, 1976, 1973, 1983 and 1987 respectively. at the time of the application they were being held in detention in buca f‑type prison in i̇zmir. on 23 july 2007 the i̇zmir assize court decided to restrict access to the investigation file, under article 153 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure (the “ccp”), law no. on 24 july 2007 the applicants were arrested and taken into custody on suspicion of being members of a criminal organisation. on 27 july 2007 the applicants were questioned by the investigating judge, in the presence of their lawyer. according to their statements to the judge, the applicants denied being involved with the criminal organisation. they did not deny that they had had telephone conversations that had been intercepted, or that they had accepted the transfer of parcels and had possessed firearms, all of which were deemed to be evidence of making threats, of fraud and of smuggling, the offences that they were suspected of having committed. on 1 august 2007 the applicants’ representative objected to the order for the pre‑trial detention in respect of the first four applicants. the representative also applied for their release pending trial on 3 february 2008, 11 february 2008 and 13 february 2008 respectively. the applicants were further charged with committing fraud, making threats, and carrying out raids and smuggling, under article 220 and other related articles of the criminal code. the first hearing was scheduled for 24 june 2008. on 7 may 2008 the i̇zmir assize court dismissed the objection. on 9 may 2008 the appeal court dismissed the appeal without holding an oral hearing. on 24 june 2008 i̇zmir assize court held the first hearing as planned and the applicants appeared before the court. the trial court decided to release the applicants from pre-trial detention on the same day.
the applicant was born in 1964 in egypt and currently lives in hamrun, malta. on 18 november 1993 the applicant enquired about his “exempt person status” (see paragraph 34 below) and on 23 november 1993 started the process to obtain maltese citizenship on the basis of his marriage to a maltese national. the applicant’s exempt person status was confirmed on 2 march 1994. on 12 september 1994, he therefore lodged an application to renounce his egyptian nationality (a copy of the relevant application form has not been submitted to the court). at the relevant time, dual nationality was not possible under either egyptian or maltese law. according to the government, in 1994 the applicant and mp had various marital problems, which led the applicant to leave the matrimonial home on two occasions. the applicant had behaved aggressively, and specifically on 5 june 1994 he had physically assaulted his pregnant wife, causing her a permanent disability. on 8 february 1995 mp instituted court proceedings to annul the marriage. the court delivering the judgment was satisfied (to the degree necessary in civil proceedings, namely on a balance of probabilities) that the applicant’s only reason for marrying had been to remain in malta and acquire citizenship; thus he was positively excluding marriage itself, and there had been a simulation of marriage. two sons were born of this marriage, vr and vl, in 2004 and 2005 respectively. a number of hearings were held before the committee where the applicant was assisted by a lawyer. he was allowed to make oral and written submissions and submit evidence, including witness testimony. he was required to return his certificate of registration as a maltese citizen and his passport. following the lodging of the application with the court, on 16 november 2012 the applicant’s lawyer wrote to the relevant authorities informing them that the case was pending before the court and that therefore no action should be taken on the basis of the order of 31 july 2007. no feedback, apart from an acknowledgment of receipt, was received concerning that letter.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in iași. on an unspecified date in 2006 the applicant brought proceedings against a third party, seeking the annulment of two sale/purchase agreements concerning an apartment. by a judgment of 25 january 2007 the iaşi district court, acting as a court of first instance, allowed the applicant’s action on the merits and declared the two contracts null and void. the third party appealed against the judgment. by a decision of 21 november 2007 the iaşi county court, sitting as a bench of two judges, allowed the third party’s appeal on the merits, quashed the judgment of 25 january 2007 and dismissed the applicant’s action. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law (recurs) against that decision. by a final decision of 2 june 2008 the iaşi court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law as inadmissible, without commenting on the merits of the case. it held that, under article 2811 of the romanian code of civil procedure, judgments delivered by first-instance courts in respect of disputes where the subject matter of the litigation had been valued at less than one billion romanian lei (ron) (approximately eur 27,000) were not subject to an ordinary appeal. the applicant had estimated the value of the disputed property to be ron 9,000. therefore, the judgment delivered by the district court could only be challenged by way of an appeal on points of law. moreover, the decision of the iaşi county court was final, even if the county court had erred and examined the applicant’s case in a composition of two rather than three judges.
the applicants were born in 1980 and 1971 respectively and live in zubutli-miatli, kizilyurt district, dagestan, russia. they are the wife and the sister of mr kamil mutayev who was born in 1976. the applicants submitted to the court the witness statements of ms ya.r. it does not appear that either of the witnesses provided a statement to the investigation. on 2 may 2012 the police questioned the second applicant who provided a detailed account of the events similar to the one submitted to the court and stated that she had learnt of mr kamil mutayev’s abduction from her nephew muradis. on 2 may 2012 the police examined the crime scene. in addition, the witness stated that the abductors had scared him by threatening to shoot him if he disobeyed their orders not to move. fingerprints taken from the vehicle on that date were submitted for expert examination on 18 may 2012. the applicants were informed thereof on 24 may 2012. on 21 may 2012 the first applicant was granted victim status in the criminal case and questioned again. those persons had visited their house and had thrown hand-written threats inside. no information pertatining to his whereabouts or the perpetrators’ identities was obtained. it is unclear whether the applicants were informed thereof. on an unspecified date in 2013 the investigation was resumed. between march 2013 and february 2014 the investigators questioned a number of mr kamil mutayev’s relatives and neighbours, whose statements did not provide new information.
the applicants were born in 1970 and 1965 respectively and live in moscow. on 24 november 2000 the applicants were arrested. on 27 november 2000 the prosecutor authorised their pre-trial detention. they remained in custody during the investigation and study of the case file. on 12 january 2004 the city court set a trial date of 19 january 2004. the court ordered that the applicants remain in custody pending trial. on 3 february 2005 the jury delivered a verdict of not guilty in the applicants’ case. on 29 july 2005 the city court ordered the applicants to be remanded in custody pending a new trial. the court reasoned as follows:“it can be seen in [the judgment of the supreme court] that the verdict was quashed in view of breaches of the rules of criminal procedure by both defendants, which influenced the opinion of the jury. on 20 september 2005 the supreme court upheld the decision of 29 july 2005 on appeal. on 16 february 2006 the city court pronounced the judgment and ordered the applicants’ release. according to the official version of events, on 22 august 2002 the first applicant destroyed certain documents which had been admitted as evidence in the criminal case against him, and on 28 august 2002 he assaulted a trainee investigator. on an unspecified date a criminal case was opened against the first applicant on multiple charges, including the use of violence against a law‑enforcement officer and the destruction of official documents. on 30 july 2003 the tverskoy district court of moscow found the first applicant guilty and sentenced him to two years’ imprisonment. it appears that the first applicant finished serving his prison sentence on 29 july 2005.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in ordzhenikidzevskaya, ingushetia. according to the applicant, as soon as he learnt of the abduction, he went to the sunzhenskiy district police station and informed the duty officer of the abduction of his brother from the water-pumping station. in reply to the court’s requests for a copy of the contents of the investigation file, the government submitted partial copies of its contents, some 639 pages in total, which showed the steps taken by the investigators from march 2012 to october 2015. then they drove away in a vehicle, presumably, a uaz. overall, the abductors spent about an hour at the pumping station. according to our information, the abductors drove through a checkpoint situated on the road between ordzhenikidzevskaya and sernovodsk. on 23 march 2012 investigators examined the crime scene. he informed the investigators that the footage would be available for seven days as after that subsequent recording would automatically overwrite it. on 24 march 2012 the investigators took the applicant’s fingerprints to exclude them from the future expert examination of the adhesive tape collected at the crime scene. on 20 may 2012 the investigators obtained blood samples from ms r.ts. on unspecified dates in 2012 (the pages with the dates and the names of the persons questioned were not furnished to the court) the investigators questioned twelve police officers who had been manning checkpoint assa situated between the settlement of nesterovskaya in ingushetia and the settlement of assinovskaya in chechnya between 11 p.m. on 22 march and 11 p.m. on 23 march 2012. who stated that he had learnt of the incident from mr i.g. and that he had quit his job after the abduction. and that her relatives had been detained and ill‑treated by state agents. no expert examination of the tyre tracks was carried out.
on 31 january 2006 the applicant submitted a traffic accident report to an insurance company. according to that report she had been involved in a traffic accident in her car on 26 january 2006. the insurance company suspected fraud and informed the police. on 16 may 2008 a prosecutor drew up a bill of indictment against the applicant, p., k., t. and v. according to the bill of indictment, it had been established in the criminal investigation that the applicant, contrary to her allegations, had not been at the scene of the alleged accident. it was established that the applicant together with the other accused had submitted false information to the insurance company concerning the occurrence of an insured event, the persons who had been involved in the traffic accident, and the circumstances of the accident. this had been confirmed by p.’s statement. on the basis of this statement of charges the applicant was committed for trial. they also consented to the prosecutor’s request that the applicant be ordered to pay the procedural costs and perform community service. in the event of the applicant’s failure to perform these obligations, the court would ‒ at the request of the public prosecutor’s office ‒ resume the criminal proceedings. on 2 june 2009 the applicant brought a civil suit against the insurance company. the [applicant] therefore had no grounds for claiming the payout ... from the [insurance company]. ... the [applicant] is wrong in her understanding that she is not guilty because of the discontinuance of the criminal proceedings against her [on the basis of] article 202 § 2 (1) and (2) [of the code of criminal procedure]. she argued that her consent to pay the expenses relating to the criminal proceedings did not mean that she had committed the offence. the county court has correctly found, relying on what was established by the tartu county court’s ruling and judgment of 3 december 2008, that the [applicant] took part ... in the staging of a traffic accident the aim of which was to cause an insured event to happen and to create the illusion of the occurrence of that insured event with the intention to obtain compensation from the insurer. the mere assertion by the [applicant] that she did not commit the act referred to in the tartu county court’s ruling of 3 december 2008 does not imply the conclusion that the applicant did not participate in an insurance fraud aimed at obtaining compensation.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in vienna. the applicant was a public official working for the vienna municipality (magistrat der stadt wien). on 18 march 1996 the same authority amended the aforementioned decision, stating that the applicant was not eligible for severance pay. on 3 september 1996 the appeal panel of the vienna municipality (berufungssenat der stadt wien) dismissed her appeal as unfounded. on 9 october 1996 the applicant lodged a complaint against the appeal decision with the administrative court (verwaltungsgerichtshof). on 13 june 2002 the applicant filed a request for transfer of jurisdiction (devolutionsantrag), since the appeal panel had not rendered a fresh decision by then. on 30 november 2004 the constitutional court set aside the appeal panel’s decision on the merits due to lack of jurisdiction of the panel with regard to the subject matter. the applicant lodged a complaint against that decision with the constitutional court on 17 may 2005. however, it dismissed her request to set aside the decision of the municipal council and refused to deal with the remainder of the complaint. the constitutional court conceded that the proceedings had already had an overall duration of approximately nine years, which resulted entirely from the conduct of the authorities and courts involved. furthermore, the subject matter of the proceedings was not particularly complex. however, setting aside the decision (preliminarily) concluding those overly long proceedings would not be capable of remedying the violation of the applicant’s rights; on the contrary, it would again delay the termination of the proceedings. on 16 december 2005 the applicant amended her complaint for the proceedings before the administrative court. on 13 march 2009 the administrative court dismissed the applicant’s complaint as unfounded. that judgment was served on the applicant’s counsel on 3 april 2009.
the applicant was born in 1966 and is currently detained in arad. by a final decision of 21 march 2001 the arad district court convicted the applicant of rape of a minor and sentenced him to thirteen years’ imprisonment. in his letters to the court, the applicant contended that in arad and timişoara prisons he had been kept in overcrowded cells. moreover, the applicant alleged that he had been transferred from one prison to another or from prison to court in vans with detainees who smoked. the applicant was detained in timişoara prison on several occasions, for five hundred and sixty days in total. 1 measuring 19.69 square metres, containing eight beds (that is 2.46 square metres per bed);- cell no. 12 measuring 7.60 square metres containing three beds (that is 2.53 square metres per bed);- cell no 35 neasuring 20.84 square metres containing ten beds (that is 2.08 square metres per bed);- cell no. 66 measuring 21.16 square metres containing nine beds (that is 2.35 square metres per bed). the government did not provide any information concerning either the number of the detainees who had occupied the cells or the time spent by the applicant in each of the above-mentioned cells. both prisons had a central heating system providing adequate heating in the winter. cold water had always been available and hot water was available daily according to a schedule approved by the prison authorities. concerning the hygiene in the cell, the government submitted that prisoners had been responsible for cleaning the cells and were provided with cleaning products by the prison administration. the applicant had been transferred between the prison facilities in vehicles fitted with windows, lights, heating and sunroofs. these vehicles had had between sixteen and thirty-eight seats. smoking was strictly prohibited during transfers, and the applicant had anyway been transported separately from smokers.
the applicant was born in 1952 and lives in tbilisi. the applicant was arrested on 16 march 2004. in each case, the caa’s remuneration had been calculated on a monthly basis and was referred to as a fee for services provided in the field of regulation. payment of the fee to the caa did not therefore cause them any financial damage and, even if there had nevertheless been a loss, it would in the end have been passed on to the consumer. generally, the expert established that the caa had received, between 1 april 2003 and 13 march 2004, gel 630,000 (some 310,000 euros (eur)) in fees for the regulatory services provided under the three impugned contracts with tbilisi international airport, air-bp-georgia and sakaeronavigatsia, and gel 774,376 (some eur 380,000) by way of the fee collected on the basis of order no. 1, issued by the applicant; (iii) and, thirdly, the three companies – sakaeronavigatsia (a government-owned undertaking), tbilisi international airport and air‑bp‑georgia – had paid the fee for services to the caa on the basis of contracts concluded by the applicant. he again pointed out that the judgment of the constitutional court at issue authorised the caa to continue to charge the fee for services, provided that the payment was based on negotiated contracts and not imposed, as hitherto. furthermore, by giving retrospective effect to order no. on 20 september 2004 the indictment was approved by a deputy chief prosecutor and the case sent for trial before the vake-saburtalo district court of first instance in tbilisi (“the vake-saburtalo court”). when questioned by the tbilisi city court during the trial, the acting director and the chief accountant of sakaeronavigatsia confirmed that their company had paid the relevant fee to the caa even after the constitutional court’s judgment of 10 january 2003, either on the basis of a contract or on the basis of order no. the first deputy chairperson of the caa, explained that at the material time, a new law, which should have been passed following the judgment of the constitutional court of 10 january 2003, had been delayed and that, if the applicant had not decided to enter into contracts with companies whose activities were subject to regulation, the caa, which received no funding from the state, would have had to cease operations. the second deputy chairperson of the caa told the court that he had personally worked on drafting contracts which were subsequently entered into with the three civil aviation companies. consequently, neither he nor anyone else had derived any personal profit from the amounts in question. on 14 september 2006 the supreme court of georgia dismissed the appeal on points of law by the applicant, stating that by continuing to charge the fees to the various private companies after 1 april 2003 the applicant had misapplied the judgment of the constitutional court of 10 january 2003 and had thus committed an abuse of power, infringing the rights of various legal entities and the general legal interests of the state. after serving his sentence in full, the applicant was released on 14 march 2008.
on 27 june 2006 a nineteen-year old woman, k., went to a party in novy sanzhary, a small town, and never returned home. the material in the case file (namely, a copy of the applicant’s indictment) contains reference to the statements of police officers i. and f. saying that on 8 or 9 july 2006, while the applicant was in the cell at the novy sanzhary police station, they questioned him without a lawyer in connection with k’.s disappearance. g. also arrested the applicant on suspicion of murder, robbery and rape. the applicant confirmed his previous statements. however, from the material in the case file, the authenticity of which the applicant did not dispute before the court, it follows that on 11 july 2006 the investigator g. appointed lawyer v. to represent the applicant under the legal aid scheme and questioned the applicant in his presence. the applicant confirmed in writing that he wished to have s. as his lawyer. on 18 july 2006 the applicant was examined by a forensic medical expert, who observed no injuries and reported no complaints. later that day he was questioned in s.’s presence and said that he had not intended to kill or rape k. he had only decided to rape her after she had fainted. in fact, he had seen 20 hryvnias on the ground near her body, decided that they had fallen from his own pocket and had taken them. he also said that he had given his earlier statements voluntarily without being physically or psychologically coerced into doing so. witnesses questioned during the pre-trial investigation stated that the pennant found on the crime scene looked exactly as the one which they had seen on the applicant in the morning on 28 june 2006 (see paragraph 7 above). the applicant did not deny that it was the same pennant. she had fainted and he had put her body in the bushes and left. from 26 january 2009 to 12 march 2010 he had been detained with three other inmates in cell no. the sizo windows could be opened and had not been blocked with plastic sheets.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in the town of severodonetsk, ukraine. the parties did not submit a copy of that letter to the court. and k. studied the applicant’s letters at the prosecutor’s office and decided that the applicant should be examined, since the letters contained evidence of a “high probability of socially dangerous behaviour”. ’s testimonies given in the same court proceedings, the applicant opened the door and let ma. since he refused, he was further examined by three doctors of the lugansk regional psychoneurological hospital (луганська обласна клінічна психоневрологічна лікарня, hereinafter the “lugansk hospital”), who concluded that he should be urgently admitted for treatment because he had written threatening letters to various authorities. each time it was decided that his treatment had to be continued. he was discharged from the hospital on 4 december 2000. in july and august 2001 the applicant requested that the medical establishments where he had stayed in 2000 allow him to study his medical file and inform him on what legal basis he had been subjected to psychiatric treatment. on 26 september 2001 the applicant brought proceedings before the severodonetskyy town court against the severodonetsk hospital, complaining of its failure to reply to his request. on 15 november 2001 the court stayed the proceedings in the case pending examination of the issue of the applicant’s legal capacity. the next hearing scheduled for september 2005 allegedly with a new judge did not take place because the court recording equipment was not available. between 3 november 2005 and 13 august 2007 forty-eight court hearings were scheduled. he had been transferred to the lugansk and svatove hospitals without his consent. the court found that the visit to the applicant’s home on 19 march 2000 when the applicant had been examined and later taken to the severodonetsk hospital had been performed in compliance with paragraphs 1, 2, and 10 to 13 of instruction no. 16 and paragraphs 1, 2 (b), 5 and 6 of instruction no.
the applicants were born in 1954, 1976 and 1971 respectively and live in lecco. the other two applicants are journalists working for the newspaper. in the course of their activities, the applicants used radio equipment to access frequencies used by the police or the carabinieri. criminal proceedings were instituted against the first and second applicants for illegally installing equipment designed to intercept communications between law-enforcement agencies’ operations centres and patrols (articles 617, 617 bis and 623 bis of the criminal code). the third applicant was charged with accessing the aforementioned communications (articles 617 and 623 bis of the criminal code). on 9 november 2004 the lecco district court acquitted the applicants. accordingly, the interception of the communications in question did not constitute an offence. the milan principal public prosecutor and the lecco public prosecutor appealed. in addition, in accordance with presidential decree no. 447/2001, as in force at the material time, devices of this kind were intended to be purchased by amateur radio operators but could not be used to intercept police radiofrequencies. in a judgment of 15 may 2007 the milan court of appeal found the first and second applicants guilty and sentenced them to one year and three months’ imprisonment. the third applicant was sentenced to six months’ imprisonment. the court of appeal suspended the applicants’ sentences. reiterating all the arguments put forward by the milan and lecco public prosecutors, particularly regarding the aims of ensuring public safety and protecting public order, the court of appeal held that article 329 of the code of criminal procedure was also at issue in the present case. however, that right could not take precedence in a case concerning the illegal interception of communications between law-enforcement officers.
the applicant was born in 1966 and is currently serving a prison sentence. these proceedings were eventually joined into a single criminal case (“the theft proceedings”). was arrested as a suspect in these proceedings. on the same day, whilst being interrogated in the theft proceedings, v.z. repeated the statement he had made earlier that day. on 24 august 2001 criminal proceedings were instituted against the applicant in connection with the traffic accident which had resulted in l.g. no verdict was reached on the other charge (see paragraph 21 below). were convicted on various counts of theft in collaboration with the applicant and were sentenced to various penalties. on 19 february 2003 the district court found the applicant guilty on several counts of theft and sentenced him to ten years’ imprisonment. on 24 february 2003 the murder proceedings were resumed and joined to the criminal proceedings concerning the traffic accident. on 14 january 2004 the criminal case was sent to the court of appeal, acting as the first-instance court, for trial. ’s death and of the aggravated murder of a.g. on 27 april 2004 the criminal proceedings concerning the theft charges were suspended. without particularly mentioning the applicant’s argument regarding the lack of legal assistance, the supreme court found no procedural violations serious enough to necessitate quashing the judgment. on numerous occasions the applicant complained to the court of appeal and other state authorities that his term of imprisonment had been calculated incorrectly in the judgment of 21 may 2004, and that the starting point should have been the date of his first arrest in connection with the theft charges, i.e. 15 august 2001, rather than 10 october 2003.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in the town of shargorod, ukraine. that night the applicant complained of a headache and general sickness. the applicant came home and told his family what had happened. the government did not provide a detailed description of the events of 30-31 december 2002 but it appears from their observations that they agreed with the findings of the national investigation authorities (see paragraphs 48-50 below). on 2 january 2003 the applicant was examined at a hospital and was hospitalised the next day. on 10 february 2003 the applicant requested the vinnytsya regional prosecutor that criminal proceedings be instituted against the police officers. on 18 february and 3 march 2003 several factory employees (f., s., lo. – the applicant’s mother-in-law testified that a police officer l. had aimed a blow at the applicant as he was lying on the ground but she had not seen the applicant being beaten. the deputy prosecutor noted that the applicant had stated that he had not intended to steal aluminium but had entered the factory premises out of curiosity and had run away out of fear of being accused of theft, that l. and p. had denied using physical force on the applicant and that the factory employees said that they had not seen l. beat the applicant. on 10 april 2003 this decision was quashed by a higher prosecutor since it had not been established how the applicant’s injuries had been inflicted. she also stated that l. had hit the applicant on the head with his gun handle. the factory employees f. and a. testified that they had seen the applicant running away and falling over on his way to the fence and again when climbing over the fence. by a letter of 5 may 2005 the vinnytsya regional prosecutor’s office informed the applicant that investigating officers k. and t. had been disciplined for delaying the investigation. on 2 june 2005 the shargorod territorial medical unit (шаргородське територіальне медичне об’єднання), in reply to a request from vinnytsya regional prosecutor’s office, submitted that on 30 and 31 december 2002 the applicant had not received any medical assistance from an ambulance team. inside the building, l. and the factory employees found aluminium sheets torn from the ceiling and piled up against a wall.
the applicant was born in 1952 and lives in budapest. this is a serious constitutional problem. ... on 7 april 2011, in relation to the proposal to reduce the mandatory retirement age of judges (from seventy years to the general retirement age of sixty-two) in article 26 (2) of the fundamental law of hungary, the applicant, together with other court presidents, addressed a letter to various actors in the constitutional process (the president of the republic, the prime minister, the speaker of parliament) in which they pointed out the possible risks to the judiciary posed by the given proposal. he refuted accusations of bias in favour of any political ideology within the judiciary, and continued:“it is, however, unacceptable if a political party or the majority of parliament makes political demands on the judiciary and evaluates judges by political standards.” on the same day, however, parliament adopted the proposal (see relevant domestic law below). by 31 december 2012 a further 46 judges will have to terminate their careers. the administration of the courts will be seriously hindered, since it is extremely difficult to replace dozens of retiring judges. the constitutional court, in its judgment no. on 19 october 2011, in an interview on the atv channel, the state secretary of justice, róbert répássy, mp, declared that under the organisation and administration of the courts bill (no. on 19 november 2011 gergely gulyás submitted a bill (no. t/4996) to parliament, proposing an amendment to the 1949 constitution (then in force). the reasoning of the bill reads as follows: “in view of the fundamental law of hungary and of the modifications to the court system resulting from that law, in compliance with the bill on the transitional provisions of the fundamental law of hungary, and with a view to ensuring a smooth transition and continuity in the fulfilment of the tasks of the kúria as from 1 january 2012, this bill provides that parliament must elect, by 31 december 2011 and according to the rules laid down in the fundamental law, the president of the kúria who is to take office on 1 january 2012.” t/4996 on the amendment of the act xx of 1949 on the constitution of the republic of hungary and also to bill no. the transitional provisions were published in the official gazette on 31 december 2011. the applicant remained in office as president of a civil-law division of the kúria.
the applicants were born in 1938 and 1939 respectively and live in the city of kherson, ukraine. drafted a training exercise for traffic police officers in the city of kherson and the village of antonivka in the context of operation sirena. it was established by the police internal investigation that p. failed to do so. passed the aforementioned post without being stopped. his radio transmitter had not been working properly and he had left his post in order to inform the traffic police office in charge that the hijacked car had passed their post. testified that he had given k. prior notice of the training exercise. 20/10-33 of 9 january 2000 issued by the kherson regional department of the ministry of interior ..., l. ... drafted a training scenario for traffic police personnel ... when doing so he did not take into consideration the provisions of operation sirena ... [it] is pointless and not efficient to conduct training only for the traffic police officers of kherson and antonivka. it had been impossible to involve only the traffic police in the training since operation sirena had required joint action, involving both the police and the traffic police;- s., a deputy head of the kherson regional department, testified that there had been no legal instruments governing the conduct of police training under operation sirena. who had told s. that the scenario had been approved by the head of the kherson regional department;- police officer o. testified that the district police stations must have been aware of the training exercise. testified that he and the applicants’ son had been “aware that the police officers [would] have guns with live rounds”;- traffic police officer ko. the court noted that although the second applicant had been absent from the court hearing on 13 july 2000, she had been aware of that decision since at least 2004 and had received a copy of it on 23 january 2008 at the latest. the recommenced proceedings were again terminated on 29 march 2001. p. testified that, “under the department’s instructions regarding the ‘sirena’ training plan”, it had not been his responsibility to circulate the information that the announcement about the car hijacking was part of a training exercise. the applicants instituted proceedings against the kherson regional department claiming compensation for damage inflicted by their son’s death. on 15 january 2002 the kherson regional court of appeal upheld that decision.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in odesa. he noted that the applicant had been suspected in having committed a serious crime and, if released, might abscond in order to avoid the investigation and prevent the establishment of the truth in the case. on 5 may 2004, in the committal hearings, the district court made no ruling in respect of the applicant’s further detention. on 13 august 2005 the additional investigation was completed and the case was sent to the district court for trial. the parties provided different accounts of the events. thereafter, he had been forced to go to the police station. the government submitted that no pressure or physical force had been used on the applicant whilst being apprehended and that the latter had voluntarily agreed to go with the officers to the police station. when the applicant opened the door, they had checked his documents, had apprehended him and had escorted him to the police station. by the aforementioned ruling of 29 march 2005, the district court ordered the prosecutor’s office to identify, by 11 april 2005, the persons who had apprehended the applicant and to question them and the applicant’s sister in relation to the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment. on 21 july 2005 the applicant’s sister was questioned and testified that on 22 january 2004 at about 10 a.m. she had opened the door to k. and two other individuals, who had identified themselves as police officers. the applicant had got dressed and had gone with the police officers. on 4 june 2007 the prosecutor questioned the police officer who had been identified as the one who had apprehended the applicant. on the same day, on the basis of the above-mentioned statements by the police officer, the prosecutor refused to institute criminal proceedings against the police officer, having found that no physical force had been applied to the applicant and that he had voluntarily agreed to go to the police station. m (intended for 12 detainees);- cell no. according to the government, the conditions in those cells had been adequate and they were equipped with the requisite furnishings and facilities and a partitioned toilet.
on 24 february 1998 police carried out an initial forensic investigation of an apartment which a.m. and her son had shared with the applicants in june 1997, the date she had last been seen. on 17 september 1998, while serving their sentence at hmp peterhead, the applicants were detained by the police under section 14 of the criminal procedure (scotland) act 1995 and removed to queen street police office in aberdeen. they were therefore returned to prison to continue serving their respective sentences. between 1 and 4 april 2005 a decision was made by the procurator fiscal, following consultation with crown counsel, to place both applicants on petition in relation to the murder of a.m. the crown’s position was that a.m. had threatened to report the applicants to the police after discovering that they were sexually abusing her son. the police continued to pursue their investigation and enquiries. on 6 june 2005 the crown office provisionally fixed a preliminary hearing date for 12 september 2005. although the evidence against the first applicant was stronger, the understanding that the applicants had acted together would have made a trial against the first applicant only very difficult. following reviews of the case in february and march 2006, crown counsel instructed that no new additional material had come to light which would justify reconsideration of that decision. as a result of operation aspen, new evidence came to light concerning the circumstances of a.m.’s disappearance and the applicants’ sexual offending. on 10 september 2008 the applicants were served with an indictment which contained the same charges as the 2005 petition. the first applicant appealed against the decision not to dismiss the charge against him. the applicants’ trial for the sexual offences took place between 19 april 2010 and 13 may 2010. both applicants unsuccessfully sought to appeal against conviction and sentence. the second applicant did not appeal the decision. the main issue before the supreme court was whether the applicants could be said to have been “charged” on 17 september 1998 or whether the appropriate “starting point” for the purposes of article 6 § 1 was 5 april 2005.
the applicant was born in 1948 and lives in belgrade. the applicant was employed by “pim – bagerovanje i vodni transport”, a socially-owned company based in belgrade (“the debtor”). on 30 march 2005 the belgrade second municipal court (drugi opštinski sud u beogradu) ordered the debtor to pay the applicant specified sums in respect of salary arrears, social security contributions and procedural costs. this judgment became final on the same date. on 22 june 2005 the belgrade fourth municipal court (četvrti opštinski sud u beogradu) issued an enforcement order with regard to the said judgement. on 29 march 2012, acting upon the applicant’s constitutional appeal, the constitutional court held that the applicant had suffered a breach of the “right to a trial within a reasonable time” with regard to the enforcement proceedings. the court ordered the acceleration of the proceedings and declared that the applicant was entitled to compensation for the non-pecuniary damage suffered in the amount of eur 700, converted into the national currency at the rate applicable at the date of settlement. the enforcement proceedings instituted on the basis of the judgment rendered by the belgrade second municipal court on 30 march 2005 continued and are still pending.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in węglówka. on a narrow section of the road they saw a police car trying to stop another car. they decided to stop the car to inspect it. they overtook the applicant and his wife, stopped the car and requested the relevant documents. they tried to contact the nowy targ police station to confirm the identity of the driver but to no avail. the applicant then told her: “do not sign anything for those beggars” (“nie podpisuj nic tym dziadom”). when the applicant calmed down he was handcuffed. the applicant was subsequently taken to the police station. his wife informed the policemen that her husband had heart problems, so they called an ambulance. he submitted that he had been apprehended by force and put onto the ground, that the police had used a whole container of pepper spray and that he had many scratches and bruises. on 22 february 2009 the police lodged an indictment against the applicant with the district court. on 28 january 2009 the applicant reported the two police officers who had arrested him on 26 january 2009 to the nowy targ district prosecutor for abuse of power. on 9 april 2009 the prosecutor questioned officers d.b. referring to the relevant provisions of domestic law, in particular the 1990 police act, the prosecutor found that the police had had the right to use force because “the applicant had not obeyed their orders, had behaved nervously and had tried to run away”. he argued, among other things, that the prosecutor had not properly examined the circumstances of the case; the officers had apprehended him for no legal reason.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in warsaw. the applicant was detained from 15 june 2007 until 21 january 2009 after a conviction. neither the applicant nor the government contested them. in 2008 or 2009, however, construction work started and the toilets were gradually enclosed by concrete walls with a door. initially, the applicant had one hot shower per week. from 18 october 2007 that number was increased to five per month. he did not submit any documents to that effect. during his detention in koszalin remand centre, the applicant often made appointments with the in-house doctor because of colds, back ache and prostate problems. a generic medicine was offered to the applicant instead. in addition to that treatment, from 18 october 2007 onwards, he was entitled to an additional monthly shower. consequently, the applicant’s treatment was changed slightly. in the 18 months following diagnosis of the illness, the applicant was seen by a doctor on thirty occasions. in 2007 and 2009 the applicant lodged a number of complaints with the ombudsman, the ministry of justice and the relevant penitentiary court, informing them of the allegedly deplorable conditions of his detention, his inadequate medical care and of unreasonable restrictions on the practice of his religion during his detention in koszalin remand centre. the domestic court considered that in view of the fact that the applicant had been authorised to attend sunday mass a total of four times in september and november 2008 and in the light of the testimony of the prison chaplain that the applicant had been free to request attendance in sunday mass, it could not be said that his access to religious services had been unreasonably restricted. it was also noted that detainees had been free to make individual appointments with the remand centre’s priest.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in enschede. on 21 may 2010 the applicant was convicted of shoplifting. from these statements it appeared that the applicant was a drug addict who would not voluntarily cooperate with treatment plans. on 1 december 2010 the regional court reviewed the measure and decided not to terminate it, because it was deemed that there was still a high risk of the applicant reoffending. the applicant’s personal case officer, issued a progress report about the applicant, containing, amongst other things, the following:“[the applicant] is currently residing in fpa de cederborg. the placement is progressing reasonably well. (...) the risk of reoffending is consequently high. the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision on 15 june 2011. on 12 december 2011 a hearing took place before the court of appeal. it appeared that the applicant was unable to understand the interpreter who spoke assyrian. it was also determined that case officer g.d. after a period of three months had elapsed, counsel for the applicant inquired with the court of appeal into the progress of the proceedings on 13 march and again on 2 april 2012. the clinical features of [the applicant] play an important role in this, but cederborg [the institution] could have signalled earlier that there were no further possibilities to treat [the applicant]. it would appear that sheltered accommodation became available for the applicant on 11 may 2012. it took more than ten months after the appeal was lodged before it was dealt with on the merits.
the applicants all live in žilina, except for mr kyška, mr p. lalinský and ms vestfálová, who live in turie, bytča and nemecká nad hronom respectively. 74258/01, 27 november 2007 (merits) and 27 january 2009 (just satisfaction)), jenisová (no. 58764/00, 3 november 2009), šefčíková (no. under section 22(2) thereof, in the absence of any agreement to the contrary with the applicants, the gardeners acquired a tenancy right in respect of the land in question with effect from the date of the act’s entry into force. in the case of the applicant ms l. kothajová, an agreement was reached that, as from 2004, she would be paid rent equivalent to eur 0.01168 per square metre and per year. this regulation uses the term “general value” ‒ which is understood to mean the expert assessment of the most likely price at a given place and time on the market in conditions of free competition and honest sale ‒ and lays down formulae for the determination thereof in relation to land and the rent payable for that land, the latter being linked to the former. however, prior to the entry into force of the amendments introduced by law no. 57/2011, regulation 492/2004 had been amended by regulation no. these amendments left the compulsory tenancy introduced by the allotments act unaffected. later, the applicants also submitted report no. 492/2004, taking into account the gsi resulting from the amendments introduced by regulation no. the government for their part submitted the following documents:‒ a letter from the forensic engineering institute in žilina dated 17 december 2012, in which the institute pointed out what they considered to be methodological flaws in the calculations of expert a. on the basis of their pro forma recalculation of the available data, the value of the annual general rent would be eur 0.239 per square metre. ‒ a full expert report drawn up by the institute in 2014, numbered 86/2014, which had been preceded by the institute’s own investigations. 492/2004, the institute calculated the general value of the annual rent payable for the property in question as of 31 march 2014 as eur 0.718 per square metre. 492/2004 could not be used in relation to the preceding periods.
the applicants were born in 1980 and 1964, respectively, and live in hajdukovo. on 12 february 2007 the applicants and their friend s.k. were indicted for allegedly having stolen a wine press (presu za grožđe). on 25 january 2008 the subotica municipal court acquitted all three defendants of these charges. in so doing, it explained that while there was evidence that they had been in possession of a press, there was nothing to suggest that they had obtained it through any criminal activity. denied the charge and thereafter exercised his right to remain silent. no material evidence was introduced during the trial and, apart from the statement by the alleged victim ‒ who maintained that the press worked and had been kept in a locked yard ‒ the statements of two witnesses supported the applicants’ defence. on 26 january 2006 (albeit in the absence of the applicants and their counsel, who had not been invited to attend). ’s statement of 26 january 2006 be admitted as evidence. died and on 29 december 2008 the municipal court discontinued the proceedings against him. the first applicant was sentenced to an effective prison term of six months while the second applicant was sentenced to six months’ imprisonment, suspended for a period of two years. no evidence different from that admitted during the first trial was introduced during the retrial. in the meantime, on 11 september 2009, the applicants lodged a constitutional appeal with the constitutional court, alleging that their conviction had been based on the testimony of a person whom they had never had a chance to cross-examine and who had, in any event, revoked it subsequently. on 14 october 2010 the constitutional court rejected the applicants’ appeal as manifestly ill-founded, adding that ‒ as a consequence of the death of s.k. ‒ the lower courts had had no choice but to accept his prior statement given to the police and, clearly, could no longer accommodate the applicants’ objection regarding his cross-examination.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in zagreb. on 16 november 2009 the municipal court held a hearing, which the applicant attended. the applicant did not attend the hearing of 17 december 2009, at which the court made a decision to suspend the proceedings (mirovanje postupka) in accordance with section 216(1) of the civil procedure act (see paragraph 18 below). he explained that suspending proceedings was an instrument for maintaining procedural discipline, the effect of which was to delay proceedings and thereby penalise the parties for their inaction. such conduct from the judge is absolutely unacceptable. ...the contested decision should therefore be quashed.” t]hat statement is certainly offensive to the court and the judge [concerned], and as such constitutes unacceptable communication between the court and the advocate representing one of the parties. by making that offensive statement, the advocate in question implies that the judge hearing the case proceeds pointlessly, and most likely proceeds pointlessly with all other cases, which represents a serious insult to both the court and the judge. the applicant appealed against that decision, arguing that his statement had not been offensive or demeaning. the quoted statement does not represent an insult. [ rather,] it is an assessment of how usefully the proceedings in the present case were conducted. ...in addition to the plaintiff’s representative, the defendant and [her] representative attended the hearing scheduled for 16 november 2009. beside this, nothing else happened at that hearing. only at the request of the plaintiff’s representative did the judge decide to schedule the next hearing. the relevant part of that decision, which was served on the applicant on 16 july 2010, reads:“when deciding to fine the representative for contempt of court ... the first-instance court correctly held – and gave valid reasons for its view – that such statements constituted unacceptable communication between the court and an advocate ..., the assessment of which is within the discretion of the court before which the proceedings are pending.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in sebedražie. on 20 april 2001 a person to whom land neighbouring the applicant’s had been assigned lodged a civil action against the applicant. in so far as the applicant had argued to the contrary, relying on his own witnesses, the courts considered to be conclusive photo documentation submitted by the claimant and the in situ findings of the first-instance judge. the applicant should have known this when he acquired the title to the land from his father. accordingly, the applicant was to enable and not to obstruct passage across the land. in part, it was to be paid from the advance previously paid by the claimant (some 230 euros (eur)); the rest (some eur 480) was paid from the budget of the court. it should therefore have been disregarded and the expert should be paid either no or reduced remuneration. on 27 january 2010 the regional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of 24 october 2008. the applicant appealed against this order. after that ruling was served on the parties, the costs order against the applicant became final and binding on 31 may 2010. the decisions of 24 october 2008 and 4 february 2010 were issued with reference to the same file number of the district court as in the proceedings on the merits. the enforcement of the above rulings appears to be still pending. despite being ordered to remove vegetation from the track in question, he has yet to do so. the applicant’s assertions had been properly examined, the court had heard extensive evidence, and the complaint about the length of the proceedings had been belated. on 16 july 2010 the applicant lodged a fresh constitutional complaint against the district court and the regional court, challenging the costs order against him (4 february and 16 april 2010), and alleging a violation of article 6 § 1 of the convention on the grounds that the courts had disregarded his arguments and had decided arbitrarily.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in bibice. on 16 january 2009 the applicant lodged a divorce petition with the kraków regional court (sąd okręgowy) together with an application for an interim contact order. his new partner, to collect n. from the nursery, which was a source of great conflict between the parents. it decided that the applicant was allowed to see his daughter every second weekend between 3 p.m. on friday and 5 p.m. on sunday, and also between 3 p.m. on tuesday and 3 p.m. on wednesday. on 17 may 2011 e. asked the court to restrict contact between the applicant and n. owing to the child’s fragile emotional condition. that application was dismissed on 29 march 2011. on the other hand, the father was convinced that the practice schedule had been manipulated by the mother so that it took place during his contact visits. on the same day, the kraków regional court issued a divorce decree. at a further hearing held on 28 october 2011, with reference to the applicant’s motion of 7 march 2011, the kraków-krowodrza district court ordered the mother to comply with the interim contact order within two weeks on pain of a fine of 1,000 polish zlotys (pln). on the two later occasions, the guardian tried to mediate between the parents and talk to the child in order to make her change her mind, but the child refused to go with the father. on 23 august 2012 the kraków-nowa huta district court dismissed the applicant’s application because the interim contact order was no longer in force. on 3 december 2012 a psychologist submitted his opinion to the court. the expert stated that the weakening of the emotional bond between the applicant and n. had been caused by a series of events. the experts stressed that n. had a strong emotional bond with the mother and remained under her influence. she did not feel loved by her father and was afraid of having contact with him.
mr tadeucci (“the first applicant”) was born in 1965. mr mccall (“the second applicant”) was born in 1958. the applicants have formed a same-sex couple since 1999. on 18 october 2004 the chief of the livorno police rejected his application on the ground that the statutory criteria were not satisfied. on 27 january 2005 the applicants appealed on the basis of legislative decree no. 286 of 1998, requesting that the second applicant be issued with a residence permit for family reasons. in a judgment of 4 july 2005 the florence civil court allowed the applicants’ appeal. the court found that the right asserted by the second applicant also derived from articles 3 and 10 of directive 2004/38/ec of 29 may 2004 of the european parliament and of the council ..., which recognised the right of the partner of a citizen of the european union (eu) to obtain a residence permit where the existence of a durable relationship was duly attested. secondly, the court of appeal pointed out that the constitutional court had repeatedly held that a relationship based on cohabitation alone, and lacking stability and legal certainty, could not in any circumstances be regarded as a legitimate family based on marriage. the court of appeal found that new zealand law was not compatible with italian public policy on the grounds, firstly, that it regarded persons of the same sex as “cohabiting partners” and, furthermore, that it could be construed as conferring the status of “family members” on them for the purposes of granting them a residence permit. the applicants appealed on points of law. the court of cassation observed first that, according to the terms of article 29 of legislative decree no. the court of cassation also considered that articles 8 and 12 of the convention did not require such an interpretation either. they moved to the netherlands, where the second applicant was issued with a five-year residence permit on 25 august 2009 as a de facto partner in a long-term relationship with an eu national. on 8 may 2010 the applicants married in amsterdam.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in mingachevir. the applicant worked as the executive director at the “mingachevir technical rubber” joint stock company, which was an enterprise under the control of the department for privatization and management of state property (“the dpmsp”) of the ministry of the economic development. on 15 march 2005 the applicant was dismissed from his job by an order of the dpmsp of the ministry of the economic development. the applicant lodged an action against the dpmsp, seeking reinstatement in his previous job and payment of his unpaid salaries. on 25 august 2005 the sabayil district court granted the applicant’s claim, ordering his reinstatement in his previous job. the court also ordered the dpmsp to pay the applicant his unpaid salary for the period from 15 march 2005 (date of dismissal) until the date of his reinstatement, without specifying the due amount. on 25 november 2005 the court of appeal upheld the judgment of 25 august 2005, dismissing the dpmsp’s appeal. the judgment became enforceable immediately after its delivery. on 13 december 2005 a writ of execution was issued and sent to the dpmsp. on 12 april 2006 the supreme court upheld the court of appeal’s judgment and dismissed the cassation appeal lodged by the state committee for management of state property (“the scmsp”), which was the legal successor of the former dpmsp. it appears from the documents in the case file that in spite of the issuance of the writ of execution and numerous letters of the enforcement officers requesting the execution of the judgment, the scmsp took no action to comply with the judgment in question. following the scmsp’s continuous failure to comply with the judgment, on 14 july 2006 the sabayil district court decided to refer the case to the sabayil district prosecutor’s office for institution of criminal proceedings against the scmsp’s responsible official for non-execution of an enforceable judgment. however, it transpires from the case file that on an unspecified date the prosecuting authorities returned the case to the enforcement officers without taking any formal decision as regards the institution of criminal proceedings. at the time of the latest communication with the parties in june 2011, the judgment delivered in the applicant’s favour remained unenforced.
the applicant was born in 1939 and lives in dnipro. he was formerly a shareholder in two private companies, o. and l., which were liquidated on the basis of decisions by other shareholders. accordingly, the local authorities struck the companies out of the list of legal entities. the applicant instituted several sets of court proceedings in that regard. the applicant made changes to his claims on a number of occasions. between july 2005 and february 2007 no hearings were held pending the outcome of appeals in cassation against a procedural decision by one or other of the defendant parties. between may 2007 and july 2008 courts at three levels of jurisdiction examined the question of whether the case should be considered within the framework of civil or commercial proceedings. eventually, it was decided that the case should be examined under the rules of civil procedure and examination on the merits resumed in august 2008. overall, the proceedings lasted for over seven years and eight months, the final decision being taken by the supreme court on 29 december 2010. that court upheld decisions of the district court of 30 june 2010 and of the dnipro regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) of 16 september 2010 rejecting the applicant’s claims as unsubstantiated. he also sought the restoration of the company as a legal entity, recovery of his shareholding and an order to declare the minutes of the shareholders’ general assembly invalid. on 7 june 2006 the applicant lodged a statement of intent with the court of appeal to appeal against the decision of 2 june 2006. on 9 october 2006 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal in cassation, finding no fault on the part of the lower courts. on 17 april 2006 the court, having examined the case pursuant to the code of administrative justice of 2005, rejected the applicant’s claim as unsubstantiated, finding that the contested decision had been lawful. on 20 september 2006 the court of appeal upheld the decision of 17 april 2006.
the applicants’ dates of birth and places of residence are given in the appendix. demonstrations were planned to be held on 20 october and 17 november 2012 in baku. the bcea further noted that the square where the organisers proposed to hold the assembly was a designated public leisure area and that the assembly itself would be impractical. according to the applicants, the demonstrations were intended to be peaceful and were conducted in a peaceful manner. all applicants were arrested during the dispersal operations and were taken to various police stations. according to most of the applicants, they were arrested by people in plain clothes. the applicants were questioned at the respective police stations. they were not given access to a lawyer after their arrest or while they were in police custody. according to all applicants, they were not given an opportunity to appoint lawyers of their own choosing. state-funded lawyers were invited to represent most of them. 8204/13 and 51930/13 refused the assistance of a state-funded lawyer and decided to defend themselves in person. 8468/13, 17569/13 and 45211/13 the state-funded lawyers did not make any oral or written submissions. with respect to the applicant in application no. 17575/13, the first-instance court stated in general terms that he had deliberately failed to comply with a lawful order of the police. on various dates the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicants’ appeals and upheld the decisions of the respective first-instance courts (see appendix).
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in riga. on 18 february 2008, in the course of a first set of criminal proceedings against the applicant for fraud in relation to means of payment, the riga regional court decided to relieve him of criminal liability, and imposed on him a compulsory measure: outpatient medical treatment. on 2 july 2013 the court informed him that, following his requests, it had asked the medical experts concerned to report on his medical condition. it relied on a medical report filed on 28 march 2012, which, among other things, noted that he was regularly attending appointments with a doctor, was not showing stable improvement, did not accept that he had health issues and had no remorse regarding the offence he had committed. the applicant was represented by a state‑appointed defence lawyer, and on 10 april 2013 the decision was sent to the applicant. on 10 may 2013 the riga regional court, relying on section 607(4) of the criminal procedure law (see paragraph 22 below), asked the psychiatric hospital to send a report on the applicant’s state of health, so that the court could decide whether it was necessary to continue the compulsory medical treatment. since 2010 he had visited doctors every two to three months. in 2013 he had voluntarily visited his doctor on 24 january and 15 april, and had missed an appointment on 24 april. observing that the applicant had not attended a doctor’s appointment, and considering that a longer period without treatment could cause his health to deteriorate, on 10 june 2013 the head of unit at the psychiatric hospital asked the police to bring the applicant to the outpatient section of the hospital, relying on section 11 of the law on police. in line with a doctor’s decision, the applicant was put under observation as an inpatient (novērošana stacionārā). the applicant, accompanied by police officers, was taken to the inpatient section of the hospital, where he displayed dissatisfaction and anger and refused to admit himself to hospital voluntarily. he was informed that he would be examined by a medical commission, as provided for by section 68(3) of the medical treatment law (see paragraph 26 below). in the afternoon he was discharged from hospital. the applicant appealed that decision to the office of the prosecutor general, which on 16 august 2013 upheld it, stating that on 28 may 2012 the riga regional court had decided to continue the applicant’s compulsory medical treatment. as the applicant had failed to comply with the measure, representatives of the psychiatric hospital had had grounds to ask for police assistance in executing it.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in kassel. ms b. was notified of the legal action on 17 july 2002. this request for legal aid was placed in the case file. on 29 august 2005, he sent another letter, to which he received no response. on 20 july 2007 the applicant introduced the additional action concerning the said claims. in its judgment on 19 november 2008 the regional court ordered ms  b. to pay eur 15,338.76 to the applicant and dismissed the remainder of the applicant’s initial action. it considered that the exception foreseen by domestic law allowing for the retroactive effect of arranging for notice to be given was not applicable in the instant case. according to that exception, the running of time for the purposes of limitation was suspended with effect from the day a request for legal aid was lodged, if the notification of that request was arranged “shortly after” (demnächst). it found that the applicant – who, as a lawyer, must have known that arranging for notice to be given to the defendant of his request for legal aid “shortly after” its submission was required to prevent his claim from becoming time‑barred – had in a reproachable manner contributed to the delay and thus not acted with the necessary diligence required. the regional court observed that the applicant had not asked the regional court to notify immediately the defendant of his request for legal aid, irrespective of its prospects of success, which he could have done without additional costs and without suffering any procedural disadvantages. in relation to the alleged telephone calls in june 2005 and november 2005, it found that, given that the regional court had not responded to his written request of 24 march 2005, the applicant should not have relied on the registry’s alleged statement. on an unspecified date the applicant requested legal aid in order to lodge an appeal. in fact the applicant had to take into account that the regional court also had the possibility to refuse his request for legal aid without hearing, and hence without notifying, the defendant if it considered the claim to be ill‑founded or the applicant to have the necessary means (decision a limine). on an unspecified date the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the federal constitutional court, alleging that the refusal to grant him legal aid violated his right of access to a court and that he had been discriminated against as an impecunious person compared to a litigant with sufficient financial means. nonetheless, it considered that the decision of the court of appeal was in conformity with the case-law of the federal court of justice, according to which a notification could only be “shortly after” the submission of a request for legal aid if the applicant concerned acted with the necessary diligence to effect the immediate notification, and if there were no legitimate interests of the defendant that conflicted with such retroactive effect (see relevant domestic law and practice paragraph 26 below).
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in gdańsk. at the relevant time, the applicant was a member of the polish parliament and a member of the law and justice party. out of modesty i will not mention that a horrible piece about me, full of lies, is on the first page. but let’s go further, to page thirty-five. the publisher of gazeta wyborcza, brought a civil claim against the applicant for the protection of its rights. it claimed that the applicant’s statements during the television programme on 8 may 2006 had harmed its good name and credibility and asked that the applicant be made to have an apology published in gazeta wyborcza and broadcast on tvp2 and to pay 25,000 polish zlotys (pln) to a charity. during the proceedings the applicant submitted that it had not been his intention to offend the plaintiff. it could be seen from the applicant’s statement that he had wished to point out to the audience that the plaintiff and gazeta wyborcza had had some kind of media/business agreement, whereby articles against law and justice had been published in gazeta wyborcza and financed via advertisements. had at the relevant time placed advertisements in several newspapers and magazines. however, the applicant had not alleged that those other newspapers or magazines had been involved in the alleged agreement (układ). the court of appeal considered that the first-instance judgment had not related to the part of the applicant’s statement concerning articles about himself and law and justice, even though he had called them “frenzied attacks”, because it was well known that gazeta wyborcza was critical of law and justice and that was not something which needed to be proved. during the programme the applicant had kept a copy of gazeta wyborcza under his chair, which he had shown to the cameras at the relevant moment. he argued that the court of appeal had wrongly applied the standards of article 10 of the convention and had thus considered his statement to be one of fact rather than a value judgment. ’s advertisement in a completely different, negative light. in the present case, the defendant had not even attempted to prove the accuracy of his statements about the alleged connections of which he had accused the plaintiff.
the applicant, mr rahmi şahin, was born in 1985 and lives in hakkari. as a result, the fırat news agency published another article containing instructions for further serhildan acts and for demonstrations. the officers stated that they had arrested the applicant after he had attempted to avoid arrest. the patient is conscious and co-operating. on 14 december 2009 a lawyer from the hakkari bar association was asked to assist the applicant during questioning, which took place at the anti-terrorist branch of the hakkari police headquarters. on the same day, the applicant’s legal representative applied to the hakkari magistrate’s court and requested that the decision to restrict his and his client’s access to the investigation file be annulled and his client be released from police custody. on 15 december 2009 the hakkari magistrates’ court dismissed the request. one of the officers had insulted him and taken him to a hill close to their neighbourhood. secondly, he noted that the applicant had acted with a group of people who had chanted slogans in favour of the pkk and that he had been arrested after he had attempted to escape and had fallen. the public prosecutor noted in that respect that two police officers had identified the applicant. the public prosecutor observed that although the applicant had sustained minor injuries on his face and body, he had failed to substantiate his claims that he had been beaten and insulted by the police officers. on 31 march 2010 the applicant’s legal representative lodged an appeal against the decision of 17 march 2010. the remaining photographs show people demonstrating in different parts of the city centre. the second set of 444 photographs concerned the gatherings and disturbances in the outlying neighbourhoods of medrese and biçer in hakkari. four of the photographs show children standing close to soldiers, probably talking to them, while another ten show adolescents and young men standing in front of police officers.
the applicants were born in 1952, 1947, 1973 and 1980 respectively and live in bratislava. they are co-owners of a residential house located in the bratislava-staré mesto municipality. the house was built in 1929 by their familial predecessors, who during the previous regime donated it to the state under circumstances that would later be accepted as constituting duress. the ownership of the house was restored to the first and second applicants on 10 december 1991 under special legislation on restitution. consequently, each of them acquired a 4/12 share of the ownership of the house. the third and fourth applicants each acquired a 2/12 share of the ownership of the house on 25 january 1995 and 29 march 1999 respectively. at the time the applicants acquired the ownership of the house five flats were inhabited by tenants with regulated rent. m which had been subject to rent control until january 2006 (“the first flat”); a four-room flat with a surface area of 130 sq. m and two four-room flats measuring 126 sq. m each (“the third, fourth and fifth flats”), to which rent control still applies. the monthly rent chargeable for the flats under the applicable legislation was equivalent to some 10 to 17.5 euros (eur) between 1992 and 1999. after several increases in the regulated rent, in june 2007 the applicants were able to charge some eur 73.5 monthly in respect of the two-room flat and approximately eur 125 monthly in respect of the four‑room flats. according to the government’s calculations the regulated rent reached eur 236 and eur 400 respectively in 2014. the parties provided differing figures as to the market rent. the applicants relied on data from the national association of real estate agencies (“the narea”) and claimed that the monthly market rent for comparable two‑room flats in the area reached around eur 662 and for comparable four‑room flats some eur 1,296 between 2004 and 2007.
the applicant was born in 1959 and is currently detained in chișinău. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 23 december 2013 the applicant was arrested and charged with embezzlement and organising the attempted murder of two businessmen. since that date he has been detained in prison no. according to the applicant, he has been detained in a cell measuring 6 square metres with five other inmates, which left very little space for each detainee. due to overcrowding, detainees had to share beds. he was not provided with bedding or a pillow. there was no sink or running water in the cell. the food was of poor quality and inedible. as a result of being held in inhuman conditions of detention, he had been ill with mycosis, gastritis and a respiratory infection. he was not provided with any medical assistance and was forbidden from receiving herbal medicine from his wife. 130) measured 10 square metres and was designed to accommodate four people. the cell was equipped with a sink and running water. 609 concerning the minimum daily food requirements for detainees. the court refers to the relevant material cited in its previous case‑law concerning the republic of moldova (see, for instance, shishanov v. the republic of moldova, no.
the applicant was born in 1947 and lives in comrat, republic of moldova. those intermediary companies also had ties with his sons. he submitted that all national gas importers used the same method of importing gas and that the price of the gas purchased by his company was lower than that on the free national market. he also denied that his sons were in any way involved in the intermediary companies. in october 2006 the applicant’s house was searched, his personal computer was seized and various documents were extracted from it. it does not transpire from the case file that there were any instances when the applicant did not comply with the instructions of the investigators and/or that he was ever accused of obstructing the investigation. he had a permanent residence, had been cooperating with the investigation since july 2006 and had never attempted to abscond or hinder the investigation. he reiterated his previous statement to the effect that the criminal proceedings pursued the ulterior motive of influencing the outcome of pending civil proceedings between the company at which he worked and a third company. he also emphasised that he had cooperated irreproachably with the investigation before his arrest and that he had a permanent residence. on 22 may 2007 the chişinău court of appeal upheld the decision of 16 may 2007. as on previous occasions, the prosecutor argued that the extension of the detention was necessary in order to avoid the risk of the applicant’s influencing witnesses and reoffending. he claimed that no actual loss had been caused to the company and that the court had failed to take into consideration the accused’s individual circumstances. on 11 july 2007 the prosecutor in charge of the case applied again to the court for an extension of the applicant’s detention on remand. the applicant appealed, advancing essentially the same arguments as he had done earlier. neither the applicant nor the prosecutor appealed against that judgment, which became final.
the applicant was born in 1966 and has been in the netherlands since 2003. on 20 august 2003, he was interviewed about his identity, nationality and travel itinerary (eerste gehoor). he had been discharged after he had stepped on a mine during combat. one of the persons taken in custody, mr s., had been interrogated by the applicant himself, who had ill-treated mr s. during interrogation. he had been released in a prisoner exchange organised by hezb-e wahdat. the applicant had stayed behind in kabul and had not been persecuted by “khalili” (see paragraph 39 below). the applicant had been tortured several times during his incarceration. this guard had told the applicant that he should leave afghanistan forever. during this interview, he declared, inter alia, that in 1981, as a member of the revolutionary guard, he had participated in a purge action – ordered by the pdpa central committee and the ministry of defence – aimed against persons active on behalf of hezb-e islami and jamiat in a specific area and that prisoners of war had been handed over to the former afghan communist security service, khad/wad (khadimat-e atal’at-e dowlati/wezarat-e amniyat-e dowlati). in her notice of intention, the minister analysed, on the basis of elaborate argumentation based on various international materials and on the prescribed and so-called “knowing and personal participation” test, the nature of the acts imputed to the applicant in the framework of article 1f of the 1951 refugee convention, as well as his individual responsibility under that convention. on 17 june 2005 the applicant submitted written comments (zienswijze) on the minister’s intended decision. the applicant, who from his first interview was assisted by a lawyer in these asylum proceedings, could have filed a further appeal with the administrative jurisdiction division (afdeling bestuursrechtspraak) of the council of state (raad van state), but did not do so. consequently, the ruling of 25 january 2007 became final when the four week time-limit for filing an appeal with the administrative jurisdiction division expired. the actual decision to impose this exclusion order on the applicant was taken on 24 september 2007 by the deputy minister of justice. further noting that the applicant did not have any relatives or other persons in the netherlands with whom he had a family life within the meaning of article 8 of the convention, the deputy minister further found that the exclusion order did not constitute an interference with the rights guaranteed by this provision.
the applicant was born in 1962 and is detained in daugavpils prison. criminal proceedings were initiated in that connection, throughout which the applicant and his co-defendant pleaded their innocence. as a result, criminal proceedings (case no. 50207598) were initiated against the police officers for abuse of official power. being aware of that, the government undertake to adopt all necessary measures in order to avoid similar infringements in future, as well as to provide an effective remedy. the court reiterates that in certain circumstances it may be appropriate to strike an application out of the list under article 37 § 1 (c) of the convention on the basis of a unilateral declaration by the respondent government even though the applicant wishes the examination of the case to be continued. 53507/99, § 24, 18 july 2006; kalanyos and others v. romania, no. 41484/04, 28 august 2007; sulwińska v. poland (dec.) ( as to the ill-treatment to which the applicant was allegedly subjected in police custody and the effectiveness of the investigations carried out, although the court has not to date found a violation of article 3 by the latvian police in that specific context, it nevertheless points to its clear and very extensive case-law in this regard (see, among many other authorities, selmouni v. france [gc], no. 36378/97, §§ 23-32, echr 2003‑iii; and staroszczyk v. poland, no. on the latter point the court found as follows:“39. on 17 november 2010 a prosecutor attached to the riga regional court dismissed the applicant’s request, finding that none of the grounds for the reopening of criminal proceedings set out in section 655(2) of the criminal procedure law applied. 547/02) contains the government’s unilateral declaration, the conclusions of which are applicable only to the circumstances and the events examined within the scope of that case. in a final decision of 20 december 2010 a higher-ranking prosecutor upheld the decision of 17 november 2010. the prosecutor did not establish the existence of any such conditions during the examination of your application, which is why i regard as reasonable her decision to refuse the reopening of the criminal proceedings in cases nos.
the applicant was born in 1982 and currently lives in budapest. the applicant crossed the hungarian border from serbia clandestinely in the evening of 24 june 2014. he stated that he had been forced to leave iran and, with the help of a human trafficker, he had entered hungary without documents, because he had had no other way of doing so. at the hearing, he again applied for recognition as a refugee. in view of his request, on 25 june 2014 the csongrád county police department suspended the alien administration procedure. on the same day the office of immigration and nationality commenced asylum proceedings. lxxx of 2007 on asylum (the “asylum act”). the hearing lasted from 9.40 to 9.45 a.m. in its ensuing decision the court dismissed the applicant’s application to be released and extended the asylum detention by a maximum of 60 days. it noted that the applicant’s identity was unclear, that he had arrived in hungary unlawfully, and that he had no connections in the country or any means to subsist on. in its reply, the asylum authority informed the applicant that an asylum hearing would be held in a few days: he would have the opportunity to prove his citizenship there. referring to his sexual orientation, he explained that it was difficult for him to cope with the asylum detention for fear of harassment. on 13 august 2014 the court appointed another legal representative for the applicant. relying on section 31/a (1) a) of the asylum act, the district court stated that the delay caused by the acts of the authority for which the asylum seeker could not be held responsible did not provide grounds for the extension of the detention. on 22 august 2014 the asylum authority terminated the asylum detention and ordered a designated place of residence for the applicant in debrecen with measures securing his availability during the proceedings. on 31 october 2014 the applicant was recognised as a refugee.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in leonding. on 10 july 2001 the applicant applied to the regional governor (landeshauptmann) of upper austria (oberösterreich) for the granting of a licence to run a pharmacy in leonding. on 25 september 2002 the governor dismissed the application. on 14 june 2002 the applicant lodged an appeal with the federal minister for health and women (bundesministerin für gesundheit und frauen, “the minister”). on 30 september 2004 the administrative court set a time-limit of 31 march 2005 for the minister to make a decision. on 24 march 2005 the minister dismissed the applicant’s appeal. on 12 october 2005 the constitutional court refused to deal with the complaint and, upon the applicant’s request, referred the case to the administrative court. already on 22 april 2005 the applicant lodged a request for re‑opening of the proceedings with the minister, who allowed the request on 10 may 2005. thereupon, a number of owners of other pharmacies in the area, who had been parties to the administrative proceedings, lodged a complaint with the administrative court challenging the minister’s decision. while the complaints against the minister’s decision of 24 march 2005 and concerning the re-opening decision of 10 may 2005 were still pending before the administrative court, the minister granted the applicant a licence to run a pharmacy on 5 december 2005. a request to transfer his complaint to the administrative court was dismissed. as a consequence, the administrative court also had to quash the minister’s decision of 5 december 2005. the proceedings were thus referred back to the minister. on 19 march 2010 the minister granted the applicant’s appeal against the decision of the regional governor of upper austria of 25 september 2002. the applicant was granted a licence to establish and run a new public pharmacy in leonding.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in zvolen. in 1929 the applicant’s grandfather built a house in piešťany. his predecessors retained ownership under the communist regime. ownership was transferred to the applicant from his mother on 21 december 1998. m each in size, while the other two measure 123 sq. at the time the application was lodged, the flats were inhabited by tenants with a regulated rent. after 1 january 1992 their right of use had been transformed into tenancies with regulated rent for an indefinite period. under the relevant legislation, the applicant had to accept that his flats were occupied by those tenants and that he could charge them no more than the maximum amount of rent fixed by the state (“the rent-control scheme”). under the applicable legislation, the maximum monthly rent chargeable for the flats in 1999 was the equivalent of some 13 to 33 euros (eur). after several increases in the regulated rent, in 2004 the applicant was able to charge eur 115 monthly in respect of each of the smaller flats and eur 124 monthly in respect of the larger ones. the applicant contended that he, in fact, received from the tenants less than the maximum amount of rent set by the applicable legislation. to this end he led several property disputes with them and the local municipality. the parties provided differing figures as to the market rent. in submissions made on 16 june 2014 the applicant informed the court that the rent control in respect of his four flats had been terminated. the first flat had been subject to rent control until may 2007, the second and third flats until august 2007, and the fourth flat until april 2008.
the applicant was born in 1946 and lives in bratislava. the applicant’s parents built a house in bratislava-ružinov in 1937. in the second half of the 1950s they were compelled to donate the house to the state. on 31 july 1992 it was restored to the applicant’s mother (a three-quarters share) and the applicant (a one-quarter share) under the special legislation on restitution. since 30 september 1996 the applicant has been its sole owner. at the time of its restitution to the applicant and his mother, the house comprised nine flats subject to rent control. under the relevant legislation (i) the applicant had to accept that his flats were occupied by the tenants, (ii) he could charge them no more than the maximum amount of rent fixed by the state, (iii) he could not unilaterally terminate the leases, and (iv) he could not sell the flats to anyone other than the tenants (“the rent-control scheme”). in 1996 and 2000 two of the bigger flats became vacant, as a result of which the rent‑control scheme ceased to apply to them. the rent control ceased to apply in respect of another two 70 sq. m flats in january 2008 and november 2012 respectively. currently, five flats are under the rent control regime. under the applicable legislation, between 1992 and 1999 the maximum permissible monthly rent chargeable for the flats was equivalent of some 3 to 8 euros (eur). after several increases in the regulated rent, in 2007 the applicant could charge some eur 35 for the smaller flat and eur 65 for each of the larger ones. m reached eur 553 and for flats measuring 30 sq. the government submitted an expert valuation according to which the monthly market rent for the applicant’s flats in 2010 amounted to eur 330 and eur 160.50 respectively.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in chișinău. at the time of the events, he was a bank armoured vehicle driver. as a result of the sudden stop a bus passenger, c., fell from her seat and suffered moderately severe injuries. on 1 september 2005 a criminal investigation was initiated. on 21 october 2005 the applicant was charged with violating traffic rules, resulting in c.’s injuries. the court considered that none of them had seen any of the events themselves and that their impression that the applicant was guilty was because the bus driver blamed him. the court also noted that the site investigation report and the sketch map had not been drawn up immediately after the incident, that the police had gone to the scene several hours later and had been joined only by d., that the applicant’s objections had not been reflected in the documents, and that the sketch map did not correspond to the statements given by all the witnesses shortly after the incident. in a judgment of 27 march 2006 the botanica district court acquitted the applicant for the reasons given above. it concluded that the prosecution had failed to provide reliable evidence in support of the contention that the applicant’s actions had obliged d. to suddenly stop the bus. on 23 may 2006 the chișinău court of appeal dismissed the prosecutor’s appeal and upheld the first-instance judgment. the prosecutor appealed on points of law. on 17 october 2006 the supreme court of justice held a hearing at which the applicant, his representative and the prosecutor were present. the court upheld the prosecutor’s appeal on points of law and ordered a rehearing of the case. on 13 february 2008 the supreme court of justice examined the applicant’s appeal in the absence of the parties and declared it inadmissible. the applicant was served with this judgment on 24 may 2008.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in budaörs. on 1 june 2012 the tatabánya police department issued a warrant for the arrest of the applicant in connection with the ongoing criminal proceedings, since the applicant was unreachable at his permanent address. he complained against the measure, arguing that he had not been present at his permanent address as he worked as a truck driver abroad. the application specified that the applicant had submitted false personal information (name and id card number) when receiving the goods, which were supposed to be transported by the applicant to a specific place but had gone missing following their hand-over. it further stated, without any additional reasoning, that less restrictive measures could not be applied. he reiterated that he had voluntarily cooperated with the police, both as regards his arrest and the giving of evidence. the first-instance decision was upheld on appeal, without further reasoning, by the tatabánya high court on 14 june 2012. on 3 july 2012, on the application of the public prosecutor’s office, the applicant’s detention was extended until 9 september 2012 by the district court. he reiterated that he had no criminal record, gave financial assistance to his elderly parents and his brother, who had down syndrome and with whom he also shared a house, had a permanent job and that his residence had not changed for forty years. on 25 june 2015 the tatabánya district court acquitted the applicant. the applicant was detained in székesfehérvár prison from 9 june to 7 september 2012. m per person); between 10 and 11 june and 3 and 6 july 2012 there were ten inmates (4.1 sq. m per person); between 12 and 21 june, 20 and 30 july and 11 and 25 august 2012 there were eleven inmates (3.7 sq. the applicant could only leave the cell for one hour of outdoor exercise every day. inmates were able to take a shower once a week for about five to ten minutes.
the applicant was born in 1944 and lives in kłomnice. the only panacea, or universal cure, for such a person is to recognise his intentions and take up a bloodless fight using arguments. at the same time he declared that he would continue doing his job, that is, condemning farmers to breeding nice little birds in order to collect their eggs. there has not been a sideshow like it in the radomsko district for a long time. every dull boss can be convinced by any rubbish. the applicant went on to describe in general terms a local economic development programme, which had been presented to him by a businessman. the private prosecutors sought an order requiring the applicant to publish an apology in the weekly newspaper. the radomsko district court ruled that it did not have jurisdiction in the case, and transmitted the private bill of indictment to the piotrków trybunalski district court. ’s initiative to develop quail farming in order to tackle the impoverishment of the local population. had received, the applicant had decided once again to mock the two officials, as well as their superior, m.d. the court established that there was no doubt that the words “numbskull”, “dim‑witted official” and “poser” had referred to k.h., it is difficult not to agree with the position that the word “numbskull” (“palant”) in the analysed context, although its literal meaning is legally irrelevant, fulfils all the criteria of insult within the meaning of article 216 of the criminal code. dull” meaning not sharp, unintelligent, intellectually retarded. however, the court found no grounds to hold that the impugned words had the effect of lowering the private prosecutors in public esteem, or undermining the public confidence necessary for the discharge of their duties as local government officials. the regional court held that the lower court had correctly established the facts of the case.
in 1996 the applicant and his wife started a family business which involved, among other things, the replication of digital data and the sale of blank data storage devices. this deed has been completed in duplicate and read out. ...” on 21 november 2002 the shevchenkivsky district court of kyiv (hereinafter “the district court”) issued search warrants in respect of the applicant’s and his wife’s flats, noting that they were suspected of breaching criminal legislation concerning copyright protection. it appears from the case file that no items were seized. as follows from the applicant’s submissions, after these searches and several interviews, the proceedings stagnated, with the police never pressing any charges against the applicant or any other person. they noted, in particular, that proceedings could only be terminated on such grounds in cases in which a particular person had been indicted. on 25 february 2005 the police rejected a request by the applicant to have the criminal proceedings discontinued for lack of corpus delicti, noting that discontinuing proceedings on such grounds also presupposed the identification of a particular defendant. there was insufficient evidence that he had unlawfully replicated copyrighted materials or distributed counterfeit products. his property remained in the control of the police as physical evidence in the case. on 27 october 2003 the district court allowed the claim. in april 2003 the applicant lodged a complaint against the investigative department of the kyiv police with the district court. it rejected them, finding that the applicant lacked standing to bring the proceedings. as he had been denied formal status as a suspect, he could not defend himself properly. the police officers’ actions which had led to the institution of the proceedings had been tainted by procedural breaches, regard being had, in particular, to the unjustified inspection of the premises at night-time in the absence of the flat owner (the applicant’s mother ), as well as various other procedural violations. on 24 december 2004 the court of appeal quashed the district court’s decision and remitted the criminal case concerning the suspected breach of copyright to it for further investigation.
mrs marinova was born in 1972 and lives in tervel. in february 2006 she complained to the child protection agency that the school teacher of her son, then aged fourteen, had on several occasions ill-treated and humiliated him. mrs marinova argued that this had amounted to harassment, and said that her son had become demotivated. having examined the findings of the child protection agency and the prosecuting authorities in relation to mrs marinova’s complaints, the court concluded that her allegations, the first of which had become known to the school’s headmaster and a pedagogical counsellor in the school, had been false and therefore defamatory. such complaints could, in some cases, be seen as false accusation contrary to article 286 of the code (see paragraph 54 below). mrs marinova also emphasised that she had not made her allegations publicly. mr zlatanov’s allegations triggered an internal inquiry which exonerated the officer of any wrongdoing. in a judgment of 6 march 2009, the kavarna district court found mr zlatanov guilty of defaming a public official, contrary to articles 147 and 148 §§ 1 (3) and 2 of the criminal code (see paragraphs 49 and 50 below). the court replaced his criminal liability with an administrative fine of bgn 500 (eur 256). in a final judgment of 20 november 2009, the dobrich regional court upheld the lower court’s judgment. the court ordered mr zlatanov to pay the officer’s costs for the appellate proceedings, amounting to bgn 512 (eur 262). it entirely agreed with the reasons given by that court, adding that mr findulov had been fully aware that his allegations against the officer were false but had nevertheless chosen to defame him. on 14 november 2009 tensions escalated and mr and mrs dinchevi called the police, complaining that they had been assaulted by the neighbours. in a final judgment of 7 march 2013 (реш. the statements in their complaints had been an expression of their disapproval of the way in which the officers had carried out their duties, and an exercise of their constitutional rights to make complaints to the authorities, express their opinion, and defend their rights.
the applicants were born in 1978, 1980 and 2007 respectively. they fled armenia on account of fears of persecution related to the first applicant’s activity as a journalist and his political activism. their subsequent requests for re-examination were also rejected. on 18 october 2011 the orleans administrative court, on an appeal from the applicants, refused to overturn those orders. the second and third applicants were arrested the next day at the reception centre for asylum seekers (centre d’accueil des demandeurs d’asile – cada) at chaingy, where the family had been living. on 22 february 2012 that judge authorised the extension of the applicants’ detention for a period of twenty days, after finding inadmissible the request for voluntary intervention on behalf of the child, and having dismissed the argument that the conditions of detention were incompatible with the presence of a minor child, on the following grounds:“it is not for the judicial authority to interfere in the running of an administrative detention centre”. thus the whole family is together and they have, in an autonomous area and separated from the rest of the detainees, rooms for them alone and for their exclusive use. in addition, there is a playground on the site, like those to be found in town squares. on 24 february 2012 the applicants submitted to the court, under rule 39 of the rules of court, a request for the suspension of the detention orders concerning them. however, they did not leave france, on account of the third applicant’s state of health. on 13 july 2012 the first applicant was granted leave to remain as the parent of a sick child. the finding by the administrative authority of facts falling within provision 3o of part ii of article l. 511-1, while it is such as to create a presumption of a risk that the alien might fail to comply with his or her obligation to leave france, does not dispense that authority, before any decision to place him or her in detention, from specifically examining the circumstances of the case. the measure of curfew with electronic tagging is decided by the administrative authority for a period of five days. was apprehended on 16 february 2012 in that hostel, where the family had remained unlawfully, even though they had been requested to leave the premises by the centre’s administration, following the rejection of their requests for a review of their asylum situation by a decision of 28 july 2011 of the french office for the protection of refugees and stateless persons. in deciding on their placement in detention the prefect of loiret merely stated that mr [a.b.]
the applicant was born in 1940 and lives in gelgaudiškis, šakiai region. had unlawfully carried a mobile phone into detention. “throw that phone away, don’t you understand, mother already knows what to do.” was detained, to bring him food and clean clothes. the record of the provisional arrest, drawn up at the time of the arrest, stated that the applicant had been explained her rights, including the right to a lawyer, and that she had refused to sign the record. on 4 march 2010 the applicant was served with the official notice that she was a suspect (pranešimas apie įtarimą). she denied having committed any crimes and refused to answer any further questions. an ambulance was called to the police station and the applicant was given first aid. on the same day the applicant’s lawyer submitted a request to the šakiai district prosecutor to release the applicant from provisional arrest. according to the applicant, she did not appeal against that decision because she had already been released. on 30 september 2010 the šakiai district prosecutor discontinued the pre-trial investigation against the applicant on the grounds of insufficient evidence that she had committed the crime outlined in article 260 § 1 of the criminal code. the šakiai police continued the pre-trial investigation concerning the applicant’s son v.ž. on 4 november 2011 the šakiai district court convicted v.ž. the applicant noted that the investigation against her son had been instituted on 17 february 2010, and there had been no indication from that day until her arrest that the police suspected that she had committed any crimes or attempted to interfere with the investigation ‑ on the contrary, she had voluntarily come to the police station to see her son. the court did not address the applicant’s complaints concerning the conditions of her detention.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in sevojno. on 30 may 2001 the užice department of the central employment office (republicki zavod za tržiste rada – nacionalna služba za zapošljavanje – organizaciona jedinica užice, hereinafter “the employment office”) granted unemployment benefits to the applicant until he found a new job or became eligible for retirement (novčana naknada do zaposlenja ili ispunjavanja uslova za starosnu penziju). on 1 june 2001 the law on changes and amendments to the law on employment and rights of unemployed persons (“the 2001 law”) came into force. the law provided for different coefficients and a different methodology for calculating such benefits. it also provided, in article 20, that any administrative proceedings which had not been concluded by the date on which the new law came into force were to be finalised in accordance with the new law (article 17 of the 2001 law provided that article 20 was applicable as of 1 september 2001). the applicant was receiving the full amount of the benefits he was entitled to until october 2001. from that date the benefits were decreased to 70-80% of the amount he had initially been awarded, although the decision of 30 may 2001 had not been amended or superseded by a new decision. on 26 december 2007 the municipal court rejected the applicant’s claim. the applicant’s lawyer brought separate claims on behalf of numerous individuals (hereinafter “the plaintiffs”), seeking outstanding benefits. on 22 november 2007 the same municipal court ruled in favour of m.ð., one of the plaintiffs, whose claim was factually and legally identical to that of the applicant (m.ð. that judgment became final on 19 december 2007. the užice district court upheld those two judgments on 20 march 2008 and 15 september 2008 respectively. it quashed the civil judgments and ordered the reopening of the civil proceedings. acting upon the decisions of the constitutional court, the kragujevac court of appeal (which became the competent court of second instance for the applicant’s case after a reorganisation of courts in serbia in 2010, instead of the užice district court) and the belgrade court of appeal reopened proceedings in cases in which the constitutional court had made such an order and ruled in favour of the plaintiffs.
the applicant was born in 1981 and lives in veshenskaya, a village in the rostov region. the applicant was able to walk but was suffering from memory loss, was disoriented and did not understand what had just happened. shortly after the applicant’s admission to the hospital a. arrived and spoke to the applicant. the applicant alleged that the results of the tests had been falsified by m. he referred to the testimony of two staff members of the hospital, who later testified that he had not been drunk. the applicant alleged that the investigator in charge of the case, m., had been a schoolmate and close friend of p. he also alleged that the date the decision was taken to open an investigation was incorrect, as the case had in fact been opened on 18 july 2002. the investigator also questioned paramedics from the local hospital, some of whom testified that p. had probably been drunk. on 19 july 2002 the investigator examined the car again. on 2 august 2002 the investigator questioned p.’s father who explained, among other things, that the dent on the bonnet of the car was not related to the accident involving the applicant. the difference between the original and second blood tests could, in her words, be explained by a different testing method and the acceptable margin of error. on 7 july 2003 two witnesses to the accident, s. and b., complained to the district prosecutor that pressure had been put on them by p. in connection with his criminal case. as to the civil claim lodged by the applicant within the criminal proceedings, the court awarded him 50,000 russian roubles (rub) in respect of non-pecuniary damage. in particular, it ordered the lower court to clarify whether the road sign could have been visible to p. on the night of the accident. he had applied the brakes a while after the collision. on 5 june 2006 the verkhnedonskoy district court gave judgment in the civil case. furthermore, the applicant had a chronic kidney problem, which would have prevented him from going overseas.
the applicants were born in 1955 and live in poreč. on 5 february 2009 the applicants and their company, m.n., and his company, e. by virtue of that agreement the applicants acknowledged their debt of 580,000 croatian kunas (hrk) to m.g. the applicants did not appeal and the enforcement order became final on 17 december 2009. the first applicant did not comply with his undertaking. the applicants made no objections to the valuation. on 7 october 2010 another set of enforcement proceedings against the applicants was joined to the proceedings at issue. on 25 january 2011 a first public auction was held. however, there were no interested buyers. the applicants, though properly summoned, did not appear. since the applicants had not lodged an appeal, the enforcement order had become final on 31 march 2011. on 23 april 2012 the applicants lodged an appeal against that decision, arguing that the judicial sale had been disproportionate since the true value of their house had been about 700,000 euros (eur). from having the electricity and water cut off and ordered hep to reconnect the electricity. on 17 september 2013 the poreč municipal court ordered the eviction of the applicants. on 20 january 2014 the pula county court dismissed the applicants’ appeal against the decision of 17 september 2013 (see paragraph 32 above), finding that the municipal court had acted in accordance with the law, namely the provisions of the enforcement act.
the applicant organisation, sia akka/laa (sia “autortiesību un komunicēšanās konsultāciju aģentūra/latvijas autoru apvienība” –copyright and communication consulting agency ltd./latvian authors association) is a non-profit organisation founded in riga by a separate non‑profit organisation, the latvian authors association, whose members are various latvian artists. in 2002 the applicant organisation instituted civil proceedings against several broadcasters operating in latvia. the applicant organisation further asked that the court award compensation for unauthorised use of musical works. during the first-instance court’s hearing, the applicant organisation admitted that the parties had a dispute over the royalty rate in the draft licence agreement negotiated by the parties, but that the court was precluded under section 41 of the copyright law from setting the rate as long as there was no licence agreement concluded between the parties (see paragraph 26 below). on 16 january 2003 the first-instance court partly upheld the claim and fully upheld the counterclaim. furthermore, the first-instance court ordered the applicant organisation to conclude a licence agreement with the defendant for the next three-year period with a royalty rate set at 2% of the defendant’s monthly net turnover (ikmēneša neto apgrozījums). an interdiction on broadcasting of the musical works would infringe the authors’ exclusive rights to have their work reproduced, as well as it would negatively affect the interests of the society to listen to music. on 23 october 2003 the civil cases chamber of the supreme court, acting as an appellate court, upheld the part of the first-instance judgment concerning the compensation for copyright infringement and the injunction. on the issue of ordering the conclusion of a licence agreement, the appellate court observed that both parties had expressed their intention to enter into a such an agreement, as attested by a draft licence agreement of 7 october 2003 in which the parties had agreed on certain terms and conditions such as the duration of the licence and the income from which royalties should be calculated. the appellate court noted that it was partly due to the applicant organisation’s inconsistent negotiating that a licence agreement could not be concluded. the appellate court took note of the characteristics of the defendant’s activities and concluded that an equitable remuneration would be 2% of the income from which, as agreed by the parties, the royalties should be calculated. the senate of the supreme court further observed that the parties did not contest that the authors had a right to receive equitable remuneration, but that to that day the parties had not reached an agreement on the rate of the royalty payments. by lodging a counterclaim the defendant in essence asked the court to recognise that in the disputed period the parties had a de facto contractual relationship. it considered that it would be fruitless to issue an injunction prohibiting the defendant from broadcasting the works. on 17 march 2004 the senate partly upheld the lower court’s judgment with similar reasoning as in the first set of proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in sofia. on 29 march 2006 the kazanlak district court convicted the applicant of wilfully using a forged document and falsely accusing another person of criminal conduct, and sentenced him to two years’ imprisonment. the court ordered that the applicant be detained pending any appeal against his conviction and sentence. after his detention, the applicant appealed against his conviction and sentence to the stara zagora regional court. on 16 may 2007 the stara zagora regional court quashed the lower court’s judgment and remitted the case for re-examination, citing a number of breaches of the rules of procedure. in particular, it found that the lower court had not given reasons why it had accepted that the applicant had committed the offences and had in effect reversed the burden of proof, placing it on the applicant. on 4 june 2007 the judge-rapporteur in the criminal case against the applicant brought a private criminal prosecution against him in relation to the written and the oral statements made by the applicant in the appeal proceedings (see paragraphs 7 and 9 above). he submitted that those statements were untrue and defamatory: the first amounted to an allegation that he was vindictive and was using his office to settle personal scores, and the second amounted to an allegation that he had deliberately failed to comply with the rules on recusal, which was not true. he did not have any personal bias against the applicant, and had never been asked to recuse himself from the case. the court did not accept the applicant’s argument that he had not acted with intent. in an additional brief, the applicant’s counsel submitted, inter alia, that the lower court had failed to explain why it had found that the applicant’s statements had been “disseminated”, given that the appellate judges to whom they had been addressed had been under the duty not to disclose professional secrets and that no third parties had access to the file containing the statements. moreover, the statements were truthful – the judge had been a pupil of the applicant, and his bias against the applicant had been acknowledged in the appellate judgment. lastly, his sentence, although set at the statutory minimum, was still unduly harsh. it held that the applicant had “disseminated” the first statement by including it in his appeal. the fact that he had been in a fragile emotional state when doing so was irrelevant.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in jonava. after we asked him to state his name, surname and place of residence, he refused and began shouting and jostling ... after a while [the applicant] said that his documents were in the car and he went to the guard booth to get the car keys. at that moment i was standing near the door. then the taller officer, who was behind me, took me outside while repeatedly twisting and pulling up my arms ... in about five minutes another officer in a uniform arrived, took my car keys, and tried to open the boot of my car ... the officers examined my car ... then the shorter and the taller officers put me into their car, still twisting my arms. at the police station i was searched and given an alcohol test ...[w]hen the officers arrived at my workplace they did not identify themselves; i knew they were police officers only from their uniforms. replied that the dog handler, whose name he did not know, had been present during the entire incident, that he had also asked the applicant some questions, and that it was impossible for the applicant not to have noticed him. insisted that he had been present:“i was at the scene of the incident, i was with a dog, i saw [the applicant’s] arrest and i helped two police officers to twist [the applicant’s] arms (padėjau užlaužti rankas) ...i went to the guard booth with the officers. on 30 september 2008 the prosecutor arranged a confrontation between the applicant and police officer v.b. the applicant appealed against the prosecutor’s decision. on 16 april 2009, at the applicant’s request, the jonava district court changed the prosecutor in charge of the pre-trial investigation. after twisting his arms the officers led him to [the guard booth]. i didn’t see if [the applicant] had attempted to punch the officer in the booth ... when i was outside, i saw jostling between the officers and [the applicant] (įvyko susistumdymas). [ on 30 june 2011 the kaunas district prosecutor discontinued the investigation. the prosecutor relied on essentially the same grounds as the jonava district prosecutor in its earlier decisions (see paragraphs 23, 35, 39 and 42 above), and concluded that the applicant’s statements had been inconsistent, whereas the consistent statements of all the police officers had shown that the use of force had been a lawful and proportionate response to the applicant’s resistance and his refusal to comply with the officers’ lawful orders. according to the material submitted to the court, the applicant was never suspected or accused, nor did he hold any other status in the proceedings, in the criminal case concerning the robbery of the jewellery shop (see paragraph 6 above).
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in chita. on 2 september 2004 the applicant was arrested on the charges of fraud and forgery of official documents. on 4 september 2004 the tsentralnyy district court of chita authorised the applicant’s pre-trial detention. the court reasoned as follows:“the evidence collected ... incriminated [the applicant] ... in a serious crime which entails a custodial sentence exceeding ten years. ... the court takes note of the [applicant’s] character. however, ... it considers that, if at large, [the applicant] might put pressure on victims and witnesses or otherwise interfere with administration of justice or continue criminal activities, accordingly, ... the court considers it necessary to remand [the applicant] in custody.” on 11 november 2004 the chita regional court upheld the decision of 2 september 2004 on appeal. the applicant remained in custody pending investigation and trial. the court extended his pre-trial detention on several occasions reiterating, in substance, the reasoning employed by the district court on 2 september 2004. on 4 june 2007 the district court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to eight years’ imprisonment.
the applicant was born in 1926 and lives in novi sad. its explosive characteristics depend on particle size and granulometric composition. the amount put in any pile must be limited and storage sites must be designed with blast walls. at a series of meetings, an intelligence service executive had apparently agreed to the production of rocket fuel with a private company, jpl systems (hereinafter “jpl”). according to the investigating judge’s two-page report of his inspection of the incident scene (zapisnik o uviđaju), at about 6.30 p.m. on 23 june 1995 a massive explosion occurred during the production of a new product – polyvinyl chloride sheets. he reported that nine corpses had been found and gave the names of several injured people who had been transported to hospital (one of them had died there) as well as a short statement by one of the workers who had been nearby. on 24 june 1995 an additional forensic report was drawn up after the fingerprinting and photographing of the bodies. on 1 march 2000 the investigating judge returned the case file with the collected evidence to the prosecutor. the chamber instructed the investigating judge to open an investigation and interview the suspects. on 29 october 2002 the investigating judge again appointed the military technical academy to draw up a report establishing in a clear and conclusive manner the cause of the explosion and which irregularities in the production process had led to the blast. in a short report drawn up in december 2002, the academy stated this time that their task was apparently to examine the cause of the explosion, not the possible failure of any of the suspects to protect those involved from the risk of explosion. the beginning of the trial was scheduled for 12 december 2003 and then for 22 march 2004, but was adjourned on both occasions by the court because it had been unable to secure the proper composition of its bench and/or some of the defendants had not been properly summoned. between 23 march 2005 and 7 december 2005, the competent courts dismissed the indictment in respect of r.l. on 10 september 2010 the applicant lodged an appeal with the constitutional court (ustavni sud), complaining about the length of the criminal proceedings described above. according to information made available by the parties, the awarded amount has not yet been paid.
the applicant, mr vladimir nikolayevich ruban, is a ukrainian national, who was born in 1972 and is currently serving a life sentence. on 13 august 1996 the voznesensk local prosecutor’s office in the mykolayiv region started an investigation into the murder of four persons on 12 august 1996. on 10 november 1999 the slavyansk police department of the donetsk region started an investigation into hooliganism concerning r. 9. on 22 november 1999 the above three investigations were joined. several persons were suspected of committing the above crimes as a group, one of them being the applicant. he was also placed on the list of wanted persons. the same day the investigation in respect of the applicant was suspended until he was apprehended; the criminal proceedings continued in respect of the other suspects. on 23 december 2002, the donetsk regional court of appeal convicted and sentenced g., p. and f. for the above mentioned crimes. on 31 march 2008 the investigation was resumed after the applicant had been extradited to ukraine. the same day the applicant was formally charged with participation in an organised criminal group together with g., p., f. and two other persons, who had died in the intervening time. all these crimes had been committed as a group. on 22 may 2008 the investigation was completed and on 26 june 2008 the case was transferred to the donetsk regional court of appeal. on 10 july 2009 the court of appeal, acting as a first-instance court, found the applicant guilty of aggravated murder and banditry and sentenced him to life imprisonment. on that day the applicant’s lawyer submitted an additional appeal claiming that the court of appeal had to apply the most favourable wording of the relevant provisions of the criminal code, which was that between 29 december 1999 and 29 march 2000 when the death penalty had already been abolished and life imprisonment had not yet been introduced. the supreme court in its decision noted that the applicant had been sentenced correctly.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in perm. on 25 may 2010 the dzerzhinskiy district court of perm found that the applicant could not be held responsible for the murder of his wife which had been committed owing to a temporary psychiatric disorder in the form of an acute reaction to stress. according to the certificate issued by the perm regional clinical psychiatric hospital, the applicant remained under psychiatric supervision until march 2014. on 16 august 2012 the dzerzhinskiy district court dismissed the application by the childcare authority and v. to deprive the applicant of his parental responsibility over n. it also dismissed the applicant’s counterclaim to end v.’s guardianship over n. and to return n. to him. he was aware that his son, who had not seen him for a long time, needed time to get used to him again. failed to appear: plaintiff, defendant, notified. [ on the same day the district court dismissed the applicant’s application. the applicant often left on long business trips, which would prevent weekly meetings. in view of the incompleteness of the data [failure to examine n. in view of v.’s refusal to give the experts access to n.], the experts consider that at the present time only short meetings between [the applicant] and the child are possible (not more than two hours 2-3 times per month) in public places on condition that the child has a positive or neutral attitude towards the father. he enclosed a list of telephone calls provided by his mobile operator showing that he had not received any calls from the court. on 18 september 2013 the regional court held an appeal hearing. despite the court’s decisions, the applicant resumed contact with n. over time, meeting the boy at school, and having telephone and skype conversations with him. the district court noted that n. lived with his maternal grandmother and guardian v. and that his housing conditions were adequate. he also explained that he wished to continue living with his grandmother, but maintain contact with his father by meeting him from time-to-time and communicating with him by telephone. the applicant regularly visited n. at school.
the applicants, mr nizamudin aliyev (“the first applicant”) and ms madina gadzhiyeva (“the second applicant”), live in makhachkala, dagestan. who stated that she had not witnessed the abduction and had learned of it from her relatives. between 22 and 24 january 2012 the investigators questioned several salespersons and taxi drivers who had been working in the vicinity of the crime scene on the date of the abduction. on 29 january 2012 the investigators questioned the first applicant, who provided them with a detailed account of the abduction, as related to him by a female witness named fatima (in the documents submitted also referred to as “fatimakhanum”), according to whom his son, sirazhudin aliyev, and his son’s friend, gazimagomed abdullayev, had been abducted by officers from the traffic police. on 2 february 2012 the investigators questioned ms m.a., on 28 january 2012 she had arrived at the house of the parents of her abducted husband; after her arrival, men in face masks had told her to go with them to the kirovskiy district police station in makhachkala. on 17 february 2012 the second applicant was granted victim status in the criminal case. had been taken to the ctc headquarters, where she had been questioned about telephone numbers that had been dialed by her husband. all of whom stated that they had not witnessed the abduction. the applicants were informed of the suspension. on 4 march 2013 the investigation was suspended again. 4; however, she had been the only one who had called the police about the incident. on 20 december 2013 the investigation was again resumed after criticism voiced by the supervisory authorities. who organised the [first applicant’s] meeting with the persons who had pointed out that the abduction had been perpetrated by officers of law-enforcement agencies ...the witness statement of ms m.a. whose statement did not yield any new information.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in kushchevskaya, krasnodar region. on 9 december 2010 the applicant was charged in absentia with accessory to murder and his name was put on the wanted list. on 16 december 2010 the kushchevskiy district court of the krasnodar region issued a detention order against the applicant in absentia. on 21 january 2011 the applicant reported to the police station where he was arrested. as it has been established that during investigation [the applicant] stated that he intended to leave russia and talked on the phone with a person living in geneva ..., if released, [the applicant] might abscond, commit another offence, and threaten witnesses or other parties to criminal proceedings, destroy evidence or in any other way interfere with the investigation...”. the case materials contain evidence confirming his involvement in crimes. moreover, ... he may abscond or, if released, commit other crimes. the applicant remained in detention pending investigation and trial. the courts referred also to the applicant’s family status, personality, state of health, possibility to put pressure on witnesses and interfere with the investigation, absence of job. in particular, on 25 january 2012 the court held as follows:“... taking into account the personality of the accused, his family status, state of health and other circumstances, the court shall grant the investigator’s request and extend [the applicant’s] detention”. the applicant lodged appeals against some detention orders but the courts rejected them. on 2 november 2011 the applicant was additionally charged with membership in a criminal gang, six counts of unlawful transportation of fire arms and ammunition, attempted murder and murder. in october 2012 the applicant, along with two co-defendants, was committed to stand trial before the krasnodar regional court. on 7 june 2013 the applicant was released. on 30 september 2013 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the judgment of 19 june 2013 on appeal.
the applicants, whose years of birth are summarised in the appendix, live in troitsko-pechorsk of the komi republic. in order to carry out its statutory activities, the company had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to it by the town administration (see liseytseva and maslov v. russia, nos. 39483/05 and 40527/10, §§ 55-75, 9 october 2014 for further details on the company’s status). in 2004-2006 the district administration withdrew the company’s several assets, including “housing and objects of the engineering infrastructure” and transferred them to the municipal district treasury. on the dates listed in the appendix the awards became enforceable. 10742/09) obtained at least two other judgments in her favour which had been issued on 22 june and 2 november 2007 against the debtor enterprise. ms lyubas, interviewed in the domestic proceedings, maintained that the award of 21 december 2006 had not been paid to her. on 11 december 2006 the supervision procedure was put in place in respect of the company. on 14 may 2007 the commercial court of the komi republic declared the company insolvent and the liquidation proceedings commenced. in november 2007 the prosecutor’s office also held an inquiry into the liquidator’s actions, found that she had acted in compliance with the domestic law and refused to bring administrative proceedings against her. the amount recovered proved insufficient to settle all creditors’ claims. he argued that the insolvency of the company had been caused by the administration. finally, even though at the insolvency stage the company proved unable to meet the creditors’ claims, the claimant had failed to demonstrate that the owner “knew or ought to have known that [the transfer of the assets] would have led to the company’s insolvency”. on 28 december 2011 the commercial court of the komi republic ordered the respondent company’s liquidation. on the same date the liquidation was recorded in the register of legal entities, and the company ceased to exist.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in vinkovci. it sentenced him to ten months’ imprisonment, suspended for a period of two years provided that in that period he did not commit a further offence. on 7 november 2008 the court issued a new writ of execution. by a decision of 19 february 2009 the osijek county court dismissed the debtor company’s appeal and upheld the writ of execution. on the same day, 9 march 2009, the debtor company informed the court that it had received the above-mentioned final judgment of the criminal court and that it had executed the set-off described above (see the preceding paragraph). by a decision of 27 march 2009 the đakovo municipal court decided on the debtor company’s motion for postponement, instructing the debtor company to institute separate civil proceedings for the enforcement to be declared inadmissible (in full or in part). at the same time it postponed the enforcement pending the final outcome of those proceedings. the second-instance judgment was served on the debtor company on 11 may 2011 and on the applicant a day later. in the resumed proceedings, by a decision of 17 june 2010 the đakovo municipal court again postponed the enforcement. on 3 february 2011 the osijek county court dismissed the applicant’s appeal against that decision and upheld it. by another decision of the same date that court ordered the debtor company to pay the applicant: (a) hrk 599.40[5] for unpaid overtime work, together with statutory default interest accrued since 11 march 2009, (b) hrk 19,495.90[6] in costs of civil proceedings, together with statutory default interest accrued since 1 june 2006, and (c) hrk 2,606.25[7] in costs of enforcement proceedings, together with statutory default interest accrued since 7 november 2008. this decision became final on 17 june 2011. on 25 november 2010 the applicant appealed against that decision. by a decision of 12 december 2012 the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) declared inadmissible the applicant’s constitutional complaint and served that decision on his representative on 31 december 2012. it held that the contested second-instance decision was not open to constitutional review.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in košice. the applicant, the father of a child, has been involved in domestic litigation concerning numerous claims on upbringing and maintenance of the child since 1993. the present application concerns three interrelated claims brought before the čadca district court on 12 march 2003 and subsequently on 3 july and 16 december 2003. these claims were all registered under the same case file no. p 170/93 and concerned the applicant’s rights of contact with his child and his request for custody of the child. in the course of the proceedings, the district court examined extensive evidence. it also decided on an interim measure in relation to the contact between the applicant and the child, which was challenged and quashed on appeal twice. he also lodged seven motions, by which he had challenged the judges of the district court as well as the regional court for bias. the district court twice ruled on the merits of the case, on 20 august 2008 and 31 march 2011 respectively. the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint relying on several convention as well as constitution articles. he challenged among others the length of proceedings held before the district court. in the light of the above, the constitutional court found no unreasonable delays in the district court’s procedure. subsequently, on 21 march 2012, the žilina regional court dealt with the applicant’s second appeal and delivered the judgment on the merits of the case, which became final on 2 april 2012. it partly upheld the district court’s judgment and partly amended it. this motion was dismissed by two levels of jurisdiction and the decision became final on 8 february 2013.
the applicants were prosecuted in russia for various crimes. they were arrested and detained while the crimes were investigated and pending trial. their detention was ordered and extended by the courts. the detention orders were essentially based on the gravity of the charges, the primary grounds being the risk of the applicants’ absconding and interfering with the course of justice. the detention and extension orders used stereotypical formulae, without addressing specific facts or considering alternative preventive measures. the first applicant was born in 1982 and was detained in irkutsk. on 23 december 2008 the first applicant, a police officer at the material time, was arrested and placed in pre-trial detention. on an unspecified date he was formally charged with banditry, kidnapping, abuse of power, robbery (four counts), preparing to commit robbery, intentionally damaging another’s property, and stealing and damaging official documents. on 19 april 2010 he, along with thirteen co-defendants, was committed for trial before the irkutsk regional court. on 7 november 2011 the irkutsk regional court convicted him of abuse of power, and sentenced him to three years’ imprisonment and disqualification from holding public office for one year. the second applicant was born in 1967 and was detained in penza. on 14 february 2009 a criminal case was opened into an incident of fraud involving an apartment, which had caused damage in the amount of 440,000 russian roubles (rub). on 24 june 2009 the second applicant was arrested. on 8 june 2010 the leninskiy district court of penza found him guilty as charged and sentenced him to eleven months’ imprisonment.
the applicant was born in 1981 and lives in hotarele, vâlcea county. from march until june 2008 the couple again lived together with their daughter in spain; then, with the father’s consent, the applicant returned with her daughter to romania for what was meant to be a short stay with the child’s maternal grandmother. later on the applicant provided an address in spain, which turned out to be incomplete. on 30 january 2009 the district court awarded custody of the child to the applicant, on the basis of the evidence in the case file, including the witness evidence and a report made by the child protection agency following a visit in the applicant’s home. five hearings took place before the county court and both the applicant and her counsel were present at all of them. on 10 june 2011 the court granted that request. informed the applicant that the said notarised consent was not sufficient for the bulgarian authorities. the court of appeal delivered its final ruling in the case on 9 january 2012. on 28 january 2011 the enforcement officer scheduled the handover of the child to the applicant for 9 february 2011 and asked the police and the social services to assist him on that day. the supreme court of cassation found that r.e.n. following a telephone conversation between the applicant and an employee of the romanian ministry of justice, the applicant was invited to lodge a request for the return of her daughter under the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction of 25 october 1980 (“the hague convention”; see paragraph 43 below). they advised her to lodge her request either directly with the competent bulgarian authority or through the romanian ministry of justice. on 12 december 2011 the romanian ministry of justice transmitted to the bulgarian ministry of justice a request lodged by the applicant under the brussels ii bis regulation, which in its view took precedence over the hague convention. unsuccessfully brought proceedings in bulgaria seeking custody of the child. following the 9 january 2012 final judgment of the romanian courts granting custody of the child to the applicant (see paragraph 17 above), on 23 october 2012 r.e.n.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in novokuznetsk, the kemerovo region. during the questioning the investigator had to answer a telephone call and stepped out of the office. left alone, the applicant attempted to walk out but was stopped at the door by a policeman who told him to stay inside and wait. according to the government, the applicant came to the police station voluntarily and stayed there for no longer than forty minutes. on 18 june 2007 the investigators charged the applicant with theft but dropped the charges one month later. in 2009 the applicant brought a civil claim for compensation for unlawful criminal prosecution and deprivation of liberty. it also considered that the questioning of 14 june 2007 had not amounted to a deprivation of liberty and could not give rise to any form of compensation. the applicant appealed against the judgment, arguing that the court award was too low and that it did not take into account the deprivation of liberty. he also requested leave to appear before the appeal court. on 10 february 2009 the altay regional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal in his absence, endorsing the district court’s reasoning. the judgment of 20 october 2009 was enforced on 5 march 2011. in 2007 ms i. brought a civil action against the applicant, seeking to recover a contractual debt. on 5 july 2007 the justice of the peace of the pospelikhinskiy district of the altay region examined the case in the applicant’s absence. the judgment indicated that the applicant was serving a term of imprisonment and that he had been informed in a timely way about the date and place of the hearing. by an interim decision of 12 september 2007, the district court refused the applicant leave to appear, finding that the code of civil procedure did not provide for escorting detained litigants to courts hearing civil cases.
the applicant was born in 1943 and lives in niš. on 28 april 2010 the applicant brought an enforcement action before the smederevo court of first instance (osnovni sud u smederevu) against a socially/state-owned company “fžv želvoz a.d. on 15 december 2010 that court ordered direct enforcement of the outstanding invoice (izvršenje na osnovu verodostojne isprave). on 15 june 2011 the privatisation agency ordered the restructuring of the debtor as part of privatisation process. on 25 october 2011 the enforcement proceedings were stayed because the debtor was undergoing restructuring. on 3 november 2011 the applicant appealed the decision to stay the enforcement proceedings. on 10 february 2012 the applicant’s appeal was rejected by the enforcement court. on 21 march 2013 the applicant urged the court to continue the enforcement proceedings. it would appear that the applicant did not appeal against this decision. on 11 january 2010 the applicant brought an enforcement action before the niš commercial court (privredni sud u nišu) against a socially/state-owned company “vagonka a.d. on 29 january 2010 that court ordered direct enforcement of the outstanding invoice. on 4 november 2009 the privatisation agency ordered the restructuring of the debtor as part of privatisation process. on 4 february 2010 the enforcement proceedings were stayed because the debtor was undergoing restructuring. the applicant did not appeal against this decision which became final on 17 february 2010. on 22 march 2013 the court informed the applicant that the debtor was still undergoing restructuring and that therefore the enforcement proceedings could not be continued.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in mississauga, canada. they continued living in canada and their son was born there in september 2010. the applicant worked full time and was the sole financial provider for the family. soon afterwards the applicant went back to canada alone. on 27 november 2012 the kielce district court decided to obtain an expert report from the family consultation centre (rodzinny ośrodek diagnostyczno-konsultacyjny “the rodk”). a copy of this decision has not been submitted to the court. it appears that the domestic court’s decision to order the rodk report contained an instruction that the examination should go ahead whether or not the applicant was present. in view of the above it was ultimately held that separating the two-year-old boy from the mother and returning him to his father in canada would be traumatic and hard to bear for the child. on 2 march 2012 the kielce district court, with i.g. the applicant also submitted that on 9 july 2013 the appellate court had dismissed his request, presumably for a different schedule of his visits. the details of this decision are unknown to the court. on 22 november 2011 the kielce regional court gave an interim order, establishing the child’s residence as being with the mother. on 21 august 2012 the ontario superior court of justice found e.n. on 22 may 2013 the ontario superior court of justice allowed the divorce between the applicant and e.n. 30813/14, §§ 33-38 and 41-41, 1 march 2016.
at the material time all the applicants were detained in russian penal facilities. while in detention, the applicants mr baban, mr barkov and mr bogatyrev sought compensation for inadequate conditions of their detention and substandard medical care; the applicants mr davydov, mr pflyaum and mr yakovlev were involved in contract disputes; mr fedchenko was the respondent in a divorce claim; mr starodubtsev challenged the decision by which he had lost the status of a disabled person; and mr shavayev was the defendant in an action for damages brought by the federal customs service. none of the applicants, apart from mr yakovlev, were able to attend the hearings before the courts of first instance. the domestic courts refused the applicants leave to be present at the hearings, on the ground that there was no domestic legal provision for bringing detainees to courts. in some of the cases they quoted article 77.1 of the code on the execution of sentences (see paragraph 10 below) and the relevant provisions of the code of civil procedure. in the other cases the issue of the applicants’ presence was left unaddressed. in the first-instance proceedings mr shavayev and mr starodubtsev were represented by their relatives. mr barkov and mr davydov were interviewed at courts located near the places of their detention. the applicants appealed, raising the question of their appearance in court in their appeal statements. some submitted separate requests seeking leave to appear before the appeal court. the appeal courts either dismissed their arguments and endorsed the findings of the first-instance courts or concluded that their absence from court was in line with the legislation and did not contravene the principle of fairness. none of the applicants were present or represented at the appellate hearings. the dates of the final judgments are set out in appendix i.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in sofia. the applicant had been employed by the national security service as a system operator since 1981. she submitted that, on account of the nature of her duties, she had held a security clearance permitting her access to classified information constituting state secrets. on 30 april 2002 the classified information protection act (hereinafter “the act”) was promulgated in the state gazette. under the classified information protection act, permits granting access to classified information that had been issued under the legal provisions existing before the entry into force of the act were to remain valid until their replacement by security clearance allowing access to classified information. non-compliance with that provision would result in the invalidation of the respective existing access permits. the applicant submitted that that decision had been based on a psychological test. the decision did not contain any reasoning in respect of the refusal, apart from a reference to section 57 of the classified information protection act. the applicant lodged an appeal against the refusal with the state commission for information security. that decision was final and not amenable to judicial review. on 27 april 2004, the director of the national security service ordered that the applicant be dismissed. the applicant challenged her dismissal at three levels of jurisdiction. she contested the objectivity and the lawfulness of the dismissal procedure, arguing that she had fulfilled all conditions for the issuance of security clearance and that she had been dismissed on account of the negative personal relationship between her and her direct supervisor. the applicant’s request that a report by a psychiatric expert be commissioned was refused by the sofia district court. on appeal, the sofia city court, by a ruling of 6 april 2006 upheld the lower court’s decision, endorsing its reasoning.
the applicants were born in 1950 and 1957 respectively and live in sofia. on 19 february 1993 the applicants, at the time a married couple, bought a plot of land of 1,000 square metres in the village of kranevo, on the black sea coast. the seller, mr o., had acquired the property in 1967 from the agricultural co-operative that existed at the time, in exchange for another plot of land of his. the applicants’ possession of the land remained undisturbed until 2003, when other persons took possession of it. the applicants discovered then that the land had been collectivised after 1945 and that in 1991 the heirs of the pre-collectivisation owner, mr k., had instituted restitution proceedings under the relevant provisions of the agricultural land act (“the ala”, see paragraph 13 below). their restitution request had been allowed in a court judgment of 7 december 1995 and in a decision issued by the competent administrative body ‒ the local agricultural land commission ‒ on 4 april 1996. thereafter, the heirs of mr k. had transferred the land to the persons who had later taken possession of the plot. on an unspecified date in 2003 the applicants brought a rei vindicatio action against these individuals. in a judgment of 25 may 2005 the balchik district court dismissed their claim. it relied on the provision of section 10(13) of the ala (see paragraph 15 below), holding on its basis that of the two rival claims to the same land the law gave priority to the one based on restitution. upon appeal, on 25 january 2007 the dobrich regional court reversed that decision and allowed the applicants’ action. it considered in particular that section 10(13) of the ala was not applicable to the case as it had only been introduced in 1997, that is to say after the restitution decision in favour of mr k.’s heirs and after the applicants had bought the plot of land. upon further appeal, in a final judgment of 12 december 2008, the supreme court of cassation quashed the regional court’s judgment and dismissed the applicants’ rei vindicatio claim. it took the view that section 10(13) of the ala, introduced in 1997, had to be considered to be applicable with effect from the ala’s entry into force in 1991 because it was merely clarifying its general restitution provisions. as to the exception contained in section 18z(3) of the regulations for the ala’s implementation, also introduced in 1997 (see paragraph 16 below), the supreme court considered it inapplicable to the case; in its view, section 18z(3) only precluded the restitution of properties which had been the subject of transactions prior to the ala’s entry into force in 1991, whereas the applicants had bought their plot in 1993.
mr shahanov, who was born in 1977, is serving a life sentence in plovdiv prison. mr palfreeman, who was born in 1986, is serving a sentence of twenty years’ imprisonment in sofia prison. in 2011, when serving his sentence in plovdiv prison, mr shahanov was sharing a cell with eight other inmates. on 24 october 2011 he made two complaints to the minister of justice: one written by him personally and one written on his behalf by his wife. the next day, 29 november 2011, the governor of plovdiv prison ordered that mr shahanov be placed in solitary confinement for ten days for making defamatory statements and false allegations against prison officers, contrary to the above-mentioned provision. on 30 november 2011 mr shahanov sought judicial review of the order. mr shahanov asserted that his correspondence was routinely opened and read by the prison authorities. in support of his assertion, he submitted seven letters sent in 2012, six of which were addressed to his counsel, whose envelopes bore the stamp “checked” on their backs. on 23 may 2012 mr palfreeman was visited by two journalists. on 11 june 2012 a hearing took place before the prison’s disciplinary commission. there was no evidence that they had been treated rudely by prison staff either. he argued, inter alia, that his disciplinary punishment was in breach of section 90(5) of the 2009 act (see paragraph 25 below) and this court’s case-law, that deprivation of the right to receive food parcels was a serious sanction in view of the insufficient quantity of food provided by the prison, and that it was an attempt to cow him into not making complaints against the prison administration. on 14 august 2012 the head of the chief directorate for the execution of sentences dismissed the appeal. the sanction fully corresponded to the nature and the gravity of his act, his attitude towards it, and his previous conduct. in a final decision of 19 july 2012 (опр.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in skopje. the applicant was employed by the state intelligence agency (агенција за разузнавање, “the employer”). on 28 february 2001 she was dismissed from work as redundant given that internal regulations (правилник за систематизација на работните места, “the regulations”) of 27 february 2001 provided for reduced number of employees for posts such as the post held by the applicant. it further found that the government’s approval had been received by the employer on 2 march 2001, but that had been irrelevant given that it was only the date when approval had been given by the government that was important for the entry into force of the regulations. on 14 december 2005 the applicant appealed, arguing inter alia that the regulations could not have applied to her case, as it could only be adopted after the employer had received the government’s approval. the applicant relied on another final judgment of the skopje court of appeal (“the appellate court”) in a similar case concerning a former colleague of the applicant, in which it had been established that the regulations had not entered into force at the time of the dismissal (see paragraph 17 below). on 23 february 2006 the appellate court dismissed the applicant’s appeal. it found that the government had approved the regulations on 27 february 2001, that they had entered into force the same day, and that the applicant’s dismissal of 28 february 2001 was therefore lawful. on 7 april 2006 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law with the supreme court. in it she argued, inter alia, that the regulations could only be adopted after the government’s approval had been obtained, and that they had thus not entered into force at the time of her dismissal. she referred to the earlier judgment of the appellate court (see paragraph 17 below), and argued that it had deviated from its established practice on the matter without providing any reasons. she further contended that the dismissal of her former colleagues, which had been based on the same grounds, had been quashed and they had been reinstated to their posts. on 25 october 2007 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law. it found that on 27 february 2001 the government had approved the regulations, which had thus entered into force the same day. on 15 january 2008 the applicant was served with the supreme court’s judgment.
the applicant was born in 1994 and lives in bidovce. the three suspects were kept at the police station and preliminarily questioned (vyťažení) by officers from the county police. as to the rooms in which they were kept, these were used as offices, were fitted out with the usual office equipment and were not furnished as detention cells. between 12 noon and 1 p.m. on 19 december 2010 the applicant was brought before the investigator, who interviewed him in the presence of his mother and the lawyer. no mention was made of any ill‑treatment. in the applicant’s submission, meanwhile, in the days that followed his release, his mother presented herself at the county police station and contacted the ministry of the interior by telephone to complain about the treatment to which her son had been subjected while detained. the doctor further observed that there was no haematoma and that the cheek was sensitive and slightly swollen. on 9 march 2011 the cis dismissed the complaint. it observed that the applicant’s injury could have been inflicted in the course of his arrest, which he had resisted and which accordingly had had to be carried out forcefully. in addition, the cis observed that the police officers in question had not been involved in the investigation of the alleged robbery, but had merely been guarding the applicant. his injury could therefore not be explained as the cis had done. as to the part of the applicant’s criminal complaint concerning the alleged failure to notify his legal guardians of his arrest and detention, to provide him with food and water during his detention, and to hear him immediately after his arrest (see paragraph 24 above), the district police informed the applicant in a letter of 8 june 2011, without any explanation at all, that “in the investigation of the given matter, no error had been committed by the investigative organs”. on the last point, the applicant argued that there had been many known incidents of police violence against the roma in the course of arrest and detention in slovakia, and that his treatment by the police had been influenced by his romani origin. the fact that he had had those means of asserting his rights at his disposal excluded the jurisdiction of the constitutional court. furthermore, they had allegedly been subjected to intimidation by police dogs.
the applicant was born in 1991 and lives in vladivostok. he lived in the town of osh in kyrgyzstan. shortly after his arrest, the applicant gave an explanation (объяснение) in which he admitted having participated in the beating of one of the law-enforcement officers in june 2010 but denied his involvement in other crimes for which he was to be prosecuted in kyrgyzstan. his detention was subsequently extended several times. on 29 january 2014 the russian prosecutor’s office informed the kyrgyz authorities about the applicant’s arrest. on 11 february 2015 the primorsk regional court upheld the extension order on appeal. it did not address the applicant’s argument that he would be deprived of judicial review of his detention for a long period of time. on 27 july 2015 the applicant was released. on 25 march 2015 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s appeal and the extradition order became final. for instance, on 30 and 31 july 2014 russian diplomats had visited some such detainees, who had made no complaints in relation to their transfer, detention, prosecution or treatment. on 7 february 2014 the applicant applied to the primorsk region department of the federal migration service (управление федеральной миграционной службы по приморскому краю) (hereinafter the “primorsk region fms”) seeking refugee status. he claimed that he was being persecuted on the grounds of his ethnic origin and, if extradited, would be subjected to torture. on 18 july 2014 the fms dismissed his appeal on account of his prolonged failure to apply for refugee status and in view of the opportunity offered to the russian diplomats to monitor the compliance by the kyrgyz authorities with international standards as regards persons extradited from russia. on 13 november 2014 the basmannyy district court of moscow upheld the refusal of the fms to grant the applicant refugee status, referring in particular to his protracted failure to apply for refugee status. it also indicated that the applicant was not a member of any political, religious, military or public organisation, had neither served in the army nor taken part in any military activities, had never been prosecuted or threatened by the authorities, and had not been involved in any violent incidents.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in kovel. she was diagnosed with acute enterocolitis with concomitant illnesses. on 19 september 2003 the prosecutor’s office, having conducted a pre-investigation inquiry, decided not to institute criminal proceedings against the doctors of the hospital for lack of corpus delicti. the next day that decision was quashed by the supervising prosecutor and further inquiry was ordered. on 10 october 2003 the prosecutor’s office instituted criminal proceedings to investigate the allegations of medical negligence and failure to ensure the right of the applicant’s daughter to free medical aid. the case was referred to the court for trial. the court then acquitted dr g. of a violation of the right to free medical aid, finding that that charge had been unsubstantiated. the applicant and the prosecutor appealed against that judgment. on 23 february 2010 the volyn regional court of appeal upheld the judgment of 26 october 2009 as regards dr g.’s partial acquittal. as regards her conviction, it stated that the trial court had failed to specify the punishment from which she had been released. it found that between 3.45 p.m. and 4 p.m. on 27 august 2003 she had failed to carry out artificial respiration and cardiac massage and that those failures had reduced the chances of success of the resuscitation measures carried out subsequently by the other doctors. the court sentenced dr g. to a fine and a three-year ban on medical practice. on 24 september 2010 the volyn regional court of appeal upheld that judgment. dr g. was admitted to the proceedings as a third party. on 7 march 2012 the starovyzhivskyy district court found that the applicant had sustained non-pecuniary damage on account of the professional misconduct of dr g. the court awarded the applicant 20,000[1] ukrainian hryvnias in respect of non-pecuniary damage.
the applicants, a married couple and their son, were born in 1964, 1965 and 2000 respectively. he had to stay in hospital for three months. his brother was released through bribery a few days later and immediately fled from iraq. the applicants were assisted by state-appointed counsel. during the past few years the police authorities have taken numerous measures to fight against corruption, clan and militia connections and pure criminality within the police. the leading representatives of the police authority have expressed both their willingness and their ambition to maintain general security in iraq. ...”regarding the assessment of the applicants’ refugee status, as well as their need for alternative protection, the agency held as follows:“...the migration agency notes that [the first applicant] had a contract with the americans until 2008. during this period they were not exposed to any direct abuses. [ the applicant can do this either by relying on evidence or by giving a credible account of events which appear plausible. against this background, the migration agency finds that [the first and second applicants] have not made a plausible case that the iraqi authorities lack the capacity and the will to protect the family from being exposed to persecution within the meaning of chapter 4, section 1, of the aliens act or to abuses within the meaning of chapter 4, section 2, first subsection, first point, first line, of the aliens act. the migration agency notes in this context that there is no armed conflict in iraq. together with their written submissions, they enclosed a translated written statement allegedly from a neighbour in baghdad, who stated that a masked terrorist group had come looking for the first applicant on 10 september 2011 at 10 p.m. and that the neighbour had told them that the applicants had moved to an unknown place. the applicants also submitted a translated residence certificate/police report allegedly certifying that their house had been burned down by a terrorist group on 12 november 2011. on 29 august 2012 the applicants submitted an application to the migration agency for a re-examination of their case. the applicants did not appeal to the migration court against that decision.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in narva, estonia. when he woke up in a room next to the detention cells in the police station, he saw the two police officers who had been present at the playground in front of him. he was aggressive and uttered obscenities at e.v. on 18 may 2009 the police investigator took a statement from m.z. he was put in the van and taken to the police station. helped to place the applicant in the police van. all of the children, including e.g., who had arrived after the applicant was put on the ground, confirmed that the officers kept the applicant on the ground by force. arrived and helped in handcuffing the applicant and then took him to the police car, which was 10 metres away. further stated that at the police station the applicant shouted that the police were beating him, while s.b. on the same day, 8 june 2009, the police investigator took statements from officers s.t. he did not hear the applicant banging against anything while he was being put in the van. none of the documents disclosed any information about the ethanol content in the applicant’s blood, but stated simply that the applicant had been in a state of alcoholic intoxication. on 2 september 2009 the forensic expert gave an oral statement to the police investigator about his written opinion. in reply to a question about whether the applicant had had a haematoma in the area of the left eye on both 30 april and 1 may, the expert replied that there was no information about that in the documents of 30 april. had kept the applicant on the ground to restrain him.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in i̇zmir. at the time of the events giving rise to this application, the applicant was working as a watchman on a construction site located in the vicinity of a military compound housing the 7th gendarmerie commando regiment in foça, i̇zmir. however, a lung x-ray taken subsequently showed that a foreign object, which appeared to be a bullet, was lodged between his eleventh and twelfth ribs. according to a medical report issued on 30 december 2008 by the karşıyaka state hospital, it had been decided for medical reasons to leave the bullet inside the applicant’s body, to be extracted only in the event of deterioration in the applicant’s condition. at 2.30 a.m. on 15 october 2008 two gendarme officers from the crime scene investigation unit of the menemen provincial gendarmerie command arrived at the site of the incident, which was located by a farm by the name of “dürüs” (“the dürüs farm”), to carry out a preliminary investigation and to prepare a scene-of-incident report (on the instructions of the foça public prosecutor). firing practice was carried out with g3 rifles at the first shooting range and with 5.56 mm rifles at the second shooting range. then, all of a sudden, he had felt a sharp pain in his back and had collapsed to the ground. having regard to the witness statements, and to the absence of any other factors that might explain the applicant’s injury, the police expert opined that the injury had probably been caused by a bullet that had ricocheted during the firing practice at the military compound. he submitted a simple sketch map of the site of the incident along with his report. the applicant informed the gendarme officers that the bullet had still not been extracted from his body and that the doctors would re-evaluate the situation once he had fully recovered from the earlier operations. the applicant was reminded of his right to request the assistance of a lawyer, which he once again declined to do. the applicant largely reiterated the statement he had made to the gendarme officers earlier. on 24 november 2008 the foça public prosecutor delivered a decision not to prosecute. on 22 october 2015 the supreme administrative court upheld the judgment of the i̇zmir administrative court. during the course of that inquiry thirteen gendarme officers of various ranks who had attended the firing practice in question were interviewed on 15 october 2008 by a lieutenant-colonel.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in chisinau. on 14 august 2009 he was involved in an accident with a car in which no one was injured. had changed lanes without paying attention to the applicant’s bus, which had been overtaking it in the other lane. the applicant had not had enough time to brake and had hit p.c. by a judgment of 29 september 2009 the anenii noi district court dismissed p.c. ’s objection and upheld the decision of the chief inspector of the traffic police. the applicant was not involved in the proceedings. challenged the district court’s decision. on 19 november 2009, the bender court of appeal reversed the decision of the first-instance court, finding the applicant guilty of causing the accident. the court found that the applicant had not kept a safe distance between his bus and the vehicle in front of him and stated as follows:“... according to article 49 of the route code, the driver of a vehicle shall keep a safe distance between his vehicle and the vehicle in front of him, in such a manner as to avoid collision in case of sudden braking by the foregoing vehicle. these rules were not observed by the driver of the vehicle which was behind, namely by the driver of the bus [...], mr igor pascani, and by no means by mr p.c.” the applicant was again not involved in the proceedings and only found out about them at a later date. as a result of the above judgment and based on its conclusions, on 22 january 2010 the chief inspector of the traffic police issued a new decision by which he found the applicant guilty of the breach of article 49 of the traffic code causing the accident of 14 august 2009. it appears from the documents submitted by the parties that following the accident the owner of the bus recovered the cost of its repairs from p.c. however, it appears from the case file that the company suspended payment until the case has been finally determined by the court.
the applicant is a company limited by shares registered under hungarian law. on 6 june 2000 the budapest regional court ordered the applicant, under section 187(1) of act no. the applicant appealed against the decision but this was to no avail. the money was deposited on the bailiff’s trust account on 27 march 2001. under the law, such deposits yield no interest. the applicant’s request was dismissed on 8 may 2001. the supreme court as second-instance court upheld the decision on 8 november 2001. the applicant’s subsequent requests to have the money released, in exchange for other securities offered, were also turned down. after remittals on 27 november 2002 and 8 june 2007, on 16 october 2008 the regional court adopted a judgment, partly found for the plaintiff and ordered the applicant to pay huf 137,280,000 (eur 514,000 at the actual rate) plus interest accrued as of 6 january 2000. this outcome was the consequence of the fact that whilst the applicant was ordered to pay accrued interest on the money due to the plaintiff in the amount of approximately huf 189,500,000 (eur 700,000 at the actual rate), its own money deposited on the bailiff’s trust account had yielded no interest. ultimately, the applicant had to surrender the whole deposit and pay about another huf 90 million (eur 330,000). the applicant challenged the impugned provisions of act no. liii of 1994 on court execution before the constitutional court; but its constitutional complaint was dismissed on 7 june 2011. this court held that ‘interest’ as such was consideration for the ‘use’ of another person’s money; however, the authorities had not in any way ‘used’ the deposited amount. furthermore, the constitution did not provide any safeguards against the depreciation of an asset, including a deposit of money subject to inflation, and that such depreciation for economical or other reasons did not amount to a deprivation of property.
the applicant was born in 1944 and lives in sliema. in 1976 the property was requisitioned and allocated to p.s. who had no title to it (since it had not been allocated to him by the authorities). obtained a development permit to carry out alteration work to the property. that amount was increased to mtl 80 (approximately eur 185) in 2010 or thereabouts. according to the government, the applicant has never requested such payment from the authorities. consequently, he sought to annul the order, and requested the release of the property in his favour with free and vacant possession. at the same time he acknowledged that he did not contest the requisition order issued in 1976 (no record of this has been provided). its sale market value was estimated at eur 95,000. the court awarded the applicant eur 21,000. had paid the housing authority mtl 40 per year and it was only recently (sic.) it considered that the first‑instance court had been free to make an award equitably, and correct to make no award for the time prior to 1988, the date when the applicant had become the owner of the property (sic.) the constitutional court also refused to annul the order, given that it had been issued lawfully and had pursued a legitimate aim. compensation in cases of a constitutional nature was not equivalent to civil damage, which could be pursued before the courts of ordinary jurisdiction. the constitutional court further confirmed that the proper defendant was solely the housing authority, and not the attorney general, as the applicant was not contesting the constitutional validity of the law itself, but solely the requisition order issued in respect of his property.
the applicants are owners of a house at 4, wagon street, rabat, malta, which they inherited from their late father in 1997. it is a corner house with an area of around 82 square metres. broke into the house and started to live there, with his family, without legal title. their allegation was not proved before the domestic courts. 1031) under the housing act, chapter 125 of the laws of malta, in respect of the property. the authorities assigned the property to c.c. on 8 june 1988, pending a judgment by the ordinary court concerning the eviction, the maltese government again requisitioned the property, under an order carrying the same reference as the first requisition (no. by a judgment of 9 december 2010 the civil court (first hall) in its constitutional jurisdiction found in favour of the applicants. furthermore, the applicants had no other remedies available to them. the court also expressed doubts as to the public interest of the measure. however, according to the applicants, the president of the constitutional court refused to withdraw. this situation had lasted for more than twenty-two years. it considered that since the requisition had been lawful and in the public interest, it was for the court to redress the lack of a fair balance but it was not required to annul the requisition order. took possession of the property and became its occupant. ’s unlawful occupation of their property.
the applicant was born in 1932 and lives in domitrovec. in the ensuing two sets of criminal proceedings instituted by i.m. in subsequent civil defamation proceedings which i.m. instituted against the applicant, the civil courts also found in favour of the plaintiff and awarded him damages. by a decision of 18 march 2010 the municipal court joined the two sets of enforcement proceedings. had been adopted earlier, on 17 march 2011 (see paragraph 21 above). it noted however that the fact that the applicant had paid off the debt would be taken into account when distributing the proceeds of sale (see paragraph 32 below). had made the best bid and had offered [to pay] hrk 43,734, and thereby met the conditions to be awarded the property, the court adopted [the present] award decision ... regardless of the fact that the enforcement debtor on 2 may 2011 settled the debt in respect of the principal amount and the interest. had got it both ways” as he had both been paid the debt and acquired the share in the property. by a ruling of 24 april 2012 (zaključak o predaji, see paragraph 51 below) the municipal court surrendered (transferred) the applicant’s share in the property to i.m. on 17 september 2012 the municipal court issued a distribution decision (rješenje o namirenju, see paragraph 54 below), distributing the hrk 43,734[14] deposited with the court by i.m. on 14 december 2012 the county court dismissed an appeal by the applicant against that decision. he sought a partition of co-ownership in the same way as in his petition of 23 may 2013. by a judgment of 6 november 2014 the municipal court ruled for the plaintiff and ordered a partition by sale and distribution of the proceeds to the co-owners. as a co-owner he was thus entitled to seek from the applicant half of the rent under which the house could be rented out.
she is the paternal grandmother of the second applicant, who was born in 1997. on various dates several concurrent investigations were opened to establish the circumstances of the accident, including investigation by a special government commission set up for this purpose, the ministry of defence, the lviv city council, the prosecutor’s office, and sknyliv tragedy, a non-governmental organisation founded by survivors of the accident and those who had lost relatives at the air show. following the investigation, which included inspecting the accident site, interviewing individuals involved in the organisation of the air show and examining the relevant documents, as well as deciphering data from the flight data recorders, on an unspecified date in 2002 the special commission reported on the facts as follows. stationed in mirgorod, as the aerobatic performance director. subsequent efforts by the crew to regain altitude were futile. deputy air force commander-in-chief on military training) was dismissed from the military “for unsatisfactory performance of service duties in respect of the preparation for and supervision of the air show at the sknyliv aerodrome, and for personal irresponsibility”; major-general v.a. similarly to the reports produced by the governmental authorities, the authors of this report concluded that the immediate cause of the crash was error by the first pilot in performing a manoeuvre, which had been neither envisaged by his mission order nor practised by him before the show, while the second pilot and ground crew did not take the opportunity to intervene in respect of the first pilot’s conduct. on 15 april 2003 the group produced its report, in which it concurred with the earlier findings made by the special commission and other entities concerning the principal causes of the accident. on 30 may 2003 the civilian expert engaged in the above assessment issued a separate opinion in which he stated, inter alia, that in his view the aerobatics zone had been too small; its location had been inherently dangerous and the pilots’ mission order had been incompatible with the su‑27 specifications. who directed the flight, had the proper clearance, experience, and qualifications; and there was no assessment of the quality of the first pilot’s piloting technique during the training flight in ozerne on 24 july 2002. 249 of the deputy minister of defence on 25 december 1998 (настанова по виконанню польотів в авіації збройних сил україни, нвп-99); air force navigation service guidelines of the armed forces of ukraine, enacted by order no. proposed six other candidates in their stead. the group also concluded that the applicable legal framework governing the staging of military air shows and the organisation of aerobatic performances had been adequate and sufficient and that there had been no need for the defendants to develop any additional rules or guidelines before the air show. and the pilots of his doubts concerning its safety. a further cumulative amount of uah 180,000 was made available to the applicants’ household from charitable funds collected by the state authorities for the sknyliv air show accident victims.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in riga. in the summer of 2007 a book called “kitchen of litigation” (tiesāšanās kā ķēķis) was published, which contained transcripts of allegedly authentic telephone conversations between the lawyers of a well‑known law office in latvia and judges working in various courts, including the senate of the supreme court. the judiciary’s allegedly unlawful and unethical behaviour provoked considerable public debate and attracted wide media coverage. on 17 september 2007 the supreme court established a working group consisting of five judges. on 7 november 2007, during the annual conference of judges, the chairman of the supreme court made a speech about the effects of the book and the public debate which followed. ... i think that the information about the alleged conversations between judges and the lawyer [...] should be treated as a signal or a call to look at the problems in the judiciary in a wider context ...... in relation to this particular situation, i think it was caused by the attitude to the rule of law and the code of ethics which regulate judges’ behaviour. had arranged a meeting in the judge o.d.j. whose conversation with the lawyer had been published in the book, had not. in 2004 the applicant and another person brought a civil claim against a third party. the hearing before the cassation court was held on 29 august 2007. the senate sat as a panel of three judges, including o.d.j. the applicant’s representative raised objections to o.d.j., on 29 august 2007 the other two judges, referring to article 19(1)(4) of the civil procedure law (see paragraph 16 below), dismissed the objections. they noted that the applicant’s doubts were based only on an assumption and that the objection did not contain evidence allowing to conclude that the applicant’s doubts about the impartiality of judge o.d.j. in the particular case were reasonable in the terms of the above provision.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in rheine. as a preliminary measure he was confined to a psychiatric hospital. he was informed that this was not possible on the spot. we respect your wish for new counsel and hereby terminate the mandate. according to article 299 § 2 of the ccp, in order to meet the time-limit it suffices if the record is taken within the time-limit. still, on 21 december 2012 the applicant typed and signed an appeal letter to the rheine district court and asked the clinic’s staff to post it. this was done on the following day (saturday 22 december). on 8 january 2013 the regional court informed the applicant that his appeal was belated. on 11 march 2013 the federal prosecutor general observed, inter alia, that:“he [defence counsel] referred to article 299 of the code of criminal procedure by using wording which was not per se wrong but potentially misleading because it could be understood that the appeal on points of law might be lodged either (by the applicant himself) with the record of the rheine district court’s registry or in writing with the same court.” however, according to the federal prosecutor general, the oral instruction on the day of the hearing was sufficient. it may be that the oral instructions on the right to appeal given after the delivery of the judgment were correct and complete. communication between the applicant and his defence counsel was impossible. on 24 april 2013 the federal court of justice rejected the applicant’s request for reinstatement and consequently dismissed his appeal on points of law as inadmissible because it had been lodged out of time. according to the federal court of justice, the content of this letter was not misleading but reflected correctly the applicable law. there was nothing to show that the applicant might not have understood the oral instructions by the presiding judge for mental health reasons.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in west drayton. she was convicted and on 12 december 2007 she was sentenced to nine months’ imprisonment. on 12 august 2008 the applicant appealed against the decision to deport her. she was taking medication and if necessary could be admitted to hospital on a voluntary basis. in these representations the applicant claimed that she faced a real risk of treatment contrary to articles 3 and 8 of the convention if she were deported to nigeria due to her mental health status and the poor standard of treatment facilities in the destination country. she then added a further challenge to the refusal to treat her representations as a fresh claim for asylum. she assessed the applicant’s risk of harming children as grade three on a scale of zero to three. the applicant was readmitted to the acute assessment wing on 12 march 2010, following a further attempt to self-harm. furthermore, they considered her to be in an extremely stressful situation, given her detention and the ongoing care proceedings. on 13 august 2010 the judicial review application was dismissed by a high court judge, who found that while the secretary of state had failed to take into account paragraph 55.10 of her own policy, enforcement instructions and guidance (see paragraphs 58-63 below), when considering the justification for the applicant’s detention between 8 august 2008 and 28 april 2010 (“the first period of detention”), that failure had not caused any damage since the decision to detain would have been the same even had the policy been correctly considered and applied. the judge therefore dismissed the claim for false imprisonment. in this regard, he noted that, taking an analytical approach to each of the periods of detention following 8 august 2008, the applicant’s detention was explicable by steps she had taken, or failed to take (for example, cooperation in relation to emergency travel documents, and the conflicting advice in the hands of the authorities as to the effect of detention on her mental condition and the possibility of treating it while in detention). the initial conduct of the claimant was her commission of the offence on her son. the applicant appealed to the court of appeal against the dismissal of her judicial review claim on 13 august 2010. on 6 july 2011, shortly before the court of appeal hearing, the applicant was released on bail by the asylum and immigration tribunal.
at the time of lodging his application, he was detained in kaisheim prison. he has also been suffering from hepatitis c since 1975 and has been hiv-positive since 1988. the applicant was still not provided with substitution treatment for his heroin addiction. he had secretly consumed methadone at the clinic and lacked motivation to lead a drug-free life. the applicant was transferred back to kaisheim prison on 30 april 2010. during his detention, the pain in his feet, neck and spine became such that, at least during certain periods, he spent most of his time in bed. having regard to the applicant’s chronic pain linked to his long-term drug consumption and polyneuropathy, he suggested that the prison medical service reconsider the possibility of drug substitution treatment. the applicant also obtained, on his request, an opinion drawn up by an external doctor specialised in drug addiction treatment (b.) dated 27 july 2011, on the basis of the written findings of doctor h. and the kaisheim prison doctor’s and authorities’ findings and statements, but without having been able to examine the applicant in person. the applicant claimed that drug substitution treatment was the only adequate treatment for his medical condition. the applicant claimed that, as confirmed by doctor h., the serious chronic neurological pain from which he was suffering could be considerably alleviated by drug substitution treatment, as had been the case during his previous substitution treatment. while undergoing such treatment previously, he had been able to lead a relatively normal life and to complete training as a software engineer. furthermore, referring to doctor b.’s opinion, the applicant claimed that he was in need of interferon therapy in order to treat his hepatitis c infection. with regard to the applicant’s social rehabilitation and treatment (sections 2 and 3 of the bavarian execution of sentences act, see paragraph 27 below), the prison authorities added that the main reason for which addicts underwent drug substitution therapy was to prevent them from becoming impoverished and from becoming involved in drug-related criminality. the prison doctors of kaisheim prison had sufficient training to decide on the medical necessity of drug substitution therapy, irrespective of the fact that drug substitution therapies might never have been used in that prison. on 17 november 2014 the kaisheim prison authorities rejected the applicant’s fresh request to be provided with substitution treatment in preparation for his release.
the first applicant, born in 1953, is the sister of the second applicant, born in 1946, the aunt of the third applicant, born in 1984, and the daughter of the fourth applicant, born in 1920. the first, second and third applicants live in lviv. they also attempted to prevent people from photographing and filming. the mayor, having learned of the military authorities’ initiative to organise the air show, took little action to coordinate the relevant preparatory activities. deputy air force commander-in-chief on military training) was dismissed from the military “for unsatisfactory performance of service duties in respect of the preparation for and supervision of the air show at the sknyliv aerodrome, and for personal irresponsibility”; major-general v.a. of the air force headquarters was at variance with the aircraft specifications. on 2 june 2003 the prosecutor’s office solicited an opinion from two other experts, both retired ussr air force officers, who at the material time had been on the staff of the air force scientific centre for combat application, to clarify the matters in dispute and other questions. who directed the flight, had the proper clearance, experience, and qualifications; and there was no assessment of the quality of the first pilot’s piloting technique during the training flight in ozerne on 24 july 2002. the experts also noted that, regard being had to the army hierarchy, it was for the air force commander-in-chief to issue an appropriate formal order clearly designating the officers responsible for the mission and determining their personal responsibilities, as well as to bear responsibility for their proper training, since the programme envisaged the involvement of crew members and the use of equipment from various military units. 249 of the deputy minister of defence on 25 december 1998 (настанова по виконанню польотів в авіації збройних сил україни, нвп-99); air force navigation service guidelines of the armed forces of ukraine, enacted by order no. on 11 may 2005 the two civilian experts also produced a report, which largely replicated the findings and the language of the report issued by their military counterparts. having been appointed to this position created by order of the 14th corps commander, he had developed his own reference document listing his duties for the commander’s approval and had done his best in performing them. and the pilots of his doubts concerning its safety. were additionally charged with exceeding their authority within the meaning of article 424 paragraph 3 of the ccu by inappropriately using state funds for a celebration of a bogus memorial date and staging aerobatic performances in the absence of an appropriate regulatory framework. on 22 october 2008 the military panel of the supreme court of ukraine rejected the appeals and upheld the acquittals.
the applicants were born in 1973 and 1975 respectively and live in p. 7. the applicants lived with their parents in a, croatia. said that on 6 january 1992 at about 7 p.m. police officer x had asked him, r.b., ’s attention had been diverted by a vehicle which had come from the opposite direction and he had stopped it. and that they had left them in a village. had attempted to take it from him, resulting in a commotion in which the weapon had fired and killed s.c. on 19 september 2000 the c police interviewed m.m., on 20 january 2004 the ministry of justice asked the c county court for the relevant documents with a view to seeking y’s extradition from the united states authorities. on 10 may 2007 the c county court sent the requested information and documents to the ministry of justice. they asked for all documents related to any criminal offences y might have committed. in 2002 the ministry of justice agreed that an international arrest warrant should be issued in respect of x. 33. on 18 february 2009 the serbian authorities heard evidence from x. he said that the criminal proceedings against him and y for the murder of s.c. on 9 march 2007 the c municipal court granted the applicants’ claim and awarded them each hrk 300,000 (about eur 40,000), finding that the killing of the applicants’ parents had been an act of terror. this judgment was upheld by the supreme court on 19 june 2012. furthermore, the act of damage in the present case was not carried out with the sole aim of seriously disturbing public order (this being the aim characteristic of an act of terror) but also involved the use of force, killing and expulsion of the civilian population on that territory with the aim of destroying the internal security and stability of the republic of croatia and preventing its lawful bodies from functioning.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in gaziantep. in 2010 the applicant and his family left uzbekistan to escape the oppression they faced on account of their religious beliefs. after spending some time in kazakhstan, in 2010 they entered turkey by legal means. the applicant’s wife was granted a residence permit in the city of gaziantep pending her asylum request, but the applicant was not able to obtain one as he could not pay the requisite fee for the permit. he was also banned from entering the country for five years. on 4 may 2012 the applicant and his family attempted to re-enter turkey through sabiha gökçen airport in istanbul. the applicant further alleged that the overcrowding of the removal centre had led to hygiene problems. the building had been infested with insects and there had been frequent outbreaks of contagious diseases. the quality and quantity of the food provided had also been fairly poor. they did not, however, submit the registers recording the occupation rates during the period in question. as for hygiene standards in the facility, there had been six cleaning staff working full time at the removal centre, and the building had been disinfected at certain times. although the total number of beds cannot be ascertained from the photos, it can be determined that there were at least twenty‑two beds (that is to say eleven bunk beds) in both rooms. no other furniture, such as tables and chairs, was present in the rooms; there were blankets on the beds in only one of the rooms and the other room had no bedding at all. moreover, a metal sit‑up bench and an exercise bike were shown in the photograph of the hallway. the government also submitted an outdoor photo of some detainees in the removal centre’s courtyard.
he was detained at the gaziantep foreigners’ removal centre (“the gaziantep removal centre”) at the time of the events giving rise to this application. in 2000 the applicant fled to turkey because he was being searched for by the russian authorities. it appears that the cerkessk city court issued a detention order in respect of the applicant in his absence. he was subsequently taken to gaziantep, where he was placed in pre-trial detention at the gaziantep h-type prison upon the order of the gaziantep magistrate’s court. on an unspecified date criminal proceedings were commenced against the applicant before the adana assize court. on 28 january 2009 the adana assize court ordered the applicant’s release from the gaziantep h-type prison. there is no further information in the case file as regards the outcome of the criminal proceedings. on 3 april 2009 the gaziantep assize court refused that request, holding that the offences in question were of a political nature and that under international and national laws, alleged perpetrators of such offences could not be extradited. on 23 october 2009 the applicant applied to the gaziantep governor’s office with a request for asylum. on 26 april 2010 the applicant was notified that his request had been rejected. the applicant’s requests were dismissed by the ministry. the applicant’s objection to that decision was further dismissed by the ministry on 10 june 2010. on 24 july 2010 the applicant was released from the gaziantep removal centre, on the condition that he leave turkey within fifteen days. it appears that the applicant left turkey shortly after his release. according to the information in the case file, the applicant met with his lawyer a total of nine times between 3 march 2009 and 27 july 2010 during his detention at the gaziantep removal centre.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in stari bar, montenegro. at the relevant time he was a professional basketball player. the judgment became final on an unspecified date in 1998. following a request by the applicant on 15 october 1998 for enforcement, on 19 october 1998 the municipal court issued an enforcement order. on 25 december 1998 the applicant informed the court that the debtor did not have sufficient funds in its bank account and proposed that the judgment be enforced by the sale of the debtor’s immovable assets situated on the premises of the vojvodina sports and business centre. on 17 march 1999 an enforcement order to that effect was issued. in the meantime, a new basketball club, nis-vojvodina, was formed. on 14 march 2003 the applicant informed the court of another bank account in the debtor’s name. on 14 july 2003 nis-vojvodina appealed against the enforcement order of 12 may 2003. it claimed not to be the debtor’s legal successor. on 1 april 2004 a three judge panel of the municipal court (hereinafter “the panel”) refused to hear the appeal until the enforcement judge determined the debtor’s liabilities. on 24 june 2004 nis-vojvodina filed a submission, denying any connection with the applicant’s debtor. as the applicant failed to do so, on 11 january 2005 the municipal court suspended (obustavio) the enforcement against nis-vojvodina. in the proceedings that followed, the enforcement judge, relying on the ministry’s information note of 30 may 2005, found that nis-vojvodina was not the debtor’s legal successor and transferred the case file to the panel on 1 september 2005. there is no information in the case file as to whether the applicant received any payments thereafter.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in moscow. had resided there as a tenant under the social housing agreement with the city. and an unidentified person impersonating sh. had their marriage registered in the tambov region. ’s title to the flat were registered by the moscow city committee for registration of real estate transactions (the “city registration committee”). on 30 august 2005 the district court granted claims lodged by the prosecutor on behalf of the city authorities and ordered the annulment of un. ’s marriage certificate and the privatisation agreement, and the revocation of his title to the flat. the parties did not appeal against that judgment and it became final. on 22 december 2011 s. sold the flat to the applicant. the sale agreement was registered by the city registration committee on 29 december 2011. on 30 october 2012 the district court examined the case. according to the applicant, he was evicted on 18 november 2013. on an unspecified date the bailiff instituted enforcement proceedings in respect of the judgment of 22 january 2014. on 17 june 2014 the proceedings were discontinued as it had been impossible to establish s.’s whereabouts. according to the government, on 14 august 2014 the bailiff’s superior quashed the decision of 17 june 2014 and the enforcement proceedings are still pending.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in diyarbakır. at the time of the events in question the applicant was the vice‑president of hak-par (hak ve özgürlükler partisi – the rights and freedoms party). on 4 january 2004 the party held its first ordinary congress at a restaurant in ankara, where the applicant was elected by the delegates to act as the meeting’s chairman. on 28 february 2005 a public prosecutor at the ankara public prosecutor’s office filed an indictment with the ankara criminal court of first instance against thirteen members of hak-par, including the applicant, for acting in violation of section 81 (c) of law no. 2820 during the congress on the grounds, inter alia, that there had been banners in kurdish and that most of the speeches given by the delegates had been in kurdish. the applicant acknowledged before the first-instance court that he had not intervened as the chairman when certain delegates had spoken in kurdish. in this connection, he submitted that, as a founder member of hak‑par, he believed that kurdish should be used in all areas of life; that those who spoke kurdish were speaking in their mother tongue; and that he believed that it was neither legal nor ethical for him to intervene to force people to speak in a language other than their mother tongue. he maintained that such speeches could not have constituted an offence, when taking into account laws that had been enacted in compliance with the conditions for membership of the european union, and the provisions of the european convention on human rights. in this connection, the applicant also submitted that the relevant provisions of law no. on 7 december 2005 the first-instance court dismissed an application from the defendants to suspend the proceedings and transfer the case to the constitutional court for examination of the compatibility of the relevant provisions with the constitution. on 14 february 2007 the ankara criminal court of first instance convicted the applicant of the charges. in particular, the court considered that the applicant had, despite warnings from a government superintendent present at the congress, continued to allow certain delegates to give their speeches in kurdish, in breach of section 81 (c) of law no. the applicant was sentenced to one year’s imprisonment. on 23 march 2011 the court of cassation quashed the judgment of the first-instance court on the ground that the latter had failed to give any consideration to whether the conditions for suspending the delivery of the judgment against the defendants, pursuant to article 231 of the code of criminal procedure, had been met. on 6 december 2011 the ankara criminal court of first instance ordered that the criminal proceedings against the applicant and the other defendants be terminated, on the ground that the statutory time-limit prescribed under domestic law had expired.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in moscow. on 1 february 1994 f. bought a 19.3 square metre flat at 22-2-68 nagatinskaya naberezhnaya, moscow. on 23 july 1997 f. died intestate and without heirs. according to the government, his flat was locked and sealed by the housing maintenance company. the city of moscow authorities took part in the proceedings as a respondent. on 8 february 2010 the simonovskiy district court of moscow granted her claim and recognised her title to f.’s flat. the judgment came into force on 19 february 2010. on 14 may 2010 n. sold the flat to k. the transaction was registered by the federal registration service. on 21 july 2010 the federal registration service registered the sale agreement and the transfer of the title to the flat to the applicant. on an unspecified date the housing department brought a civil action claiming that n. had been erroneously recognised as f.’s heir-at-law and that the city of moscow should inherit his property instead. on 8 november 2012 the district court granted the housing department’s claims. on 4 february 2013, following an appeal by the applicant, the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 8 november 2012. on 15 april 2015 the district court granted the housing department’s claims against the applicant and ordered her eviction. according to the government, the bailiff failed to establish k.’s whereabouts or locate any of his assets. the enforcement proceedings are still pending.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in ankara. m.y described the incident as noted in paragraph 5 above. for starting a fire and causing bodily harm by negligence. relying on the inspectors’ findings regarding the lack of precautions necessary for the prevention of fires in the deceased’s workplace, on 18 april 2003 the applicant lodged a new complaint with the ankara public prosecutor’s office against the owner of the company, k.n.y. on 16 april 2004 the court-appointed experts issued their report, where they largely repeated the findings of the ministry’s inspectors noted in paragraph 12 above. on 19 april 2004 the ankara assize court requested that the forensic medicine institute issue a report examining whether a causal link existed between serpil i̇mren’s death and the fire at her workplace. in a report dated 4 june 2004 the forensic medicine institute confirmed that serpil i̇mren had died on account of complications caused by the burns she had sustained during the fire. relying mainly on the reports issued by the court-appointed experts and the inspectors of the ministry, as well as the report of the forensic medicine institute, on 29 april 2005 the ankara assize court convicted the defendants as charged and sentenced each of them to ten months’ imprisonment and a fine. the defendants appealed against this judgment. 5237) that had entered into force in june 2005. on 17 november 2006 the ankara assize court convicted the defendants once again as charged and issued the same sentence and fine. 5271), as amended on 6 december 2006, was applicable in the circumstances. bore 70 % and 5 % responsibility, respectively, for serpil i̇mren’s death. who was not a party to the proceedings before the labour court. between 8 february 2012 and 3 february 2014 the labour court held ten more hearings.
the applicant was born in 1970 and currently lives in london. on 16 october 2008 the frankfurt am main district court issued a penal order against the applicant. on 27 december 2008 the applicant filed an objection against the penal order with the frankfurt am main district court and applied for the reinstatement of the proceedings. in the afternoon she had bade farewell to her counsel. she had found neither a penal order nor a notice that a penal order had been deposited in another place. the applicant’s counsel explained that no one had rung the doorbell to hand over the penal order while they had been at the applicant’s residence. at around 3.30 p.m. they had all left the house. the court found that the record of service had probative value for the fact that the penal order had been put into the applicant’s mailbox by the courier on 7 november 2008 (article 418 of the code of civil procedure, see paragraph 29 below). she did not specially remember either the service on 7 november 2008 or the applicant’s house. the district court concluded that the courier had testified that she had always served the official court mail in accordance with the rules. moreover, it was not in accordance with general experience in life for someone to check his mail in front of all his family members. she claimed, in particular, that according to articles in a national newspaper, the unreliability of the postal service company j. had been revealed, inter alia, by the oldenburg court of appeal and the kiel regional court and that an aachen local newspaper had reported that court mail had been found in a refuse shed. the court did not have to decide whether j. company had been reliable in all cases. furthermore, it could not be ruled out that the applicant had been inattentive when going through the mail because of the presence of guests. it was likely that the penal order had been hidden among other mail and had probably inadvertently been thrown away or simply ignored.
the applicant was born in 1945 and is currently detained in hmp long lartin. although there was one witness in guyana who stated that the drums containing the cocaine were to be offloaded in antwerp and transported to the netherlands (see paragraph 31 below), the prosecution argued that this had been an attempt by the applicant to set up a defence should he be caught. he was also responsible for guaranteeing the payment of duty on each shipment. he also supplied the prosecuting authorities with the original files relating to all four shipments from guyana. they also tried to reach him through his employer but were told that he was on leave and could not be contacted. premier molasses had already applied for an import licence for the united kingdom for the job relating to the container and sent it to us. the prosecution neither confirmed nor denied that any interception had taken place, or that they had or had not sought any intercept material. the trial judge subsequently declined to make any ruling on the issue. the prosecution relied on various pieces of logistical evidence which supported their contention that, as with the previous three shipments, the true destination of the fourth shipment was the united kingdom. these “material facts” included his apparent belief that he was importing cannabis into the netherlands and his allegation that vo was a party to the conspiracy (see paragraph 30 below). he continued to deny the main count on the indictment, which concerned the attempted importation of drugs to the united kingdom. instead, the trial judge re-read the relevant part of his summing-up summarising those statements. first, it was argued that the admission of vo’s statements had violated article 6 of the convention and, in particular, that the trial judge would never have allowed the statements to be read had he been aware that bt’s evidence regarding the “n” telephone call would cast doubt on vo’s reliability. however, after remonstrating with the official she was allowed to enter. finally, as far as the security measures were concerned, the court began by noting a concession by counsel for the applicant that this ground alone, even if successful, could not compromise the safety of the applicant’s conviction.
on various dates, criminal proceedings were instituted against the applicants in uzbekistan on suspicion of sedition; of creating, leading and of being members of a religious fundamentalist, extremist, separatist or other prohibited organisation; and, in respect of the first applicant, of the distribution of material threatening public order and causing incitement to ethnic or religious hatred. they left uzbekistan on various dates and eventually arrived in ukraine. on 9 august 2010 the kyiv city court of appeal upheld that order. on 14 december 2009 the unhcr recognised the second applicant as a refugee under its mandate. on 23 december 2009 the migration authorities dismissed the second applicant’s application for asylum in ukraine as being groundless. on 29 july 2010 the shevchenkivsky court ordered the applicant’s detention pending extradition for up to eighteen months, until the extradition proceedings had been completed. on 29 january 2012 the applicant was released. according to police records, at 9.30 p.m. on 8 july 2010 the third applicant was arrested by the ukrainian police as a person appearing on the international list of wanted persons. on the same day, the police lodged a request for the applicant’s detention pending extradition, based on an extradition request which had arrived in the meantime (see paragraph 37 below). extradition inquiry in respect of the first three applicants and applications for asylum in sweden and the united states of america 37. the gpo asked the kyiv regional prosecutor’s office to conduct an extradition inquiry into the applicants’ cases. on 5 july and 2 september 2011 the gpo again requested information from the us embassy, indicating that no response to its previous requests had been received. it requested assistance in arranging such a visit. on 10 and 20 february 2012 the gpo decided not to extradite the third and first applicants to uzbekistan in view of the fact that they had been granted asylum in the us and sweden respectively. on 2 july 2010 the applicant was arrested by the ukrainian police.
the applicant was born in 1988 and lives in ikaria. on 24 september 2012 he interrupted the deferral. as a result, he was required to report to the recruitment centre on 23 january 2013. the following is an extract from his interview:“question: tell us about your beliefs. question: so you are citing religious reasons to justify your refusal to perform armed service. question: why have you not yet been baptised? question: how have you come to the conclusion that god has nothing to do with war? question: by reacting in that way, were you not using violence? i believe that people should submit to lawful authority. but there is a difference between submitting to it and becoming part of it. answer: no; for me, religious reasons take priority over reasons linked to morals ...” 10. on 30 july 2013 the minister of national defence rejected the application on the grounds proposed by the special committee. with regard to his second argument, the supreme administrative court explained that, after examining whether the applicant was a follower of a religion that prohibited the use of force, whether he had taken part in non-violent movements and whether his philosophy of life prevented him from handling weapons, the committee had concluded that his conscientious objection was not accompanied by corresponding behaviour. it also dismissed his argument that opponents to the use of violence who did not publicly identify themselves as such were victims of discrimination, holding that the law required clear proof of their beliefs and that, moreover, the fact of not falling within the exceptions provided for by law was insufficient. on the contrary, it was necessary to provide evidence of active behaviour over a certain period, but the applicant had failed to do so.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. more than 200,000 gurkha soldiers fought in the two world wars, and in the past fifty years they have served in hong kong, malaysia, borneo, cyprus, the falklands, kosovo, iraq and afghanistan. they have served in a variety of roles, mainly in the infantry but also as engineers and in signals and logistics units. gurkha soldiers are required to retire after fifteen years’ service, subject to the possibility, dependent on rank, of one or more yearly extensions. (a)  the 2004 amendments to the immigration rules 13. approximately 90 per cent of the 2,230 eligible gurkha soldiers have since applied successfully to settle in the united kingdom with their qualifying dependants. in 1949 the gurkha pension scheme (“gps”) was established by royal warrant and applied the former indian army pensions code to gurkhas serving in the brigade. pensions were immediately payable upon retirement and could not be deferred. however, moving the brigade’s base to the united kingdom and the subsequent change to the immigration rules had altered the previously valid assumption that gurkhas would retire in nepal. the terms of any transfer were such that the accrued rights to a pension for service after 1 july 1997 would transfer into the afps scheme on a year-for-year basis. his pension continues to be governed by the gps and, as such, is valued at approximately fifty per cent of that which a british soldier of equivalent rank would receive for the same period and type of service. the applicants were granted permission to pursue their judicial review application. on 11 january 2010 the high court dismissed the application on all three grounds. in respect of the discrimination-on-grounds-of-nationality challenge the high court considered that it was bound by r (purja and others) v. ministry of defence [2003] ewca civ 1345 (summarised at paragraphs 41 – 44 below), in which the court of appeal had ruled that gurkhas with service before 1 july 1997 were in a markedly different position from other soldiers serving in the british army before that date. on 13 october 2010 the court of appeal dismissed the applicants’ appeal.
the applicant was born in 1979 and is currently serving a prison sentence in ukraine. he remained in police custody until 17 january 2005. the applicant alleged that during his stay in police custody between 29 and 31 october 2004 he had been tortured by unspecified police officers, as a result of which he had confessed to having committed the crimes of which he was suspected. on 1 november 2004 the applicant was taken to court; the court ordered his remand in custody pending completion of the criminal investigation against him. from that day onwards the rules applicable to this latter category of detainees had also been applied to the applicant. the applicant did not appeal against that ruling. on 14 december 2005 the applicant was placed in sokalska correctional colony no. according to the applicant, the conditions of his detention in the colony were debasing. in particular, he alleged that the drinking water and food had been of poor quality, that he had not received adequate medical assistance and that he had been subjected to psychological pressure by the colony staff. the applicant raised those allegations before the prosecutors. according to the medical information submitted by the applicant, while in detention he had been medically examined and had been given the necessary treatment. during his first interrogation, on 30 october 2004, the applicant had the assistance of a lawyer of his own choosing. on an unspecified date the applicant hired a new lawyer, who continued to defend him during the investigation and trial. in his appeal, the applicant’s lawyer contested the first-instance court’s finding that the applicant had committed the murders with the aim of stealing the victims’ property. in a letter dated 19 january 2006, a court of appeal judge informed the applicant that his request had been refused, pointing out that the procedure governing applications to the european court of human rights did not require the submission of the documents of which the applicant had sought copies.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in krasnoyarsk. on 3 june 2002 and in view of the additional charges brought against the applicant another arrest warrant was issued. this decision did not set a time-limit for the applicant’s detention and it has never been served on him. on 27 september 2003 the applicant was arrested in monaco and on 29 april 2005 he was extradited to russia. he was placed in remand prison iz-77/4 in moscow with a view to a subsequent transfer to krasnoyarsk. on 11 may 2005 criminal proceedings against the applicant were resumed. on the same day the investigator from the krasnoyarsk prosecutor’s office initiated a request for extension of the applicant’s detention. the matter was heard in the presence of the investigator, the prosecutor ‒ who supported the application for extension ‒ and counsel mr v., who left the issue of the applicant’s detention for determination by the court. on 8 june 2005 he arrived at krasnoyarsk prison iz-24/1. on 24 june 2005 the applicant filed a statement of appeal. on 21 may 2007, after two rounds of proceedings, the regional court found the applicant guilty of attempted murder, causing grievous bodily harm and leadership of a criminal enterprise and sentenced him to eleven years’ imprisonment. on 19 february 2008 the supreme court upheld the conviction. on 20 december 2006 he complained to the zheleznodorozhny district court of krasnoyarsk, which had territorial jurisdiction over the place of his detention, about unjustified delays in the criminal proceedings and a violation of the right to respect for his family life. he alleged that following his conviction on 9 february 2006, he had not been allowed to have any visits from his relatives. on 27 february 2007 the krasnoyarsk regional court upheld the inadmissibility decision at final instance.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in nizhniy tagil, the sverdlovsk region. on 14 october 2005 the applicant voluntarily came to the police to report that he had stabbed his girlfriend ms o. to death. on the same date he was charged with her murder. on 15 october 2005 the applicant was placed in custody in remand prison no. on 15 november 2005 the applicant underwent an outpatient psychiatric expert examination, which established that he had committed manslaughter while in the state of temporary incapacity («состояние физиологического аффекта»). on an unspecified date the district court appointed counsel to the applicant, mr k. 11. on 28 march 2006 the district court ordered another outpatient psychiatric expert examination of the applicant upon the prosecutor’s request and ordered that the measure of restraint remain unvaried. as mr k. was on leave, the district court appointed mr l. as the applicant’s counsel. the district court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention until 2 september 2006. on 29 june 2006 the applicant was served with a copy of the detention order of 2 june 2006. on 7 july 2006 the district court ordered that the applicant be subject to an inpatient psychiatric expert examination and ordered that the measure of restraint remain unvaried. on 15 january 2007 the district court granted the request noting that the applicant had been served with a copy of the detention order “untimely”. on 30 march 2007 the regional court examined the applicant’s statement of appeal of 23 january 2007 against the detention order of 24 august 2006 in the absence of the applicant or any counsel on his behalf and dismissed it. the date on which the applicant was served with a copy of the appeal decision of 8 december 2006 is at dispute between the parties. according to the government, the applicant was served with it on 7 june 2007.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lived in magnitogorsk, in the chelyabinsk region until his arrest. on 28 june 2011 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of having committed a criminal offence. he remained in custody throughout the investigation and trial. on 29 march 2012 the pravoberezhniy district court of magnitogorsk sentenced him to thirteen years and ten months’ imprisonment. in 2012, following a complaint by the applicant of pain in his lower abdomen, he was diagnosed with an enlarged prostate gland and underwent surgery in relation to that condition. two operations were performed in the hospital, but various problematic symptoms relating to his urinary system persisted. on 30 october 2014 a medical panel confirmed his diagnosis, adding a list of secondary illnesses to it. on 7 april 2015 the chelyabinsk regional court upheld the above decision on appeal, having fully endorsed the reasoning of the lower court. it also noted that, in addition to pain relief and therapy to relieve symptoms, the applicant could have chemotherapy, should the prison hospital receive the required medication. in the meantime, on 26 march 2015 the applicant sought interim measures from this court under rule 39 to ensure adequate medical treatment or his release from detention. furthermore, the government were also to ensure his transfer to a specialist hospital, should the medical experts conclude that he required it. on 9 april 2015 the government responded to the court’s letter of 27 march 2015, asserting that the scope and quality of the applicant’s medical treatment in the prison hospital corresponded to his needs. however, two independent doctors summoned by the applicant’s lawyer had assessed the quality of his medical treatment in detention and the compatibility of further detention in the prison hospital with his state of health. relevant domestic and international lawmedical care afforded to detainees 27. 30575/08, §§ 55-63, 15 december 2015; amirov v. russia, no.
the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in volgograd. on 26 october 2002 the applicant was arrested on a charge of murder. on 28 october 2002 the traktorozavodskiy district court of volgograd authorised his pre-trial detention. the applicant remained in custody during the investigation and pending the trial. on 24 november 2003 the volgograd regional court scheduled the trial of the applicant and seven other defendants for 24 december 2003. the court also ruled that the trial was to be held in camera. on 26 april 2005 the volgograd regional court convicted the applicant of murder committed out of national hatred and sentenced him to nine years’ imprisonment. on 22 february 2006 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the applicant’s conviction on appeal. the court decided to hear the applicant’s case in his absence. his lawyer was present and made submissions to the court. on 30 august 2010 the applicant was released on parole. on 1 february 2011 the supreme court held a new appeal hearing. the court found that the case had become time-barred under the statute of limitations and discharged the applicant from serving a prison sentence. the applicant’s lawyer was present and made submissions to the court. the applicant did not attend the hearing.
the applicant, mr mokhammed makhmud, is a somali national, who was born in 1979 and currently lives in the united states of america. on an unspecified date the applicant arrived to russia. he was granted refugee status by the russian authorities and applied to the united states authorities for asylum. on 28 may 2012 the applicant was arrested and formally charged. the district court noted that the applicant was a foreign national without a permanent place of residence in russia and official employment and charged with a serious crime. the district court also noted that his application for asylum was pending before the united states consulate in russia. on 1 june 2012 the applicant’s representative appealed. on 19 july 2012 the district court, relying on the same grounds, ordered the applicant’s detention between 28 may and 28 july 2012. finally, it referred to the applicant’s intention stated at the hearing eventually to leave the russian territory. on 20 july 2012 the applicant’s counsel appealed. on 12 september 2012, the district court, relying on the same grounds, extended the applicant’s detention until 14 october 2012. on 18 september 2012 the applicant appealed. on 13 december 2012 the st petersburg city court rejected the applicant’s counsel’s appeal. on 4 september 2013 the st petersburg city court upheld the detention order on appeal. the applicant was in detention pending trial at least until 2 january 2014.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in naberezhnyye chelny. it appears that the applicant was then taken to the police station and remained there for some time. in the police station, z. compiled an administrative offence record, thereby instituting administrative offence proceedings against the applicant. ...decision: to submit to a courtsignature: deputy chief officer, 5 march 2012” 8. officer z. also issued a written report stating that the applicant had used foul language against passers-by. it is unclear whether there was any written statement from k. at that time. on 29 march 2012 the justice of the peace held a hearing. it is unclear whether it was a public one. the applicant, who is himself a lawyer, did not appoint a legal representative. he pleaded not guilty and made oral submissions on the charge against him. on 16 april 2012 the town court held a hearing. such actions include using foul language in a public place, insulting people, destruction of or damage to others’ property ... each of these actions may amount to disorderly behaviour if it breaches public order and discloses a manifest disregard to society ...certain factual contradictions between the information in the administrative offence record, z.’s report and n.’s testimony (as regards use of foul language on account of low culture rather than in respect of passers-by) were dispelled during the trial following the interview of the witnesses ...” 20. the applicant applied to the deputy president of the supreme court of the tatarstan republic for judicial review under article 30.12 of the cao. having examined the file, by decision of 15 june 2012 the deputy president upheld the court decisions of 29 march and 16 april 2012. the applicant did not seek further review before the supreme court of russia.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in belgrade. v.s. continued living with his father and his paternal grandparents. on 9 january 2009 the enforcement judge asked the social care centre to contemplate initiating corrective monitoring of the respondent’s exercise of parental rights in the light of the respondent’s substantial influence on the child’s hostility toward his mother. on 5 october 2009 the competent second-instance court rejected the respondent’s appeals against the fines. the centre also proposed to the applicant and the respondent to stay the ongoing court proceedings until the therapy had ended. on 4 december 2008 the enforcement court ordered enforcement of the interim custody order. the respondent allegedly would not allow the enforcement to take place in the house. on 15 january and 4 february 2009 the enforcement judge adjourned the custody transfer scheduled for those dates as it was awaiting an opinion from the social care centre regarding the formal corrective supervision of the respondent, as requested in the interim access enforcement proceedings (see paragraph 14 above). the child again refused to be separated from his father. according to their reports, it became clear that the respondent had cooperated in form only and had in fact failed to take steps to encourage the child to have substantive contact with the applicant. on 13 july 2010 the custody judgment of 24 november 2009 became final and the decision on interim custody rights came to an end. on 23 march 2011, upon the initiative of the social care centre, the applicant and the respondent signed an agreement on access rights designed to assist the re-establishing of contact between the applicant and v.s. in order to facilitate the enforcement of the custody judgment. on 29 august 2008 and 23 june 2009 the applicant filed criminal complaints against the respondent for parental child abduction and continuous non-compliance with the interim access and custody orders. on 20 june 2012 the first-instance court, in a reasoned judgment, acquitted the respondent. it would appear that they have been meeting every weekend for at least an hour without supervision.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in radishchevo, moscow region. his civil action against the municipality was dismissed in court. on 13 march 2006 the applicant was arrested under suspicion of having committed defamation of a judge and deliberately false denunciation. on 14 march 2006 the meshanskiy district court of moscow (мещанский районный суд г. москвы) remanded the applicant in custody. his detention on remand was subsequently extended at regular intervals by relevant detention orders. сербского) (“the forensic psychiatry centre”). on 20 june 2006 the experts concluded that he showed symptoms of paranoid personality development, was in need of an outpatient supervision and treatment. at the same time they concluded that the applicant was sane, fit to stand trial and highlighted that he had no history of mental disorders. on 1 august 2006 the prosecution transferred the applicant’s case to the moscow city court (московский городской суд) for examination. the city court ordered an additional forensic psychiatric examination by the forensic psychiatry centre. the experts also concluded that the applicant had been insane at the time of the impugned offences and unfit to stand trial. on 7 february 2007 the new report confirmed the findings of the previous report of 21 november 2006. the court referring to the findings and recommendations of the psychiatrists ordered the applicant’s involuntary treatment in a psychiatric hospital. in june 2008 he was released from the hospital.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in chișinău. the applicant was a shareholder in a limited liability company created in 2002 with a registered capital of 5,400 moldovan lei (mdl) (the equivalent of some 396 euros (eur)). the other half of the shares was owned by a.n. ’s representative submitted that the applicant had not paid his contribution and that he had been asked to do so every year since the creation of the company in 2002. ’s representative presented for the first time minutes of a meeting of the company’s shareholders, which had allegedly taken place on 20 february 2007. the applicant objected that the minutes in question had been forged. a document containing his submissions was attached to the file. he made an official request to have the transcript corrected. he had requested to have the document authenticated by an expert, but the court had rejected his request without giving any reasons. he had presented them for the first time during the fourth hearing before the economic court of appeal. in the proceedings before the supreme court of justice, a.n. in the new minutes the applicant was recorded as acknowledging that in the previous minutes dated 20 february 2007, the date had been wrongly indicated and that the correct date should have been 23 february 2007. ’s action was time-barred or to the contention that the economic court of appeal’s judgment had been based on a forged document. alleging that he had forged the company shareholders’ minutes dated 20 february 2007. in the course of the criminal proceedings, an expert from the national forensic centre presented his report dated 7 august 2010, in which he concluded that the signature on the minutes of the company shareholders’ meeting dated 20 february 2007 did not belong to the applicant.
the applicants were prosecuted in russia for various crimes. they were arrested and detained while the crimes were investigated and pending trial. their detention was ordered and extended by the courts. the detention orders were essentially based on the gravity of the charges, the primary grounds being the risk of the applicants’ absconding and interfering with the course of justice. he was arrested on 27 february 2003 on suspicion of sexual assault and was placed in detention. he remained in custody while the crime was investigated and pending trial. on 6 june 2007 the sakhalin regional court upheld his conviction on appeal. he was arrested on 13 march 2007 on suspicion of bribery. on 29 march 2007 he was arrested again and placed in custody. on 20 may 2008 he was convicted of bribery and sentenced to one year and six months’ imprisonment. he was arrested on 15 august 2007 on suspicion of drug dealing. on 3 february 2011 the novosibirsk regional court convicted him of drug dealing and abuse of power, and sentenced him to eight years and six months’ imprisonment. the fourth applicant was born on 29 november 1986 and lived, prior to his conviction, in turukhansk, krasnoyarsk region. the government were asked to inform the court of their position regarding a friendly settlement of the cases and any proposals they wished to make. on 27 august 2015 the court invited the applicants to submit their claims for just satisfaction.
the applicant was born in pakistan in 1963 and currently lives in sheltered accommodation in haina (land of hesse, germany). in december 1991 the applicant and her husband, a pakistani national, arrived in germany. in october 1993 the applicant’s own application for the same status was refused. on 16 june 1994 she was granted a temporary residence permit as the spouse of a refugee. on 11 february 1995 she gave birth to a son. the son stayed with the applicant, who then worked as a cleaner in different companies. on 13 july 2005 the giessen regional court ordered the applicant’s permanent confinement in a psychiatric hospital. the regional court concluded that she still represented a danger for the general public and therefore had to be committed to a psychiatric hospital. a guardian was also appointed for the applicant. it noted that the applicant was not economically integrated, had an insufficient command of german, which was an obstacle to her therapy, only had limited contact with her former husband and her son and remained immersed in pakistani culture. in reaching that decision it noted that she had committed a serious act, that she lacked awareness of her own condition and that there was a high risk of her reoffending. with regard to the situation in pakistan, it noted that according to information supplied by the german embassy in pakistan, basic medical care for patients with mental illness was available in large cities such as lahore and that the applicant could afford the treatment she needed as she would be receiving a monthly pension of around 250 euros (eur). the latest of these measures, which are generally valid for six months, was ordered on 22 march 2016 and is valid until 17 february 2017. on 9 february 2016 the government officially requested that the court strike the application out of its list of cases in accordance with article 37 § 1 (b) of the convention. on that occasion they reiterated the aforementioned assurance, specifying that any new expulsion order would replace the original one and that the applicant would have access to all the remedies available in german law if she wished to challenge it.
the applicant was born in 1973 and is currently serving a prison sentence in sokyryany prison no. according to the applicant, he believed that the driver was already dead when he shot at him. the applicant stated to the expert that he had not been beaten in police custody. the applicant also alleged that the police officers had talked to the doctor in private before the examination. as further submitted by the applicant, on 29 september 2001 the police tried to transfer him from the kherson temporary detention facility (“the itt”, part of the police system) to the kherson pre-trial detention centre (“the sizo”), but the sizo’s administration refused to admit him because of his many injuries. on 18 february 2002 a forensic medical report was issued in respect of the applicant’s injuries following his arrest. the applicant, however, said that he became aware of it after a considerable delay, which prevented him from lodging an appeal. on 12 november 2001 the komsomolskyy court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention to four months on the ground that he was suspected of grave criminal offences and there were no reasons to change the preventive measure. according to the applicant, he only became aware of it after a long delay. on 5 august 2002 the kherson court held a preparatory hearing, during which it decided to keep the applicant in detention. the case file does not contain a copy of that decision. on a later, unspecified date the sizo governor wrote about the findings to the applicant’s lawyer. extracts from the applicant’s medical records in detention, which were provided to the court by the government, contain a copy of a report on a medical examination of the applicant in the kherson sizo of 13 february 2006. the government therefore submitted that they could not provide any more details about the conditions of detention there. in particular, he had contracted tuberculosis and had had unspecified heart problems, for which he had not obtained adequate medical treatment.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in velika reka. he was employed by holding kompanija “komgrap” – dd “komgrap gradnja”, a socially-owned company based in belgrade (hereinafter “the debtor”). on 3 february 2006, the first belgrade municipal court ordered the debtor to pay the applicant specified amounts on account of salary arrears and social insurance contributions, plus the costs of the civil proceedings. this judgment became final on 31 july 2006. on 23 october 2006, upon the applicant’s request to that effect, the fourth belgrade municipal court accepted the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the applicant the enforcement costs. on 24 december 2010 the belgrade commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor (st. on 22 june 2011 the applicant submitted his respective claims. on 31 october 2010 the belgrade commercial court dismissed these claims as out of time. the commercial appeals court upheld that decision on 26 june 2012. the insolvency proceedings against the debtor are still ongoing. on 23 april 2010 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal. the constitutional court dismissed his appeal on 14 july 2011. on 13 march 2012 the applicant lodged a new constitutional appeal. on 26 january 2012 the constitutional court dismissed again his appeal. on 28 december 2012 that decision was delivered to the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1952 and lives in bellevue, washington, usa. he is a president of global fishing inc., the applicant was unable to attend for health reasons. the court dismissed the applicant’s arguments noting as follows:“the court takes into account the arguments presented by the defence, including the references concerning his character. the medical documents presented do not demonstrate that [the applicant] is unfit for detention. on 26 december 2007 the city court upheld the decision of 16 november 2007 on appeal. on 28 may 2008 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 29 august 2008. in particular, the supreme court noted:“it follows from the materials in the case-file that [the court] took into account the gravity of the charges against [the applicant]..., and it is reasonable to assume that, if at large, he may abscond..., or continue his criminal activities, or threaten the witnesses, the victims and other parties to the proceedings, or destroy the evidence... that may be found in foreign companies or interfere with investigation in any other way. ... [ in the course of investigation the information was obtained that, should they be released, the defendants might abscond or interfere with the proceedings. furthermore, according to the report of policemen z. and v., the applicant..., if released, is planning to flee abroad and continue criminal activities connected to illegal fishing in the exclusive economic zone of the russian federation, put pressure on witnesses, try to destroy physical evidence. on 28 may 2009 the city court extended the applicant’s detention until 20 september 2009. on 26 august 2009 the applicant completed the study of the case file. on 29 october 2009 the supreme court upheld the decision of 15 september 2009 on appeal. on 17 january 2011 the regional court issued the relevant judgment advising the applicant of his right to rehabilitation. on 24 october 2014 the district court dismissed the applicant’s claims for pecuniary damages resulting from criminal prosecution against the ministry of finance of the russian federation.
on 29 june 2005 the čačak commercial court ordered a socially-owned company fabrika reznog alata čačak ad (hereinafter “the debtor”) to pay the first applicant specified amounts on account of damages, plus the costs of the civil proceedings. this judgment became final on an unspecified date. on 17 march 2009 the debtor paid the first applicant a part of the sums specified in the said judgments. on 30 march 2010 the privatisation agency ordered the restructuring of the first applicant’s debtor. as a result, the ongoing enforcement proceedings against the debtor were stayed. on 21 may 2014 the constitutional court found a violation of the first applicant’s right to a hearing within a reasonable time and of its right to the peaceful enjoyment of its possessions. it further awarded the first applicant 1,000 euros (eur) as just satisfaction for non-pecuniary damage and ordered the court in čačak to expedite the proceedings. the commercial court further ordered the debtor to pay the second applicant a certain amount if it failed to do so. the debtor never finished the construction of the property in question. on 11 may 2011 the second applicant lodged a constitutional appeal. on 26 march 2014 the constitutional court found a violation of the second applicant’s right to a hearing within a reasonable time. the constitutional court dismissed the second applicant’s complaint concerning his right to the peaceful enjoyment of his possessions as well as his request for pecuniary damages, since the insolvency proceedings were still pending. this judgment became final by 17 october 2003. on 30 october 2006, upon the third applicant’s request to that effect, the belgrade municipal court accepted the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the first applicant the enforcement costs. it also awarded the third applicant eur 800 as just satisfaction for non-pecuniary damage and ordered the competent court to expedite the proceedings.
he is currently being detained in krasnoyarsk. on 4 september 2012 the krasnoyarsk regional court upheld the conviction, but decreased the sentence by two months. a chest x-ray showed that he had a mild case of pneumonia and he was also diagnosed with another chronic condition. in the hospital the applicant received the full range of treatments for his conditions. his ability to walk was hindered by severe pain. they submitted that the applicant had been seriously ill, had been barely able to walk and had often complained about severe pain. inmates had injected the applicant with painkillers supplied by his relatives. following the applicant’s complaint, he was sent to a civilian clinic in krasnoyarsk for a magnetic resonance imaging scan (mri). an examination carried out on 22 january 2014, two days after his admission, revealed a prostate tumour and affection of the bone. on the next day the applicant complained about the quality of his treatment to the federal service for the execution of services in krasnoyarsk. the medical staff apparently complied fully with that prescription. however, given the further developments, it appears that the applicant remained in detention. on 9 april 2015 the applicant was certified as having a first-degree disability. in may 2015 he was admitted to the prison hospital for a medical examination and treatment. there are no details regarding his subsequent treatment.
the first applicant was born in 1952 in the novosibirsk region. on 25 january 1996 the krasnoyarsk regional court convicted him of murder, assault on a public official and other crimes and sentenced him to death. since 24 december 1999 the first applicant has served his sentence in the ik-2 facility for life prisoners in the perm region. the first applicant has never had more than two cellmates. the first applicant stated that in 2009 major repair works had been carried out and the conditions had improved. the toilets and ventilation had been repaired, a higher partition and a door installed, the window shutters removed, and access to natural light and air had been improved. on 3 december 1997 the moscow city court found him guilty of several murders and rape, and sentenced him to life imprisonment. the facility is located on an island in a former monastery that was built in 1810 and converted into a prison in 1996. individual cells have no running water or sewerage. prisoners have a water tank and a bucket instead. water was supplied from an artesian well but it fell short of sanitary requirements because it contained too much iron and sediment. prisoners were given buckets for their daily needs: one bucket of water for drinking and washing and one to use as a toilet. every day prisoners took their toilet buckets to the toilet at the end of the corridor where they emptied and washed them. the prosecutor asked the court to require the facility’s management and the regional branch of the federal penitentiary service to connect all the cells to the water supply and sewers, to install ventilation and to improve the quality of the water. in 2013, the second applicant sued the ministry of finance for compensation for non-pecuniary damage caused by the substandard sanitary conditions at the ik-5 facility.
the applicant was born in 1959 and is currently detained in dob prison. he cooperated with certain dutch and american enterprises. on the evening in question, the applicant asked for a meeting with h.c.z., while that man neither spoke nor did anything, the applicant immediately pulled a gun from behind his back, aimed at h.c.z. stated that he had heard another shot being fired before he escaped from the villa. opened the door and two men entered the living room. at the trial hearing conducted by the novo mesto district court the applicant changed his statement, claiming that when the doorbell had rung he had been in the bedroom collecting some business-related documents, while his brother m.š. took the view that the shots could have been fired from a closer range than that established by f.s., again testified that on the evening of the events at issue, h.c.z. frightened, went into the corner of the room and saw e.m.l. was the applicant, while another man very similar to the applicant had also been present in the bedroom where the shooting had taken place. declared that he would not be willing to appear at the trial in slovenia or in the czech republic because he was afraid for his life, adding that he was ready to cooperate, but only in the netherlands. had told him where he had discarded the gun back in 2001. noting that the applicant could not be present at the examination of e.m.l. on 24 january 2008 the supreme court decided on the applicant’s request for the protection of legality.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in budapest. on 6 january 2000 the applicant brought an action against his parents before the siófok district court for dissolution of joint ownership of a real property. on 21 march 2000 the court suspended the proceedings pending the adjudication of a preliminary question in other proceedings. upon termination of the other proceedings on 17 november 2005, the siófok district court continued hearing the case. on 25 august 2006 the court again suspended the proceedings pending the adjudication of a preliminary question in another related procedure. upon termination of these proceedings on 30 august 2007, the siófok district court ordered continuation of the case on 17 november 2008. an agreement was reached between the parties which was acknowledged and incorporated into a judgment by the siófok district court on 5 may 2011.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lived before his arrest in the town of yoshkar-ola in the mariy el republic. he was sentenced to fifteen years’ imprisonment. a month later he was discharged and transferred to a correctional colony, despite complaining of deteriorating health. on 21 november 2013 the district court dismissed another request for early release by the applicant. in august 2014 the applicant’s lawyer lodged a complaint against the administration of the correctional colony, alleging that they had failed to provide her client with adequate medical care. relying on statements by a representative of the applicant’s correctional colony and ms artemyeva, the court found that the applicant was not receiving anti-cancer treatment in the colony as such treatment had to be prescribed by an oncologist. the colony medical unit did not employ this type of specialist. the applicant responded in november 2014, maintaining his claims of absent or sporadic medical assistance. on 4 december 2014 the government responded, submitting various documents. in a one-page document the government also answered the three questions which on 12 november 2014 the court had asked to be addressed to independent medical experts. they concluded that his condition did not call for admittance to a specialist hospital or release. the experts noted that the drug “reodoron” mentioned in his medical record did not exist. the government included the applicant’s medical record drawn up between december 2014 and april 2015 in a letter to the court dated 24 september 2015. they also enclosed a number of certificates prepared by the acting heads of the correctional colony and colony medical unit. the applicant’s condition had been considered particularly serious between 18 december 2014 and 1 february 2015, and then between 24 march and 8 april 2015.
the applicants were born in 1967 and 1970 respectively and live in rostov-on-don. iz-61/1 in rostov-on-don, where they were held until 23 march 2012. the first applicant, mr reznik, submitted that between 1 january and 15 may 2007 he had been held in cells 117 and 118 of the remand prison, which measured 6 square metres and had six sleeping places but accommodated up to nine inmates. in cells 42, 44 and 45, where he stayed from 15 may until november 2007, the surface area was approximately 11 square metres for twelve sleeping places and up to eleven inmates. on some occasions he and his cellmates had to take turns to sleep. the first applicant produced written statements by mr f., mr k. and mr s., with whom he had been detained in the same cells in 2007-2009, 2009, and 2006-2010, respectively. the statements corroborated his account of the conditions of detention. the government provided a description of the applicants’ conditions of detention, relying on certificates issued in june 2015 by the director of the remand prison, photographs of the cells, prisoner transfer logs (суточная ведомость учёта лиц, временно выбывших из следственного изолятора) and registration logs (журнал количественной проверки подозреваемых, обвиняемых и осуждённых). minmatesperiod1188214 january to 14 may 200744 14. the registration logs did not contain the names of prisoners but listed numbers that could be interpreted as the cell number, its maximum occupancy and the actual number of prisoners on a given date. for example, in the log of 9 june 2008, the maximum capacity was handwritten for cells 42, 44, 45, 111, 117, and 118 (see mr reznik’s cell numbers above); and for 184 and 192 (ms guzeyeva’s cells), and matched the actual number of prisoners in those cells. the government also provided undated photographs of cells 42, 44, 45, 111, 117, 118, and 192, which were taken from the corridor through the door, which was ajar. on 13 march 2012 the rostov regional court amended the judgment on appeal, reducing the sentences and revoking the forfeiture order on the grounds that the relevant provisions of criminal law had been enacted after the commission of the crimes. the applicants lodged several claims for the return of their property. the applicants recovered the remaining amounts on 20 january and 18 february 2016.
the applicant was born in 1991 and lives in moscow. they arrested several people for bringing the tents. between 5.20 p.m. and 5.45 p.m. two state duma deputies tried to negotiate the enlargement of the restricted area by moving the police cordon behind the park along the lines expected by the organisers. the live television footage provided by the parties contained no mention of her announcement. running in tight formations, they pushed the crowd apart, arrested some people, confronted others, and formed new cordons to isolate sections of the crowd. on 21 february 2014 the zamoskvoretskiy district court of moscow pronounced a judgment in the first bolotnaya case. they received prison sentences of between two and a half and four years; one of them was released on parole. this judgment was upheld by the moscow city court on 20 june 2014. ... no other measures of restraint would secure the aims and goals of the judicial proceedings ...the court takes into account the arguments of mr akimenkov, mr belousov and mr barabanov and their counsel concerning the health problems which occurred in custody, but notes that no documentary evidence that these defendants have diseases threatening their life or health and incompatible with the detention in custody have been provided.” on 17 december 2013 the moscow city court upheld the extension order of 19 november 2013. it appears that the medical examination was not carried out. as regards the convoy cells at the moscow city court, they submitted that the applicant and his co-defendants were detained in convoy area of the court-house, which included four cells measuring 12 square metres each and toilets, including a wheelchair-accessible one, which the detainees could use on demand, accompanied by the convoy. the walls of the cabin had slots allowing documents to be passed between the defendants and their counsel; ventilation outlets were at floor level, and near the dock was an air conditioner. the government specified that convoy officer guarded the cabin on both sides, supervised the defendants and intercepted any attempts of “contact with outsiders”, but the defendants could communicate with their counsel with the court’s permission. each cabin measured 4 m x 1.2 m x 2.3 m (height).
the applicants in the present cases are russian nationals. their names, years of birth and places of residence are tabulated below. the companies were incorporated as municipal unitary enterprises set up by decisions of local administrations and provided services tabulated below in the respective municipal districts in several regions of russia. the companies had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to them by the administrations in order to carry out their statutory activities. on the dates tabulated below by decisions of the local authorities some of the assets allocated to the companies were transferred back to the administration. at a later point insolvency proceedings were opened in respect of the debtor companies. as a result, the companies were subsequently liquidated. the dates on which the insolvency started and ended are tabulated below. particulars of each judgment are summarised in the appended table. on the dates listed in the appendix the awards became enforceable. the final judicial decisions in the applicants’ favour have remained unenforced due to companies’ insolvency and subsequent liquidation. several applicants’ subsequent court actions against authorities, including subsidiary liability claim, legal succession proceedings or claims for damages against the respective local administrations, as well as repetitive complaints to the bailiffs’ service or the prosecutor’s office in connection with pending criminal proceedings brought in 2006-07 with regard to the company’s insolvency (applications nos. 20018/07, 10313/08, 36611/08, 56499/09, 42111/10, 43017/10, and 61212/10) proved futile. on 20 november 2009 the applicant in application no. on 1 november 2010, his widow, anishchenko raisa yakovlevna, expressed her willing to participate in the proceedings before the court in her late husband’s stand.
the applicant was born in 1948 and lives in split. she is the owner of a flat in zagreb with a surface area of 80.58 square metres. the flat is occupied by a “protected lessee” (zaštićeni najmoprimac), a certain ms s.š. brought a civil action against the applicant before the zagreb municipal civil court (općinski građanski sud u zagrebu) relying on sections 33(3) and 37(2) of the lease of flats act (see paragraph 18 below), seeking recognition of her legal status of a protected lessee and obtaining a judgment in lieu of the lease contract. and the members of her household to vacate the flat in question. by a judgement of 5 december 2011 the zagreb municipal civil court found in favour of s.š. the court dismissed the applicant’s counterclaim as unfounded. on 11 december 2012 the zagreb county court (županijski sud u zagrebu) dismissed an appeal by the applicant and upheld the first-instance judgement, which thereby became final. by a decision of 12 september 2013 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint. this decision was served on the applicant’s representative on 23 september 2013. the government submitted a document dated 16 april 2015 from which it follows that the protected rent was set at hrk 217.57[4]. that fee was incumbent on another individual. the government did not contest this information. the applicant furnished information as regards the monthly market rent for renting out flats in the vicinity of hers. she submitted an advertisement from the internet dated 2 june 2014 offering for rent a flat of a similar size as hers (80 m²) for eur 700 per month, and another one dated 17 december 2014 of 36 m² for eur 420 per month.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in sibinj. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the applicant was a civil servant of the city of slavonski brod, working in its office for public relations and protocol (grad slavonski brod, ured za odnose s javnošću i protokol – hereinafter “the city of slavonski brod”). in 2007 he was suspended from the civil service on account of having been accused of severe breaches of his official duties. on 14 october 2008, after the applicant lodged an appeal, the superior civil service tribunal (viši službenički sud) amended the impugned decision and fined the applicant 5% of his salary paid in the month in which the said sanction was imposed. he was of the opinion that by withholding 40% of his salary for a period of 12 months and imposing a fine on him the administrative bodies had punished him twice. by a decision of 17 november 2008 the city of slavonski brod dismissed that application. the applicant then lodged an appeal, which was dismissed as ill-founded by the same administrative body that delivered the above-mentioned decision (that is to say the city of slavonski brod). however, in its decision of 22 december 2008 it gave the instruction that the applicant had a right to bring an administrative action against it before the administrative court. by a decision of 4 january 2012 the high administrative court, relying on sections 9 and 30(1), point 5, of the administrative disputes act, declined jurisdiction in respect of the subject matter, stating that an ordinary municipal court (redovni, općinski sud) was the appropriate court to hear the applicant’s case, and declared the applicant’s action inadmissible. on 12 march 2012 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint. on 17 july 2012 it served its decision on the applicant’s representative. by a judgment of 20 march 2013 the first-instance court dismissed the applicant’s claim as time-barred. it relied on section 242(2) of the civil obligations act. by a judgment of 12 august 2013 the slavonski brod county court (županijski sud u slavonskom brodu) dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the first-instance judgment of 20 march 2013.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in lisbon. my declarations focused on two issues of extreme gravity since they undermine the operational functioning of the project: the lack of a cost centre for the financial management and the non-recruitment of the necessary elements for its execution. he could have either confirmed my statements or lie shamelessly. [ and it would be desirable that the reports were signed by the financial controller of the project, the existence of which is envisaged in the [project] plan but was never hired. lodged a criminal complaint against the applicant, accusing him of defamation. by a judgment of 14 july 2010, the lisbon criminal court convicted the applicant of aggravated defamation. by making disparaging allegations in respect of him. ... the phrases in question are objectively offensive. [ ...in a cold and strict analysis of the facts which were established in the instant case ... there are no doubts that [the applicant] wanted, and managed, to libel the offended by imputing to him epithets such as the ‘president of the im is nothing more than a petty liar and a poor wretch’ which are harmful to his personal and professional honour and by calling into question his personal competence and good name. they are value judgments and not statements of fact ......the instant case does not fall in a political context. we are within a weather circle (círculo da metereologia) in which the president of the im is at risk. if throughout the article in question in the instant case [the applicant] objectively criticised the assistant’s professional performance, even in reply to the previous article published on 3 march 2006, he [the applicant] drifted into a personal attack motivated by a feeling of revenge when he stated that ‘the president of the im is nothing more than a petty liar and a poor wretch’. in fact, the phrases had only one purpose – to be used as a counterattack to the interview given by the assistant to a journalist in which he mentioned that he did not consider that [the applicant] was competent to evaluate the progression of the programme, and with the aim of downgrading and humiliating the assistant.” however, that did not happen as he added an adjective to the expression in such a way as to make a sharper negative evaluation of the person concerned. and, in our opinion, [he did so] in an unnecessary and disproportionate way.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in rijeka. as a professor of theology he was qualified to teach catholic religious education and courses in ethics and culture, as provided under the relevant domestic law (see paragraph 36 below). 492/08-2002) authorising him to teach catholic religious education. they had married in a religious ceremony on 14 december 2002 and their marriage had been recognised at the same time by the civil authorities, as provided for under the relevant domestic law (see paragraphs 33 and 38 below). the local catechetical office of the rijeka archdiocese issued you a mandate to teach catholic religious education in school. on the same day the rijeka archdiocese informed the two schools in which the applicant was employed of the new situation. on 22 february 2007 the opatija municipal court dismissed the applicant’s civil action on the grounds that as stipulated in the agreement between the holy see and croatia and the related agreement between the government of croatia and the croatian episcopal conference on catholic religious education in state schools and pre-school institutions, he could not teach catholic religious education without a canonical mandate. on 17 october 2007 the rijeka county court dismissed the applicant’s appeal, endorsing the findings and reasoning of the opatija municipal court. 196/03);- the evangelical church in croatia and the christian reformed church in croatia (official gazette no. 4/12); and- the coordination of jewish townships in croatia (official gazette no. however, he could have expected, irrespective of the internal instructions of the minister, that the schools where he was employed would take all necessary measures to employ him in another post. according to the findings of the first-instance court, the defendants had examined the possibility of employing the appellant in another post but, as such a post had not existed, they terminated his contract of employment by so-called regular dismissal, which gives rise to the right to a notice period and an indemnity. against the above background, in view of the defendants’ conduct following the withdrawal of the appellant’s canonical mandate and in view of the manner in which the competent courts provided him with judicial protection in terms of the state’s obligations under the vatican agreements, the constitutional court finds that the appellant has been afforded sufficient protection of his [employment rights].” applied to the rijeka first-instance inter-diocesan matrimony court (interdijecezanski ženidbeni sud prvog stupnja u rijeci) for the annulment of her religious marriage to the applicant on the grounds that, when entering into the marriage, he had demonstrated “a positive act of the will excluding marriage itself” (see paragraph 45 below, canon 1101 § 2). on 4 december 2009 was admitted as evidence.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in split. the applicant is the owner of a commercial building in split, which he uses as a car repair workshop. the building in issue was bought from the state in 2001. at the time of purchase, no limitation on its use was registered or apparent. under section 10 of the protection and preservation of cultural heritage act (zakon o zaštiti i očuvanju kulturnih dobara, hereafter “the cultural heritage act”) the measure would remain in place for a period of three years, and, in accordance with section 11 of the same act, would afford the same protection as a final protective measure (see paragraph 21 below). the applicant was not informed of the above decision relating to the second measure of preventive protection in respect of his building. on 3 september 2007 the measure was registered in the land register. on 16 october 2007, after becoming aware of the second measure of preventive protection following an enquiry with the land registry, the applicant challenged the extended application of that measure before the ministry of culture (ministarstvo culture, hereafter “the ministry”). he contended, in particular, that he had not been informed of the decision ordering the preventive protection, and that the protection could no longer be ordered, since the maximum duration of such a measure under the cultural heritage act was three years. on 31 january 2008 the ministry dismissed the applicant’s appeal as unfounded, on the grounds that there was nothing in the law preventing the competent authority from applying the measure twice for periods of three years, and that the measure of preventive protection had not limited the applicant’s ownership rights. he also contended that the decisions of the lower authorities had been arbitrary. in particular, his several attempts to sell the building and set up another business cooperation had failed, owing to the existing preventive protection. meanwhile, the split department found that the applicant’s building should not be registered as an object of cultural heritage. on 15 april 2010, after the expiry of the measure of preventive protection, the split municipal court ordered that the entry concerning the measure be deleted from the land register. on 14 december 2011 the constitutional court declared the applicant’s constitutional complaint inadmissible as manifestly ill-founded.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in chelyabinsk. in 1992 the title to the building was transferred to chelyabinsk municipality. p. resided in the flat as a tenant until his death on 3 december 2010. however, it turned out that, according to the documents, the flat was no longer municipal property and that it belonged to l. the federal registration service sent the relevant data to the head of the municipality’s administration on 16 february 2011. the head of the administration asked the regional prosecutor to look into the situation with the flat. on 3 december 1992 the transaction was registered by the registration service. sold the flat to l., who sold it on 21 april 2011 to ya. who denied having anything to do with the flat. accordingly the materials have been forwarded to the [police] for further inquiry ... . the tsentralniy district court of chelyabinsk fixed a hearing for 1 september 2011. should return to the applicant the sum she had paid for the flat. accordingly, the flat ... should be recovered from [the applicant] and transferred to the municipality.” on 5 march 2012 the chelyabinsk regional court upheld the judgment of 23 december 2011 on appeal. according to the government, the applicant has not been evicted and continues to reside in the flat. on 19 december 2013 the tverskoy district court of moscow dismissed the applicant’s claims.
the first applicant, mr t. p. was born in 1981 and is currently serving his prison term in sátoraljaújhely. on 22 november 2006 the nógrád county regional court convicted the first applicant of murder committed with special cruelty and abuse of firearms. the applicant was sentenced to life imprisonment with no possibility of parole. on 28 june 2007 the budapest court of appeal upheld the judgment, adding that the murder had been committed for ‘villainous’ reasons, namely, the applicant was considered to have killed the victim in a particularly atrocious manner, so as to prevent her from reporting the initial abduction and stabbing and thereby to cover up a previous crime. on 14 february 2008 the supreme court dismissed the first applicant’s petition for review. on 5 november 2013 the president of the republic dismissed the applicant’s request for pardon, by which he sought commutation of his life sentence to twenty years fixed-term imprisonment as well as allowing the possibility of his release on parole. was born in 1985 and is currently serving his prison term in sátoraljaújhely. on 14 may 2010 the borsod-abaúj-zemplén county regional court convicted the second applicant of double murder and abuse of firearms. he was sentenced to life imprisonment with no possibility of parole. on 9 november 2010 the debrecen court of appeal upheld this judgment. on 13 september 2011 the supreme court dismissed the second applicant’s petition for review. on 23 october 2014 the president of the republic dismissed the applicant’s request for pardon, by which he sought commutation of his life sentence to twenty years fixed-term imprisonment as well as allowing the possibility of his release on parole.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lived in verkhnyaya pyshma, sverdlovsk region. on 27 may 2012 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of murder. he remained in detention throughout the investigation and trial. on 18 january 2014 the verkhnyaya pyshma town court convicted the applicant of the charges and sentenced him to ten years’ imprisonment. he suffered from advanced hiv, long-term tuberculosis at the stage of lung tissue destruction and chronic hepatitis c. 10. on 23 january 2013 drug susceptibility testing was performed. given the development of the applicant’s drug resistance, a medical panel at the hospital ordered different antibiotics to be used. however, in the following months he started experiencing back pain. in july 2014 a tuberculous infection of the vertebrae was diagnosed and the applicant was readmitted to the prison hospital. his application for release was examined by the leninskiy district court of nizhniy tagil on 27 november 2014. on 12 march 2015 the applicant asked the court to apply rule 39 of the rules of court and to indicate to the government that he should be provided with adequate medical care and immediately released. the deterioration of his condition required an urgent medical intervention, which was unavailable in the prison hospital. lastly, they submitted that an examination of the applicant by a medical panel to check his entitlement to early release had been scheduled for 9 april 2015. however, two independent doctors acting at the request of the applicant’s lawyer had assessed the quality of the applicant’s medical treatment in detention and whether his further detention in the prison hospital was appropriate for someone as ill as him. in their report, dated 20 may 2015, the doctors concluded that the medical care provided by the detention authorities had been inadequate, particularly in view of the continued use of ineffective drugs.
the applicants were born in 1950 and in 1949, respectively, and live in matosinhos. instituted civil proceedings against the applicants and other four defendants before the matosinhos court seeking the payment of 11,843.48 euros (eur) due to the alleged sale of a part of the plaintiffs’ property. on 29 march 2005 the applicants were summoned to challenge the action against them; which they did not. in the notification letter they were given notice that the lack of opposition would entail the confession of the facts pursuant to article 484 § 1 of the code of civil procedure (see paragraph 11 below). between 21 april 2005 and 24 may 2013 several procedural steps took place either by action of the plaintiffs, the remaining defendants or the matosinhos court. in particular: on 21 april 2005 the remaining defendants contested the action; on 3 november 2005 the plaintiffs submitted observations in reply; on 17 october 2007 the plaintiffs lodged a request seeking the intervention of i.t. in the proceedings, which was admitted by the matosinhos court on 29 may 2009; on 15 december 2010 the judge gave directions concerning the matters to be discussed at the hearing (despacho saneador); on 21 march 2012, following i.t. ’s death, the matosinhos court stayed the proceedings pending the outcome of inheritance proceedings. on 24 may 2013 the applicants submitted a power of attorney and requested that the case-file be uploaded to the legal platform “citius” for consultation. on 10 january 2014 the applicants requested the participation of an expert of their own choosing in the preparation of the expert report which had been sought by the plaintiffs. on an unknown date the other defendants in the proceedings lodged an opposition to the applicants’ request. on 16 october 2015 the matosinhos court adopted a judgment in which it ruled in favour of the applicants.
the applicants were born in 1953 and 1957 respectively and live in the village of savelyevskaya, in the naurskiy district of the chechen republic. in november 1999, after military unit no. in their observations on the admissibility and merits of the application of 9 april 2012, they stated, in particular, the following:“... the damage to the applicants’ health occurred as a result of unidentified persons opening fire on them on 8 october 1999 in the village of savelyevskaya in the naurskiy district. the first applicant had asked for their permission to drive the cattle home; one of the servicemen had gone to the apc and spoken to someone on the radio. the commander had promised to do that but he had not kept his promise and her cattle had gone missing. both of whom stated that on 8 october 1999 they and the first applicant had gone out to drive their cattle home. victim status in the criminal case and questioned him. on an unspecified date in 2005, the first applicant also lodged an official complaint about his lack of access to the investigation file. on 28 december 2005 the naurskiy district prosecutor’s office (hereinafter “the district prosecutor’s office”) replied to her, stating that she could access the file only upon the completion of the criminal investigation. on 28 january 2006 the investigators examined the envelope seized from the first applicant (see paragraph 21 above). as a result, the name and the address of officer b. (to whom it had been sent at an address in the town of kostroma) were established. on 22 february 2006 the investigators questioned mr kh.s., 30471 because of the expiry of the time-limits for prosecution under articles 78 and 112 of the criminal code. he had no information concerning the attack on the applicants and had no idea who had been the commander of the military unit at the material time. officer b. stated that in december 2000 (while he had been in chechnya) he had been questioned about the incident, but he could not remember by whom and under what circumstances.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in hatay. the cause of death was determined as drowning. the first report, dated 16 april 1998, was drawn up by three civil engineers. the witnesses interviewed at the scene of the incident, including two construction workers, confirmed that no precautions had been taken to cover or otherwise enclose the hole. had disregarded all their warnings, saying that parents were responsible for attending to the safety of their children. the experts considered, lastly, that while the municipality had a general duty to inspect construction sites and impose penalties for breaches of the laws, they could not be held accountable for failing to conduct inspections, impose safety precautions or issue penalties unless it could be proven with conclusive evidence that the authorities had overlooked the deficiencies on the construction site despite having been aware of them, or had otherwise neglected their duties, which evidence was lacking in the instant case. i was in ankara at the time [of the incident]. we had therefore put planks around it... there were no warning signs around the hole. 4616, which provided, inter alia, for the suspension of criminal proceedings in respect of certain offences committed before 23 april 1999. after setting out the circumstances in which the incident had occurred, much like in the previous reports submitted to the criminal court, and referring to the relevant provisions of the labour code and the regulation on workers’ health and occupational safety in construction work, the experts concluded that h.c. and his construction company for the incident was 85%. the applicant did not appeal against that judgment, which eventually became final on 16 february 2009. on 9 december 2010 the hatay criminal court of first instance informed the administrative court that the relevant criminal case file could not be found. and his company and the deceased children, had also been upheld by the court of cassation. on 15 november 2011 the adana district administrative court upheld the judgment of the first-instance court, and on 26 april 2012 it rejected rectification requests lodged by the applicant and his family.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in warsaw. on 30 march 2007 the applicant, who was at that time a journalist of the weekly magazine wprost, contacted a.c., on 2 april 2007 the applicant published an article in wprost entitled “agents wearing ermine”, alleging that during the communist times a.c. the article did not quote its sources, referring in general terms to unspecified documents. that the offence alleged could only be prosecuted by way of private prosecution. on 15 may 2007 the magazine refused to do so. it was available on the magazine’s website until 20 may 2007. brought a private bill of indictment against the applicant and s.j., it was argued that they had libelled him by publishing the articles and by disseminating untrue information alleging secret and conscious collaboration with the communist secret services. it was submitted that this publication could discredit him in the eyes of the public and result in him losing the confidence necessary to perform his duties as a public university rector, a criminal offence punishable under article 212 of the criminal code. in these files he was only referred to as being on the staff of the university in the 1970s. in the light of the documents available, the thesis advanced by the applicant was not only devoid of factual basis, but also incompatible with her obligation to show proper journalistic diligence. she had only received a decision from the director of the ipn allowing her to access the documents on 9 may 2007, after the article had been published and created a considerable media stir. the court observed that the amount of the fine had been determined with regard to the degree of the applicant’s guilt. the applicant and her co-accused appealed, raising many procedural arguments.
the applicant, mr andrzej klibisz, is a polish national who was born in 1968 and is currently detained in włocławek prison. on 14 march 1996 the warsaw regional prosecutor issued another decision to retain the applicant in custody. the applicant was present at the hearings and accompanied by his counsel. on 13 october 2005 the applicant brought a civil action under article 417 of the civil code, seeking compensation for the fact that in the official letter of 27 december 2004 the deputy governor (zastępca dyrektora) of radom remand centre had stated that the applicant was guilty of uttering threats against judge b. p.on 8 june 2006 the radom regional court dismissed the applicant’s action. the second envelope bears similar rectangular stamps reading “warszawa białołęka remand centre received ... l.dz....” (“areszt śledczy warszawa białołęka wpłynęło ... l.dz. ...”). it appears that the applicant complained about the interference with his correspondence to the penitentiary authorities. (a)  description of the living conditions 112. it was also noted that one day after the applicant had been transferred to radom remand centre, the deputy director general of the prison service informed the remand centre’s administration that the applicant had been uttering threats against judge b.p. ( in addition 180 telephone conversations which the applicant had in 2004 in radom remand centre were controlled. the warden, who had monitored the letters in question, had considered that they were aimed at raising tension among detainees. he considered that the governor’s decision to confiscate the brochure in question had been justified in the light of the fact that the applicant, in his letter to k.s., on 23 november 2004 the applicant lodged an appeal with the radom regional court to challenge the governor’s decision to impose a disciplinary punishment by placing him in solitary confinement. the government submitted that it was impossible to establish who had actually visited the applicant at the material time. the applicant was detained in this prison (287 km from his hometown) from 8 until 24 april 2008. on 6 september 2010 the kielce regional court examined the applicant’s appeal under article 7 § 1 of the code as to the formal compliance of the impugned commission’s decision with the law and as to the alleged arbitrariness of its assessment of the applicant’s character and his conduct.
the applicant was born in 1995 and lives in kaunas. he was approached by a police car in which there were three officers a.r., they asked the applicant to stop and take his hands out of his pockets. as the officers were getting out of the car, the applicant started running away from them. he did not respond to our order to stop ... soon he was noticed ... close to the railway station ... and he was apprehended. she claimed that one of the officers had hit the applicant with a truncheon in the police car numerous times, and that afterwards his body had been covered in bruises and he had had difficulties walking. the applicant’s lawyer also pointed out that a medical examination had detected at least eighteen blows from a hard blunt object on the applicant’s body (see paragraph 15 above) and argued that the police officers were lying in order to cover up the fact that they had beaten him. on 11 july 2012 the kaunas regional court upheld the judgment of the lower court. he didn’t complain about anything, so we didn’t take him to a doctor ... we delivered [the applicant] to his mother ... she began scolding her son and even thanked us for bringing him to her. was also questioned as a witness and the written record of his interview was almost identical to that of a.r. on 28 november 2011 the investigator submitted a report to the head of the criminal investigation unit of the kaunas district police department, suggesting that no pre-trial investigation should be opened. he confirmed that on the night of 22 october 2011 he had been on duty together with officers o.k. stated that he did not see how the applicant was put into the car, nor did he see the officers using any coercive or restraining measures against him. around 3 a.m. that night, when we were eating in the trolleybus, my son undressed and i saw that his body was covered in bruises ... my son told me that one of the officers (the one with the shaven head) had beaten him up. i asked, “why, i don’t bother your daughter, i don’t even talk to her”.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in prague. on 15 september 2008 the applicant re-registered his domicile in croatia. ....... [d]uring the first-instance proceedings [before the customs administration] the accused stated circumstances and furnished evidence which, in his view, suggested that he had not committed the offence of which he was accused. [ in the proceedings it was established beyond doubt that on 15 june 2008 the accused was found operating the vehicle in question with foreign licence plates of the czech republic on the territory of croatia as if he satisfied the conditions for temporary admission, and that conduct was contrary to the conditions for temporary admission of goods set forth in the customs act or in the [istanbul] convention because he was a croatian national who at the time of the commission of the offence had his domicile in croatia. moreover, the evidence of the accused that his wife is a director of company pzm in prague is not relevant either, because in his statement of 22 july 2008 he stated that his wife lived in zagreb and had her business in croatia. in particular, the applicant argued as follows:“in the decision [of 29 october 2008] the high court for administrative offences totally wrongly quoted the text of article 5 subparagraph (b) ... of annex [c] to the convention on temporary admission by stating [that it] ‘provides that means of transport for private use must be registered in a territory other than that of temporary admission, in the name of a person having seat or domicile in a territory other than that of temporary admission, and [must] be imported and used by persons having domicile in such a territory’ [emphasis added]. [in the present case] the administrative and judicial authorities acted within their jurisdiction established by law. it is evident from the case-file that the first-instance administrative authority took evidence in accordance with the administrative offences act and that the high court for administrative offences decided on the complainant’s appeal on the merits. however, once established, domicile is not lost by the mere loss of one of its constituent elements. us-8015/2002 of 23 november 2006 the administrative court quashed the decision of the ministry of the interior to de-register of its own motion the domicile of a croatian national who had left croatia for employment in a foreign country. (2) the period referred to in paragraph 1 shall include residence in [the country] on [the basis of] a long-term visa [that is, a visa for a term exceeding 90 days] or a [long-term] residence permit ... (3) the period referred to in paragraph 1 shall include also periods of absence [from the country] during the time of residence, if each period of absence does not exceed six consecutive months, or if, in total, they do not exceed ten months ... (4) ...” 43. it was incorporated into the croatian legal system by the government’s decree on accession to the convention on temporary admission (uredba o pristupanju konvenciji o privremenom uvozu, official gazette – international agreements, no. the practice of the croatian authorities(a)  the practice as submitted by the government(i)  the practice of the customs administration and the case-law of the high court for administrative offences 47. 413-01/08-01/557 of 12 december 2008, no. us-11421/2005-7 of 31 july 2008 the administrative court relied on the definition of fiscal domicile and habitual residence provided in the general tax act (see paragraph 31 above) when interpreting the term “person resident” referred to in annex c to the istanbul convention .
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in daugavpils. on 6, 7 and 13 october 2004 the police questioned the applicant as a suspect. another unknown young man, who had not taken part in the fight, had restrained the applicant. on 22 december 2004 the public prosecutor charged the applicant with murder under section 116 of the criminal law. on the same day s. familiarised himself with the case file. furthermore, s. had not been present when he had familiarised himself with the case file. on 7 april 2005 a first-instance hearing was held. on 1 september 2005 the applicant submitted several written applications to the daugavpils court. in his subsequent written application (“a refusal” (отвод)), the applicant relied on article 99 of the code of criminal procedure and asked the court to release d. from his duties. the written application stated that the applicant was refusing the services of d. on the grounds that all applications made to the court on 1 september 2005 had been drafted by the applicant, and d. had not shown any interest in asking the court to order the examination of witness statements about the scene of the crime, new psychiatric expert evidence, or the correction of the motive in the bill of indictment. in reply to the applicant’s application, d. presented the applicant’s letter of 20 june 2005 to the court and invited it to establish whether the applicant needed a lawyer at all. during the hearing of 24 october 2005 the applicant, referring to section 71 of the criminal procedure law (kriminālprocesa likums) (see paragraph 53 below), asked the court to ensure that his defence rights were respected. in addition, the court relied on documentary evidence, such as the conclusions of the forensic psychiatric examination. at a hearing on 17 may 2006 the applicant was assisted by m. he and m. asked the court to adjourn the hearing, stating that more time was needed in order to prepare a defence. referring to the reasoning of the first-instance court, the regional court agreed that his refusal to accept the services of the two lawyers had been unjustified.
the applicant was born in 1947 and lives in tirana. by a final judgment of 21 june 1996 the tepelenë district court ordered the tepelenë district council (këshilli i rrethit) to pay the applicant 530,941 albanian leks (all) as compensation for the nationalisation of her house by the state in 1967. the judgment became final on an unspecified date in 1996. on 15 july 1998 an enforcement writ was issued. by a final judgment of 25 april 2008 the gjirokastër district court ordered the gjirokastër regional council (këshilli i qarkut) to pay the applicant all 1,237,336 as compensation for the delayed enforcement of the tepelenë district court decision of 21 june 1996. the judgment became final on 25 may 2008. on 27 june 2008 an enforcement writ was issued. from 1996 to 2009 the applicant had continuously addressed letters to the authorities for the enforcement of the final judgments. she also instituted enforcement proceedings before a bailiff. on 23 january 2009 the constitutional court acknowledged that there had been a breach of the fair trial as a result of the non-enforcement of the final judgments. on 8 december 2009 both judgments were enforced and the sums were paid to the applicant.
were born in 1939 and 1942 respectively and live in lauf. k., who had formerly been an employee of the l. bank, had illegally copied the data. the data carrier was submitted to the german tax investigation authorities, which subsequently instigated proceedings against, inter alia, the applicants, in relation to tax evasion crimes. according to the search warrant, the applicants had failed to declare about 50,000 euros (eur) of the yearly interest accrued from the capital of both the k. foundation and t.u. on 23 september 2008 the applicants’ flat was searched and one envelope containing l. bank documents and five computer files were seized. the applicants appealed against the search warrant. they argued that the warrant had not been granted in accordance with the law. the acquisition of the data had also violated domestic law, as the secret service had no authorisation to obtain tax data. on 8 april 2009 the bochum district court dismissed the appeal. the court had no doubt that it had been lawful to base the search warrant on the information contained in the liechtenstein data carrier, as, in its view, the data had neither been seized in direct violation of international law nor by circumventing international treaties. on 11 september 2009 the applicants lodged a constitutional complaint with the federal constitutional court. the data purchase from k. had constituted a criminal act. they would thus have been obliged to declare the search warrant illegal. even if evidence was considered inadmissible in criminal proceedings, this did not automatically mean that the same was true for all stages of criminal investigations. furthermore, the federal constitutional court considered reasonable the district and regional court’s legal assessment that the principle of separation of the secret service and the prosecution had not been infringed, as the facts of the case did not show that the secret service had either ordered or coordinated the “data theft”, but had been offered the data on k.’s own initiative.
at the time of lodging his application, he was detained in a centre for persons in preventive detention in hamburg-fuhlsbüttel prison. the court found that in august 1986 the applicant, having acted with full criminal responsibility, had raped an eighteen-year-old woman whom he had lured into a forest. it noted that between 6 october 1970 and 28 may 1991 the applicant had been convicted of five counts of rape of young women, committed only a couple of months after his release from prison. therefore, and having consulted a medical expert, the court found that the applicant had a propensity to commit serious sexual offences and was dangerous to the public. he had thus served ten years in preventive detention by 9 january 2012. furthermore, in the regional court’s view, there was still a high risk that the applicant, owing to the said specific circumstances relating to his person and his conduct, would commit the most serious sexual offences if released. however, the applicant, who had not completed therapy, had confirmed at the hearing that he refused transfer to the prison’s social therapeutic department. his assessment had further been shared by the hamburg-eppendorf university hospital in its statement dated 27 march 2012 on the therapeutic progress made by the applicant. on 17 december 2012 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the federal constitutional court. for as long as the applicant’s detention was executed at that prison during the time covered by the proceedings at issue, the applicant, having refused repeated offers of treatment, in particular transfer to the social‑therapeutic institution of lübeck prison, apparently did not undergo any therapy for sexual offenders. his occasional conversations with the prison psychologists had been discontinued in may 2012. he was granted leave without escort from march 2014 onwards. prior to the proceedings at issue, on 14 june 2012 the lübeck regional court dismissed the prosecution’s request to transfer the applicant to a psychiatric hospital for the further execution of his preventive detention under article 67a § 2 of the criminal code (see paragraph 23 below). transferring the applicant, who was not willing to undergo therapy, to a psychiatric hospital against his will would not yield any success. there was a medium risk that the applicant would again commit serious sexual offences if released.
as of october 2013, he was serving a life sentence in kherson prison no. he also alleged that he had not been provided with any bed linen. according to the information note issued by the governor of the simferopol sizo on 29 november 2012 at the request of the government’s agent, the applicant was detained in the following cells:- from 19 november 2004 to 18 march 2005 and from 22 april to 23 november 2005 – in cell no. there was no hot water supply and cold water was supplied irregularly. the government noted, without further details, that wearing a special uniform was a legal requirement. according to the government, the conditions of detention in the prison were in compliance with the standards established by the court. 8 (in which the applicant was detained at the time) measured 21 sq. the toilet was separated from the living area. on 22 february 2002 he was discharged from it on the ground of his refusal from the treatment and his continued absence. on 11 october 2004 the itt governor wrote to the simferopol prosecutor that, according to the conclusion of a tuberculosis specialist of the same date, the applicant was suffering from an active form of tuberculosis and required further examination and inpatient treatment in a hospital environment. the applicant’s diagnosis remained the same and his x-raying showed no changes in the state of his lungs. on 18 october 2006 the applicant was transferred from the simferopol sizo to kherson prison no. as a result, on 13 march 2009 he was referred again to the prison’s medical unit for inpatient treatment. on 5 may and 15 september 2009 he also refused from x-raying. as confirmed by a record in the applicant’s file of 16 november 2012, his x-ray examinations had not shown any positive changes in the state of his lungs since 2008.
the applicant was born in 1943 and lives in london. in 1997 he and another british national, c.g., bought a plot of land in the glyfada district of athens. in 2002 the applicant secured an order from the athens court of first instance requiring the mortgage registry to register the deed of sale; the mortgage registry did so on 31 january 2003. was not qualified and that her comments were incorrect. however, the applicant did not submit any reports by his own technical adviser. it eventually took place on 12, 14 and 20 march 2007. the hearing eventually took place on 19, 26 and 29 march and 8 april 2010. at the end of the hearing, counsel for the defence asked the court of appeal to examine d.p. cannot be accepted as it is not deemed necessary in view of the evidence gathered so far. has produced a detailed analytical report, which has been read out in court ...with regard to the forged documents, several expert reports have been submitted and read out; accordingly, the attendance of these witnesses is also unnecessary on account of the evidence gathered. summing up, over six pages, the factual circumstances as established by the documents and the witness testimony, the court of appeal also mentioned the findings of m.m.k. without having been allowed to cross-examine her at the hearings in the courts of first instance and appeal. she had not appeared in court despite having been called to give evidence. nevertheless, the court rejected the requests in the following terms, on sufficient and substantiated grounds: ‘the defendants’ request to call the graphologist [m.m.k.]
the applicant was born in 1938 and lives in mykolayiv. among other health conditions, he suffered from tuberculosis, aids and drug addiction. he also had an infected phlegmon (inflammation) on his right shin. was arrested on suspicion of drug-related crimes and placed in a temporary detention centre (“the itt”) belonging to the mykolayiv police. on 19 may 2007 he was transferred to the surgical ward of the local hospital where he was treated for his phlegmon. the officer checked the cell and saw him with his mouth open, breathing heavily and repeating that he felt bad and needed air. an ambulance arrived at 9.43 p.m. and confirmed that a.g. died from ischaemic heart disease, which had been aggravated by acute heart failure. linear strangulation bruises were found on his neck, which indicated interrupted asphyxiation. on 27 march 2013 an investigator at the prosecutor’s office of the zavodskyy district of mykolayiv terminated the criminal proceedings, finding no elements of a crime on the part of the itt officers in question. he admitted that certain pieces of evidence could not be obtained. in particular, bed linen and a rope fashioned from bed linen, which had been found in the cell, could not be examined any further, as they had been destroyed after the post-mortem examination. for the same reasons, it was not possible to carry out a reconstruction of the events. had not had any acute condition necessitating his admission to hospital during his detention in the itt; on the other hand, he had been medically supervised within the itt. furthermore, his serious illnesses, such as the tuberculosis and hiv, suggested that his physical condition would have gradually deteriorated in any event.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in kharkiv. late in the evening of 15 august 2010 the applicant had a fight with his neighbour. during that time the police officers put pressure on the applicant to admit that he had intended to murder his neighbour. samples of the substance were taken and submitted to an expert for examination. and g. they all denied the allegations of ill-treatment and submitted that the applicant had sustained the injuries before being taken to the police station, namely during the scuffle with his neighbour. on 11 april 2011 the court of appeal upheld the district court decision of 23 february 2011. on 15 december 2014 the kharkiv region prosecutor’s office terminated the investigation, finding that the applicant’s allegations had been refuted by the statements of the police officers, other witnesses, and documentary and medical evidence which suggested that the applicant might have sustained minor injuries during his fight with the neighbour on 15 august 2010. at 2.45 p.m. on 9 december 2010 an investigator with the district police arrested the applicant on suspicion of attempted murder. he further noted in his report that the applicant had been suspected of attempted murder, that he had a record of serious offences, and that his arrest would prevent the applicant from absconding and impeding the execution of a judgment. the investigator then charged the applicant and questioned him in relation to the case. on 16 december 2010 the kharkiv regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) dismissed an appeal by the applicant against the decision of 10 december 2010, finding that there were sufficient grounds to keep him in custody. it stated that the applicant had been charged with a serious offence, that he was unemployed, had refused to admit his guilt, and that he had two serious offences on his criminal record. the court stated that the applicant had been charged with a serious offence, was unemployed, had a criminal record, and had refused to admit his guilt. it sentenced the applicant to two years of restriction of liberty. in 2012, 2013 and 2015 he made applications to the district court in relation to his complaint, but to no avail.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in stara zagora. the applicant worked as head teacher in a secondary school in stara zagora. on 19 july 2002 the head of the regional education inspectorate (“the rei”) of the ministry of education dismissed the applicant on disciplinary grounds. the applicant brought a claim against the rei, challenging the order for her dismissal and seeking reinstatement and compensation for lost earnings. by a judgment of 2 april 2003 the stara zagora district court (районен съд) allowed the applicant’s claims. following the entry into force of the judgment of 24 november 2005, the applicant applied to take up her duties on 6 december 2005. on the same day a new order for her dismissal was issued by the head of the rei. it appears from the case file that at the first court hearing, the date of which was not specified, the rei argued that it was not the proper defendant in the case and that the claims had to be addressed to the secondary school in which the applicant had been working prior to her dismissal. the applicant appealed against that decision before the stara zagora regional court. it remitted the case to the first-instance court for examination on the merits. following an appeal lodged by the rei, on 27 april 2007 the regional court upheld the judgment. the rei lodged an appeal on points of law. on 16 april 2008 the plovdiv appeal court (апелативен съд), sitting as a court of cassation according to a legislative amendment entered into force in july 2007, quashed the judgment of the lower court and dismissed the applicant’s claims. it found that the rei was not the applicant’s employer under the law and was not, therefore, the proper defendant in the case. thus, the claims brought against it were unfounded.
the applicant, mr claus moog, was born in 1972 and lives in cologne. on 16 november 2001, after the appointed psychology expert had informed the family court that he considered that contact with the father was in the child’s best interest, the parties concluded an in-court settlement according to which contact between the applicant and his son should be re-established. by the end of 2001, the applicant had visited the child twice in kindergarten. however, both parents tended to instrumentalise the child in the pursuit of their own interests. on 6 august 2003 the applicant again applied to have the family court impose a fine because ms k. was not cooperating. according to the doctor this was caused by the conflict between the parents. on 15 november 2005 the family court heard testimony from the child, who declared that he did not wish to see his father anymore. on 18 january 2006 the applicant once again applied for contact. on 13 september 2006 the experts informed the family court that they had been unable to supervise contact because ms k.’s counsel had informed them that both ms k. and the child had been advised not to talk to the applicant on medical grounds. if he had appeared to react emotionally, this had presumably been provoked by his mother. the child declared that he wanted to be left in peace and did not want to see his father. this would seriously jeopardise his welfare. on 30 january 2009 the expert submitted a preliminary expert opinion in the custody proceedings, stating, inter alia, that contact with the applicant would not jeopardise the child’s welfare. on 30 june 2009, the cologne court of appeal rendered its decision on the basis of the case-file and confirmed the family court’s decision to suspend contact (see paragraph 30 above), even though this decision meant that ms k., who – for whatever reason – had wanted to prevent contact with the applicant, had managed to attain her aim. furthermore, this period of time would also allow ms k. to reflect on her behaviour.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in vlora. on 30 may 2007 the vlora district court ordered the vlora construction police (policia e ndërtimit dega vlorë) to pay the applicant 2,795,956 albanian leks (“all”) for the unjustified destruction of his property. on 11 june 2008 the decision was upheld by the vlora court of appeal and became final. on 11 september 2008 an enforcement writ was issued. from 2009 to 2012 the bailiff unsuccessfully sought the enforcement of the decision from the vlora construction police and the national urban construction inspectorate (inspektorati ndërtimor urbanistik kombëtar). to date, the final decision has remained unenforced.
the applicant was born in 1982 and is detained in hm prison dovegate, uttoxeter. the minimum period (“tariff”) was set at two years, eight and a half months, less time spent on remand. on 26 may 2005 it decided not to direct his release but recommended that he be transferred to open conditions. at the conclusion of its statement of reasons for rejecting the board’s recommendation, the national offender management service (“noms”) wrote:“the secretary of state has therefore decided that you should remain in closed conditions and your next review will conclude in january 2008.” this consideration will take place approximately 12 weeks prior to your provisional hearing [in january 2008]. on 6 may 2008 the applicant and the parole board were sent relevant reports as required by the applicable rules. on 8 october 2008 the parole board received the further reports requested. he was granted permission to bring proceedings on 13 october 2008. leave to appeal was granted by the court of appeal on 27 october 2009. on 14 december 2010 the court of appeal handed down its judgment. damages on the basis of a loss of liberty were therefore appropriate. the applicant sought leave to appeal to the supreme court on the ground that the award was inadequate. 25119/09, 57715/09 and 57877/09, 18 september 2012. as regards the alleged violation of article 5 § 1 of the convention, lord reed, giving the leading opinion, observed that article 5 § 4 provided a procedural entitlement designed to ensure that persons were not detained in violation of their rights under article 5 § 1. he considered that no clear guidance could be derived from the cases since none concerned awards for loss of liberty resulting from a violation of the speedy decision guarantee in article 5 § 4.
the applicant was born in 1977 and prior to his arrest his permanent address had been in svitlovodsk, kirovograd region. on 26 june 2014 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of committing a drug-related offence and on 7 july 2014 placed in kirovograd remand prison no. the applicant appealed, arguing in particular that he was suffering from hcv. on 14 july 2014 the kirovograd regional court of appeal upheld the detention order. on 6 august, 27 november and 3 december 2014 and on 9 january and 4 june 2015 the applicant consulted the prison doctor, complaining in particular of discomfort in the hypochondrium (below the lower ribs), on the right-hand side. on 3 december 2014 the prison governor informed the applicant’s lawyer that on 6 august and 27 november 2014 the applicant had consulted the prison doctor concerning his hcv and had been prescribed treatment for his symptoms. on 3 march 2015 a blood test, apparently an hcv antibody test, came up positive. on 8 june 2015 the head of the prison’s medical unit issued a certificate which stated that the applicant’s health had worsened in the previous two months and that he was suffering from fatigue, nausea, and weight loss. the certificate also stated that in order to ascertain the state of his health the applicant needed to be examined by an infectious diseases specialist of the kirovograd central city hospital (“the city hospital”). on 19 june 2015 the acting president of the section, upon the applicant’s request under rule 39 of the rules of court, decided to indicate to the government that they should present the applicant urgently for medical examination by a specialised doctor of the city hospital; secure for the applicant immediately, by appropriate means, treatment to his state of health; and inform the court by 17 july 2015 about the applicant’s state of health and the measures undertaken. from 6 until 9 july 2015 the applicant underwent an in-patient examination at the city hospital in the course of which a number of blood tests and an ultrasound examination were conducted and the applicant was examined by a number of specialists. he was prescribed hepatoprotectors (carsil and ursohol). on 1 september 2015 the applicant started to be treated with hepatoprotector medicine. in practice it was difficult to get hepatitis diagnosed and treated. where this happened, treatment was mainly conducted at the expense of relatives and friends, who furnished medications to prisoners.
the applicant was born in 1984 and is detained in saint-petersburg. on 22 april 2004 he was arrested on suspicion of murder. on 24 april 2004 the vyborgskiy federal district court of saint-petersburg authorised the applicant’s pre-trial detention. he remained in custody pending investigation and trial. on 7 february 2005 the district court extended the applicant’s pre‑trial detention. the court referred to the gravity of charges, the applicant’s character, lack of permanent residence in saint-petersburg, and risk of absconding or re-offending. on 7 april 2005 the district court returned the case to the prosecutor and extended the applicant’s detention without specifying any reasons. on 15 september 2005, 21 october 2005 and 15 december 2005 when extending pre-trial detention, the district court reproduced the grounds for detention described above. on 2 march 2006 the saint-petersburg city court quashed the detention order of 15 december 2005 and remitted the case for a fresh examination. on 16 march 2006, 22 march 2006 and 21 june 2006 the district court extended the applicant’s detention referring to the gravity of charges, absence of permanent residence, his character, possibility of absconding and committing crimes. the applicant and his lawyer did not attend the hearing on 21 june 2006. on 30 june 2006 the vyborgskiy district court of saint-petersburg convicted the applicant of murder and theft. on 31 january 2007 the saint-petersburg city court upheld his conviction on appeal. as regards the applicant’s appeal against the detention order of 21 june 2006, the court noted that the lower court had failed to ensure the applicant’s and his lawyer’s presence at the hearing of 21 june 2006. however, in view of the applicant’s conviction, it discontinued the appeal proceedings finding them unnecessary.
mr semenov was born in 1959 and lives in tver. ms bachurina was born on 8 november 1978 and lived before her arrest in the village of strelnitsa, voronezh region. on 13 april 2006 mr semenov was arrested on suspicion of several counts of aggravated bribery. on 17 april 2006 the tsentralniy district court of tver ordered his placement in custody. the detention was further extended by the district court on 11 july and 11 september 2006. mr semenov appealed: on 14 july 2006 against the detention order of 11 july 2006 and on 12 september 2006 against the order of 11 september 2006. on 22 august and 3 october 2006, respectively, the tver regional court dismissed the appeals and upheld the detention orders. on 11 october 2006 the regional court extended mr semenov’s detention. nine days later mr semenov lodged an appeal statement with the russian supreme court via the regional court. on 16 november 2006 the regional court dispatched the case-file to the supreme court which on 11 january 2007 upheld the decision of 11 october 2006. between 11 and 30 january 2007 mr semenov and his co-defendants lodged their appeals with the supreme court via the regional court. the case of ms bachurina (application no. on 14 july 2007 ms bachurina was arrested on suspicion of attempted large scale trafficking of drugs. on 19 july 2007 ms bachurina appealed against the detention order. the detention order was upheld on appeal by the moscow city court on 27 august 2007.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lived, prior to his arrest, in krasnogorsk, moscow region. on 5 july 2007 the applicant, a police officer at the material time, was arrested on suspicion of abuse of official powers causing serious damage. on 10 july 2007 he was formally charged with the imputed crime. subsequently he was additionally charged with embezzlement on a large scale as part of an organised criminal group. on 6 july 2007 the zamoskvoretskiy district court of moscow remanded the applicant in custody on the ground of the gravity of charges. the court also reasoned that he might put pressure on witnesses, destroy evidence or interfere with investigation. on 3 september 2007, 11 december 2007, 10 april 2008 and 1 july 2008 the district court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention stating that the investigation was still pending, the case comprised 118 volumes and concerned fifteen suspects, the applicant had been suspected of a serious crime, could interact with his accomplices, abscond, destroy evidence and threaten witnesses. the court also took into account the applicant’s state of health, character and family status however it did not provide any detailed arguments in this respect. on 30 december 2008 and 20 april 2009 the district court issued collective detention orders in respect of the applicant and other co-accused pending their study of the case-file. the court referred to the gravity of the charges, the defendants’ possibility to abscond, commit crimes and interfere with the investigation. the applicant’s appeals against the detention orders were rejected. on 9 june 2010 the moscow city court acquitted the applicant of all charges.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in moscow. an eu-russia summit was scheduled for 17 and 18 may 2007 to take place in samara. the parties have submitted different versions of events as to what then happened. five other persons from his group were escorted from the check-in hall in the same manner. at the bottom of the record, the applicant has written that it had been explained to him that the search and seizure could be appealed to a higher authority and that, while the record had been handed to him at 1 p.m., the actual seizure of the ticket by officer a. had taken place at 8.30 a.m. at the check-in desk. on the statement the applicant has written that the ticket was obtained legally and that, relying on article 51 of the constitution (the right against self-incrimination) he refused to give any further explanation because he had been detained illegally in the departure hall without explanation. those tickets were confiscated and the passengers who had presented them were prevented from boarding. if it had been, the applicant would have been able to make a written comment to that effect in the search record which had been drawn up by the police, but he had not done so. [the police] seized the tickets and removed the passengers from the flight. [ on 18 may 2007 [s.], together with [the operative officer a.b.] moreover, several passengers decided not to fly, without explaining why. on 20 july 2007 the golovinskiy district court of moscow examined and rejected the applicant’s appeal. it noted that the applicant had complained to the prosecutor’s office about his five-hour detention and about the seizure of his ticket to samara. it upheld the finding that no criminal offence could be imputed to the police officers in question. he had not been “isolated” at the police station.
the first applicant, ms jenőné barcza, was born in 1962 and lives in solymár; the second applicant, ms jánosné básits, was born in 1957 and lives in dunabogdány; the third applicant, mr lászló pávai, was born in 1930 and lived in leányfalu. the applicants were co-owners of a vacant plot of land situated in the urban area of the municipality of leányfalu. according to this decision, the applicants’ property, together with other plots of land, formed part of the protection zone. by a decision of 4 october 2005 the szentendre district land registry redesignated the applicants’ plot of land as an “inner protection zone”. moreover, they were obliged to allow the use of their property for any work necessary for the maintenance of the water reserve (see paragraph 25 below). the managing body of the water reserve, that the expropriation fell within the waterworks’ competence. accordingly, the applicants made a new representation to the ministry on 31 october 2007, asking it to make an offer within thirty days of receipt of the letter. on 11 august 2008 the owners of the plots of land, including the applicants, asked the central hungarian regional administration office (közép-magyarországi regionális közigazgatási hivatal) to instruct the ministry to proceed with the expropriation by setting a time-limit. according to the administration office, the owners had first requested the expropriation of their properties on 31 october 2007, thus the statutory three-year period during which the ministry could acquire the property had not expired. the owners sought judicial review of this decision. seeking the enforcement of the compulsory expropriation decision. did not respond to any of the measures taken by the government office. accordingly, the government office proceeded with the expropriation of its own motion, commissioning an expert opinion and holding hearings. finally, the decision on the expropriation of the applicants’ plot of land was issued by the government office on 16 december 2011, establishing the amount of compensation at huf 39,170,000 (approximately eur 126,000). the applicants received the compensation on 27 january 2012.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in beograd. hereinafter “the debtor”) was sentenced for fraud in criminal proceedings and ordered to pay 18, 425 serbian dinars (rsd) to pp reprek, a company based in serbia and owned by the applicant. on 17 december 1998 the said company filed with the district court in belgrade a request for enforcement based on the judgment in said criminal proceedings. following an order to specify a motion for enforcement, the decision on enforcement was adopted on 29 april 1999. on 15 october 1999 the enforcement court ordered the ministry of interior to provide the exact address of the debtor. on 7 february 2000 the bailiff noted that the debtor had moved away to an unknown address. on 27 october 2000 the case was adjourned. on 7 may 2005 the applicant requested the continuation of the enforcement proceedings on behalf of his company. by letter of 21 october 2005, the ministry informed the enforcement court of the debtor’s address. on 18 november 2005 the bailiff went to the address provided by the said ministry and established that the debtor was no longer living there and that he had moved away to an unknown address. on 20 january 2006 the enforcement court requested the ministry of interior to provide the exact address of the debtor and his latest known place of residence. on 24 october 2006 the enforcement court informed the applicant that the ministry did not establish the exact address of the debtor nor did it initiate misdemeanour proceedings against the debtor in accordance with article 25 of the domicile and temporary residence act (see paragraph 22). on 31 may 2007 the insolvency proceedings against the applicant’s company “reprek” were completed. the said company ceased to exist and all its assets were transferred to the applicant. the enforcement court adjourned the case on 31 march 2010.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lived, prior to arrest and conviction, in cheboksary. on 27 january 2004 the applicant was arrested. he remained in custody pending investigation and trial. on 13 december 2005 the supreme court of the chuvash republic upheld his conviction on appeal. the court reduced the applicant’s sentence to five years and ten months. on 22 june 2007 the presidium of the supreme court of the chuvash republic quashed the judgments of 7 october and 13 december 2005 and remitted the case for a fresh examination. on 11 july 2007 the leninskiy district court ordered the applicant to stay in prison pending trial. on 22 november 2007 the leninskiy district court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention, having noted that:“... taking into account the seriousness of the charges against [the applicant], his health condition, personal profile, a possibility that he might abscond, the court considers that the previous measure of restraint should remain unchanged ...” 11. on 5 february 2008 the supreme court of the chuvash republic upheld this decision on appeal. by decision of 24 december 2007, as upheld on appeal, the leninskiy district court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention for three months. having heard the parties, the court ruled that:“... as it can be seen from the case file, [the applicant] has been accused of a serious crime, which is punishable with an imprisonment exceeding two years. the grounds, which were used to put him in custody ..., have not ceased to apply. being at large, [the applicant] may abscond and continue his criminal activity...” 13. on 27 march 2008 the leninskiy district court convicted the applicant of fraud and sentenced him to five years and ten months’ imprisonment. on 1 july 2008 the supreme court of the chuvash republic upheld his conviction appeal.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in neftekamsk, bashkortostan republic. on 4 september 2008 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of causing and inciting prostitution of minors and unlawful breaking and entering. the court considers that [a less strict] restrictive measure cannot be applied.” the applicant remained in custody pending investigation and trial. each time the supreme court issued a collective detention order in respect of five defendants, including the applicant, and noted that the circumstances underlying their remand in custody had not ceased to exist. the applicant’s appeals were to no avail. he was acquitted of organisation of a criminal gang and one count of causing and inciting prostitution of minors. on 21 july 2011 the applicant was released on parole. following the remand in custody on 5 september 2008, the applicant was detained in remand prison no. iz 3/5 in dyurtyuli where he was detained until 12 october 2009. on 17 april 2009 the court sent a letter to the applicant which contained an application form to be filled out. according to the stamp on the court’s letter of 17 april 2009, the correctional colony received it on 2 september 2009. then the administration of the correctional colony sent the letter back to remand prison no. the remand prison received it on 14 september 2009 and forwarded it to remand prison no. the letter arrived there on 2 october 2009 and on the same day the applicant received it (according to the applicant, he received the letter on 5 october 2009).
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in kaunas. the apartment was pledged to the bank as collateral. both loans were administered by a state bank, the state commercial bank of lithuania (hereinafter “the bank”). the right to restoration of title in respect of 1.47 hectares of land in kaunas. ’s land, as established by the kaunas district court (see paragraph 7 above), had been incorrect, and recommended that the kca suspend the restoration of property rights in respect of any land which had previously been considered as belonging to s.f. following the internal audit, on 14 december 2001 the kca suspended the restoration of property rights in respect of s.f. subsequently the kaunas regional prosecutor (hereinafter “the prosecutor”), at the request of the kca and relying on the findings of the audit report, asked the domestic courts to reopen the civil proceedings concerning the size of s.f. on 26 october 2004 the kaunas regional administrative court granted the prosecutor’s application. on that same day the bank received the certificate from the ministry and cancelled the applicant’s debt. it appears that from 23 october 2001 to 6 december 2004 the applicant did not make any loan repayments to the bank and the bank did not request any such payments. in those proceedings, the courts did not examine whether the applicant had been under an obligation to pay interest and late payment fines under the loan agreement of 2000, because she had not made such a claim. as submitted by the applicant and not disputed by the government, on an unspecified date in 2006 the applicant paid ltl 10,231.23 (eur 2,963.17) in interest and late payment fines requested by the bank under that agreement. on 3 july 2006 the applicant submitted to the kaunas regional administrative court a civil claim for damages against the kca, the prosecutor general’s office and the ministry of finance. on 26 april 2007 the applicant submitted to the kaunas regional administrative court a civil claim for damages against the kca only. accordingly, the supreme administrative court concluded that the kca could not be held responsible for the suspension of the restoration of the applicant’s property rights and the cancellation of her debt, and thus there were no grounds to award her damages.
the applicants were born in 1947 and 1950, respectively. the first applicant, mr kryukov, lives in kolpashevo, the tomsk region. the second applicant, mr lantsev, died on 28 october 2007. on 10 march 2008 his widow, ms raisa pavlovna lantseva, stated her wish to pursue the complaint of her late husband before the court. on 16, 20 and 22 january 1998 the applicants amended their claims. on 23 april 1998 the town court allowed the applicants’ claims in part. on 8 september 1998 the regional court upheld the judgment in part but remitted the claim for salary arrears for a fresh examination. on 25 november and 8 december 1998 the hearings were adjourned at the applicants’ request. on 15 december 1998 the applicants further amended their claims and asked for a forensic accountant to be appointed. on 11 february 1999 the applicants lodged a new claim. on 26 august and 30 november 1999 the hearings were adjourned. on 15 february 2000 the judgment was upheld on appeal by the regional court. on 23 may 2002 the hearing was adjourned until 30 july 2002 for collecting additional evidence, on 1 november 2002 - for obtaining a graphologist’s report, and on 26 may 2003 – for taking further evidence from the defendant. on 31 july and 31 october 2002 and 27 may 2003 the applicants lodged new claims. on 4 june 2003 the proceedings were stayed as the defendant company was in the process of reorganisation which lasted until 19 july 2004.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in tambov. on 23 october 2006 the leninskiy district court of tambov (“the district court”) ordered the tambov town administration to pay the applicant approximately 776,150 russian roubles (rub) in social benefits and inflation losses, and recalculated regular payments received by the applicant due to his participation in the clean-up operation at the chernobyl nuclear disaster site. the judgment entered into force on 3 november 2006. on 7 november 2006 the district court clarified the judgment of 23 october 2006. on 29 november 2007 the judgment of 23 october 2006 was executed, i.e. in approximately one year and one month after it became final. on 1 august 2008 the district court awarded the applicant rub 87,060.05 of interest and rub 5,000 in compensation for non-pecuniary damage in respect of the delayed enforcement of the judgment of 23 october 2006. the decision came into force on 10 september 2008 and was fully enforced on 24 november 2008.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lived, prior to his arrest in st petersburg. on 20 december 2005 the applicant was put on the wanted list on suspicion of a murder and gangsterism. on 17 july 2007 the vyborskiy district court of st petersburg remanded the applicant in custody in absentia. on 20 october 2007 the applicant was arrested in hungary. on 13 september 2008 he was extradited to russia and placed in detention. on 28 april 2009 the st petersburg city court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention referring to the seriousness of the charges and the applicant’s attempt to abscond. the applicant remained in detention pending investigation and trial. the court concisely reiterated in its detention orders the above reasons and stated that the applicant might interfere with investigation, commit crimes, threaten witnesses and that he could not be released on bail. the applicant’s appeals against the detention orders were rejected on the following dates: date of the detention orderdate of the introduction of the appealdate of the appeal hearing28 april 20094 may 20092 july 20094 may 20098 may 20092 july 200919 august 200931 august 200922 october 200914 october 200916 october 200921 december 200914 january 201018 january 201016 february 201015 february 201018 february 201026 april 2010 11. on 29 april 2010 the saint-petersburg city court convicted him of murder and gangsterism and sentenced him to 16 years’ imprisonment. on 7 october 2010 the supreme court of russia upheld this decision on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1967 and until his conviction lived in ivdel, a town in the sverdlovsk region. in april 2000 the applicant was arrested on charges of murder and arson. on 24 july 2000, as the investigation unfolded, the local official newspaper the north star printed an interview with a deputy town prosecutor about a spike in murder rates. twelve of them have already been solved, thanks to the industry of the police department and the investigators from the prosecutor’s office....the fingerprint identification of ex-convict [n.b.] ( whose body was found in [a river]) has allowed to discover his enemies and to prove that he was beaten by three inhabitants of ivdel seeking [...] to settle scores for his murder of [another man] for which [he] had served almost nine years. who had dared to report them to the police for past wrongs. [ her] body was dumped in a wood near the airport and was found only in may. as those crimes were not solved in time, [the applicant’s codefendant] rampaged on and on 20 april killed [another woman] who had witnessed the night-time arson at vizhayskaya street that had killed five. and [the other woman] (whose body was found in a well next to the sports centre) had been garrotted with a wire. all three persons arrested in this multicount case will undergo forensic psychiatric observation because of the gravity of the crimes committed, which carry up to twenty years or life in prison. but even after these downright senseless murders, the crime wave in the town continued.” when the case came to trial before the sverdlovsk regional court, the applicant moved to disqualify the prosecutor for the prejudice apparent in that interview. on 4 october 2002 the court refused the motion because the prosecutor had only cited facts from the investigative file, had affirmed the applicant’s complicity but not his guilt, and was not personally interested in the outcome of the trial. on 22 january 2003 the court sentenced the applicant to twenty years’ imprisonment for arson and the murders of n.b. in reply to a post-conviction complaint brought by the applicant, in december 2004 the sverdovsk regional prosecutor’s office found that the interview had breached the agency’s ethics policy as it had preceded the trial without, however, tangibly redressing the applicant.
the applicants were prosecuted in russia for various crimes. they were arrested and detained pending investigation and trial. their detention was ordered and extended by the courts. the detention orders were essentially based on the gravity of the charges, the primary grounds being the risk of the applicants’ absconding and interfering with the course of justice. the detention and extension orders used stereotyped formulae, without addressing specific facts or considering alternative preventive measures. the first applicant was born in 1973 and lived, prior to his arrest, in yekaterinburg, sverdlovsk region. in 2007 the applicant was arrested in ukraine. on 24 may 2008 he was extradited to russia and was placed in pre-trial detention until 27 december 2010 when he was released on bail. on 22 april 2011 the kirovskiy district court of yekaterinburg convicted him of fraud. the second applicant was born in 1978 and lived, prior to his arrest, in angarsk, irkutsk region. on 23 september 2007 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of fraud. on 25 september 2007 the court remanded him in custody. on 24 june 2010 the irkutsk regional court convicted the applicant of fraud. the applicant was arrested on 16 august 2012. on 17 august 2012 the court held to place him in pre-trial detention.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lived in cheboksary before his conviction. he is currently serving a sentence in novocheboksarsk. on 8 september 2006 g. was found dead in her flat with several gunshot wounds. and f., who were drunk at the time, demanded that he confess to the theft and murder. this course of events was reported by police officers ch. and f. to their superior on 7 october 2006. shortly before 6 a.m. on 7 october 2006 the applicant was given first aid by the ambulance service, which diagnosed him with a closed head injury, concussion and bruises of the soft tissue on the face and on both feet. at 2.15 p.m. on 13 october 2006 an investigator from the moskovskiy district prosecutor’s office drew up a record of the applicant’s arrest at 2.10 p.m. that day on suspicion of the murder. (ii)  a refusal on 12 december 2006 was overruled on 13 december 2006. in the most recent refusal issued on 2 december 2008 investigator a. from the cheboksary investigative committee found that the applicant, who had been wanted in the theft case, had been arrested and taken to the police station and remained there on suspicion of committing it. the investigator stated that injuries other than those to both feet had been found on the applicant at the time of his admission, as set out in the forensic medical expert’s report of 14 december 2006. the incident had prompted the police to install iron bars on it. the decision of 2 december 2008 also referred to the applicant’s statements that immediately before his arrest he had been drinking, and to statements by the investigator from the district police and a police officer who had guarded the applicant at the hospital on 9 october 2006 that the applicant had allegedly stated off the record that he had jumped out of the window himself trying to flee, without any influence by the police officers. in his earlier statements set out in the refusal to open a criminal case of 21 october 2006, t. explained that at around 5 to 6 a.m. on 7 october 2006 he had seen on a monitor that somebody was lying near the entrance of the police station. police officers and ambulance staff approached him.
the applicants are russian nationals who live in kizel, perm region. their names and dates of birth are tabulated below. the applicants sued the municipal unitary enterprise “gorvodokanal” (муп «горводоканал») (hereafter “the company”) for salary arrears. the company was incorporated as a municipal unitary enterprise set up by a decision of the local administration and provided water supply in the town of kizel. the company had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to it by the administration in order to carry out its statutory activities. on 7 september 2006 the company was declared insolvent and its liquidation started. in 2007 and 2009 domestic courts by separate judgments made pecuniary awards in the applicants’ favour, to be paid by the company. particulars of each judgment are summarised in the appended table. on the dates listed in the appendix the awards became enforceable. the applicants alleged that the judgments had remained unenforced. according to the government, all the judgments, except the one delivered on 16 october 2009 in mr martov’s favour, had been fully enforced in december 2007-april 2010. the judgment of 16 october 2009 had not been enforced since mr martov had failed to submit the execution writ to the liquidator. the government corroborated their statements by a certificate issued by the company’s liquidator on 6 february 2012. the document says nothing about other applicants. the applicants submitted to the court a copy of a letter they had received from the prosecutor’s office of kizel, dated 3 june 2011.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lived, prior to his arrest, in irkutsk. on 14 may 2008 the applicant was arrested. on an unspecified date he was charged with three counts of pimping and pandering, extortion and illegal keeping of firearms. on 5 march 2009 he was committed for trial before the oktyabrskiy district court of irkutsk. on 3 august 2009 the district court extended his pre-trial detention on the ground that the circumstances of the case had not changed since the applicant’s arrest, he was accused of a serious crime, did not live at his domicile, hence he could abscond, threaten witnesses and interfere with the investigation. on 26 november 2009 and 2 march 2010 the district court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention referring to the above grounds and stating that the victims of his crimes were minors. the court also took into account the applicant’s character, his state of health and age. the applicant’s appeals against the detention orders were rejected. on 29 march 2010 the district court convicted him as charged.
during the autumn of 2004 the applicant assembled several explosive devices with the purpose of extorting money from commercial banks in order to donate the proceeds to orphans. on 25 december 2004 he planted and exploded one of the devices in front of the bank m.; there were no casualties. he then planted another explosive device equipped with a timer and accompanied by a threatening note. in april 2012 his schizotypal personality disorder condition was noted several times as being in stable remission. refuses to consume food and to give samples for analysis. suspicious of all statements and actions directed at him. on monday, 17 september 2012 the hospital applied for judicial authorisation of the applicant’s involuntary hospitalisation under section 29 (a) and (c) of the psychiatric assistance act 1992, since the applicant was a danger to himself or others and there was a risk of significant damage to his health owing to the deterioration or aggravation of his psychiatric condition in the absence of psychiatric assistance. on the same day the gorno-altayskiy town court (горно-алтайский городской суд, hereinafter “the town court”) received the application and extended the applicant’s detention until 20 september 2012. on 19 september 2012 the town court granted the application for the applicant’s involuntary hospitalisation. [according to his medical records] on 7 november 2011 mr makarov complained of aggravation of his mental state: tension, restless sleep, gloominess, references to the need for psychiatric treatment, however he refused it owing to lack of trust in the doctors ...between december 2011 and march 2012 mr makarov did not visit his attending psychiatrists despite repeated reminders ...on 11 july 2012 during a visit to his attending psychiatrist mr makarov complained of ‘bad ideas of killing mr b.’ and other persons said by him to be involved in making his diagnosis public. schizotypal personality disorder in acute state. there are no reasons to doubt the objectivity and impartiality of the experts. on 29 october 2012 his counsel lodged an additional statement of appeal. on 14 november 2012 the supreme court of the republic of altay (верховный суд республики алтай) dismissed the appeal and upheld the lower court’s order as well-reasoned and lawful. concerning the applicant’s detention beyond the time-limit without a court order, the supreme court stated that the delay had been caused by the hospital administration, while the courts had complied with the procedural time-limits.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in shuya, in the ivanovo region. the judgment came into force on 9 november 1999. according to the new law, such payments were to be adjusted in accordance with changes in the level of inflation. the minimum monthly salary no longer served as the basis for index-linking. in november 2006 the ministry applied the new method of index‑linking, and recalculated the monthly payments to be paid to the applicant. the applicant initiated three sets of proceedings, claiming delay interest in respect of three distinct periods. on 22 february and 3 april 2007 (upheld on 20 july 2007) the justice of the peace of elistinskiy court circuit no. 5 of the republic of kalmykiya (“the justice of the peace”) ordered the ministry to pay the applicant the interest in respect of certain delays in the monthly payments, in accordance with the judgment of 27 october 1999. on 3 april 2007 the court calculated the delay interest based on the amount of the monthly payments, as index-linked in line with the rate of inflation. on 7 may 2007 the justice of the peace refused the applicant’s claim for the delay interest. the court held that, in the absence of a relevant judicial decision, the ministry had unlawfully changed the mode of index-linking ordered by the judgment of 27 october 1999. on 11 october 2007 the supreme court of the republic of kalmykiya upheld the decision of the town court. in a letter received on 1 october 2009 the applicant informed the court that in august 2009 the ministry had stopped paying the monthly payments, owing to a lack of funds in the relevant budget. according to the government, the amount due to the applicant from august 2009 onwards was paid to her in full on 8 october 2009. the judgment came into force on 23 november 2009, and was executed on 9 december 2009.
he owned a house with a yard in plovdiv, which were expropriated in 1982 on the basis of section 98 (1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973 (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство) with a view to constructing a residential building. the expropriation decision stated that the applicant was to be compensated with a two-room flat and a garage in a building which the municipality intended to construct. on an unspecified date the flat due in compensation was constructed and delivered. however, the applicant never received the garage which had also been due to him. in april 2008 the applicant complained to the plovdiv municipality of the failure to provide him with a garage. by a letter of 11 june 2008 the deputy mayor of plovdiv informed him that the municipality had no garages available and that it was currently constructing a building with underground garages, one of which could be offered to him. in february 2010 the applicant wrote once again to the municipality, and was informed in reply that the construction of the building mentioned earlier had not been completed. in 2014 the municipality offered the applicants’ heirs a garage, which the latter refused as it was situated at more than ten kilometers from their place of residence.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in pernik. her mother owned a house with a yard in the city, which were expropriated in 1978 on the basis of section 98 (1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973 (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство – “the tupa”) with a view to constructing a highway. it was stated in the expropriation decision that the applicant’s mother was to be compensated with a three-room flat, and the applicant was to receive a two‑room flat. the flat that the applicant’s mother was due was constructed and provided to her in 1985. until then the family lived in a municipally-owned dwelling. the expropriated house was pulled down in 1986. in a decision of 14 july 2000, issued on the basis of section 100 of the tupa, the pernik mayor indicated the exact flat to be provided to the applicant. it measured 75 square metres and was situated in a building under construction. it was stated in the decision that the flat’s value was 22,424.84 bulgarian levs (bgn), although it was not specified whether this amount took into account the value of the expropriated properties. later on in 2000 the applicant paid to the municipality bgn 28,000 for the flat’s value; it is unclear how this amount was arrived at. the building where the flat was situated was completed in 2003, but the flat that the applicant was due was never handed over to her. the applicant was told that it had been transferred by the municipality to third parties. in the following years the applicant and her mother filed complaints with the regional governor, the prime minister and the parliament. the authorities have not yet fulfilled their obligation to provide the applicant with a flat. the applicant states that she does not have another dwelling and that together with her husband and children she has been living with her parents in their flat.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in prague. the applicant has attempted to regain his legal capacity several times, but his requests have always been refused. on 8 august 2013 the municipal court quashed the judgment of 16 october 2012 and sent the case back to the district court which in a judgment of 12 june 2014 decided to limit the legal capacity of the applicant, for a period of twelve months, so that he was not entitled to dispose of funds exceeding 1,500 czk (eur55) per week. during a conversation with the applicant’s public guardian on 10 january 2011 the applicant’s son said that his father had always kept many animals and that his treatment of them was bordering on cruelty because he did not feed them. he also allowed them in his bed, and as a result the bed was drenched and smelled foul. from the record of the visit it appears that the applicant was unable to express himself coherently. he had also been sending confusing allegations to various institutions, such as courts, ministries and animal rights organisations. on 11 february, 6 may and 1 june 2011 the applicant informed the district court that he was being held in the social care home against his will and demanded his release. the district court did not react to any of his requests. he is therefore sending me a letter informing me that [the applicant] is unhappy and that they want to discharge him. on 23 august 2011 the applicant’s lawyer lodged a request with the municipal court through the prague 4 district court arguing that the guardianship court, namely the prague 4 district court, had been inactive in the matter of his client’s detention and had not initiated guardianship proceedings (opatrovnické řízení) seeking to solve the conflict of interests between the applicant and his public guardian. he argued that the municipal office had violated those rights by placing him in the social care home without his consent and the district court by remaining inactive in the face of the situation. for this reason the applicant did not refuse the medication. on 25 october 2011 the prague 11 municipal office, in reaction to the findings of the ombudsman, requested the district court to approve the agreement signed by the public guardian on the provision of residential social services of 7 february 2011. in a decision of 11 july 2013 the district court discontinued the proceedings for damages on the grounds that, as the applicant was fully legally incapacitated, the power of attorney that he had given to his representatives was null and void, and that in a letter of 28 june 2013 the guardian ad litem had informed the court that it would not join the proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1975 and prior to her arrest had a permanent address in artsyz in odessa region. on 17 october 2014 a cytology test revealed indications of cervical cancer. on 15 december 2014 the oncology facility issued its conclusion concerning the applicant. in addition to stage iv hiv, she was diagnosed with cervical cancer. on 3 march 2015 the applicant was admitted to the hiv treatment facility. on 17 march 2015 the applicant left the hiv treatment facility under guard and on 5 april 2015 arrived back at the colony where she was put under the supervision of the prison doctor (a general practitioner) as an outpatient and continued with her art. on 16 april 2015 the applicant left the colony under guard and on 22 april 2015 arrived at the kyiv pre-trial detention centre (“the kyiv sizo”) in order to be able to attend the appeal hearings in her case. on 1 july 2015 the acting president of the section decided, upon the applicant’s request under rule 39 of the rules of court, to indicate to the government that they should present the applicant urgently for medical examination by a specialist doctor; secure immediately, by appropriate means, treatment of the applicant appropriate to her conditions, and inform the court by 1 august 2015 about the applicant’s state of health and the measures undertaken. her diagnoses were confirmed and she was prescribed radiation therapy. from 24 september 2015 the applicant started a course of examinations and treatment at the hiv treatment facility and at the kherson regional oncology clinic. on 25 october 2015 the government informed the court of the applicant’s first radiation therapy course. the 2012 report of the ukrainian parliamentary commissioner for human rights on the monitoring of places of detention contains the following observations concerning the transportation of prisoners (pages 50‑54). more than 90% of rail cars used are older than their planned useful life (twenty-eight years). they lack ventilation creating intolerable conditions in the summer. access to potable water is erratic and no hot food is provided.
the applicant was born in 1977 and is currently serving a life sentence in ladyzhynska prison no. the report stated that the applicant had abrasions on his back and stomach. the applicant maintained that he had only witnessed the offences in question, whereas those were his acquaintances, a. and se., according to the case-file materials, on 18 august 2005, at 6.20 p.m., the applicant’s arrest was reported and his rights of a criminal suspect were explained to him. had been his acquaintance, he had met her by chance near a forest, they had had a conflict and he had killed her with a knife that had fallen out of her picnic bag. furthermore, according to the applicant’s account submitted in his application form, his questioning had started before and continued during his medical examination, in the presence of many police officers including those who had ill-treated him. ’s murder and the theft of her belongings. who had later forced him to sell the property belonging to the victims. the applicant indicated those persons’ first names and physical description. two police officers implicated in the alleged ill-treatment of the applicant visited him in the sizo (where he had been transferred from the itt on 7 october 2005) on 18, 22 and 30 november 2005. furthermore, certain items belonging to the victims had been discovered on him or sold by him to other persons, which he did not contest. furthermore, he had stated in writing that he had no complaints against the police. they also argued that the court had not allowed the applicant’s requests to summon a witness who had been acquainted with the supposed murderers and that the statements of several witnesses who had allegedly seen those persons had not been attached sufficient weight. on 6 july 2007 the registry wrote to the applicant that his case was ready for examination by the court and that he would be informed about the subsequent procedures in due time. the applicant submitted numerous supplements to his application.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in sofia. the applicant’s husband owned a house with a yard and a garage in sofia. on 14 june 1985, by decision of the sofia mayor, the property was expropriated with a view to constructing a school. the decision, based on section 98 (1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973 (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство – “the tupa”), stated that the applicant’s husband was to be compensated with a four-room flat and a garage in a building which the municipality intended to construct. by a supplementary decision of 12 september 1986, based on section 100 of the tupa, the mayor determined the exact location, size and other details in respect of the future flat to be provided in compensation. no mention was made however of the garage. even though, after judicial review initiated by the applicant’s husband, in a final judgment of 18 march 1987 the sofia city court ordered the mayor to supplement the decision and specify the exact garage to be provided to the applicant’s husband, this was not done. in 2004 the municipal authorities transferred to the applicant’s husband property to a flat different from the one described in the decision of 12 september 1986, which however he did not contest. the applicant’s husband passed away in 2005. by virtue of his will, all his property was left to the applicant. in a letter signed by the chief architect of sofia and dated 8 july 2009 the applicant was informed that the decision of 12 september 1986 had not yet been supplemented to specify the garage to be provided to her because no buildings with garages earmarked for the purpose were being built. in august 2009 the applicant challenged before the courts the mayor’s failure to issue a decision specifying the garage to be provided to her. in a final judgment of 23 june 2010 the supreme administrative court dismissed her claim, noting that the case at hand did not concern what was defined by statute as “unlawful failure to act”, but instead the enforcement of the judgment of 18 march 1987 (see paragraph 7 above), which had to be pursued under a different procedure. in parallel proceedings brought on an unspecified date in 2009, the applicant sought damages from the sofia municipality for wrongful failure to provide her with a garage. in a final decision of 23 september 2010 the supreme administrative court declared the claim inadmissible, on the ground that the courts had already established in the judgment of 23 june 2010 that there had not been any unlawful failure to act on the part of the administrative authorities.
the applicant was born in 1940 and lives in donetsk. subsequently the applicant learned that on 18 december 2001 y. had signed a notarised gift deed in which he transferred his title to half of the flat (which was not as divided into allocated parts of the whole) to v.s. 9. and v.s. broke the locks on the entrance door when the applicant was away, entered the flat and, upon the applicant’s arrival, reiterated their demands that she sell her share. v.s. and several strangers broke into the applicant’s flat again. a conflict emerged, in the course of which v.s. hit the applicant on the head and stomach, inflicting concussion and blunt trauma of the abdominal wall. these tenants, mostly young males, behaved in a discourteous way. on numerous occasions the applicant attempted to drive the tenants away or to call them to order. however, she paid short visits to the flat regularly, to supervise the situation. the defendants lodged a counterclaim, alleging, in particular, that the applicant had been interfering with their personal life and belongings, provoking conflicts, harassing them and creating intolerable living conditions, which made it impossible for them to fulfil their desire to settle in the flat. on 2 december 2005 the district prosecutor also lodged a cassation appeal on the applicant’s behalf, in which he corroborated her submissions that the defendants had been harassing her, had been using the flat in bad faith and had forced the applicant, a senior lady, to leave the dwelling she had occupied for many years. on several occasions the police had issued official warnings to them, advising them of the impermissibility of antisocial behaviour. they further assured the applicant that her address had been placed on the police register for frequent visits. who had allegedly been forced to abandon her flat on account of the intolerable living conditions created by the co-owners of her flat. on 24 may 2011 the kyivskiy court acquitted all the defendants of the charges under article 189 of the criminal code. on 27 february 2012 the regional court quashed this verdict on appeal by the prosecution and the injured parties and remitted the case for retrial.
the applicants were born in 1952 and 1955 respectively and live in sofia. the first applicant’s parents owned part of a house in sofia. in 1986 the house was expropriated with a view to constructing a street and a residential building. the expropriation decision, based on section 98 (1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973 (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство – “the tupa”), provided in particular that in compensation the applicants were to receive a three-room flat. by another decision of 28 may 1993, based on section 100 of the tupa, the mayor indicated the exact future flat to be provided as compensation to the applicants. it measured 87 square metres and was situated in a building to be constructed by the sofia municipality. the applicants paid to the municipality the part of this amount which was not covered by the value of the expropriated property. in 1990 the applicants, their children and the first applicant’s parents were accommodated in a three‑room municipal flat. they remained in it until 2004, when they chose to move to another dwelling better adapted for the first applicant’s mother’s frail state of health. on an unspecified date in 2005 the applicants brought a tort action against the sofia municipality, claiming pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage on account of its continued failure to build and provide them with a flat. following that judgment, the applicants made a request for a new valuation. in a letter by the municipality dated 2 june 2006 and signed by a deputy mayor, they were informed that they were not entitled to seek such a valuation since they had not been the owners of the expropriated property. in the meantime the flat due to the applicants was built and they took possession of it on 19 june 2006. in the tort proceedings, in judgments of 14 december 2006 and 8 july 2008 the sofia city court and the supreme court of cassation upheld the sofia district court’s judgment of 21 february 2006, reiterating its findings. in these proceedings the applicants were ordered to pay 1,200 new bulgarian levs (bgn, the equivalent to 612 euros – eur) in court fees.
on 25 october 2011 two persons wearing black masks entered the applicants’ house with an intention to rob them. on the same date, the trial court ordered f.t. on 1 december 2011 the investigating judge ordered his release finding that “his attendance at the trial can be secured with a more lenient measure (seizure of passport and obligation to report to the court) ... taking into account the individual circumstances and needs of [f.t.], arrived in front of [the applicants’ house] ... v.k. on the head and hands with the metal hammer. sustained serious injuries-head wounds, multi-fragmented fractures accompanied with brain haemorrhages under the hard tissues of the brain ... linear skull fracture, as a result of which he died on 1 november 2011. were taken by ambulance to skopje hospital. her mother was so much beaten that she could not see; her eyes were closed and her face was so much coloured (модро) that she could not recognise her.” was required to report to ohrid detention centre on 30 january 2013 in order to serve the sentence. on 21 february 2013 the detention centre informed the enforcement judge that f.t. had not arrived at the facility on the specified date. by letters dated 28 february, 8 april and 20 may 2013, the enforcement judge notified the trial court in skopje responsible for minors about f.t. after such a judge had been appointed, on 27 march 2014 another incarceration order had been issued in respect of f.t. was arrested on 10 july 2014 and started serving his custodial sentence on 11 july 2014. would remain in custody until 27 june 2019.
at the time she submitted her complaint she lived in madona region, latvia. on 17 november 2006 the madona district court, acting as a first‑instance court, found the applicant guilty of a traffic offence which had caused moderate bodily injury to a victim. the court ordered the applicant to perform 100 hours of community service and suspended her driving licence for a year. in establishing the applicant’s guilt, the first-instance court relied on incriminating statements by the victim and two witnesses. it also relied on other evidence, including a medical expert opinion on the bodily injuries sustained by the victim. the applicant appealed against the judgment to the vidzeme regional court. she alleged, inter alia, that the first instance court had failed to order an inspection and a technical examination of her vehicle, and had also not carried out a confrontation of witnesses. on 13 february 2007 the vidzeme regional court upheld the judgment of the first-instance court but changed in part the punishment by revoking the suspension of the applicant’s driving licence. on 8 march 2007 the applicant submitted an appeal on points of law to the senate of the supreme court. she alleged that the appellate court had failed to carry out and to order a number of investigating activities. specifically, according to the applicant, the appellate court has not carried out a confrontation between the witnesses and the victim. it has not ordered an investigative experiment, an inspection and a technical examination of her vehicle. the applicant maintained that the evidence in the case was not sufficient to establish her guilt, and thus the appeal court had acted contrary to numerous sections of the criminal procedure law. it relied on section 573 of the criminal procedure law and stated that “[the appeal on points of law] was not substantiated by any fundamental infringement of the criminal law or the law on criminal procedure”. it was also stated that it was not within the competence of the cassation court to re-examine or obtain evidence, or to explain the factual circumstances of the case.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in athens. in 1997 he opened a literary café, which was frequented by individuals favourable to such a political stance. on 21 march 2002 the applicant appealed to the ministry of public order against that decision. on the same day the advisory board on asylum issued a favourable opinion in respect of the applicant. further to that favourable opinion, under article 3 § 5 of presidential decree no. 61/1999 (on the procedure for the examination of asylum applications), the minister for public order should have taken a decision within twenty-four hours on whether or not to grant the applicant international protection. under domestic law that card did not constitute a residence permit and therefore did not secure all the attendant rights: it only allowed the asylum-seeker not to be expelled and to reside in the national territory with “tolerated status” while his application was being examined. however, her presence in greece only became lawful in 2008, when she obtained a short-term work permit. in 2011 the applicant’s wife returned to istanbul with the child owing to health problems. that request had been based on accusations similar to those used in 2000 which had been assessed by the greek authorities during the examination of his asylum application. on 12 march 2013 the applicant was arrested in patras. the division based its decision on the risk run by the applicant of suffering ill-treatment on account of his political opinions, should he be extradited. on 27 march 2013 the public prosecutor appealed to the court of cassation against the decision of the indictment division of patras court of appeal. the applicant had meanwhile been actively seeking to secure a final decision. furthermore, it emerged from correspondence among a number of different authorities (between police authorities and between the police and other authorities) on 23 february 2007, 16 october 2012, 14 november 2012 and 28 january 2015, that the applicant’s asylum application was still pending before the minister for public order.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in istanbul. at the time of the events giving rise to the application, the applicant was working at the directorate of national palaces as a secretary. on an unspecified date in 2002, following ongoing conflict with a colleague and at the request of a certain professor, m.ü., from the same directorate, the applicant was demoted. who was a mutual acquaintance, and seek a reconciliation between the parties and thus her possible reinstatement. made a number of harassing phone calls to the professor with violent threats to hurt his son, accompanied by a ransom request. admitted to having threatened the professor, but claimed that he had had no intention of hurting anyone. as charged, but acquitted the applicant on the grounds of a lack of sufficient evidence to corroborate the allegations against her. in the meantime, on 31 december 2002, shortly after her indictment, the applicant had been dismissed from the position to which she had been demoted, without receiving payment in lieu of notice or severance pay. on 30 october 2003 the applicant brought an action against the directorate of national palaces before the bakırköy labour court, claiming severance pay and payment in lieu of notice on grounds of wrongful dismissal. to commit the offences of making threats and requesting a ransom, and had breached the relationship of trust with her employer. based on its examination, it notes that the other accused m.g., the court has also given regard to the documents submitted by the plaintiff’s employer and finds it established that the plaintiff’s contract had been terminated on the basis of the fact that the plaintiff had incited m.g. to commit the crime of making threats and requesting a ransom. the applicant appealed against the decision of the bakırköy labour court.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in arzamas. in the early hours of 5 june 2005, at about 3 a.m., the police arrested the applicant. in the morning he was interviewed and later taken to the hospital because he broke the window and injured himself. at 6 p.m. the arrest record was drawn up; it gave 6 p.m. as the time of the applicant’s arrest. on 7 june 2005 the lukoyanovskiy district court in the nizhny novgorod region remanded the applicant in custody for an initial two‑month period. on 8 august 2005 the district court held a hearing to decide, among other matters, on an extension of the applicant’s detention. the applicant asked for release; counsel for the applicant pointed out that, since the authorised detention period had ended on 5 august 2005, his detention in the following three days had been unlawful. the district court extended the applicant’s detention, finding that the “preventive measure [should] remain unchanged”. in the statement of appeal against the district court’s extension order, the applicant complained that the custodial measure which had already expired could not “remain unchanged”. the appeal was forwarded to the regional court only on 8 september 2005. on 23 september 2005 the regional court rejected the appeal in a summary fashion, without addressing the applicant’s arguments. on 25 january 2006 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 25 april 2006, without informing the applicant or his representative about the hearing or giving any reasons for its decision. the applicant filed an appeal on 30 january 2006 which was dismissed by the regional court on 31 may 2006. by judgment of 25 august 2006, as upheld on appeal on 17 october 2006, the applicant was found guilty and given a custodial sentence.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in opfikon. on 2 october 1995 the applicant was examined by a rheumatologist who diagnosed her with a cervical trauma and possible cranial trauma. nevertheless, on 12 june 1996 another doctor in the same hospital declared the applicant totally incapable of work. on 4 february 1997 the applicant submitted an objection to that decision and enclosed a report of a neurologist, who confirmed an almost permanent headache, limited head movement, pain radiation towards the shoulders and arms with sensory disorders as well as sleep disorders. it overturned the insurance company’s decision and remitted the case for further clarifications. moreover, a doubt remained as to whether the applicant had suffered trauma to her neck and spine. the insurance company therefore ordered another medical report, which was delivered on 11 november 2002. the medical expert confirmed the existence of a causal link between the accident and the applicant’s health problems, and concluded that the applicant’s illness had led to a total incapacity for work. he also strongly criticised the approach and findings of other medical experts. on the basis of this report, on 22 september 2005 the insurance company dismissed the applicant’s complaint on the grounds of lack of a causal link between the accident and her medical conditions. thereafter, the insurance company invited the applicant to undergo a medical evaluation of her functional abilities, which she refused. the undercover investigators followed the applicant over long distances. following the surveillance, a detailed monitoring record was prepared. on 14 december 2006 the insurance company sent the private investigators’ report to the applicant. on 12 april 2007 another neurologist appointed by the insurance company, dr h., released an anonymous expert opinion based on evidence and drafted taking into account all the medical examinations and assessments carried out previously as well as the surveillance images.
the applicant was born in 1948 and lives in budapest. on 9 march 2006 the applicant submitted a request for an increase of her disability pension before the budapest governmental authority (directorate of pension insurance), which dismissed her claim on 21 august 2006. the applicant lodged an appeal against the decision on 10 october 2006. the central-hungarian regional insurance directorate acting as a second-instance authority upheld the first-instance decision on 4 january 2007. the applicant sought the judicial review of the second-instance decision within the statutory time-limit. she submitted her statement of claim on 9 february 2007 to the first-instance administrative authority, in line with the applicable procedural laws. in the absence of any developments in the case, the applicant notified the first-instance administrative authority about upholding her claim on 18 march 2010. the first-instance administrative authority subsequently forwarded the applicant’s statement of claim to the budapest labour court on 20 july 2010. the budapest labour court dismissed the applicant’s claim on 14 june 2011.
the case originated in an application (no. a list of applicants is annexed to the present judgment. the applicants were represented by mr cs. the hungarian government (“the government”) were represented by mr z. tallódi, agent of the ministry of justice. they will be payable within three months from the date of notification of the strike-out decision taken by the court. the upper bracket of his severance payment was taxed at 98% rate. from october 2002 he was employed at the state-owned national export-import bank ltd. the fifth applicant, ms boglárka lászló was born in 1967 and lives in budapest. from april 2007 she was employed at the state-owned mfb investment ltd. her employment was terminated by mutual agreement on 29 october 2010. the government did not contest the levy of the special tax on her severance payment; but in their observations they rectified the tax amount. the fifth applicant did not contest this. accordingly, special tax was levied on her severance payment in the amount of huf 6,508,053 (approximately eur 21,700). the ninth applicant, mrs klára pápainé armuth was born in 1957 and lives in budapest. her employment was terminated by mutual agreement in 2010.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in nizhniy novgorod. on 23 august 2007 the leninskiy district court of nizhniy novgorod (“the district court”) authorised the applicant’s detention on remand in connection with the car thefts, referring to the gravity of the charges and an unspecified risk that she would put pressure on minors s. and z. the judge concluded that the applicant could obstruct the proceedings. on 5 september 2007 the nizhniy novgorod regional court upheld the detention order on appeal. on 13 september 2007 the investigator ordered a psychiatric examination of the applicant to verify whether she was fit to stand trial. in february 2008 the criminal case against the applicant and her co‑defendants was submitted for trial before the district court. on 18 february 2008 the district court, noting that the applicant had been charged with a serious crime and could exercise pressure on the minor co-defendants if at liberty, decided to maintain her in custody until 1 august 2008. by judgment of 1 september 2008, the applicant was convicted on several charges and acquitted of the remainder, in particular, of the charges pertaining to involvement of minors in criminal activities. she was sentenced to a suspended prison term. on 23 august 2007 the applicant was placed in remand prison iz‑52/1 in nizhniy novgorod. according to the applicant, the cell accommodated up to forty persons. in the government’s submission, twenty-seven to thirty-five inmates shared the cell during that period. on 20 december 2007 the applicant was transferred to cell no. 30/349 measuring 12.14 square metres, which she shared with another detainee. in december 2007 the committee against torture retained ms p., an advocate, who visited the applicant in the remand centre on 27 december 2007 and 21 february 2008. instead of applying for a court order, the applicant’s representative sought judicial review of the above refusal.
the applicant was born in 1989 and lives in vanadzor. the applicant also surrendered his knife and y.p. ’s health, and to apply a written undertaking not to leave his place of residence as a preventive measure in respect of the applicant. the applicant requested that the written undertaking not to leave his place of residence be maintained. on 10 august 2010 the lori regional court, having heard the applicant, found the investigator’s motion to be well-founded and decided to grant it by ordering the applicant’s detention for a period of two months:“... taking into account the nature and dangerousness of the act committed by [the accused], and the fact that, if at large, he may abscond from the authority dealing with the case or obstruct the investigation by exerting unlawful influence on the persons involved in the criminal proceedings, as well as avoid liability and sentence.” on 12 august 2010 the applicant lodged an appeal arguing, inter alia, that his detention on conditions provided by article 135 of the ccp was incompatible with the guarantees of article 5 of the convention. the applicant objected to this motion and requested that the regional court release him on bail. it further decided to dismiss the applicant’s motion for release on bail on the same grounds. in particular, his identity was known, he had a permanent place of residence and had never tried to abscond. on 20 october 2010 the criminal court of appeal upheld the decision to extend the applicant’s detention and to refuse his release on bail, finding it to be lawful and well-founded. on 8 november 2010 the applicant filed a motion with the lori regional court seeking to be released on bail. this decision was subject to appeal before the criminal court of appeal within ten days. on 3 december 2010 the regional court decided to grant partially the investigator’s motion, finding that the grounds for the applicant’s detention still persisted and extending his detention by fifteen days. on 10 december 2010 the investigator filed a motion seeking to have the applicant’s detention, which was to expire on 24 december 2010, extended by another month. on 16 december 2010 the applicant was released upon the payment of the amount of bail fixed by the regional court.
the applicant was born in 1982 and resides in vinnytsia. several forensic psychiatric examinations found him to have sufficient mental capacity to be held criminally liable. according to the police reports, that measure was undertaken on at least two different occasions, each time in respect of an administrative (minor) offence formally unrelated to the murder. it is not known what exactly happened next. as noted in the other report, at 10.10 p.m. on that day the applicant was apprehended again in respect of an administrative offence. he submitted that he had bought cigarettes at her kiosk on 17 july 2007, without anything unusual having happened. the case file does not contain any further information regarding that questioning. who convinced him to confess to the murder. he also promised the applicant money in exchange for the information as to where the applicant had thrown the knife. ’s statements and the related material evidence were eventually relied on by the trial court in the criminal proceedings against the applicant. still on 19 july 2007, from 6.30 to 7.30 p.m., the police carried out a search in the applicant’s flat in the context of the investigation of the murder of ms o. it appears that they seized his shirt. on the same day the applicant was questioned as a witness in the murder case. on the same day the applicant repeated his confession during a reconstruction of the crime. he explained that he had invented his confession being scared that otherwise he would not be released. the trial court remitted the case for additional investigation many times.
the applicant was born in 1981 and lives in lviv. on 29 january 2007 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of murder. on 28 march 2007 the same court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention for two more months on the ground that there was a considerable volume of investigative measures to be carried out and there were no reasons for changing the preventive measure. on 29 may 2007 the investigation was completed and the applicant and his lawyer received access to the case file. on 6 july 2007 another set of criminal proceedings was instituted against the applicant, for infliction of grievous bodily harm. on 10 july 2007 the two criminal cases were joined. on the same day the lviv regional court of appeal (the court of appeal) extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention to six months. on 27 july 2007 the case was referred to the shevchenkivskyy court, which held a preliminary hearing on 31 august 2007. it ordered the applicant’s further detention without fixing any time-limits. the shevchenkivskyy court remitted the case for further investigation three times (on 8 october 2007, as well as on 19 may and 18 november 2008). the appellate court quashed the first two decisions (on 18 december 2007 and 26 august 2008), but upheld the last one (on 27 march 2009). all the judicial rulings in question maintained the applicant’s continued detention without further reasoning. on 14 may 2009 the investigation was completed and the case was referred for trial, this time to the court of appeal as a first-instance court. on 15 june 2010 the court of appeal found the applicant guilty of murder and attempted murder and sentenced him to thirteen years’ imprisonment. on 22 february 2011 the supreme court upheld that judgment.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in stryy. she argued, in particular, that she had not abandoned the flat. she had been absent from stryy because she had been serving a prison sentence. she also noted that she had two dependent children and no other residence. on 16 march 1998 the lviv regional court rejected the cassation appeal by the applicant and the judgment of 2 february 1998 became final. the court noted, in particular, that, as followed from the documents on file, the applicant had been absent from stryy from 13 march 1996 until 13 december 1997, in view of her arrest followed by a criminal conviction and a prison sentence in russia. on 18 june 1998 the stryy court ordered the applicant’s eviction referring to article 109 of the housing code and the fact that she had lost occupancy right in respect of the disputed flat. this judgment became final and was enforced on 13 october 1998. after several rounds of proceedings, on 7 october 2002 the lviv regional court of appeal upheld the applicant’s right to occupy the disputed flat having rejected the prosecutor’s claim against her. on 27 may 2003 the supreme court of ukraine upheld the above judgment and it became final. at the same time, regard being had to the decision restoring the applicant’s right to occupy the same flat, it obliged the city council to provide the applicant with replacement housing unit equivalent to the flat at issue. on 20 october 2005 the city council informed the applicant that it was unable to execute the judgment at the material time, since it had no available housing and no funds to build new units. according to the applicant, she was never offered any flats by the city council. it is not clear whether the applicant was in receipt of the above writ. street, which was vacant following the death of its former owner in january 2008, and moved into it.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in lviv. a paramedic working at the centre, concluded, after merely examining the applicant’s appearance and without administering any laboratory tests, that he was suffering “from alcohol intoxication of an intermediate degree.” before being discharged, the applicant signed a report on his confinement (“the confinement report”), which stated that he had been placed in the sobering-up centre at 10.20 p.m. on 20 february 2002 after having consumed 250 millilitres of vodka and that he had no complaints in respect of the sobering-up centre’s staff. this report also contained illegible handwritten observations of the centre’s paramedic concerning the applicant’s pulse and other health-related indicators taken upon his placement in the centre. from 25 february 2002 until 18 march 2002 the applicant continued to be treated as an outpatient at his local polyclinic for the above injuries. he had been found liable to be disciplined for inaction on his part, notably for not having questioned the parties concerned. on 3 july 2002 the applicant received a letter from the lviv prosecutor’s office stating that an inquiry into his complaints concerning the actions of the municipal guard officers and the sobering-up centre paramedic had concluded that those complaints were ill-founded. at trial, the applicant submitted, inter alia, that he could not describe in detail when and how the injuries had been inflicted on him. he also maintained that on 21 february 2002, following his discharge from the sobering-up centre, he had had to attend a court hearing in an unrelated case. such a conclusion was to be made by making a visual examination and by measuring such vital indicators as pulse rate and blood pressure. it referred, in particular, to the applicant’s own acknowledgment in the confinement report that he had drunk 250 milliliters of vodka and had no complaints against the staff of the sobering-up centre. however, the applicant had agreed to sign it because he had been afraid that otherwise he might not be discharged. on 13 october 2003 the lviv regional court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal, having found that he had failed to substantiate his allegations. this method was arbitrary and neither the defendant authority nor the courts had referred to any specific legal provision governing such a practice. he further complained that neither the prosecutor’s office nor the civil courts had made any effort in good faith to establish the circumstances in which he had sustained his injuries; thus, his version of events remained credible and unrebutted.
the applicant was born in 1927 and lives in rīga. on 10 august 1998 the office of the prosecutor general separated materials of the criminal case no. 81204496 and initiated new criminal proceedings in respect of the applicant’s activities during the period from 1948 to 1953, when he was an investigator at the ministry of state security of the soviet socialist republic of latvia. on 23 october 1999 the prosecutor informed the applicant that he was suspected of having committed genocide. from 29 october 1999 to 28 december 1999 the applicant was detained on remand. the indictment concerned seven different episodes involving thirteen alleged victims. on 14 september 2004 the judge informed the applicant’s defence counsel that the hearing was scheduled for 11 october 2004. the riga regional court held hearings on 11, 12 and 18 october 2004. on 21 march 2005 the riga regional court continued examination of the applicant’s criminal case and on 4 april 2005 the court delivered its judgment, acquitting the applicant. the prosecutor appealed against the judgement. this decision was finalised on 16 march 2006. with a decision of 28 april 2006 the senate of the supreme court quashed this decision and remitted the case to the appellate court. upon the prosecutor’s request, on 7 february 2007 the appellate court suspended the case pending an expert medical report on the applicant’s capacity to participate in the hearing and to serve a prison sentence. on 24 april 2007 also the applicant’s criminal case file was sent to this institution. following the applicant’s forensic expertise, the examination of the applicant’s criminal case before the appellate court was continued on 27 and 28 february 2008.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in kuršanec. the prisoners were allowed to move freely outside the locked part of the prison between 4 and 7 p.m., and the out-of-cell facilities were inadequate and insufficient, particularly given that there was only an open recreation yard. period ofdetentiontotal number of inmates overall surface area insq. artificial light was also secured and all cells were heated by a central heating system and equipped with a communication system enabling the inmates to contact prison staff immediately in case of need. furthermore, the inmates were provided with all necessary hygiene and sanitary facilities. this included a shower three times per week and after sports activities. in addition, the inmates were provided with the necessary clothing although they were allowed to use their own clothes. leisure time was followed by lunch served between 1 and 2 p.m. the period after lunch was usually set aside for various group activities and meetings with lawyers and prison staff. hygiene conditions were poor, given that he had been allowed to take a shower only three times per week. she found, in particular, that the applicant had sufficient personal space at his disposal, given that four other persons were at the time placed with him in the same cell. 8 had been occupied by up to eight inmates. m, where six inmates in total had been detained. on 26 november 2010 the applicant complained to the ombudsperson (pučki pravobranitelj) that he had not been granted a transfer to a prison closer to his family, and alleged in general terms that the conditions of his detention had been inadequate. the applicant replied to that request on 21 december 2010, indicating that the sentence-execution judge and the three-judge panel of the bjelovar county court had never examined his complaints properly, and that he had not been granted 4 sq. the ombudsperson also pointed out that the cell where the applicant was being detained had been renovated in 2010, and complied with all hygiene and health standards.
the applicant company is a limited liability company based in vienna. until 2007 the land of carinthia (land kärnten) owned almost 50% of the shares of hypo alpe-adria bank. on 5 april 2006 the fma filed criminal information (strafanzeige) about offences committed in relation to the business of hypo alpe-adria bank against the three members of the executive board and mr rauscher, accusing them of embezzlement by investing money entrusted to the bank contrary to the instructions of the executive board. carinthian hypo affair - how much did haider know?”). mr kulterer was quoted as accusing mr rauscher of having disregarded internal guidelines in his foreign currency transactions. after all, high stakes mean correspondingly high profits if all goes according to plan. he submitted that he was not a public figure and that his position at the bank had not been such as to justify the disclosure of his name. hypo alpe-adria’s treasury department had been directly answerable to the executive board. the transactions which had subsequently led to such enormous losses had been carried out between the end of september and the beginning of october 2004 and the claimant had been the main person in charge. after accusations against the claimant had been published in various media, his employment contract had been terminated. as a rule, adults who were suspected of having committed a crime were only protected against the disclosure of their identity if such disclosure disproportionately affected their professional advancement. having regard to the function of the press as a “public watchdog” and the circumstances of the case, the regional court found that the public interest of obtaining information outweighed the claimant’s interest in not having his name disclosed. the court of appeal found that the regional court’s conclusion had been wrong after it had weighed the conflicting interests at issue. it shared the view of the regional court that there was a public interest in knowing who was responsible for hypo alpe-adria bank’s losses due to the fact that the land owned 50% of the bank. the public interest in reporting on the criminal offences at issue had not in itself been sufficient to justify disclosing the claimant’s identity.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in călărași. on 26 october 2005 the applicant and her daughter drank water from taps in their apartment and shortly thereafter they felt unwell. on 29 october 2005 the applicant’s daughter, who was twelve at the time, was admitted to hospital with a diagnosis of “serious acute dysentery”. the applicant was admitted to hospital with the same diagnosis on 31 october 2005. she was released from hospital on 13 november 2005, a day later than her daughter. on 1 march 2006 the călăraşi district court found in her favour. it found that various sanitary, medical and technical reports had established that in the vicinity of the applicant’s apartment block the sewage pipe was situated above the drinking water pipe and was leaking. the water pipe had cracked on 26 october 2005 and sewage water had infiltrated the drinking water pipe. the court also established that the pipes had been used since 1977 and that their expected lifespan was fifteen years. a total of five people, all of whom had drunk water from taps connected to the same water pipe, had been admitted to hospital with the same diagnosis at approximately the same time as the applicant. taking into consideration such elements as the amount of physical and mental suffering caused to the applicant and her daughter, the court awarded her mdl 10,000 (approximately eur 648 at the time). on 26 april 2006 the chişinău court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal and partly accepted the provider’s appeal. it reduced the award to mdl 5,000 (eur 310) because it found exaggerated “both the sum claimed by [the applicant] and that awarded to [her]”. on 25 october 2006 the supreme court of justice upheld the judgment of 26 april 2006. it found that the lower court had taken into consideration the nature and seriousness of the mental suffering caused to the applicant, as well as the degree of guilt of the defendant.
the applicant was born in 1960 in the georgian ssr of the ussr. on 23 november 2007 his georgian nationality was revoked by a decree of the president of georgia. in 1998, 2007 and 2009 the applicant was convicted of drug-related offences in russia and given a custodial sentence. the most recent sentence was set to expire on 11 october 2012. on 1 november 2012 the abakan town court, and on 16 january 2013 the supreme court of the khakassiya republic, confirmed the validity of the exclusion and deportation orders. on 8 april 2013 the applicant’s request for leave to appeal was rejected. the supreme court upheld the detention order but limited it in time until 31 december 2012. on 24 january 2013 the supreme court of the khakassiya republic rejected the appeal. on 27 february 2013 the fms applied for assistance to the consular department of the ministry of foreign affairs (mfa). in june 2013 the fms established a working group on the applicant’s deportation. on 1 july 2013 the group sent a request to the turkish embassy and also asked the georgian interests section whether the president’s decree revoking the applicant’s georgian nationality could be quashed in connection with the georgian amnesty act of 13 january 2013. he submitted that he had been spent more than eight months in custody owing to the fms’s failure to act diligently in the deportation proceedings. that decision was upheld on appeal on 10 january 2014. on 24 february 2014 the applicant obtained georgian passport. on 3 march 2014 he was deported from russia.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in hamburg. on 26 august 2004 the zagreb municipal state attorney’s office (općinsko državno odvjetništvo u zagrebu; hereinafter: the “state attorney’s office”) indicted the applicant and another person in the zagreb municipal criminal court (općinski kazneni sud u zagrebu) on charges of aggravated fraud under article 224 §§ 1 and 4 of the criminal code (see paragraph 14 below). the applicant was tried in summary proceedings (skraćeni postupak). on 11 february 2009 the zagreb municipal criminal court found the applicant and the other accused guilty as charged and sentenced the applicant to one year’s imprisonment, suspended for four years. she was also ordered, jointly with the other accused, to pay damages to the victims in the total amount of 230,335.22 croatian kunas (hrk; approximately 31,100 euros (eur)). the applicant appealed against her conviction and sentence, challenging all legal and factual aspects of the case and asking that her conviction be quashed and a retrial ordered. she submitted, in particular, that she had not had fraudulent intentions, but had merely acted as an intermediary between the loan provider and the borrowers in order to earn commission for herself. moreover, she stressed that the trial judge had erred in the factual findings and had failed to obtain certain evidence requested by her, which meant that some crucial facts had been left undetermined. she also asked that she and her defence lawyer be allowed to appear at the session of the appeal panel. on 20 january 2011 the bjelovar county court (županijski sud u bjelovaru), without informing the applicant or her lawyer, examined the case without holding a hearing. after examining all of the factual and legal issues of the case it dismissed the appeal and upheld the applicant’s conviction and sentence. on 5 april 2011 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske), complaining of a lack of fairness of the criminal proceedings against her. she contended in particular that she had not been allowed to appear at the session of the appeal panel. on 29 september 2011 the constitutional court declared the applicant’s constitutional complaint inadmissible as manifestly ill-founded.
the applicants were born in 1966 and 1985 respectively. in 1995 the first applicant moved to russia from tajikistan. at some point after his arrival in russia, the first applicant entered into a relationship with the second applicant. in 2006 the couple had a son and in 2009 they officially registered their marriage. in their replies the agencies either denied having provided the basis for the re-entry ban or refused to provide information. at the end of february 2014 the applicants lodged a complaint against the regional fss with the dzerzhinsky district court of perm and requested that the exclusion order be quashed and the re-entry ban lifted. on 16 may 2014 the regional court examined the complaint in camera. the regional fss provided the court with the case file concerning the first applicant. the file, which seemed to comprise about two hundred and forty pages, was reviewed by the judge within the space of a few minutes. according to the executive agency, the exclusion order and the re-entry ban had been imposed on the first applicant on the basis of a report drafted by the regional fss dated 7 september 2012 according to which the first applicant was a member of an extremist group and had incited ethnic tensions. on 16 may 2014 the regional court upheld the first applicant’s exclusion and the re-entry ban, stating, inter alia, that according to the witness statement of the fss operational search officer “the [first] applicant had been involved in activities threatening state security. (b)  appeal to the supreme court of the russian federation 16. on 23 july 2014 the supreme court upheld the decision of 16 may 2014, stating in general terms that the regional court had duly examined the legal basis for the exclusion, and that its decision had been lawful and had balanced public and private interests. the first applicant currently resides in russia. as regards the court’s request in respect of the information and documents that had served as the basis for the first applicant’s exclusion, the government did not furnish any documents.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in slavonski brod. on 27 november 2007 the investigating judge granted the request and issued an order for the use of secret surveillance measures. his statement of reasons read as follows:“the state attorney’s office for the suppression of corruption and organised crime asked the investigating judge to authorise the use of phone tapping measures under article 180 § 1 (1) of the code of criminal procedure in respect of ... damir bašić [and others] on the grounds that a preliminary [police] investigation suggested that these individuals were engaged in criminal activity involving the commission of offences under articles 173 §§ 1 and 2, 298 § 2, 337 and 333 of the criminal code. in the course of the investigation, the investigating judge issued several further secret surveillance orders to the same effect. at the same hearing the applicant pleaded not guilty to the charges held against him, whereas three other defendants pleaded guilty. the trial bench heard several witnesses and an expert witness and examined the reports in the case file. a further hearing was held on 29 september 2009 at which the applicant reiterated his request for the exclusion of the evidence obtained by secret surveillance as being unlawfully obtained. at a hearing on 26 november 2009 the applicant argued that a list of incoming and outgoing calls for the mobile phones allegedly used by the defendants should be obtained in order to clarify all the circumstances of the case. further hearings were held on 2 and 19 february 2010 at which the trial bench examined the secret surveillance recordings. in this connection the trial bench heard evidence from the police officer in charge of the operation, z.h., who explained the method of identifying the mobile phones used by the defendants. as to the applicant’s arguments concerning the alleged unlawfulness of the secret surveillance orders, that court held that the orders had outlined reasons for believing that the applicant had probably participated in the commission of the offence at issue and that the investigation could not have been conducted by other means. it therefore dismissed the applicant’s objections to the use of the evidence obtained by secret surveillance and proceeded with its detailed assessment when determining the applicant’s guilt. on 21 september 2010 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the first-instance judgment. the decision of the constitutional court was served on the applicant on 11 september 2012.
the applicants were born in 1982, 1967 and 1978 respectively and live in podgorica. the applicants were employees of the usa embassy (“the embassy”) in montenegro. the first applicant worked as a protocol specialist/translator, and the second and third applicants as security guards. the first applicant’s main duties and responsibilities were related to assisting in organising official receptions, lunches and dinners; questions relevant to protocol and local practices and customs; maintaining a contact database; drafting correspondence in english and montenegrin; interpreting and translating documents, articles and incoming correspondence; arranging official calls; ensuring press coverage of ceremonial events; organising official visits and serving as a contact person between the front desk and the host country officials. on 26 july 2010 the court of first instance (osnovni sud) in podgorica, apparently upon the third applicant’s claim to that effect, quashed the decision on his dismissal and ordered his reinstatement. it would appear that on an unspecified date thereafter this decision became final. between 22 november 2010 and 26 july 2012 the applicants instituted separate civil proceedings against the embassy. the first and second applicants, in addition, sought reinstatement. on 4 october 2011 the supreme court quashed these decisions. between 8 september 2011 and 24 september 2012 the court of first instance in podgorica declared that it lacked competence to deal with the applicants’ claims (in a re-trial in respect of the first applicant) and rejected them. on various dates thereafter the applicants appealed. between 20 november 2011 and 6 december 2012 the high court upheld the first-instance decisions, in substance endorsing their reasoning. the high court further held, upon the first applicant’s appeal, that a violation of sections 367 (1) and 415 of the civil procedure code (see paragraphs 31 and 32 below) by the first-instance court did not render the first-instance decision unlawful, in particular as it was undisputed that the respondent party had its seat in another state and only a diplomatic representation in montenegro. in ruling upon the second applicant’s claim it held that the jurisdiction of the domestic courts was not explicitly provided for either by the law or an international agreement. between 10 january 2013 and 12 july 2013 the applicants lodged separate constitutional appeals.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in the tula region. in the late evening of 28 october 2005 the applicant paid a visit to his friend ch. the ambulance doctor k., when arrived, pronounced n. dead. on 29 june 2006 the investigator questioned kuv. the applicant’s family had put pressure on him in order to make him recant. he wanted to take a shortcut through the parking lot. the applicant swore at n. saying that he would show n. the way out and would beat him up. on the same day the applicant was arrested on suspicion of manslaughter. on an unspecified date he was charged with murder 10. the trial judge questioned the applicant’s mother s. who submitted that ch. in the presence of the trial secretary in a separate room. the prosecutor, the applicant and his lawyer were allowed to put questions to the witness through the trial secretary. she submitted that she had been in the guard’s shack with ch. when n. had showed up, the applicant had not been there yet. the court took also into account the fact that the inquiry conducted by the prosecutor’s office in this connection found no case to answer against the policemen who had allegedly put pressure on ch.
the applicants are a family who lived in yerevan in a house on a plot of land measuring 1,385.6 sq. m. in total and situated at 13 byuzand street. the second and third applicants are the first applicant’s wife and son. no appeal was made against this judgment and it became final. on 1 august 2002 the government adopted decree no. on 22 november 2005 vizkon ltd lodged a claim on behalf of the mayor of yerevan against the srer, seeking to invalidate the registration of the first applicant’s ownership of the plot of land, claiming that it had never been recognised by any judicial act. on an unspecified date, vizkon ltd lodged an appeal on points of law against this judgment. m. in the centre of yerevan in exchange for his revocation of ownership of the house and the plot of land. on 19 april 2006 the applicant sent a reply to the judge informing her of his refusal to sign a friendly settlement. have a meeting and a discussion, and try to find common points in the friendly settlement so that your discussion is efficient.” on 5 may 2006 the court of cassation held another hearing of the appeal. on 15 september 2006 the civil court of appeal examined the claim anew and granted it, finding that the first applicant’s ownership right to the plot of land had not been recognised. on 2 march 2007 the court of cassation declared the appeal inadmissible for lack of merit. 759-n of 19 may 2005, if he agreed to sign an agreement and to hand over the property within one month. it appears that a hospital certificate stating that he was in hospital was attached to the request.
was stabbed by two persons during an event in a café in the town of kostanay, kazakhstan. he then saw the applicant with a knife in his hands going towards the victim. the cook who worked in the café at the relevant time, stated that she had seen the applicant and b.m. having an argument with the victim and stabbing him, after which both of them had fled. and the applicant attacking the victim and that he had seen a knife in the applicant’s hands. on 5 november 2004 the applicant was arrested in armenia. on 29 may 2006 the kostanay regional court found b.m. guilty of murder and sentenced him to seventeen years’ imprisonment. he was questioned on the same day and refused to make any statement in respect of the events of 7 october 2000. according to the applicant, the eleven witnesses residing in kazakhstan (see paragraph 7 above), who had made statements against him, were not properly summoned and the regional court did not obtain any proof that they had been notified about the trial. the victim’s legal heir testified before the trial court that on 7 october 2000 her husband, s.m., attended an event in ... the café together with g.t. and [the applicant] had stabbed her husband...the statement of witness kh.h. ... ( [the applicant’s] guilt ... has been substantiated also by:the judgment of 29.05.2006 of kostanay regional court ...... clarifications provided by expert ... during the above-mentioned court proceedings that there were two penetrating knife injuries on the body ... each one of the injuries could by itself have caused the death. he further complained that the regional court had failed to summon properly the witnesses and relied on their pre-trial statements without good reason.
the case originated in an application (no. 62614/13) against the russian federation lodged with the court under article 34 of the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (“the convention”) by a russian national, mr gayk levonovich sarkisyan (“the applicant”), on 23 september 2013. the applicant was represented by mr a. anokhin and ms m. gordeyeva, lawyers practising in astrakhan. the russian government (“the government”) were represented by mr g. matyushkin, representative of the russian federation at the european court of human rights. on 28 january 2016 the complaints concerning article 5 § 3 and article 5 § 4 were communicated to the government and the remainder of the application was declared inadmissible pursuant to rule 54 § 3 of the rules of court. in particular, the government acknowledged that the applicant had remained in pre-trial detention for an excessively lengthy period in violation of article 5 § 3 of the convention. they offered to pay the applicant 1,200 euros and invited the court to strike the application out of the list of cases in accordance with article 37 § 1 (c) of the convention. the amount would be converted into the currency of the respondent state at the rate applicable on the date of payment, and would be payable within three months from the date of notification of the court’s judgement. in the event of failure to pay this amount within the abovementioned three-month period, the government undertook to pay simple interest on them, from the expiry of that period until settlement, at a rate equal to the marginal lending rate of the european central bank during the default period plus three percentage points. the declaration did not mention the applicant’s complaint under article 5 § 4 of the convention.
the applicant was born in 1959 and is currently detained in baia mare prison. the applicant started serving his sentence in gherla prison on 31 may 2012. according to the report drawn up on the applicant’s arrival in gherla prison on 31 may 2012 the applicant was allowed to take with him to his cell, among other items, one glucometer with forty-one test strips and needles as well as several drugs. during his ten-month stay in gherla prison the applicant was taken to the medical ward eighteen times. he was given a special diet for diabetics and was allowed to work. on 9 october 2012 his signature confirmed the receipt of thirteen drugs including vitamin c and omega 3. in baia mare prison the applicant was examined at the prison’s infirmary twenty-four times between april 2013 and september 2014. in addition, he was taken for specialist diabetes and nutrition examinations at the baia mare county hospital nine times between 24 may 2013 and 2 october 2014. according to the information provided by the national administration of prisons the applicant made no complaints concerning his medical treatment. on 5 september 2013 the applicant’s lawyer was informed by the baia mare prison administration that the applicant could not be compensated for the work he had performed in detention with permission to leave the prison. the vehicles in which he had been transported lacked air conditioning and other prisoners had been smoking during the trips. detainees were provided with food and water during transfers, and were allowed bathroom breaks. smoking was strictly prohibited in the vehicles. according to the information provided by the national administration of prisons, the applicant was allowed to take with him his personal glycaemia kit and medication and was therefore able to measure his glycaemia. as regards the food received during transport, the applicant was provided with a diabetic menu as follows: during transport to and from gherla prison the applicant received 100 grams of biscuits, 100 grams of cheese, one egg and 500 grams of bread; during transport to and from baia mare prison the applicant received 320 grams of unsalted cheese, two eggs, 300 grams of processed poultry meat, 260 grams of semi-white bread and 250 grams of apples.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the applicant was born in 1984 and moved to live in russia in the early 2000s. a russian national, and they started living together in the krasnodar region. in 2009 the applicant’s daughter from a previous marriage moved in with them to attend a primary school. shortly after midnight on 31 march 2013 the russian border control service handed her a notice, informing her that she would not be allowed to re-enter russia, in accordance with the entry and exit procedures act. the notice did not specify the grounds for that decision. the text of the order indicated that the applicant’s presence in russia had been declared undesirable by the krasnodar regional division of the cpa on 9 june 2012, in accordance with section 25.10 of the entry and exit procedures act. it did not state any facts or reasons for the applicant’s exclusion. it subsequently transpired that the basis for the exclusion order was that during her pregnancy in 2012 the applicant had tested positive for hiv and that the hospital had reported her hiv-positive status to the cpa. on 24 may 2013 the tsentralnyy district court in sochi rejected the claim in summary fashion, repeating verbatim the text of the exclusion order and holding that it was lawful. on 30 september and 19 december 2013 the krasnodar regional court and the supreme court of russia respectively issued summary decisions, dismissing the application for an examination of the case by the cassation instance. her husband and their son have been living in st petersburg, russia. the husband was unable to visit her in the donetsk region. nor did it show that she had breached any obligation which the law imposes on hiv-positive individuals, for instance, by refusing to take antiretroviral therapy. as of 16 august 2016, she has not been notified that the exclusion order of 9 june 2012 was formally rescinded and that the border control database was updated accordingly.
the applicant, magyar helsinki bizottság (hungarian helsinki committee), is a non-governmental organisation (ngo) that was founded in 1989. the study summarising the outcome of the project was published in 2007 under the title “without defence”, suggesting that there should be a standard set of criteria developed to assess the quality of defence counsel’s work. together with the ministry of justice and law enforcement and various bar associations, the applicant ngo developed a questionnaire aimed at evaluating the performance of defence counsel. in the applicant ngo’s assessment, its research showed that the system of ex officio appointed defenders did not operate adequately, essentially because the investigative authorities, in particular the police, were free to choose defence counsel from a list compiled by the relevant bar associations. this gave rise to distrust on the part of defendants. a similar request by the applicant ngo was rejected by the debrecen police department on 27 august 2009. on 21 october 2009 the district court found for the applicant ngo, ordering the respondents to release the relevant information within 60 days. the names of defence counsel and the number of their respective appointments did not therefore constitute information of a private nature, in relation to which disclosure would only be possible with the approval of the person concerned. the applicant ngo sought review of the second-instance judgment, maintaining that although the names of the defence counsel and the number of their respective appointments were personal data, this was nevertheless information subject to disclosure in the public interest as being related to the public duties carried out by ex officio defence counsel. it upheld the regional court’s judgment in substance, partly modifying its reasoning. the supreme court considers, in compliance with recommendation no. 1234/h/2006 of the parliamentary commissioner for data protection, that the question of whether an individual was a person performing public duties has to be determined solely on the basis of the provisions of the data act. in so doing, these bodies accomplish their public duties, which are thus terminated with the appointment of defence counsel. following his or her appointment, a defence counsel’s activities constitute private activities although they are performed in pursuance of a public goal. accordingly, under section 19(4) of the data act, the respondent police departments cannot be obliged to surrender such personal data.
the applicants were born in 1963 and 1964 respectively and live in kaunas. on 27 september 2001 the first applicant brought a counterclaim for ltl 167,018, alleging that the claimant company had failed to properly fulfil its contractual obligations. in those proceedings the first applicant’s company was always represented by a lawyer hired by her. on 20 june 2005 the kaunas regional court examined the reopened rent arrears case, concluded that the second applicant should not have been involved in the proceedings and rejected the request of the second applicant to have the decision of the kaunas regional court of 8 april 2002 quashed (see paragraph 6 above). on 6 january 2006 her request was granted by the legal aid service. the case was returned to the kaunas regional court for fresh examination. on 7 september 2005 both applicants’ requests were denied because their claims were directly related to their commercial or independent professional activities. the applicants started administrative proceedings, complaining about the decisions of the legal aid service not to provide them with legal assistance. the applicants asked for the proceedings to be reopened but their request was dismissed on 8 may 2008 by the supreme administrative court. the applicants started administrative proceedings, complaining about the decision of the legal aid service not to provide them with legal assistance. the examination of the rent arrears case was resumed but was suspended by the kaunas regional court on 5 september 2006 due to the ongoing administrative proceedings concerning the legal aid (see paragraph 16 above). on 21 november 2007 both applicants submitted a request to the legal aid service for legal aid for their representation in the reopened rent arrears case but their requests were dismissed on 27 november 2007 as their claim was directly related to their commercial or independent professional activities (see paragraph 28 below). on 20 december 2007 the kaunas regional court examined the reopened rent arrears case and held that the first applicant’s company had to pay ltl 134,746 in unpaid rent and interest. the applicants brought proceedings against the state for damages, alleging that the decisions of the domestic courts had been unlawful. they submitted numerous complaints, including about being deprived of legal representation.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in budapest. at the material time, he was a member of parliament and a member of the largest opposition party, the hungarian socialist party. at the plenary parliamentary session on 18 march 2013 the applicant made an interpellation. on 25 march 2013 the speaker initiated disciplinary proceedings against the applicant. xxxvi of 2012 on parliament and in application of my prerogatives under subparagraph 6 of the same, that parliamentimpose a finewhose amount should be one-third of the mp’s honorarium, that is, huf 131,410. budapest, 25 march 2013signed: lászló kövér”an affirmative decision was adopted by the plenary on 28 march 2013, without any remedy available. tobacco retailers have not had a significant margin, exactly 4.5 per cent. forty-fold profit for the pals and the cronies! tobacco licences are, in europe, normally the privilege of those with impaired working abilities. there is not one living soul in this country who would believe your deceitful talk. but to get the golden prize of the juicy retail spots possibly generating millions per day, one needed to belong to, one way or another, the jamboree of buddies of the local fidesz-chieftains. in exchange and ex post facto, you have increased the statutory profit rate and, at the same time, prohibited tobacco selling anywhere else, destroying tens of thousands of shops and their employees, under the slogan “let the strong live and the weak perish”. you, a mercenary of fidesz, are apparently eager to keep serving the other projects of fidesz as well, that is, what you can buy in these [new] shops will include, in addition to tobacco, alcohol, gambling tickets, newspapers and even things to lick. my previous, prohibited question also targeted this issue: is your face not burning with shame? the interpellation was refused by the speaker on 27 may 2013, with reasoning similar to the one above (see paragraph 10 above).
the applicant was born in 1976 and is detained in togliatti, samara region. on 19 october 2006 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of drug dealing. on 20 october 2006 the samarskiy district court of samara remanded the applicant in custody. the court held that the applicant was suspected of a serious crime, that he could abscond, commit crimes, destroy evidence, threaten witnesses or in any other way interfere with the investigation. on 18 december 2006 the district court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention. the court reproduced the reasoning of the previous detention order. the court also indicated that the applicant had played a leading part in the criminal activities. on 15 february 2007 the district court extended the applicant’s pre‑trial detention on the ground that the investigation was still pending and it was necessary to conduct some investigative activities. the court further referred to the same grounds as in the previous detention orders. the samara regional court rejected the applicant’s appeals against the detention orders. on 1 june 2007 the bolshechernigovskiy district court of the samara region convicted the applicant of drug trafficking and sentenced him to 11 years’ imprisonment and a fine. on 21 august 2007 the samara regional court upheld his conviction on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in vilnius. was not injured, but the applicant suffered multiple spinal fractures and serious damage to his spinal cord. he checked that there were no cars in the left-hand lane, coming either from in front or from behind, indicated left and overtook the car. the sketch included a column for drivers to sign if they agreed that the scene of the accident had been depicted accurately, but it was not signed by either the applicant or m.n. she also complained that the investigators had not questioned all the eyewitnesses to the accident and had not eliminated the contradictions between different testimonies. asked the court to change the investigator in charge of the pre-trial investigation and to ensure that essential investigative measures were carried out. on 27 march 2007 the district prosecutor notified the vilnius city police department that the newly appointed investigator was conducting the pre-trial investigation “in a sluggish manner” (vangiai), contrary to the requirement to complete it in the shortest possible time. on 29 may 2007 the inquiry found that the police investigator who had carried out the initial investigative measures and who had been responsible for ensuring that the drivers signed the sketch had not performed her duties properly. on 13 august 2008 the district prosecutor discontinued the pre-trial investigation on the grounds that m.n. the examination was carried out by a different expert from the forensic science centre. in his report, delivered on 15 may 2009 (hereinafter “the third expert report”), the expert examined the sketch of the accident and photographs of the two vehicles, and estimated that immediately before the collision the applicant had been travelling at a speed of at least 70 km/h, and that it was not possible to determine the speed at which m.n. ’s actions had not amounted to the crime stipulated in article 281 § 3 of the criminal code. on 23 november 2009 the vilnius city second district court ordered a fresh expert examination of the circumstances of the accident. on 18 october 2010 the expert responded that the description of the location of the accident showed that during the collision the motorcycle had not risen up into the air. the court observed that the question of m.n.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in vilnius. she stated that since 1998 a major change had been made to her work description – she had started managing cultural affairs, enjoying partial independence in decision-making and a high degree of responsibility for financial matters. according to the swedish government, in 2003 and 2004 a new routine was introduced at the vilnius embassy by which diplomatic staff had to take decisions on financial support payments, and the applicant lost her authority to deal with those matters independently. the union expressed the view that a collective agreement between the locally employed staff and the embassy could resolve such issues. the protest was covered by news outlets in sweden. on 23 november 2005 the swedish embassy sent a decision to the applicant’s home address which stated that a disciplinary sanction would be imposed on the applicant – dismissal from work for gross misconduct. by a judgment of 5 june 2006 the vilnius regional court granted the embassy’s request for the merits of the applicant’s complaints to be left without examination because the embassy had invoked the defence of diplomatic immunity. she also relied on the 1972 european convention on state immunity (see paragraph 54 below). the plaintiff stated that a labour contract (darbo sutartis) has been concluded between her and the embassy of the kingdom of sweden. the supreme court also held:“... the chamber also observes that international practice is not consistent as concerns the question of which persons working at a diplomatic representation of another state participate in the public functions of the state they represent and who, as a result, work in the civil service of the represented state, on the one hand, and which persons are engaged in activities that are not related to the performance of state functions, and whose activity consequently falls under private law, on the other. by a ruling of 13 may 2011 the vilnius regional court dismissed her civil claim. it was only natural that working duties and the structure of jobs at the embassy had changed. the labour code, which regulates disputes over employment contracts, provides that while exercising their rights and fulfilling their duties employers and employees are bound to comply with laws, observe the common rules of life and adhere to the principles of reasonableness, justice and honesty. however, should the court establish that the employee may not be reinstated for economic, technological, organisational or similar reasons, or because he may find himself in unfavourable conditions, the court will declare the dismissal unlawful and award the employee his or her average salary from the time of the unlawful dismissal until the execution of the court’s decision, as well as severance pay (article 297 § 4). indeed, local staff working, for example, in a foreign embassy would have no realistic way to present a claim other than in a court of the state of forum.
the applicants complained of the excessive length of different civil and criminal proceedings under article 6 § 1 of the convention. all applicants obtained decisions of the constitutional court of serbia, which found a violation of their right to a hearing within reasonable time (see appended table for details of each civil proceedings and constitutional court’s decisions). the court, additionally, declared that the applicants were entitled to the non-pecuniary damages sought, in accordance with article 90 of the constitutional court act (see paragraph 14, article 90, below). all the applicants filed requests with the commission for compensation for payment of non-pecuniary damages. on 14 october 2010 the commission for compensation offered to pay ms prohaska prodanić rsd 60,000 (at the time approximately eur 600) for non-pecuniary damage incurred and rsd 25,000 for costs and expenses. she refused to accept that payment as the commission did not specify the deadline by which the sum would be paid. on 15 september 2015, the ministry of justice paid her rsd 85,000. the applicant v. tomić contacted the commission for compensation on several occasions and requested the payment of non-pecuniary damage. it would appear that he had received no response. on 16 march 2011 the commission for compensation offered to pay mr d. trpković rsd 35,000 (at the time approximately eur 350), but he refused to accept this amount, deeming it insufficient.
the first applicant was born in 1952 and lives in hausen (canton of aargau). the first applicant entered switzerland in 1997, where he applied for asylum in the same year. the first applicant’s asylum application was rejected by the competent authorities. in march 1999 the first applicant married a swiss national and obtained a residence permit. in 2000 a daughter was born to the couple. in 2002 the second applicant visited his father in switzerland for three months based on a tourist visa valid for that period. in july 2003 the second applicant re-entered switzerland for purposes of family reunification with his father. on 1 march 2006 the first applicant lodged a request for family reunification with the second applicant, who was 15 and a half years old at the time and for whom he had custody according to egyptian law. on 15 february 2007 the migration office of the canton of aargau refused that request. his mother had moved to kuwait with her new spouse and he was now cared for exclusively by his paternal grandmother. it found, second, that the applicants could not rely on article 8 of the convention, as the second applicant had reached the age of adulthood and was not dependant on the first applicant (see relevant domestic law and practice paragraph 33 below). on 5 july 2010 the federal supreme court dismissed that appeal. it observed that the first applicant had, thus, at that time, preferred that the second applicant lived with his mother and that the second applicant would face even more severe challenges to integration now than he had during his first stay in switzerland, given his age. while noting that the first applicant had a close relationship to his daughter in switzerland and that he could, thus, not be expected to relocate to egypt to live there with the second applicant, the court noted that the applicants had not submitted sufficient reasons to justify the second applicant’s reunion with his father in switzerland. the mother had tried to bring her child to the netherlands as soon as possible after her arrival.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in achkhoy-martan, chechen republic. the kidnappers also took m.’s automatic gun. the soldiers were released by law-enforcement officers on 18 january 2001. on an unspecified date the authorities opened a criminal investigation into the soldiers’ abduction. other perpetrators had not been identified. on an unspecified date the investigator questioned m. and p. both of them submitted that they had been abducted from the inner yard adjacent to the applicant’s house. they had come to the applicant’s house to buy drugs. the applicant had asked them to enter to help him move the car that had been parked inside. after they had been done with the car, they had been attacked by four persons. m. had cried out to the applicant for help, but the applicant had done nothing. after that they had been blindfolded, put in a car and taken to another place. on 26 june 2007 the district court found the applicant guilty of abduction and theft of firearms and sentenced him to seven years’ imprisonment. the court relied on the statements of m. and p. given during the questioning by the investigator, the written statements made by their parents to whom m. and p. had told about their abduction, the written statements made by other soldiers who confirmed that m. and p. had been missing in 2001. the court considers such circumstances to be extraordinary and preventing the victims from appearing in court.” on 26 december 2011 the applicant was released.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lived in the sverdlovsk region. on 6 april 2012 the leninskiy district court in nizhniy tagil issued a detention order in respect of the applicant who had been charged with murder and had absconded. the order was to be valid for an initial period of two months following the applicant’s arrest. on 19 february 2013 the applicant was apprehended in china and extradited to russia. on 30 april 2013 the leninskiy district prosecutor asked the district court to extend the applicant’s detention for a further two months. on the same day the district court granted the application in part. it extended the authorised period of detention “for one month, until 19 may”. he complained, in particular, that the initial two-month detention period had expired already on 19 april 2013 and that his subsequent detention had been unlawful. on 10 june 2013 the sverdlovsk regional court rejected the appeal. on 26 september 2013 a judge of the regional court refused the applicant leave to appeal to the regional cassation instance. on 4 march 2014 a judge of the supreme court of the russian federation refused the applicant leave to appeal to the supreme court. the judge noted, in particular, that the belated filing of an application for an extension of the authorised period of detention was not a ground for varying the custodial measure.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in helsinki, finland. in the criminal proceedings t. was heard as a witness. the applicant was subsequently transferred to finland to serve his prison sentence. it also explained to the parties that if they wished to be heard, they would have to notify the court within fifteen days of the date of receiving the decision. he further contended that he had not committed murder but had shot the victim in self-defence; in so far as the alleged damage related to the collection of evidence, it had been caused by the police; the claims were unsubstantiated in part. he stated that he wished to explain that he had not caused the damage and had acted in self-defence. he also submitted additional evidence to the court (a photo of one of the items in question; a bank statement about the payment of utility bills; price lists to prove the cost of another damaged item and the cost of cleaning services). it then went on to explain that under article 404 of the ccp a written procedure could be applied when the amount of the claim was under 50,000 kroons (eur 3,196) and a party’s appearance in court was significantly hindered by a long distance or for any other good reason. no submissions were made to the court within the thirty-day time limit. relying on the judgment in the criminal case, the county court considered it established that the applicant had not acted in self-defence when he killed the victim. on 22 december 2010 the applicant filed an appeal against the county court’s judgment. in such circumstances, the court of appeal could only accept an appeal for examination if the county court in its judgment had granted leave to appeal or a provision of substantive or procedural law had clearly been incorrectly applied or it was clear that the evidence had been wrongly assessed and this could have significantly influenced the court’s ruling. however, for that it was not necessary for a court hearing (kohtuistung) to be conducted. the court of appeal further noted that the applicant had not objected under article 333 §§ 1 and 2 of the ccp to the county court’s decision of 8 july 2010 whereby the court had ordered that the case be examined in simplified proceedings and requested the applicant to make his submissions in writing. on 30 may 2011 the supreme court decided not to examine the appeal.
the applicant was born in 1944 and lives in sofia. the decision, based on section 98 (1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973 (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство – “the tupa”), stated that the applicant’s father was to be compensated with a two-room flat and the applicant was to be compensated with another, three-room, flat. the flats were to be situated in a building which had to be constructed by the bureau for servicing the diplomatic corps (“the bsdc”). the one to be provided to the applicant’s father measured 64.26 square metres. in 1987 the applicant’s parents and the applicant and his family were settled in a two-room municipally-owned flat. in 1991 the plans for the construction of the building where the future flats offered in compensation were to be located were cancelled. the expropriated house was pulled down and the construction works on the plot of land started on an unspecified date. in february 1996 the applicant’s father passed away. he was not required to pay an additional amount for the bigger flat. on 10 june 2004 the applicant requested that the mayor of sofia offer as compensation one of the several flats in the vicinity of the expropriated property managed by the ministry of foreign affairs, successor to the bsdc. as no response followed, the applicant lodged an appeal against the mayor’s tacit refusal. the ministry of foreign affairs also participated in the proceedings. it appears that even after that judgment the mayor never took a decision on the applicant’s request for re-compensation. in the meantime, the applicant’s mother was evicted from the municipally-owned flat she had been occupying. it is unclear whether any decision on the matter has been taken after that.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in baku. was transferred to the oil workers’ hospital where she died on the same day. on 24 august 2007 the investigator ordered a new forensic examination of s.j. a commission composed of five experts issued forensic report no. k69/2008 which repeated the findings of the previous reports about it being impossible to identify the origin of the poisoning. on 24 september 2008 the applicant lodged a request with the investigator in charge of the case to reclassify it under article 120 of the criminal code (murder). by a letter of 10 november 2008, the deputy prosecutor general rejected the request. on 27 october 2009 the applicant brought a civil action against the prosecutor general’s office, asking the court to order the prosecuting authorities to carry out an effective investigation into his daughter’s death. 239/kes dated 25 november 2009 which reiterated the findings of the previous forensic examinations about it being impossible to identify the origin of the poisoning and the existence of various injuries on s.j. ’s body which had been sustained before her fall from the balcony. could have fallen to the place her body was found as a result of jumping from the balcony. 07/2011-mtbs concluding that there was no trace of blood on the jacket. the prosecuting authorities informed him in that letter that the investigation would be carried out effectively and that he would be informed of its results. in the meantime, on 28 december 2011 the investigator decided to terminate the criminal proceedings for failure to identify the perpetrator of the crime, although all the relevant investigative actions had been carried out. on 16 february 2012 the applicant lodged a complaint against the investigator’s decision with the nasimi district court, asking the court to overrule it.
the first applicant was born in 1969 and is serving a life sentence in perekhrestivka in the sumy region (oblast). on 30 january 2002 the first applicant was extradited to ukraine. on 4 and 11 february 2002 the first applicant signed two documents explaining in detail his rights as a suspect or accused in the course of the pre-trial investigation, including the right to have a lawyer appointed for him, to consult a lawyer before being questioned for the first time and the right to remain silent. he confessed to participation in the attacks on mr and mrs va. on 7 november 2001 the second applicant was questioned in the presence of his lawyer about the circumstances of the crimea attack (episode 7) and participated in a reconstruction. he described his and mr zakshevskiy’s role in the attack, stating that he had arrived at the scene of the crime on a motorcycle with mr zakshevskiy. afterwards, the applicants had arrived and loaded stolen shoes and money into their car. on 28 march, 23 april and 10 july 2002 s.s. and the first applicant commit that crime. arrested in belarus in december 2001, i.k. and the first applicant commit the luhansk murder and witnessed the applicants participate in the attack on the shoe sellers near kharkiv. episodes 4, 6 and 7 respectively) to court. it convicted the applicants of banditry, armed robbery and related offences of carjacking, aggravated murder and attempted aggravated murder. a further four pages of the judgment were dedicated to a discussion of whether the defendants’ pre-trial statements had been coerced. had given descriptions of the attackers in their pre-trial statements which had not fitted him.
as of 19 february 2011, the date on which he lodged his application with the court, he was serving his sentence of imprisonment in a penitentiary institution in yerevan. went to the town of goris to visit his friend, m.k., who was serving his sentence in a penitentiary institution there. he signed a warning concerning the responsibility for sending prohibited items to a prisoner. on the same date the investigator decided to assign a forensic medical examination of the items discovered. on 29 april 2009 the expert delivered his opinion, which stated that the substances examined were narcotics. in this connection the deputy prosecutor of the syunik region questioned the applicant on 6 november 2009 and recorded his complaints. residents of the town of kapan, and g.b., judge d. was thereafter provided with a certificate issued on 19 february 2010 by a hospital in yerevan according to which d.t. by letter of 22 february 2010 the police informed judge d. that m.s. had signed a written undertaking at the police station to appear at the hearing of 22 february 2010. is receiving medical treatment in yerevan. defence lawyer ... opined:proceed with the trial since, in reply to the court’s decision to compel the witnesses, the kapan police department has stated the impossibility of their attendance. it is a lie that i put a syringe inside the cake. on 20 july 2010 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law complaining, inter alia, of the non-examination of witnesses against him either in the regional court or in the court of appeal.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in yambol. the applicant and his brother co-owned a house with a yard and a garage in yambol. by a decision of the mayor of 31 january 1983 the property was expropriated with a view to constructing a residential building. the decision, based on section 98 (1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973 (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство – “the tupa”), stated that the applicant and his brother were to be compensated with flats in a building which the municipality intended to construct. on an unspecified date the flats were constructed and delivered to the applicant and his brother. on 13 july 1994 the mayor modified the decision of 31 january 1983, stating that the two brothers were also to be compensated with a common garage. the applicant’s brother informed the mayor that he renounced his right to compensation with a garage in the applicant’s favour. the applicant did not appeal against that decision and apparently prepared to start the construction works. by a decision of 9 october 2002 the mayor modified the previous decision of 30 may 1995, indicating another municipal plot of land where the future garage was to be built, as it had turned out that the previous one was not owned by the municipality. that decision was not appealed against by the applicant, but was eventually set aside by the yambol regional governor after it had been contested by third persons. on an unspecified date in 2010 the applicant brought a tort action against the yambol municipality, claiming a wrongful failure on its part to provide him with a garage. the action was dismissed, the final judgment being given by the supreme administrative court on 30 march 2011. the domestic courts held that no unlawful inactivity on the part of the authorities had been established, neither had it been shown that the applicant had sustained any damage. it appears that the municipality had been offering such a solution since 2007. the compensation in cash was paid to the applicant on 4 april 2012.
two conversations with a person using a mobile phone belonging to a certain i.k., which were recorded on 4 september 2009, appeared to incriminate the applicant: one between a woman identified as r.g. and a man known as kiril, later identified as the applicant, and the other between the same woman and another man, in which the same kiril was referred to in terms suggesting that he was involved in the prostitution ring. a judicial investigation was opened on 2 october 2009 into alleged offences of living on the earnings of prostitution with aggravating circumstances, committed as part of an organised gang; trafficking in human beings, committed as part of an organised gang; and criminal conspiracy. a warrant for the applicant’s arrest was issued on 28 july 2010 by judge n.c., the vice-president responsible for the investigation at the lyons tribunal de grande instance. at 10.56 a.m. on 20 december 2010 he was brought for the first time before b.g., the investigating judge dealing with the case, who placed him under formal investigation for the above-mentioned offences. at about 5 p.m. on the same day, the lyons liberties and detention judge, to whom the matter had been referred by the investigating judge, interviewed the applicant and remanded him in custody pending trial. on 6 september 2011 the investigation division dismissed most of the application to have the procedural steps declared void (except for one point concerning the interception of telephone conversations), in particular restating the reason given in its previous decision of 13 january 2011. on 14 september 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law, relying in particular on article 5 § 3, article 6 § 1 and article 14 of the convention and the constitutional principle of equality. in a judgment of 10 may 2012 the criminal division of the court of cassation dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law. ... firstly, it held that the constitutional council had specified that the abrogation of the provisions in question would apply only in the case of persons in police custody or under formal investigation who were questioned or interviewed following the publication of its decision, so that his argument had in that respect become devoid of purpose. it sentenced him to four years’ imprisonment and a fine of 10,000 euros (eur). in a judgment of 20 july 2012 the lyons court of appeal upheld the judgment as to the issue of guilt and sentenced the applicant to six years’ imprisonment with a minimum term of two-thirds of the sentence, as well as imposing a fine eur 10,000 and a five-year exclusion order from the départements of savoie and bas-rhin.
he is currently serving a prison sentence. at the time of the events the applicant had previous convictions from 1983 and 1989. he was released from prison in october 2002. following his release from prison the applicant cohabited with t.b. in the village of blahovishchenka, in the zaporizhzhya region. at a certain point the applicant seized a knife and stabbed sh. the latter was taken to hospital, but he died shortly afterwards. later that evening the applicant was taken to the police station, where he was questioned in relation to the incident. at 2.00 a.m. on 25 april 2006 the applicant confessed that he had had a fight with sh., on 26 april 2006 the applicant was allowed to consult a lawyer for the first time. when falling down from the blows he had received from him. on 15 june 2006 the applicant was charged with aggravated murder and questioned again in the presence of his lawyer. who had approached him with a glass bottle, while trying to defend himself. his allegation that he had acted in self-defence was rejected as unsubstantiated. his application was registered by the sizo mailing service under number 2/k‑517.
the applicant was born in 1948 and lives in sofia. even though the applicant lived in sofia, she apparently continued to keep in it possessions of hers. in april 2001 the municipality issued a building permit for a new building with flats, to be situated on the plot of land where the applicant’s expropriated house was still standing. the permit was renewed in 2004, 2007 and 2010. in the meantime, construction plans were approved, and towards the end of 2003 the municipality allocated the flats to their future owners. on the basis of that distribution, on 13 january 2004 the mayor issued a new decision under section 100 of the tupa in respect of the applicant, revoking the previous decision of 27 march 1990 (see paragraph 7 above) and indicating the exact flat in the new building to be provided to her in compensation. the newly allocated flat measured 94 square metres, slightly bigger in size than the one offered in 1990. nevertheless, dissatisfied with the decision of 13 january 2004, the applicant challenged it before the courts, claiming that it impermissibly modified the 1990 decision dealing with the same matter. the proceedings continued until 20 november 2007 when, in a final judgment, the supreme administrative court dismissed the applicant’s application for judicial review. the ensuing proceedings were initially stayed to await the outcome of those described in the previous paragraph. the applicant applied for the judicial review of both orders. meanwhile, in september 2009 the applicant was evicted. the building was finished in 2014 and in july 2014 the applicant was invited to receive the keys to her flat. she refused to do so and instead of that challenged before the courts the authorization for the building to be used, claiming in particular that the construction had not been of sufficient quality. the course of these proceedings is unclear.
the applicants live or lived (the second applicant) in split. the applicants’ other personal details are set out in the appendix. except for the third and the fourth applicants who are the co-owners of the same flat, each applicant is (and the second applicant was before her death) the owner of a flat in split occupied by “protected lessees” (zaštićeni najmoprimci). in 2005 the applicants brought civil actions before the split municipal court (općinski sud u splitu), seeking to obtain judgements ordering the state to pay them the difference between the protected rent they were entitled to receive under the domestic legislation and the market rent they could have obtained if their flats were not subject to the protected lease scheme. the applicants relied, inter alia, on article 48 § 1 and article 50 of the croatian constitution (see paragraph 18 below). the split municipal court dismissed the applicants’ actions as unfounded. 35444/12size of the flat in square metresthe amount of the protected rent in hrkperiod 174.805 september 2012 - onwardsthe amount of the protected rent for the second applicant’s flat application no. 48914/12size of the flat in square metresthe amount of the protected rent in hrkperiod 11. for the first applicant’s flat was set at 140 croatian kunas (hrk) on 1 march 1998 and has not been changed since. for the third and fourth applicants, as the co-owners of the same flat, the condominium fee was set at hrk 101.20 on 1 january 1998 and has not changed since. the government did not contest this information. according to the applicants, they never paid any income tax on the income generated by renting out their flats subject to the protected lease scheme. the second and fifth applicants submitted:- an advertisement from the newspapers of 16 december 1998 offering for rent a furnished flat of 78 m² for dem 800 per month,- an advertisement from the internet dated 4 december 2014 offering for rent a furnished flat of 85 m² for eur 1,200 per month, and another one of 8 july 2014 offering for rent a furnished flat of 80 m² for eur 1,000 per month,- an advertisement of a real-estate agency offering for rent a flat of 80 m² for eur 1,000 per month. these applicants also claimed that their flats could be offered for rent during high season for eur 150 per day. the data submitted referred to nine flats and read as follows:  size in square metresmonthly rent in hrkrelevant period381,850.002009 - 2012604,777.372007 - 201026 900.002005 - 2012361,473.122011 - 2012625,320.002015623,800.002010 - 2014471,475.002010 - 2012561,000.002008 - 2009
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in samara. at about 8.35 p.m. on 14 october 2009 the applicant was apprehended by officers of the federal service for drug control (фсkн, “the drugs police”) during a test purchase of drugs from him. according to the applicant, he was brought to their premises at around 11 p.m. his account was corroborated by two drug police officers and two attesting witnesses. furthermore, at around 2 a.m. on the following day he was put in a cell that had not bed or stool, light, lavatory or running water, and was smeared with dirt and faeces. during his detention he had not been provided with food or drink, or permitted to use the toilet, but had had to urinate in a plastic bottle. at 6.30 p.m. a criminal case was instituted against the applicant, and thirty minutes later an investigator drew the arrest record, thus formally remanding the applicant in custody. at 11.55 p.m. on the same day he was transferred to a temporary detention centre. on 16 october 2009 the oktyabrskiy district court of samara remanded the applicant in custody. in particular, the court mentioned the following arguments: seriousness and nature of charges; previous conviction not being expunged; absence of “regular source of income”; hence possibility of continuing criminal activities or absconding or obstructing justice in any other manner. on 11 december 2009 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 15 january 2010 finding that the grounds on which the preventive measure had previously been imposed still persisted and there was no reason to vary the preventive measure. additionally, the court mentioned that the applicant had permanent place of residence and employment but it further stated that the applicant “did not have a regular source of income”. on 22 december 2009 the samara regional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal, endorsing the reasoning of the district court. the prosecutor was present at the appeal hearing unlike both the applicant and his counsel. on 12 february 2010 the kuybyshevskiy district court of samara found the applicant guilty of selling large quantities of narcotics and sentenced him to eight years’ imprisonment in a strict-security institution. on 4 may 2010 the samara regional court upheld the conviction.
the applicant was born in 1977 and is currently serving a sentence in a correctional colony in the tambov region. on 17 july 2007 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of robbery. on the following day the meshchanskiy district court of moscow authorised his detention. on 6 september 2007 the taganskiy district court extended the detention. that detention order was upheld on appeal on 22 october 2007 by the moscow city court. another extensions of detention followed on 16 october 2007 and 11 december 2007. the applicant appealed against both detention orders. on 17 january 2008 the applicant was convicted as charged and sentenced to nine years’ imprisonment. the conviction became final on 19 march 2008. on 2 july 2008, in reply to the applicant’s complaint about the failure to examine his appeal, the city court informed him that his appeal against the detention order of 16 october 2007 was not received by the city court. however, by a letter of 22 august 2008 the city court forwarded the applicant’s appeal statement lodged on 17 october 2007 to the district court, requiring it to perform procedural steps necessary to initiate the appeal proceedings. the city court also informed the applicant that his appeal complaint of 17 october 2007 was mistakenly attached to another case-file. no further information on organisation of the appeal hearing against the detention order of 16 october 2007 was provided.
the applicant was born in 1982 in achinsk, krasnoyarsk region. prison guards entered the cell, took the applicant out, kicked his legs, twisted his hands, threw him to the floor and then dragged him to a search room. on three occasions in the same month the applicant complained of constricting chest pain, frequent urination, a headache and pain in the small of the back. in the summer of 2008 the applicant started using crutches. the treatment was effective and on 21 november 2008 he was discharged. the illnesses were addressed with drug therapy. tired of the difficulties of prison life, the applicant had allegedly told the inmates that he had intended to use his chronic ailments to obtain a transfer to a hospital, where he “could rest”. after having examined the applicant and his medical file, the expert found no evidence of ill-treatment and insisted that the applicant’s medical condition could not have been caused by or linked to the beatings. according to the government, the number of cellmates in disciplinary cell no. the applicant was given uniform, underwear and slippers. in june 2008 the applicant lodged a claim seeking compensation for non-pecuniary damage allegedly caused by the poor conditions of his detention in the prison hospital and ineffective medical care. on 23 november 2009 the zheleznodorozhniy district court dismissed the claim, having considered that the medical treatment received in the prison hospital had been adequate and successful, given the significant improvement of his health. the parties to the proceedings did not appear. the experts also stressed that there were no scientifically available means to properly diagnose the applicant’s deep-vein thrombosis before the illness had manifested itself through acute symptoms, such as pain. on 28 april 2011 the town court, having examined the case in the applicant’s absence, dismissed the claim.
the applicant company is a limited liability company incorporated under croatian law, which has its seat in zagreb. on 21 june 2000 the applicant company instituted civil proceedings before the zagreb municipal court (općinski sud u zagrebu) against the croatian health insurance fund seeking payment of 11,500 croatian kunas (hrk)[1] which had been unjustifiably seized from the company’s bank account for the alleged failure to pay health insurance contributions. the municipal court scheduled sixteen hearings of which six were adjourned (in the period between 10 may 2005 and 3 november 2009) at the request of the applicant company. the applicant company’s director failed to attend the hearing scheduled for 6 november 2006 without giving any reasons for his absence. therefore, by a decision of the same day, the court decided to suspend the proceedings (mirovanje postupka) pursuant to the law. the proceedings continued upon the request of the applicant company of 21 february 2007. the statutory conditions for the suspension of proceedings were again fulfilled on 2 march 2010 when the applicant company’s director attended the hearing but failed to engage in litigation. accordingly, on the same date the municipal court issued a decision declaring that the applicant company’s action was to be considered withdrawn, pursuant to the law. by a decision of 17 september 2010 the zagreb county court (županijski sud u zagrebu) dismissed an appeal lodged by the applicant company against the first-instance decision. the county court’s decision was served on the applicant company on 3 january 2011. on 3 september 2010 the applicant company’s request was forwarded to the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske). by a decision of 13 july 2011 the supreme court found a violation of the applicant company’s right to a hearing within a reasonable time and awarded it hrk 5,000[2] in compensation. by a decision of 6 september 2012 a three-judge panel of the supreme court dismissed the appeal and served its decision on the applicant company on 13 november 2012. by a decision of 31 january 2013 the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) declared inadmissible the applicant company’s subsequent constitutional complaint, and served that decision on the company on 23 march 2013. the constitutional court held that the contested second-instance decision was not open to constitutional review.
the applicant was born in 1936 and lives in kragujevac. on 13 december 2006 the applicant filed a civil claim in criminal proceedings as injured party. on 18 november 2010 the kragujevac court of first instance delivered the first instance judgment. on 20 october 2011 the kragujevac appellate court delivered the second instance judgment. this judgment was delivered to the applicant on 7 november 2011. on 18 february 2014 the constitutional court of serbia rejected the applicant’s constitutional appeal.
the applicants were born in 1964 and 1975 respectively and lived in moscow. on 5 april 2005 the presnenskiy district court in moscow found the applicants and their co-defendants guilty of extortion and gave them a custodial sentence. on 31 october 2005 the moscow city court upheld the conviction on appeal. it did not mention the matter of the defendants’ detention. on 26 july 2006 the city court held a new appeal hearing and quashed the initial conviction for formal defects, ordering a re-trial. it also held that there were no grounds for varying the preventive measure and maintained it without setting a time-limit or relying on any provisions of the domestic law. on 21 august 2006 the district court held a preliminary hearing and fixed the trial date for 31 august. it maintained the custodial measure, without citing any reasons, references to the domestic law or time-limits. on 30 october 2006 the city court rejected the applicants’ appeals against the extension order. on 16 january 2007 the district court extended the applicants’ detention until 28 february 2007, relying on the gravity of the charges and unspecified circumstances that indicated a risk of perverting the course of justice. on 21 february 2007 the city court quashed the detention order of 16 january because of an incorrect date in its text. it maintained the custodial measure without giving reasons. on 27 february 2007 the district court issued an identically worded detention order which was upheld on appeal on 16 april. the extension order was upheld on appeal on 25 june 2007. further extensions were approved by the district court on 27 and 28 april (upheld on appeal on 25 june), 8 and 16 may (upheld on appeal on 23 july), and 13 june 2007 (upheld on appeal on 1 august).
the applicants were born in 1985 and 1980 and live in jilemnice and prague respectively. in 2010 the applicant became pregnant for the second time with an expected delivery date in the middle of may 2011. according to the applicant, before deciding to give birth at home, she had visited several hospitals, which had all refused her requests to deliver the baby without any medical intervention that was not strictly necessary. however, she was unable to find a midwife willing to assist because of the risk of a heavy fine if medical services were provided without authorisation. in a letter of 18 november 2011 the ministry of health replied that it did not provide medical services to individual patients and that the applicant should make enquiries to the city of prague (město praha), which, acting as a regional office, registered and issued licences to health professionals. in other european countries the figures ranged from 0.5% in sweden and italy to 4.7% in azerbaijan. according to their 2006 report, perinatal mortality is an important indicator of maternal care and maternal health and nutrition; it also reflects the quality of available obstetric and paediatric care, comparing different countries. the applicants referred to the cases of ms š. guilty of negligently causing the death of a baby who was stillborn. was based on the fact that she had not strongly advised the mother to contact a medical facility when consulted by telephone during a labour that was already ongoing at home. was eventually acquitted by the district court on 23 may 2016. according to the court, the malpractice on the part of ms k. consisted in the fact that she had not followed the standard procedures for deliveries as laid down by the czech medical association (česká lékařská komora) and her conduct had thus been non lege artis. the criminal complaint was not lodged by the parents but by a hospital. moreover, it had been established that she had tried to help the baby and had called an ambulance immediately after establishing that the baby had hypoxia. that freedom, which includes freedom in personal activities, is accompanied by a certain degree of acceptable risk.
the first and second applicants were born in 1940 and 1942 respectively and live in kaunas. the third applicant was born in 1977 and lives in france. ’s right to receive 0.182 hectares of land each from the state for free. were provided with four plots of land (one plot each) in the city of vilnius the following month. stated that in 1994 he had befriended e.k. submitted that he had not known the buyers previously and had only met them when signing the agreements. he retracted his previous statement in part and stated that he had not received payment for the four plots of land (ltl 25,000 for each plot) and did not know if the buyers had paid that money to e.k. that claim was amended in june and september 2002 and june 2005. on 20 february 2006 the vilnius city first district court allowed the prosecutor’s claim in part. it overturned the administrative decisions which had allocated the land to the applicants. the applicants appealed against that judgment; on 6 june 2006 the vilnius regional court dismissed their appeal. the court considered that obliging the applicants to pay compensation in the amount of the market value of the land was not disproportionate, because they still retained the right to have property rights restored and to obtain new plots. it held that ignorance of the law could not absolve anyone of responsibility, and thus the applicants should have known that property rights had been restored to them in breach of peremptory legal norms, especially as there was information that they had been advised by e.k., on 29 june 2007 the applicants submitted a claim against the state for pecuniary damages before the vilnius regional administrative court. relying on the supreme court’s judgment of 5 june 2007 (see paragraph 19 above), the supreme administrative court considered that the applicants had abused their rights by attempting to get from the state more land than g.o.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in donetsk. on 29 may 1997 the donetsk kirovskyy district court (“the kirovskyy court”) found the applicant guilty of robbery and sentenced him to three years’ imprisonment. in october 1997 the kirovskyy court sent its judgment to the local police with a view to ensuring its enforcement. as submitted by the applicant and eventually established by the domestic courts (see paragraph 12 below), he continued living at his permanent address. although he was placed on a wanted list for a brief period in december 1997, neither during that period nor thereafter did the police try to contact him. he had been arrested more than five years later. as regards the applicant’s request for release, the kirovskyy court stated that the issue was no longer of relevance (see paragraph 14 below). on 23 june 2006 the regional court upheld the above decision. in the meantime, on 27 april 2005, the dzerzhynskyy local court ordered the applicant’s release on parole. the applicant was released on 4 may 2005 once all the formalities had been completed. he relied on the compensation act, under which a person could claim such compensation if the unlawfulness of his or her arrest and detention had been established by a judicial decision (see paragraph 26 below). the court observed that the applicant had appealed against neither the judgment of 29 may 1997 nor the ruling of 26 september 1997 (see paragraphs 6 and 8 above). on 22 august 2007 the applicant’s representative, g., appealed on points of law. according to the applicant, his representative had sent the requested authority form by the above-mentioned registered letter. according to the applicant, his representative received it on 24 november 2007.
the state authorities reclaimed the flats, and the applicants’ title to the real property in question was annulled. prior to its privatisation, the flat at 4-78 angarskaya ulitsa, moscow, had been owned by the city of moscow. had resided there as a tenant under the social housing agreement with the city. on 20 march 2007 the city court upheld the judgment of 29 november 2006 on appeal. on 24 february 2010 the koptevskiy district court of moscow granted a claim for damages lodged by the applicant against the real estate agency which had represented her in the flat purchase. v. had resided there as a tenant under the social housing agreement with the city. however, it ruled that the case fell under one of the two exceptions to the protection of a bona fide purchaser’s title, which required that precedence be given to the city of moscow as the previous owner of the flat. according to the government, the applicants were not evicted and continue to reside in the flat. on 4 december 2007 the city housing authorities transferred ownership of the flat to yo. on 13 october 2010 the koptevskiy district court of moscow found yo. on 14 february 2012 the golovinskiy district court of moscow granted the claims against the applicant. prior to its privatisation, the flat at 9-13 yartsevskaya[3] ulitsa, moscow, had been owned by the city of moscow. on 19 august 2008 p. sold the flat to the first applicant. it restored the city’s ownership of the flat and ordered the applicants’ eviction. on 8 august 2012 the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 17 january 2012 on appeal.
the applicants, mr vladimir karapetyan (the first applicant), ms martha ayvazyan (the second applicant), mr araqel semirjyan (the third applicant) and ms karine afrikyan (the fourth applicant), are armenian nationals who were born in 1969, 1967, 1973 and 1954 respectively and live in yerevan. at the material time, the applicants occupied different posts within the ministry of foreign affairs, namely head of press and information department, head of nato division of arms control and international security department, counsel of the european department and head of usa and canada division of the american department respectively. the main contenders were the then prime minister, serzh sargsyan, and the opposition candidate, levon ter-petrosyan. considering the preservation of stability in the country important and public accord necessary, we appeal to our compatriots and especially the representatives of all the structures in the country responsible for maintaining public order and peace to avoid the temptation of resolving problems by use of force. we appeal to all our colleagues working both in armenia or abroad to join our statement.” this statement was reported by the mass media on the same day. according to the government, the ambassadors who issued this statement were dismissed from their posts the following day and their dismissal was widely reported in the media. only by acting in conformity with the letter and spirit of the law can we create democracy and tolerance in armenia and earn the country a good reputation abroad.” the names of the applicants, with the indication of their office, appeared under the statement. on an unspecified date in march 2008, the applicants instituted administrative proceedings challenging their dismissal and seeking to be reinstated in their work. in particular, they claimed that the decrees on their dismissal contained no reasons regarding the particular instance where they had made use of their official capacity and work facilities for the benefit of parties or non-governmental organisations or for engaging in political or religious activities, as prohibited by the sections of the diplomatic service act. they also claimed that dismissal on the ground of convictions and opinions was prohibited by law. on 10 april 2008 the ministry of foreign affairs, as a respondent, lodged a response with the administrative court (հհ վարչական դատարան), claiming that the applicants, by making their statement of 24 february 2008 which had then been reported by the mass media and announced during the demonstration, had engaged in political activities. furthermore, the applicants had made use of their official capacity since they indicated their official titles in the statement. on 29 may 2008 the administrative court dismissed the applicants’ claim, finding that their dismissal from work was lawful since the applicants, by making the impugned statement, in essence had engaged in political activity.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in moscow. r. had resided there as a tenant under the social housing agreement with the city. on 2 june 2000 the notary granted the request and issued a certificate confirming, inter alia, that yar. on an unspecified date the city registration committee registered the transaction and issued the relevant deed, confirming the applicant’s title to the flat. after the birth of her daughter in 2004, she resided there with her daughter. on 6 june 2001 the taganskiy district court of moscow found yar. the judgment became final on 25 july 2001. on 5 march 2002 the prosecutor brought a civil claim on behalf of the department for housing of the city of moscow (the “housing department”) seeking (1) the annulment of r.’s will and of the applicant’s title to the flat; (2) the applicant’s eviction; (3) restitution of the flat to the city of moscow; and (4) annulment of the purchase agreement between yar. and the applicant, and the reimbursement by yar. of the amount the applicant had paid for the flat. in the new set of proceedings the applicant brought a counterclaim against the city of moscow, seeking to be recognised as a bona fide purchaser of the flat. on 24 january 2006 the city court upheld the judgment of 14 november 2005 on appeal. on 2 april 2008 the applicant and her daughter were evicted from the flat. according to the applicant, they had to move in with her parents and her brother and his family. who had been on the social housing waiting list for twenty-five years.
the applicant, who was born in 1952, is a farmer and the head of a farming company, a. he lives in borzna. d.’s former director had been aware of that fact. the transaction had not been finalised on the books as there had been disagreements between the parties over the price of the slabs and on various procedural issues. on 3 may 2001 the borznyanskiy district prosecutor (the “district prosecutor”) instituted criminal proceedings against the applicant on suspicion of fraudulently appropriating slabs that he had received on d.’s behalf. in the course of the questioning the applicant again admitted to receiving the slabs and using them on his farm. in the course of the trial, the district court questioned the applicant and numerous other individuals, including the directors and accountants of d. and k., and examined various documents. during the trial, the applicant, represented by a lawyer of his own choice, reiterated that he had had no fraudulent intent in taking possession of the slabs and that the three parties had decided on all the details of the transaction in april 2001 (that is, before the criminal proceedings had been instituted against him). on 13 august 2003 the district court found the applicant guilty of the charges. that ... the three-party agreement had been concluded ... before the initiation of the criminal case, and that the managers of the three entities had agreed on the price and procedure for the transfer of the concrete slabs, the court cannot accept them, as they contradict the case file materials and the evidence examined in court. at the end of the pre-trial investigation. 6 of august 2001 the slabs transferred were valued at uah 2,000 and [k.’s] debt to d. as of 1 september 2001 remained at uah 13,517. contained on pages 65 and 67 of volume 1 of the case, dated june 2001”. the district court then granted the applicant an amnesty and released him from any punishment. it appears from the case-file materials that on an unspecified date the applicant filed an appeal against his conviction, which was accepted for examination. on 28 october 2004 the supreme court of ukraine examined submissions by the applicant, in the absence of both the applicant and his lawyer.
the applicants in this case are natalya sergeyevna ponyayeva, who was born on 7 july 1978, and her two daughters, svetlana aleksandrovna oleneva, born on 18 march 2006, and anastasiya aleksandrovna oleneva, born on 11 july 2000. prior to its privatisation, the flat at 83-3-4 ulitsa svobody, moscow, had been owned by the city of moscow. had resided there as a tenant under the social housing agreement with the city. was tried for having made a fake terror threat. he was relieved from criminal liability and committed to a psychiatric institution for treatment. the privatisation agreement on behalf of ol. on 13 april 2004 the registration service registered the transaction and issued the relevant deed confirming b. and k.’s title to the flat. on 12 january 2005 the tushinskiy district court of moscow granted a claim lodged by b. against ol. in which she alleged that the latter had been fraudulently deprived of the flat. according to the government, the investigation is pending to date. on 14 may 2008 the inter-district prosecutor brought a civil claim on behalf of ol. the court conceded that the first applicant was a bona fide purchaser of the flat. in this connection, the court reasoned that ol. the first applicant’s title to the flat was annulled and the ownership was transferred to the city of moscow. on 6 april 2011 the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 2 july 2010, in substance, on appeal.
both applicants were born in 1943 and live in vladivostok. in late 2003 during a campaign for elections to the national parliament, the state duma, the newspaper published a number of satirical and parodic articles on the course of the campaign in the primorskiy region. агентство интимных услуг контакт или имидж!). the article stated that vasilinka had refused to make any comments. vasilinka proved to be a dame with a touch of greed and was pulled by a free advert for her agency in our newspaper, although she warned us that she would not answer a single question about that ‘bitch’ masyanya. this is, so to say, a governmental order, which, i think, is also supported by the president. some candidates were described in more positive terms than others. 47 for 20-26 november 2003 in the column headlined “nadezhda alisimchik’s hummock of view” the newspaper arsenyevskiye vesti published an article ‘candidates must be known from the inside’ which was accompanied by a photographic collage showing a female body covered with a one-dollar banknote. the claimant’s representative has highlighted the insulting nature of the information published in the newspaper ... pointing out that the claimant is a public figure and often takes part in tv programmes; his photograph has been published on numerous occasions in the media, and [mr v.’s] face is therefore well known to people in the primorskiy region. at the hearing the applicants had contested the guilty verdict. the second applicant had stated that the article in question had been written as a parody of various negative social phenomena, especially corruption during the elections and the role of the law-enforcement agencies. it had therefore been clear that information “of an insulting nature” had related to mr v. the district court observed that, “by virtue of his office, mr v. [was] a public figure and readers [could] therefore easily understand that the photographic collage [showed] mr v.; so that readers [were] not mistaken, the name of the character in the article, ‘vasilinka’, [had] the same root as mr v.’s surname, and the character [was] a lawyer by profession and has extensive working experience as a prosecutor”. it appears that her request was refused and the first applicant had to borrow a part of the fine from the bank. according to the first applicant, she was able to pay back the money she borrowed six months later. she paid in instalments by deductions from her wages until 28 february 2006.
the applicant was born in 1977, and lived until his arrest in the town of krasnyy sulin, rostov region. he died in a prison tuberculosis hospital in rostov-on-don. on 27 march 2007 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of having been involved in drug trafficking. the two defendants were to stand trial together before the town court. in january 2008 the prison hospital informed the town court that the applicant was receiving treatment and that it was impossible to predict the date of his discharge. on 25 september 2008 the town court found the applicant guilty of two counts of the production and attempted sale of opium and sentenced him to six years’ imprisonment. in the course of the new round of proceedings the town court, on a number of occasions, authorised the applicant’s continued detention. each time the gravity of the charges and the risks of his re-offending and absconding served as the reason for the extension. the extension orders were formulated in the same standard manner. a chest x-ray examination on 9 april 2007 revealed that both his lungs were damaged by an active, advanced form of tuberculosis and that the right lung was partially collapsed on account of the presence of air in the thorax. the condition was further complicated by pleurisy. several days later his drug treatment was amended and the illness was brought under control. according to a medical report of 28 april 2010 submitted by the government, three days later the applicant’s health worsened and it was no longer possible to perform the prescribed operation. on 30 january 2009 he consulted a psychologist and a psychiatrist on this matter. on 29 october 2010 a medical panel concluded that the applicant’s condition warranted his early release from detention.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lived in rostov-on-don prior to his arrest. on 30 march 2006 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of murder. by judgment of 16 may 2006, the orlovskiy district court of the rostov region found him guilty and sentenced him to seven years’ imprisonment. on 18 july 2006 the rostov regional court upheld the conviction. the applicant and his counsel lodged an application for supervisory review of the conviction. on 12 april 2007 the presidium of the regional court, upon hearing the prosecutor, counsel for the applicant and for the injured party, quashed the conviction for formal defects and ordered a re-trial. the presidium directed that the applicant should be held in custody, without citing grounds for the custodial measure or setting a time-limit for its application. on 26 june 2007 the district court held a preliminary hearing and fixed the trial date for 3 july. by the same decision, the court determined that the applicant should remain in custody because he was charged with a particularly serious offence and could pervert the course of justice if released. the applicant and his counsel filed an appeal against the extension order. it annulled the detention order on the ground that the district court had failed to set a time-limit for the applicant’s detention, in breach of the requirements of the code of criminal procedure. on 11 december 2007 the regional court upheld the detention order on appeal. on 13 december 2007 the district court examined the applicant’s request for release. the applicant was released the following day. on 3 march 2008 the district court found the applicant guilty of murder and sentenced him to five years’ imprisonment.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in the leningrad region. on 25 february 2009 an investigator charged the applicant with kidnapping in absentia and put his name of the international list of fugitives from justice. on the same day the investigator asked the vasileostrovskiy district court in st petersburg to detain the applicant on remand. on 2 march 2009 the district court granted the investigator’s application for a detention order, referring to the gravity of the charges against the applicant. on 22 july 2009 the applicant was apprehended in the vologda region and transferred to a remand prison in st petersburg. on 30 july 2009 the applicant was interviewed and received a copy of the charge sheet. he also submitted an appeal against the detention order of 2 march. on 1 september 2009 the st petersburg city court heard the appeal and set aside the detention order, finding that the failure to follow the legal procedure for putting the applicant’s name on the list of fugitives from justice amounted to a “fundamental breach” of the rules of criminal procedure. it ordered a new examination of the detention matter but did not specify whether or not the applicant should remain in custody. as it happened, the applicant was not released. on 18 september 2009 the district court refused the investigator’s request for a detention order. it held, firstly, that the gravity of the charges was not a sufficient reason for detaining the applicant and, secondly, that the procedure for putting his name on the list of fugitives from justice had not been followed. the applicant was released in the courtroom. on 21 october 2009 the district court found the applicant guilty and gave him a custodial sentence conditional on four years’ probation.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in moscow. on 11 january 1999 the parish of the russian orthodox church of the dormition of the theotokos (the “parish”) brought a civil claim against the applicant and her family claiming title to the land plot de facto used by the latter. in may 1999 the applicant brought a counterclaim seeking annulment of the parish’s title to the land plot. on 23 november 1999 the butyrskiy district court of moscow granted the parish’s claim and dismissed the counterclaim lodged by the applicant. on 18 february 2000 the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 23 november 1999 on appeal. in july 2000 the city prosecutor’s office, upon the applicant’s request, asked for the supervisory review of the above judgments. on 24 august 2000 the presidium of the moscow city court quashed the judgments of 23 november 1999 and 18 february 2000 by way of supervisory review and remitted the matter for fresh consideration. it appears that both parties amended their claims in part for several times. the applicant eventually sought recognition of her property title to the land plot in question. on 4 may 2005 the district court granted the applicant’s claims in full. on 11 august 2005 the city court upheld the judgment of 4 may 2005 on appeal. it appears the judgment of 4 may 2005 was not enforced. on 25 december 2005 the parish asked for the supervisory review of the judgments in the applicant’s favour. on 13 july 2006 the presidium of the city court quashed the judgments of 4 may and 11 august 2005 by way of supervisory review and remitted the matter for fresh consideration. on 31 january 2007 the proceedings discontinued due to the absence of the parties.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in rudinská. on 17 december 2008 the applicant lodged a civil action with the žilina district court (file no. 8 c 240/2008) seeking an order for the defendant (a municipality) to enter into a contract with her concerning the transfer of a flat, in which she resided. the district court scheduled two hearings for 8 june and 8 july 2009; it ruled on the merits of the action and granted the action on the latter date. the applicant lodged an appeal; the judgment was quashed by a court of appeal on 8 april 2010 and the matter was remitted on 4 june 2010 to the district court. the applicant lodged a complaint under article 127 of the constitution with the constitutional court contesting the length of the proceedings in so far as those had been held before the district court. on 11 october 2012 the constitutional court (file no. ús 423/2012) rejected her complaint on the ground that, prior to lodging her constitutional complaint, the applicant had failed to exhaust ordinary remedies, in particular lodging a complaint with the president of the district court under the courts act (law no. the constitutional court noted that the court of appeal had transferred the case file to the district court on 4 june 2010 and that the applicant had lodged her constitutional complaint on 27 september 2012. it found that, within that period, the district court had failed actively to proceed with the matter for one year and a half. the constitutional court observed that the court’s previous case-law – such as ištván and ištvánová v. slovakia (no. 30189/07, 12 june 2012), which concerned a delay of more than six years – dealt with unjustified delays imputable to the courts that were substantially longer than those in the present case (one year and a half). the constitutional court considered that, because the unjustified delays in the present case had been shorter (compared to those in respect of ištván and ištvánová and other similar cases), it was justified in requiring – before turning for protection to the constitutional court – that the applicant lodge a complaint with the president of the district court with a view to accelerating her proceedings. following the constitutional court’s decision, the district court scheduled a hearing for 9 september 2015. at the time of communication of the application the proceedings were still pending.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in vienna. he had escaped from the premises and died after jumping in front of a subway train. subsequently, in august 2010 the applicant brought a civil action in the vienna regional civil court (landesgericht für zivilrechtssachen) under the official liability act (amtshaftungsgesetz) against the city of vienna (stadt wien) as the authority responsible for the hospital, seeking compensation of 20,000 euros (eur) plus interest in respect of non‑pecuniary damage. ’s mental state, diagnosed him with paranoid schizophrenia. ’s delusional behaviour, there was a risk that he would harm himself or others. the fact that her son had been able to escape from the hospital premises led the applicant to conclude that the hospital staff had acted negligently in the performance of their duties. at approximately 9pm the police informed the hospital that m.k. in the present case, by 12 may 2010 restriction of the physical movement of the applicant’s son (known as “fixation”), and/or the spatial restriction of his movement to the confines of a psychiatric bed, or his permanent supervision, were no longer medically indicated, nor would such measures have been reasonable or adequate. still posed a threat to himself and others, in particular because he still suffered from the delusional idea that he was a different person and did not recognise his parents as his own. in any event the hospital should have made sure that he was not able to leave the hospital grounds, even if therapeutic walks were medically indicated and permissible in the circumstances. there was no effective supervision of his walks or their duration. according to the expert opinion by dr p of 25 may 2012, the continuation of m.k. on 18 july 2013 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal, upholding the legal and factual findings of the court of appeal. ’s hospitalisation had therefore not been unlawful, even though he had been placed in the open ward from 20 april 2010. had been allowed to take unaccompanied walks because of the improvement in his condition.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lived in budapest. having been a judge since 1 january 1978 and a member of the supreme court since 1 march 1994, on 15 november 2009 he was appointed vice-president for a six-year term by the president of the republic, after being proposed for the post by the president of the supreme court. the mandate of the president of the supreme court was prematurely terminated, upon the entry into force of the fundamental law on 1 january 2012, in reaction to his criticisms and publicly expressed views regarding proposed judicial reforms (see baka v. hungary [gc], no. clxi of 2011 on the organisation and administration of the courts (“the aoac”) (see baka, cited above, § 30). accordingly, as of 1 january 2012, the applicant was removed from his position as vice-president, three years and ten months before the scheduled expiry of his mandate. he remained in office as president of one of the civil law division benches of the kúria (the historical appellation by which the supreme court was renamed in 2012). on 7 february 2012 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court challenging the termination of his position. ab, adopted by eight votes to seven, the constitutional court rejected the constitutional complaint. it held that the premature termination of the applicant’s term of office as vice-president had not violated the fundamental law, since it had been sufficiently justified by the full-scale reorganisation of the judicial system and important changes made in respect of the tasks and competences of the president of the kúria. the position of the vice-president within the organisation of the supreme judicial instance had not changed. under the act lxvi of 1997 on the organisation and administration of the courts, the vice-president was already entitled to act in the stead of the president of the supreme court only with regard to managerial tasks at the supreme court, but not with regard to his or her functions as president of the national council of justice (see baka, cited above, § 56). on 6 july 2012, as a consequence of the lowering of the judges’ mandatory retirement age pursuant to section 90 (ha) of act no. clxii of 2011 on the legal status and remuneration of judges (“the alsrj”) (see baka, cited above, § 52), the president of the republic released the applicant from his duties as a judge with effect from 31 december 2012. xx of 2013 referred to in baka, cited above, § 54). the applicant opted not to be reinstated and received lump-sum compensation for the termination of post as a judge.
he is currently serving a sentence in correctional colony no. it was further extended at the investigative authorities’ requests on a number of occasions given the seriousness of the charges, negative references about the applicant’s character and the fact that the applicant did not have permanent residence or a job. the day before the verdict, the applicant unsuccessfully asked the trial court to order an additional autopsy of the victim. the case was remitted for fresh examination. it neither verified whether the defence had been duly summoned nor looked at the reasons for their absence or reflected upon the need to obtain their attendance. on 8 april 2009 the regional court held a hearing. the defence were absent but the prosecutor attended and argued in favour of the applicant’s continued detention. in the meantime, the trial court proceeded with the examination of the case. the parties submitted the applicant’s medical documents for the period september 2008 to january 2013. his medical file does not contain any information on whether the detention authorities complied with the prescription. on 20 november 2009 a panel of psychiatrists examined the applicant and found that he suffered from organic personality disorder and vegetative nervous system disorder in the form of somatophrenia. shortly after his return to the correctional colony he was prescribed various medicines to treat his conditions. he was regularly seen by a prison doctor and psychiatrist. on 6 september 2012 the deputy head of the prison hospital examined the applicant and noted that the applicant was absolutely convinced that he was in a serious state of ill health. the applicant’s heart problems had not worsened.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lived, prior to his arrest, in olekminsk, sakha (yakutia) republic. on 23 december 2008 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of murder. on 25 december 2008 the olekminskiy district court of the sakha (yakutia) republic remanded the applicant in custody. on 21 february, 19 march, 18 may, 18 june, 15 august, and 12 september 2009 the court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention and held that despite the fact that he had permanent residence, job and family, he should remain in detention as the investigation was still pending, he could threaten witnesses or re-offend. on 18 june 2009 the judge stated in his detention order as follows:“... the circumstances of the case have not changed. [ the applicant] ... committed the crime under the influence of alcohol ..., he concealed that he had committed the crime ...” 9. on 27 november 2009 the court replaced the pre-trial detention with a house arrest. on 10 june 2010 the olekminskiy district court convicted the applicant of murder and sentenced him to 8 years’ imprisonment. on 10 august 2010 the supreme court of russia upheld his conviction on appeal.
the applicants were prosecuted in russia for crimes. they were arrested and detained while the crimes were investigated and pending trial. their detention was ordered and extended by the courts. the detention orders were essentially based on the gravity of the charges, the primary grounds being the risk of the applicants’ absconding and interfering with the course of justice. the first applicant was born on 20 august 1983 and lived, prior to his arrest, in yekaterinburg, sverdlovsk region. the applicant was arrested on 30 march 2005 on suspicion of fraud and placed in detention. he remained in custody pending investigation and trial. on 19 april and 14 july 2006 his pre-trial detention was extended. the applicant and his lawyer did not attend the hearing on 19 april 2006. on 23 october 2006 the leninskiy district court of yekaterinburg convicted the applicant of fraud and sentenced him to three years’ imprisonment. the second applicant was born on 2 november 1972 and lived, prior to his arrest, in vorkuta, komi republic. the applicant was arrested on 14 january 2008. on 5 june and 2 september 2009 the applicant’s pre-trial detention was extended. his appeals against these detention orders were examined on 24 july and 30 october 2009. the applicant and his lawyer were not present at the hearings on 24 july, 2 september and 30 october 2009.
the applicants are close relatives of persons who disappeared as a result of a large-scale sweeping operation conducted by the russian federal military forces in mesker-yurt between 21 may and 11 june 2002. 33185/04, 6 november 2008, concerning the abduction and subsequent disappearance of mr viskhadzhi magamadov and mr khaskhan mezhiyev on 14 november 2002; petimat magomadova v. russia, no. on 4 june 2002 the body of mr adam temersultanov, who had been detained during the special operation, was thrown from a military uaz vehicle on the outskirts of the village. on an unspecified date between 9 and 17 june 2002 the military unit conducting the special operation in mesker-yurt left the place where they had been stationed as well as the temporary filtration camp in the vicinity of the village. on 21 may 2002 a group of armed servicemen abducted him from his house at 157 lenina street. mr aslan israilov was born in 1981 and his brother, mr anzor israilov, was born in 1984. (d)  abduction of mr ibragim askhabov 23. in the documents submitted the place of the abduction was also referred to as 63 tereshkova street. on 21 may 2002 (in the documents submitted the date was also referred to as 23 may 2002) a group of armed servicemen, who arrived in two apcs with registration numbers 588 and 466, abducted  him from his house at 64 lenina street. (l)  abduction of mr adam temersultanov and subsequent discovery of his body 33. the applicants were not informed thereof. it is unclear whether any steps were taken to verify the information. in reply, they were informed that proceedings were under way and that the necessary measures were being taken. from the documents submitted it follows that between 2002 and 2010 the investigation of the criminal case consisted mostly of taking short statements from the applicants and/or some of their relatives and forwarding numerous requests for information to various state bodies. on 16 december 2011 the investigation of the criminal case was suspended again for failure to identify the perpetrators.
the applicants were born in 1996 and 1995 respectively. upon arrival, he was registered by the immigration police and given an identification number (12u-029). he was then presented with two documents in english, one containing a return decision and the other a removal order. the return decision also informed the first applicant that his stay was being terminated and of the possibility to apply for a period of voluntary departure. it informed him that he would remain in custody until removal was affected and that an entry ban would be issued against him. according to the government the first applicant did not request a booklet in another language. he was originally detained in warehouse 2 at safi barracks, and in 2013 was moved to block b. 11. mr cabdulaahi aweys abubakar entered malta in an irregular manner by boat on 31 august 2012. he informed them that he was born in 1995 and therefore was seventeen years old. he was assisted in submitting the preliminary questionnaire (pq), thereby registering his wish to apply for asylum under article 8 of the refugees act, chapter 420 of the laws of malta (see relevant domestic law, below). a few days following mr cabdulaahi aweys abubakar’s arrival he was called for an information session provided by the staff of the office of the refugee commissioner. he was assisted in submitting the pq, thereby registering his wish to apply for asylum. the first applicant claimed that, some weeks later, in or around october 2012, he was informed verbally by awas staff that he was found to be a minor and that he would be released shortly. until the date of the lodging of the application, that is almost eight months after his arrival in malta, mr cabdulaahi aweys abubakar had not received a written decision informing him of the outcome of the age‑assessment procedure, and was still in detention. following the acceptance of that request on 7 may 2014 the maltese authorities were informed by the german authorities that return was suspended pending proceedings in germany.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in roslavl, the smolensk region. on 15 june 2003 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of unintentional manslaughter. on 30 september 2003 he was committed to stand trial before the leninskiy district court of smolensk. on 10 october 2003 the district court fixed the first trial hearing and ordered that the applicant should remain in custody. on 26 april 2004 the leninskiy district court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to twelve years’ imprisonment. the judgment became final on 10 july 2004 when the smolensk regional court upheld it on appeal. in february 2005 the applicant lodged an action with the leninskiy district court, arguing that his detention from 2 to 26 april 2004 had been unlawful as there had been no legal order authorizing his detention during that period. he sought compensation for non-pecuniary damage. on 23 september 2005 the leninskiy district court, in the presence of a defendant’s representative, dismissed the applicant’s action, finding that the applicant’s conviction precluded him from claiming compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damages. its operative part reads as follows:“given that mr artemenko was found guilty of the crime in relation to which he had been detained since 17 june 2003, he did not acquire the right to exoneration and to compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damage. therefore, there exist no grounds for satisfying mr artemenko’s claim for compensation in respect of his unlawful detention pending trial.” the applicant appealed, complaining, inter alia, that the district court had refused to secure his attendance and had not provided him with copies of materials presented by the defendants. he also maintained his initial claim for compensation. on 29 november 2005 the smolensk regional court upheld the judgment of 23 september 2005 in the applicant’s absence.
the applicant was born in 1944 and lives in kremenchuk. on the same date the poltava regional police instituted criminal proceedings into the suspected murder. subsequently retracted his confession, denying any involvement with the crime and complaining that the police had subjected him to ill-treatment. on an unspecified date the criminal proceedings against o.t. complained to the chief of the local police department that the investigation into the case had been ineffective. that he had detected no irregularities in the manner in which the investigation had been conducted and that ‒ according to the applicable law ‒ aggrieved parties were not entitled to consult case files until completion of the pre-trial investigation, that is to say, until the likely perpetrator has been identified and committed for trial. who had extensive expertise in investigating homicide and other violent crimes. on 6 march 2008 a reconstruction of the crime scene was organised, at which r.p. demonstrated how he had committed the murder. retracted his confession, claiming it had been given under duress from the police. on 15 august 2008 the proceedings in respect of r.p. were discontinued in the light of irreconcilable discrepancies between his retracted confessional statements and other evidence on file. the proceedings were renewed and then suspended on several further occasions, reference being made to the insufficiency of the measures taken (specifically, on 11 may 2010, 2 april and 22 october 2011). on 2 october 2013 the deputy chief of the investigative department of the poltava police informed the applicant that no new leads had been uncovered, but his suggestions would be taken into account in further investigation. concerning investigative steps that could be taken.
the applicant was born in 1976 and is currently detained at nubarashen prison. the applicant presented himself to the police later that day, surrendered a gun and confessed to the murder. he denied the charges and refused to testify. and a.m., stated during their interviews that on the day of the murder they had heard gunshots and that shortly after k.m. on 14 january 2010 the applicant’s brother, v.m., at an additional questioning on 9 march 2010, the applicant stated that he had confessed to the murder to cover up for his brother, who had a newborn baby and took care of their parents. was interviewed and denied that the applicant had been in his house until that late. on 27 april 2010 the bill of indictment was finalised and the case was referred to the lori regional court for trial. the summons was returned to the regional court. on 29 june 2010 the police sent a letter to the regional court informing it that, inter alia, k.m. ’s] house ...at the trial [the applicant] pleaded not guilty ...the crime committed by [the applicant] is proven by the following evidence collected in the case:the statement of the victim’s legal heir, the witness s.s. ... ... the pre-trial statements of the witnesses s.m. the sole eyewitness to the incident and whose pre-trial statement had been the only evidence directly incriminating him in the offence, had not been examined in court. did not appear before the court of appeal. the applicant stated that he then applied to have k.m.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in baku. he was also a member of the musavat party. the government maintained that the applicant had not been subjected to torture or inhuman or degrading treatment in police custody. and two other men, one of whom had been wearing a police uniform while the other had been in plain clothes. and the two men accompanying him began to beat the applicant. as the applicant had objected to their attitude, they had beaten him severely. on 15 april 2011 the investigator questioned s.n., who had been on guard duty at the ndpo on 2 april 2011. who was the neighbourhood police officer for the area where the applicant was arrested. had not been present at that time at the police office. however, such an injury might have been inflicted during the unlawful demonstration. in his decision, after having summarised the conclusions of the forensic report and the statements given by the applicant, t.y. the relevant part of the decision reads as follows:“as no appearance of a criminal act was disclosed in the material collected during the inquiry at the request of hajili mustafa mustafa oglu, who claimed that on 2 april 2011 he had sustained injury as a result of a beating by the deputy head of the ndpo, s.n., the applicant also complained that the prosecutor had failed to give any explanation as to the circumstances in which the injury had been caused. on 24 january 2012 the nasimi district court dismissed the complaint, finding that the prosecutor’s decision of 25 april 2011 had been lawful and properly substantiated.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in baghramyan village. it further appears that later suren muradyan was visited by the head of the military unit’s aid post, s.g. ( according to their statements, on 21 july 2002 a group of servicemen of the military unit, including suren muradyan, had been taken to the town of martuni (nagorno karabakh) in order to participate in a comedy contest organised between teams from different military units. had hit suren muradyan during the argument. on 17 august 2002 the investigator took a statement from officer k.z. further stated that on 29 july 2002 he had again summoned suren muradyan and serviceman k.e. he stated that suren muradyan had had no arguments or scuffles with anybody. on 6 november 2002 the experts conducting the panel forensic medical examination produced their opinion. as regards the sub-capsular rupture of the spleen, it was almost impossible to detect. was questioned again and confirmed that no sound of blows or other loud noise could be heard when he had waited for suren muradyan outside the office. on 12 september 2003 the applicant lodged a complaint with the military prosecutor’s office of armenia, claiming that the investigation was flawed and had failed to reveal those responsible for his son’s death, despite the fact that there was sufficient evidence that he had died as a result of ill‑treatment by the three officers, v.g., on 14 april and 19 august 2004, in which he admitted that during the incident of 21 july 2002 both his and suren muradyan’s hands had touched the left side of the victim’s body, that the sub-capsular rupture of suren muradyan’s spleen was a result of that incident. on 28 december 2004 new charges were brought against officer v.g. as a result of which he had suffered the fatal injury. in the course of the proceedings, upon the applicant’s request, two witnesses, serviceman k.b. (
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in sevastopol. the applicant worked at the joint-stock company sevastopolskyy morskyy zavod (“the smz”). on 30 november 1996 she retired and started working for its subsidiary company, sevmorremo. she brought several claims against her former employer, seeking salary arrears and compensation for late payment of salary. on 17 june 1997 it issued a certificate in respect of that decision. on 19 may 1998 the applicant brought a claim in the nakhimovskyy court, seeking compensation for the smz’s failure to pay her salary arrears in a timely manner. on 25 august 1998 the court awarded her uah 1,709.74 (about eur 369 at the material time) in compensation for the period 1 december 1996 to 25 july 1998. the judgment was not appealed against and became final. it held that the first-instance court had failed to provide sufficient reasons for its judgment of 25 august 1998. on an unspecified date the enforcement proceedings in respect of that judgment were discontinued. on 19 may 1999 the court rejected the applicant’s claim. it held that that claim had already been determined in its judgment of 25 august 1998. on 23 july 2001 the court allowed her request. on 30 august 2001 the court, following a request from the applicant, ordered an expert examination in the case and suspended the proceedings. on 28 january 2004 the court found against the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in sofia. the applicant’s father owned a house with a yard and a garage in sofia. pursuant to a decision of the mayor issued on 27 july 1978, the property was expropriated for the purposes of constructing a residential building. the order, based on section 98 (1) of the territorial and urban planning act (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство – “the tupa”), provided that the applicant’s father was to be compensated with a two-room flat and a garage in a building which the municipality planned to construct. in a supplementary decision of 19 february 1979, based on section 100 of the tupa, the mayor specified the exact location, size and other details in respect of the flat to be provided by way of compensation. as no mention was made of a garage, the applicant’s father applied for judicial review of that decision. in a final judgment of 21 june 1979 the sofia city court found in his favour and referred the case back to the administrative authorities with instructions to specify the exact garage to be provided as compensation. in 1982 the flat in question was constructed and handed over to the applicant’s father. after 1992 the applicant’s father filed numerous requests with the municipal authorities asking them to specify the exact garage to be given to him. by a letter of 12 january 2008 the chief architect of sofia informed him that no buildings with garages earmarked for the purpose of compensation were being constructed at the moment. in 2008 the applicant’s father brought an action for damages under the state and municipalities responsibility for damage act (закон за отговорността на държавата и общините за вреди) for unlawful failure on the part of the sofia municipality to fulfill its obligations to build and provide him with a garage. the action was dismissed in a final judgment of 21 june 2011 of the supreme administrative court, on the grounds that no unlawful failure to act on the part of the authorities had been established. in the meantime, on 7 april 2008 the applicant’s father passed away.
the applicants’ dates of birth and places of residence are given in the appendix. it appears that the period from 2011 to 2013 was marked by an increase in political sensitivity in the country generated, inter alia, by the presidential elections, which took place in october 2013. the second and fourth applicants were also arrested during a demonstration on 11 march 2013. in addition, the fourth applicant was an organiser of a protest scheduled for 23 february 2014. the third applicant also submitted that he had been requested to show his identity document and that he had obeyed that request too. furthermore, the first and second applicants argued that the reasons given by the police officers for arresting them had been different from the official versions. he went to the police station together with his father. the police demanded that the second applicant follow them to a police office because “the chief of police wanted to see him”. later the police accessed his facebook account through that computer and put a notice on it that the demonstration planned for 23 february 2014 had been cancelled. they were also not given access to a lawyer after their arrest or while they were in police custody. according to a record (protokol) issued by a police officer (who had arrested the fifth applicant and prepared an administrative offence report on him) and signed by that police officer and the fifth applicant, a state-funded lawyer was proposed to the applicant, but the applicant refused his assistance. on various dates the applicants were brought before the respective first-instance courts, which adopted their decisions on the merits on the same dates (see appendix). according to all the applicants, they were not given an opportunity to appoint lawyers of their own choosing. according to the documents in the respective case files, the first, third, fifth and sixth applicants refused the assistance of state-funded lawyers and decided to defend themselves in person. in the case of the sixth applicant the court did not question any witnesses.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in iğdır. on 14 january 2005, while the applicant was serving as a conscript in the army, he fell from the roof where he was on guard. subsequently, he was treated in various civilian and military hospitals. according to a medical report dated 4 may 2005, the applicant was diagnosed as suffering from a left parietal craniotomy and was declared unfit for military service. on 8 july 2005 the applicant applied to the ministry of defence for compensation for his injury. he sought 20,000 turkish liras (try) (approximately 12,400 euros (eur)[1]) in respect of pecuniary damage and the same sum in respect of non-pecuniary damage. on 19 october 2007 the applicant asked the court to increase his initial claim via an amendment (ıslah), stating that he had only become aware of the true extent of his pecuniary damage when he had received the expert’s report. it awarded him a further try 12,000 in respect of non-pecuniary damage. however, the court dismissed the applicant’s application for an amendment, considering itself bound by the initial claim. the court stated in particular: “the purpose of an amendment is to rectify a procedural act. having regard to the judgment of the constitutional court published in the official journal of 4 november 2000, we must conclude that, in civil law, injured persons are entitled to seek additional compensation once an expert report has been issued. however, in the proceedings before the supreme military administrative court, the time-limits of one year [from the date when a claimant becomes aware of the impugned act] and sixty days from the date of referral of the administrative authorities apply. under section 46(4) of the supreme military administrative court act, the amount claimed cannot be rectified once those deadlines have passed. consequently, the applicant’s amendment claim must be rejected for being out of time ...” 11. by a judgment of 16 april 2008 the supreme administrative court dismissed the applicant’s application for rectification of its previous decision.
the three applicants belong to the romanian church united to rome, also known as the greek catholic or uniate church. 126/1990 on certain measures concerning the romanian church united to rome. 126/1990 was amended by government ordinance no. under the amended decree, in the event of disagreement between the members of the clergy representing the two denominations in a joint committee, the party with an interest in bringing judicial proceedings could do so under “ordinary law” (drept comun, see the procedure referred to in paragraphs 41 and 121 below). the first applicant was legally re-established on 12 august 1996 and the applicants brought proceedings before the joint committee to have their former properties returned to them, but without success. the domestic law, in particular legislative decree no. on 12 may 2006, in application of the legislative amendments to legislative decree no. the parties met on 20 april 2007 without reaching an agreement. 358/1948 and that it had behaved as an owner, inter alia by ensuring that the church was maintained properly. by a judgment of 26 september 2008, ruling on an appeal by the applicants, the court of appeal set aside the judgment of 27 february 2008 on grounds of a procedural defect and remitted the case to the county court. on the basis of the evidence in the case file, it noted, firstly, that the church building being claimed and two parsonages in lupeni had been constructed between 1906 and 1920 by eastern-rite orthodox and greek catholic worshippers and that, after its construction, the church building had been used alternately for services by both denominations. it also compared the witness statements, written documents attesting to the number of greek catholic worshippers as declared when the greek catholic church was re-established in lupeni, and data from the most recent census conducted in lupeni. in other words, by virtue of its full jurisdiction and in order not to compromise access to justice, a court may be called upon to decide an action on the merits, even though the prior procedure did not culminate in a decision by the joint clerical committee; at the same time, however, it may not go beyond the limits imposed by the special statutory framework. the fact that, through legislative decree no. 9/1989, the romanian church united to rome (greek catholic) was officially recognised following the repeal of decree no.
she is currently detained in forest-berkendael prison. the applicant’s husband worked part-time as dr m.s. recommending that he prescribe her a new antidepressant, as well as sleeping tablets and anti-anxiety medication. i don’t think my husband will save me because whichever way you look at it, he is in a favourable position. i imagine scenarios which are both true and realistic and i know i am capable. dated 13 and 27 february 2007 were not included in the file on the criminal investigation. you have always opened your door to me and my children and have been a ray of sunshine in our life, and i will thank you forever. i have decided to go a long way away with the children forever. please let my sister mireille ... and my other sister catherine ... know. ’s mobile phone – in a voice which the investigating officers later described as “trembling” and “hesitant” – telling v.g. in view of this new evidence, the president of the assize court duly instructed the panel of three psychiatrists, g., b. and m., who had already been involved at the investigation stage and had already confirmed their findings orally before the assize court, to produce a further report. in the second letter, although in terms of content she unequivocally expresses her anxiety in relation to a suicide where ‘i will take my children with me, because there is no longer any future’, in terms of meaning she is clearly asking for help, apparently foreseeing her inability to control her future actions. ... ms lhermitte developed a severe state of anxiety and depression ... [and] a transient dissociative state of depersonalisation, causing her to perform acts of extreme violence. the experts presented their report during the trial, on 16 december 2008. on 18 december 2008, after the submissions of the prosecution and the parties had been heard, the jury was called to answer the following five questions put to it by the court’s president:“1st question (principal question as to guilt)is the accused geneviève lhermitte, present before this court, guilty of having knowingly and intentionally killed [y.m.], [
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in san gwann. the applicant alleged that pending the above‑mentioned proceedings, mr z. had started bad-mouthing the applicant to neighbours ‑ who had also suffered burglaries – stating that it had been the applicant, that is to say the electrician they all used, who had committed them. five years after the robbery, in june 2000, mr and ms z. sued the applicant in civil proceedings for the damage resulting from the said robbery as, in retrospect, mr z. considered that he recognised the applicant as one of the robbers. he considered that there was no hope of this situation changing in the near future. - the two affidavits of the applicant’s two brothers (f. and s.) and the oral testimony of f. (f. confirmed that he had worked everywhere in the house, including next to the safe, together with other workmen from his company and that other named individuals had had access to the house as they had also rendered services there; he also denied that he had ever spoken to w.b. ( he stated that the working relationship had ended and that the applicant had gone to the house a couple of hours after the robbery; he had offered no help and had just shown his face; nor had he offered any help when he had gone to visit ms z. in hospital, with his wife and daughter who, had not been known to the couple. she reiterated that it had been only the applicant who had had access to the safe and had known the house by night, knowledge which neither his brother nor the domestic help had had. that they had not wanted to work for mr z. anymore as he had had no money. also stated that mr z. had said that only one of the four or five robbers had spoken during the incident);- the cross-examination of the applicant’s two brothers and four of his sisters- breakdown of the plaintiff’s claim, confirmed under oath by mr z., and a number of supporting documents. indeed these repeated arguments had been far-fetched and banal, usually an indication that an individual was not convinced of his statement. the court noted that the only established facts were that the robber had known both the house (allowing him to move comfortably within it and find what he wanted) and mr z. (giving the robber a reason to remain silent during the robbery). on 17 march 2008, the applicant appealed against all the above decisions. it noted that the first court had assessed the evidence available and considered that the identification of the applicant had been convincingly established; the court of appeal found no reason to alter that conclusion. thus, no prejudice had been caused to the applicant. he was thus excused from work and began to receive a disability pension.
they owned rooms in a dormitory building in the municipality of samara. according to the government, the judgment has not been enforced and the applicants continue to reside in the rooms they had bought. ms vasyukhina and mr vasyukhin (application no. 45173/08) submitted that they had never moved into the rooms as they were occupied by other individuals. in 1993 a state-owned enterprise called samaraavtotrans was privatised and reorganised into a joint-stock limited liability company called stroitel. the privatisation plan was approved by the municipality and the regional property fund signed the plan on its behalf. the privatisation plan referred to a building located at no. the information concerning the applicants’ titles to the property can be found in the appendix below. the applicants moved into the rooms and resided there. referring to the invalidation of the privatisation of samaraavtotrans, the prosecutor submitted that the subsequent transactions relating to the building were also null and void, and asked the court to return the title to the building to the municipality. on 14 june 2005 the district court dismissed the prosecutor’s claim. on 2 august 2005 the regional court upheld the judgment of 14 june 2005 on appeal. the applicants in the present application, mr vitaliy vasyukhin and ms darya vasyukhina, were minors at the relevant time. on an unspecified date a bailiff initiated enforcement proceedings. on 4 march 2014 he discontinued the enforcement proceedings, noting that it was impossible to establish mr b.’s whereabouts or identify his assets, if any such assets existed.
the applicant was born in 1969 in lebanon. the applicant never went to school in lebanon and he has never had a job, either in lebanon or in denmark. the applicant speaks and understands danish but he cannot read or write the language. the applicant’s wife has eighteen siblings living in denmark. when sentencing the applicant to five years’ imprisonment the city court took into account, in particular, the significant amount of hashish and cocaine; that the latter was a “hard drug”; the huge profit that the applicant had obtained from the resale; the long period concerned; the applicant’s absolute leading role, notably in relation to the drug dealers under him, whom he had subjected to violence and threats; and that as a member of a gang, he had delivered hashish for resale to various towns in the region. on appeal, by a judgment of 30 march 2011 the conviction was upheld in part by the high court of eastern denmark (østre landsret) and the sentence was increased to six years’ imprisonment due notably to the nature and quantity of the drugs, the extent of the drug offences committed and the applicant’s leading role. the applicant explained that he had been in lebanon for thirty days during the summer of 2009. he had no contacts there but his mother and sister. twice he transferred money via western union to his sister to buy the apartment, but it was given up when he was arrested. four of the children received special education and several of the children needed extra support and supervision in their schools and institutions. the applicant’s wife explained that she often talked to her sister-in-law in syria. the applicant’s spouse was a danish citizen. the applicant and his family spoke arabic. the supreme court further noted that the applicant still had ties to lebanon, where his mother and sister lived and where the applicant had lived until he entered denmark at the age of 23. on 11 january 2012 the applicant was convicted for having possessed a mobile phone while in prison.
the applicants were born in 1990, 1989 and 1990 respectively and live in moscow. near one of them he saw two people he did not know, ms s. and mr k. without saying anything, he opened fire and shot ms s. three times and mr k. twice. after the seventh grade he had been transferred to a different school because he would frequently have disagreements with his schoolmates. according to the conclusions set out in report no. at the same time he had not been as enthusiastic about his new job as he had been about his previous job. furthermore, news of his direct supervisor leaving his job had constituted an additional traumatic factor, causing feelings of confusion unusual for d.e. on 17 september 2009 m., an investigator from the investigative committee at the prosecutor’s office of the russian federation, addressed the minister of the interior with a recommendation on measures to be taken with a view to rectifying the circumstances that had been conducive to the crime being committed. it advised that measures should be taken aimed at their rectification. there had thus been a breach of section 19 of the police act, sections 130 and 131 of the order of the ministry of the interior of 14 july 2004 and section 9.7 of the order of the ministry of the interior of 14 december 1999. the first and second applicants sued d.e. the court also dismissed the first applicant’s arguments that the state should be held liable for the damage because (i) at the time of the events d.e. had been dismissed from service for discrediting the police. in the course of his duties as a civil servant. on 15 november 2010 the third applicant underwent a polygraph test to assess her perception of the police officers after the events of 27 april 2009. on 16 april 2012 the moscow city court upheld the judgment on appeal.
the applicants, ms natalya borisovna trapeznikova, ms yuliya sergeyevna trapeznikova and ms anastasiya sergeyevna antonova, are russian nationals who were born in 1969, 1985 and 2004 respectively and live in novosibirsk. on 1 june 2006 mr antonov started serving a three-year prison sentence in correctional colony no. on 4 may 2006 mr antonov had swallowed several metal objects, including a spoon, and had cut himself on his stomach. on 5 may 2006 he had been taken to hospital and had been treated until 19 may 2006. referring to the numerous injuries on mr antonov’s body, she challenged the official version that he had committed suicide by hanging himself. on 22 august 2007 the city prosecutor p. quashed the decision of 28 july 2007 and ordered a further inquiry into the circumstances of mr antonov’s death. on 28 august 2007 deputy city prosecutor k. refused to open a criminal investigation into mr antonov’s death. he had been sitting at the table, had stood up and had then fallen down, hitting his head against the table. on 23 september 2007 the deputy regional prosecutor a. quashed the decision of 28 august 2007 and ordered a further inquiry. the investigator also questioned the forensic medical expert ch., relying on the materials of the previous inquiries, the investigator confirmed the earlier finding that mr antonov had committed suicide. the prison psychiatrist, and a drug counsellor, kot. 38 and conducted an examination of cell no. who submitted that his superior had advised him against making any written statements about the autopsy. the senior investigator’s decision was subjected to judicial review at two levels of jurisdiction.
the applicant was born in 1974 and is detained in the tomsk region. on 13 november 2008 he was found guilty and sentenced to eleven years’ imprisonment. since 18 february 2009, save for short periods of detention in the remand prison, the applicant has been held in correctional colonies nos. while in the correctional colony, the applicant had been unable to obtain any dental treatment for extended periods of time because the dental drill and x‑ray scanner were broken. moreover, the colony’s dentist was habitually either on holiday or away attending training courses. since that time, he had undergone scaling and cleaning procedures, and extraction of teeth, but had not been prescribed any painkillers for the toothache he was suffering. during his detention the applicant lost nine teeth in total. he was unable to obtain orthodontic treatment even at his own expense. on 23 december 2014 the applicant had been examined by a visiting dentist from another correctional colony who recommended examination by a specialist dentist once released. the applicant also submitted several photos of his oral cavity dated 2 february and 28 april 2014, which showed that he had lost at least two front teeth within the given timespan. on 19 february 2009 the applicant was examined by a dentist for the first time after his placement in detention on 4 december 2007, and he was diagnosed with periodontitis. on 30 december 2010 the dentist concluded that “the oral cavity required sanitisation”. the cleaning procedure was performed eight months later. between 10 july and 7 august 2014 the applicant visited the medical unit three times and asked for dental prostheses. meanwhile the dentist confirmed the diagnosis of inflammatory degenerative periodontitis, prescribed treatment, extracted another tooth, removed a dental bridge and cleaned the tartar build-up.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in šibenik. on an unspecified date an investigation was opened in respect of the applicant and four other persons, a.b., were charged under the same indictment with participating in a fight which resulted in the death of one person. during the proceedings before the trial court a.b. upon an appeal by the split county state attorney’s office, on 5 december 2002 the supreme court quashed the judgment in respect of the applicant and dismissed the charges against the other accused on account of the statutory prescription period. the supreme court also ordered that fresh proceedings against the applicant be conducted by a trial panel composed of different judges. in the presence of the applicant and his defence lawyer on 18 february 2004. at a hearing held on 10 july 2007 the applicant agreed that a.b. at a hearing held on 23 february 2010 a.b. gave oral evidence in the presence of the applicant and his defence counsel. whose prior statement was read out at a hearing held on 7 june 2011 because he was in a psychiatric institution. was the only witness who said that he had seen the applicant attacking the victim. a request by the applicant for the trial panel to hear the witness in person was denied on the grounds that the witness was undergoing treatment for alcoholism in a psychiatric institution and that any absence from the institution would have a negative effect on his treatment. on 16 june 2011 the split county court found the applicant guilty of murder and sentenced him to eleven months’ imprisonment, suspended for five years. a subsequent constitutional complaint by the applicant was dismissed by the constitutional court on 12 july 2012.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in the village of krasnyy yar in the staropoltavskiy district of volgograd region. the police also took statements from a. who explained that she had been with e. when the applicant and t. had come over, asked about v. and then entered v.’s home. the police officers took the applicant to the staropoltavskiy district police station. during the journey the police officers stopped the car and assaulted him. another detainee, k., was also being held in the cell. the otolaryngologist concluded that in addition to chronic otitis, the applicant had signs of traumatic otitis of the left ear. he confirmed the applicant’s version of events. n., the paramedic who had provided the applicant with first aid on 6 august 2002 at the police station, gave the following statements as a witness: the applicant had complained of headaches, loss of hearing in the left ear, pain in the chest, stomach and left hip and shortness of breath. on 4 january 2003 the applicant did not identify z. during an identification parade, saying that he had not seen whether it had been d. and z. who had assaulted him on the road, but that they certainly had not assaulted him at the police station. nor had the applicant complained that anybody had injured him. the decision stated that before his arrest on 5 august 2002 the applicant, who had been drunk, had committed an act of petty hooliganism against v. the applicant and v. had then physically assaulted each other. on 21 december 2011 the volgograd regional prosecutor’s office set aside the decision of 9 march 2004 terminating the criminal proceedings as the possibility of the applicant receiving the injuries in the fight with v. had not been examined. decision of 30 april 2012 terminating the criminal proceedings against police officers s. and sh., his untidy appearance and dirty face had given the impression that he had been fighting with somebody. it was concluded, as in the previous decision, that the applicant’s allegations of police ill‑treatment had not been based on real facts and that the only injuries confirmed in 2012, namely the abrasion on the chest and bruising to the ribs, could have been received by the applicant in the fight with v., as had been confirmed by v. in 2012.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in şırnak. those who wish for war prevent us from having peace. as you know, mr abdullah öcalan, the leader of the kurdish people, called for a ceasefire six years ago. the government have failed to take a proper view of that six-year unilateral ceasefire and therefore the war has re-started. we have once again started to receive the bodies of guerrillas and soldiers. he noted that he had only thanked those who had made an effort to bring about peace. first of all, as you already know, we left şırnak to go to the peace meeting, gemlik meeting which was organised by tuhay-der. we were kept in police custody for one night and then taken before a court. a person lost his life and hundreds were injured. mr abdullah öcalan has not been able to meet his lawyers or members of his family for the last three and a half months. we hope that our friends who were injured will recover soon. on 19 february 2008 the diyarbakır assize court delivered its judgment. as regards the applicant, the diyarbakır assize court also noted that he had referred to mr öcalan as “the leader of the kurdish people” and to members of the pkk who had been killed as “guerrillas”. the court also found it established that the applicant had directed the demonstrators who had chanted slogans in favour of the pkk, waved yellow, red and green pieces of cloth and carried photographs of abdullah öcalan. 5532, and sentenced him to ten months’ imprisonment.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in dubna, moscow region. an outpatient forensic psychiatric examination of the applicant was ordered in the course of the pre-trial investigation. on 2 july 2003 she was apprehended and taken to a psychiatric facility for examination. the applicant did not initiate any further proceedings in this regard. however, both the prosecutor and the investigator attended and made oral submissions. on 29 december 2003 during the appeal hearing in a separate set of proceedings she accused the judges of criminal conspiracy and attempted murder. on 15 january 2004 the applicant was also charged with criminal slander of certain judges during the hearing of 29 december 2003. the proceedings in respect of the two criminal cases were joined. on 13 april 2004 a panel of psychiatrists issued a report, concluding that the applicant suffered from “paranoid personality development”, and that she had not been able to understand or control her actions during the events of 22 december 2002 (contempt of court) and 29 december 2003 (criminal slander). on the same day the applicant was released. two weeks later on 27 april 2004 the moscow regional court (московский областной суд) (“the regional court”) held a hearing on the applicant’s appeal against the the town court’s decision of 4 november 2003 authorising psychiatric examination, and rejected it. 14 (московская областная психиатрическая больница № 14) for compulsory psychiatric treatment. on 16 may 2006 a panel of hospital psychiatrists concluded that the applicant’s mental health had improved and she no longer posed a danger to society. on 10 july 2006 the town court ordered the applicant’s compulsory treatment to be discontinued. on 31 august 2006 the regional court dismissed the appeal and upheld the lower court’s decision.
the applicant was born in 1935 and lives in the city of ternopil, ukraine. and several other witnesses who were interrogated by the police (see paragraphs 16 and 23 below), the applicant and mrs sh. no injuries were inflicted on the applicant in the course of that dispute. on 30 july 2002 the applicant was taken by ambulance to the emergency unit of the ternopil town municipal hospital, being admitted there at 5.30 p.m. according to the medical records, at the time of the applicant’s admission she was diagnosed with a brain concussion but no other traumatic injuries. on 30 july 2002 the applicant’s husband lodged a complaint with the ternopil town police department. the forensic experts recorded that on 30 july 2002 the applicant had been admitted to hospital. on 30 october 2002 the police questioned mrs sh. on 13 january 2003 the expert commission of the ternopil regional bureau of forensic medical examinations confirmed the findings of the expert examination of 4 september 2002. they finally concluded that the brain concussion had been caused by a series of blows to the head. he gave the same testimony as his wife (see paragraph 16 above). on 4 march 2003 the ternopil town prosecutor quashed the above decision and ordered an additional investigation. called the police, but the applicant and her husband had left before they arrived. on 6 may 2003 the police questioned mr k., a taxi driver. by the first decision the police terminated the criminal proceedings against mr and mrs sh., by the second decision the criminal investigation of the case was stayed until the identity of the person who inflicted the injuries on the applicant could be established.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in kerch. on 4 october 2005 s. complained to the prosecutor’s office of the autonomous republic of crimea (“the arc”) (прокуратура автономної республіки крим) that the applicant and u., a prosecutor’s assistant, had extorted 5,000 united states dollars (usd) from him for the purpose of carrying on a fishing business. later k. and r. lodged similar complaints. on 18 january 2006 the feodosiya town court (“the feodosiya court”) accepted the applicant’s case for trial. 29, which measured 10 square metres, with four other detainees. there were cockroaches and other insects. 30 minutes’ outside exercise was possible once every ten to fifteen days in a small yard which measured 4.5 square metres. the applicant submitted undated photos of a cell, in which it is apparent that the toilet (a hole in the floor plugged by a plastic bottle) is separated from the living space by a wall approximately one metre high. the detention facility had had a shower room with hot and cold water and a small backyard for daily walks. on 20 march 2006 the feodosiya prosecutor’s office informed the applicant that some violations of the law by the feodosiya itt authorities had been established and that the relevant instructions had been given to remedy the situation, with no further details provided. according to the applicant, he did not receive these letters. on 2 august 2006 the applicant complained to the prosecutor’s office of the arc about the alleged failure of the feodosiya prosecutor’s office to consider his complaints about conditions of detention. on 12 december 2006 the court of appeal of the arc upheld the decision of 31 august 2006. on 21 april 2009 the higher administrative court of ukraine rejected the applicant’s appeal on the points of law. the court of appeal and the higher administrative court upheld the above decisions on 1 april 2008 and 21 december 2010 respectively.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in korça. on 13 january 2006 the korça district court (“the district court”) issued an injunction and ordered the construction to be suspended. on 26 january 2006 the applicant brought an action against the defendant to bring the construction works to an end immediately, remove the high-voltage line and restore the site to its previous state. on 27 june 2006 the court of appeal upheld that judgment. on 22 february 2008, following the supreme court’s judgment of 11 january 2008, the applicant again requested that the bailiff enforce the judgment of 7 april 2006. in particular, on 29 february 2008 the bailiff sought to have the defendant comply voluntarily with the judgment. on 17 november 2014 the applicant informed the bailiff that the defendant had failed to reach a settlement with her. she requested the continuation of the enforcement proceedings. on 8 april 2015 the bailiff imposed another fine on the defendant for failing to comply with the final judgment. on 20 may 2008 the applicant filed a criminal complaint against the bailiff and the distributor energy operator (operatori i shpërndarjes së energjisë elektrike) (“dec”) for failure to comply with the judgment of 7 april 2006. it appears that on an unspecified date the court of appeal discontinued the proceedings by virtue of a final judgment. on 7 may 2012 the district court decided to stay the proceedings and await the conclusion of the civil proceedings instituted by aec against the administrative decisions of 14 july 1995 and 14 june 1996 (see paragraph 24 below), which had recognised the applicant’s property rights. it appears that the case is still pending before the domestic courts. on 6 january 2009 and 17 october 2013 the court of appeal and the supreme court respectively upheld that decision. it would appear that aec did not appeal against that judgment and it became final on an unspecified date.
the applicant was born in 1952 and lives in tirana. on 18 june 2009 the applicant, who worked as general deputy director of state social service (zëvendës drejtor i përgjithshëm i shërbimit social shtetëror) at the ministry of work, social affairs and equal opportunities (ministria e punës, çështjeve sociale dhe shanseve të barabarta) (“the ministry”) was dismissed. on 27 january 2010 the tirana district court accepted in part the applicant’s action against his dismissal. it ordered the applicant’s reinstatement and the payment of damages corresponding to five months’ salaries. by final judgment of 23 november 2010 the tirana court of appeal upheld the tirana district court’s judgment. on 6 may 2011 an enforcement writ was issued. from 2011 to 2014 the bailiff office unsuccessfully attempted the enforcement of the final judgment. on 9 december 2014 the authorities finally paid the damages to the applicant. on 8 april 2016 the state social service requested the ministry to examine the applicant’s reinstatement. on the same day the state social service addressed a letter to the department of the public administration, stating that the position of the deputy director was available.
the applicant company is a limited liability company registered in 2004 in ukraine, with its registered office in kyiv. on 12 april 2005 the applicant company and another company, s., concluded an agreement by which the applicant company undertook to provide information and analytical services to s., and the latter undertook to pay for those services. on 24 november 2005 the parties concluded an additional agreement for supplementary services to be provided to s. by the applicant company. on 27 april 2006 the applicant company lodged a claim against s. with the kyiv commercial court, seeking recovery of an alleged debt under the above agreement, as well as the payment of penalties and legal fees. on 9 june 2006 the kyiv commercial court opened the proceedings in the case. on 11 september 2006, during a hearing in the case, s. submitted a counterclaim, seeking that the agreement be declared void. on 14 september 2006 the judge hearing the case accepted s.’s counterclaim for joint consideration with the original claim by the applicant company. at the same hearing, the judge granted s.’s counterclaim in part and rejected the original claim of the applicant company in full. according to the record of the hearing, the hearing lasted ten minutes. the applicant company requested that the impugned judgment be quashed and the case remitted to the first-instance court for fresh consideration. on 9 november 2006 the hccu returned the applicant company’s appeal on points of law to it without considering the appeal on the merits, because the relevant court fee had not been paid in full. on 21 november 2006 the applicant company resubmitted its appeal on points of law with proof of having paid the full court fee. apart from that information, the cover letter contained the date, name and address of the court to which it was addressed, the case reference number, the parties’ contact details, and the disputed amount which was the subject of the case. the letter ended with a list of enclosures, the applicant company’s lawyer’s details, his signature and a stamp. on 22 february 2007 the supreme court upheld the decision of 19 december 2006.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in cherkasy. during the investigations and trial the applicant was held in the cherkasy temporary investigative isolation unit (“the sizo”) no. the prosecutor based his decision on the information available from the applicant’s medical file and the written statements obtained from the prison staff, including the medical officer who had examined the applicant upon his arrival at the prison, and also from some of the prisoners who had been transferred to the prison on the same day as the applicant. the cells were unventilated, always damp, and not sufficiently heated in winter. when the applicant was taken out of his cell to the exercise area he was allegedly obliged to walk with his hands handcuffed behind his back and raised above his head, causing him physical and mental suffering. there was also equipment enabling inmates to do physical exercises. the food and water was regularly checked and was of adequate quality. it was noted that the applicant had also been given the medication his relatives had sent him. by a ruling of 20 february 2006, the court refused to deal with the applicant’s complaint, holding that the matter fell outside the court’s jurisdiction. subsequently, the applicant was only allowed to receive telephone calls once every three months upon his written request. in a letter dated 19 may 2012 the applicant stated that the court’s letter, sent to him in january 2012, had been opened and read by the administration of zamkova prison no. the applicant also stated that before those events he had been subjected to disciplinary sanctions when he had received letters from the court in detention, but provided no details in this regard. according to them, the applicant was disciplined on several occasions for breaches of prison regulations, which included, inter alia, not respecting the prison daily schedule and insulting the prison guards. on 16 november 2004 the cherkasy regional court of appeal confirmed the ruling of the first-instance court. on 27 march 2007 the court declared the applicant’s previous application inadmissible.
the first applicant is a former world chess champion. he and the other six applicants are political activists. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 24 november 2007 a group of opposition politicians organised protests rallies in several russian cities, including moscow. according to the applicants, at 3 p.m., at the end of the gathering, they started walking to the location of another authorised gathering which took place on chistoprudnyy boulevard between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. the government alleged that some 1,500 people took part in the procession, a figure contested by the applicants as grossly overestimated. 382 of the krasnoselskiy district of moscow. according to the first applicant, members of the public who wanted to attend the hearing of his case were prevented from entering the court, which had been cordoned off by the riot police. the hearing was adjourned, but only until 7.15 p.m. that evening. the first applicant applied for six witnesses to be called and examined. these included four police officers and two eyewitnesses waiting outside the courthouse. he denied that there had been an organised march, or that he had called out to anyone to follow him. she based her findings on m. and u.’s witness statements and written reports, the administrative offence statements in respect of two charges and the report on the administrative arrest. on 26 november 2007 the same justice of the peace considered the administrative charges against the second applicant. the second applicant pleaded not guilty and alleged that he had been arrested while walking from the authorised meeting to the metro station. she found him guilty of both charges and sentenced him to five days’ administrative detention.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in lakha-varanda, chechen republic. at 8 p.m. on 16 july 2008 police captain a. drew up an administrative arrest record, according to which the applicant had “failed to comply with the policemen’s legitimate request to present his identification document, resisted them and tried to abscond”. on 22 may 2009 the town court extended the applicant’s detention until 8 september 2009 noting as follows:“having heard the parties’ arguments, the court concludes that, in view of the fact that [the applicant] is charged with a ... grievous offence ... which he committed whilst on parole, the court considers that, if released, he might abscond or continue criminal activities. on 16 july 2009 the regional court upheld the decision of 22 may 2009 on appeal. he has made statements and comments unrelated to the trial. the court accepted the prosecution’s version of events, namely that the applicant had been arrested by special police forces in the course of an operation targeting him as a racketeer as alleged by p. and that heroin had been found on him during the search conducted immediately after his arrest. on 21 and 22 may 2009 the applicant was examined by a paramedic. on 17 march 2011 the regional court upheld the applicant’s conviction on appeal. according to the government, the applicant was inciting other inmates to disobey the guards. the applicant demonstrated to the judges extensive bruising on his stomach, chest and lower back and claimed that he had been beaten up by guards of the remand prison. from 22 november 2012 to 11 january 2013 the applicant was held in remand prison no. on the days of the court hearings, the applicant did not have any meals at all. the vans were equipped with ventilation and heating. all the other detainees smoked and the applicant, a non-smoker, was exposed to the others’ tobacco smoke. on 13 april 2011 the applicant was transported to correctional colony no.
the applicant was born in 1970 in armenia. until his arrest in 2008 he lived in kurgan, russia. a police investigator asked the attending doctor whether the applicant could be discharged from hospital and transferred to a detention facility. according to the applicant, only on 14 october 2008 did the prosecutor general’s office inform the competent belarusian authorities of the applicant’s arrest. the general prosecutor of the republic of belarus requested the applicant’s extradition. on 23 september 2008 the town court changed the measure of restraint to detention pending investigation. the regional court upheld that detention order on appeal. on 22 november 2008 the town court extended the applicant’s detention until 5 december 2008, citing the seriousness of the charges and the lack of a permanent residence in russia. it was not disputed by the parties that the next day the applicant had been placed in a cell designed to accommodate a maximum of four inmates. m. on 13 august and between 15 and 19 august 2008 the applicant had to share that cell with seven other inmates, with each inmate thus having no more than 1.9 sq. he was seen by a surgeon and a neurologist. as to the conditions of the applicant’s detention during that period, the government submitted that the applicant had been transferred between several cells of the remand prison, some of which were overcrowded. m of floor space, and occasionally less than 2 sq. m. according to the applicant, the cells were poorly ventilated, had non-partitioned toilets and were infested with bugs, mice and lice. on 2 june 2009, the applicant was sent to serve his sentence in a settlement colony.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in tomsk. the newspaper is published and distributed in the tomsk region. the article described everyday life in a state-owned care home for the elderly, lesnaya dacha, giving examples of various residents who were or had been living there. that sentence was followed by text in bold letters:“there is, for example, a room in which the mother of deputy [s.] died. it is a single room, however small and narrow. the ill and massively corpulent woman lay here for four months. nurses remember that it was very hard to lift and turn her ...” 9. they claimed that the above-mentioned extracts contained statements aiming to create negative feeling on the part of readers towards the s. family and influence them as voters during the elections. the court, having examined certain witnesses, also considered that mrs s. had indeed caused the claimants inconvenience and complicated their life, and that they had therefore decided to place her in a medical institution. the court thus concluded that the sentence stating “...quite a few respectable people bring their ill relatives to the care home in an attempt to escape unnecessary troubles...” could not be said to be untrue, whether it was the applicant’s generalisation or a sentence relating to the claimants, as alleged by them. it also rejected as unfounded the claimants’ argument that the disputed publication had been propagandistic and had aimed to influence voters’ opinions; in this respect, it noted that the text of the article was socially oriented and contained general argument concerning the problems affecting ill and elderly people, with the specific example of the lesnaya dacha care home. on 30 june 2000 the tomsk regional court upheld the above judgment on appeal. in particular, the regional court noted that the headline of the article and the sequence of its sentences made it clear that the statement, along with the reference to the lack of mercy for next of kin, although generalised, related to the claimants. in support of this conclusion, the appellate court referred to the statements of two witnesses who had confirmed that they had perceived the extracts to relate to the claimants. on 13 october 2004 the presidium of the tomsk regional court, in supervisory review proceedings, upheld the decision of 17 october 2003, endorsing its reasoning, but reducing the amount of the award in respect of non-pecuniary damage.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in skørping. from the beginning of 2006 the applicant was represented by lawyer a, and as from 21 august 2009, the applicant was represented by lawyer b. 8. by decision of 24 september 2009 the city court granted a fees in the amount of dkk 183,862.50 (approximately eur 24,700) plus vat and reimbursement of costs in the amount of dkk 2,060 which was provisionally to be paid by the treasury. it appears that the transcript of the court records was sent to counsel a and the prosecutor in accordance with usual practice. by a judgment of 4 december 2009, the city court convicted the applicant and the three co-accused. the applicant and b were present when the judgment was passed. the applicant did not appeal against the judgment to the high court, nor did the public prosecution. it was stated that the amount was to be paid by the applicant. he did not contest the amount granted, but claimed that it should be paid entirely or partly by the treasury. this was the moment when the applicant became aware for the first time of the fees that had been granted to a. 16. on 26 january 2010, on behalf of the applicant, b extended his appeal of 17 january 2010 also to include the payment of costs to a, which in the applicant’s view should be paid entirely or partly by the treasury. on 8 february 2010 the city court submitted a letter to b, with which was enclosed a copy of the judgment of 4 december 2009, which on 5 february 2010 had been rectified on page 90 in the operative part as follows:“the accused are to pay the legal costs, so that each of them pays the legal costs relating to them, including the fees for their appointed counsel.” the court records of 24 september 2009 and a’s letters of 1 and 9 september 2009 were also enclosed with the letter. this decision was integrated in the judgment of 4 december 2009 and the applicant, who was present when the judgment was passed, was informed of the decision during that hearing. leave to appeal to the supreme court was refused by the appeals permission board on 18 june 2010.
the applicant was born in 1967 and until his arrest lived in menzelinsk, the tatarstan republic. iz-16/3 in the tatarstan republic (“the remand prison”). according to the applicant, for most of the period of his detention, 184 days between 7 april 2008 and 11 february 2009, he was detained alone in cell no. the toilet pan was not separated from the living area. the cell was poorly lit and the ventilation system did not function. metal shutters on the windows blocked access to natural light and fresh air. the bedding in those cells was torn and dirty. the cells had no television set or refrigerator. the quality of food in the remand prison was poor. throughout the entire period of his detention the applicant was allowed access to the exercise yard, which was dirty and dusty, for only fifty minutes a day. this facility was overpopulated and inmates had no access to outdoor exercise. on 19 may 2009 the custodial authorities transported the applicant to a civilian dentist, who diagnosed chronic pulpitis and periodontitis, and provided some treatment. on 17 september 2009 the supreme court of the tatarstan republic upheld the judgment on appeal. the dentist also pointed out that the excessively long time the treatment had taken had already caused substantial suffering to the applicant and increased the risk of digestive problems. in august 2010 the applicant was taken to a dentist who completed the dental restoration.
until his death in 2016 he was detained in correctional colony no. 14 in the village of olovyannaya, zabaykalsk region. on the same day he was taken into custody. since 2013 he has been confined to a wheelchair. on his admission to a remand prison in january 2014, the applicant was given a general medical check-up by the doctor on duty, to whom he complained of lower back and joint pain. the doctor provisionally diagnosed him with spinal tuberculosis. he was prescribed pain relief medication and advised to undergo several medical tests. according to the applicant, even painkillers were unavailable in the remand prison. on 9 april 2014 the applicant was sent to serve his sentence in correctional colony no. 1 in chita, zabaiykalsk region, for an in-depth medical examination to establish whether he was entitled to early release on medical grounds. on 27 august 2014 a specialist medical panel of the prison hospital concluded that the applicant was not eligible for early release, because none of his illnesses were included in the governmental decree containing a list of illnesses precluding offenders from serving their sentences. on the same day the applicant was discharged from the prison hospital. that decision was upheld on appeal by the zabaiykalsk regional court on 16 december 2014. on 25 march 2015 the applicant was seen by a traumatologist, who diagnosed him with an inguinal hernia and recommended surgery to be performed at a later date. the doctor also stated that he should be provided with a walking stick and a walking frame.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in moscow. on 13 october 2006 the zamoskvoretskiy district court in moscow remanded the applicant in custody on the charge of fraud. subsequently the district court extended the applicant’s detention on 8 december 2006 and on 2 february, 10 april, 29 may and 18 september 2007. each time the district court attached preponderant weight to the gravity of the charges against the applicant. on 21 may and 4 july 2007 the moscow city court rejected the appeals against the detention orders of 10 april and 29 may 2007, respectively. the city court authorised further extensions of the applicant’s detention on 28 september and 26 december 2007. the supreme court rejected his appeals on 31 october 2007 and 15 february 2008, respectively. on 14 february 2008 the case was submitted for trial. on 20 february, 30 june and 17 december 2008 and 18 march and 18 june 2009 the district courts in moscow prolonged the applicant’s detention pending trial, referring mainly to the gravity of the charges. the most recent extension order was issued for the period until 19 september 2009. between 27 january 2007 and 16 may 2008 the applicant was detained in the iz-77/1 remand prison in moscow. the prison was filled beyond the design capacity and cells were severely overcrowded. he was later transferred to another remand prison in moscow.
he lived in brussels and died there on 7 june 2016. on 29 december 1998 the applicant was arrested and taken into custody on charges of theft. it was immediately rejected after his fingerprints had been checked. on 22 july 2010 a doctor from antwerp university hospital visited the applicant in the merksplas closed facility for illegal aliens (see paragraph 79 below), to which he had been transferred in the meantime, in order to carry out a full medical check-up. on 14 july 2015 a new medical report was prepared by dr l. which read as follows:“the patient’s cll [chronic lymphocytic leukaemia]...the patient has been suffering from cll for nine years (diagnosed in 2006), and by 2011 had already reached stage c and rai iv [stage iv according to the rai criteria]. this is a new targeted therapy to which he would have no access in his country of origin. on 10 september 2007, relying on articles 3 and 8 of the convention and alleging, in particular, that he would be unable to obtain treatment for his leukaemia (see paragraph 34 above) if he were sent back to georgia, the applicant lodged a first request for regularisation on medical grounds on the basis of section 9ter of the aliens act. the request was refused by the aliens office on 4 june 2008 for the same reason it had cited previously (see paragraph 55 above). as to the complaints alleging a violation of articles 2 and 3 of the convention, the aliens appeals board stated that the assessment of the medical situation of an alien facing removal whose request for regularisation had been rejected should be carried out, as applicable, at the time of enforcement of the removal measure. none of the patient’s vital organs is in a condition that is directly life-threatening. the patient’s haematological disorder is currently stable. chemotherapy has been discontinued for the time being. after the birth, the family was granted leave to remain until 14 october 1999 because the new-born baby was in hospital. in parallel with its decision of 7 july 2010 refusing the applicant’s request for regularisation on exceptional grounds (see paragraph 29 above), the aliens office on 7 july 2010 issued an order for him to leave the country, together with an order for his detention. in the meantime, on 23 july 2010, the applicant applied to the court for interim measures under rule 39 of the rules of court.
was a romanian limited liability company, with a registered office in cluj-napoca. on 7 march 2002 the cluj prefecture issued the applicant company with an operating permit, which was valid until 7 march 2005. its main activity consisted in collecting and recycling scrap iron. 876/2004, its activity was considered to have a significant impact on the environment and that it should therefore follow the authorisation procedure set out in that order. the applicant company was invited to submit new supporting documents within thirty days. the applicant company submitted the requested documents on 27 january 2005. in this connection, it argued that the application for an extension of the operating permit had been lodged in good time, namely on 4 january 2005. moreover, rea had interpreted the applicant company’s application as a request for a new permit instead of for an extension of the existing permits, given that the operation conditions had not changed. that had further delayed the authorisation procedure. on 31 may 2006 the cluj court of appeal allowed the applicant company’s appeal. it quashed the first-instance judgment and remitted the case to the first-instance court for examination on the merits. it held that the applicant company had not complied with the obligation to lodge an application for a new environmental permit forty-five days prior to the expiry of the existing permit, as provided for by article 16 of the new order regulating the procedure for obtaining an environmental permit, namely order no. 265/2001, had provided only for the obligation to obtain an environmental permit, without establishing the procedure to be followed in that respect. the applicant company lodged an appeal on points of law, pointing out that on 4 january 2005 when it had lodged its application for an extension of the operating permit, the guidelines for implementation of the new order had not yet been published. the applicant company should have suspended its activity until it had obtained the necessary permits and should then have brought proceedings seeking to recover any damages – as long as it could prove the existence and extent of such damages.
the applicant was born in 1951 and until his arrest lived in vladivostok, primorskiy region. on 21 november 2003 a criminal case was opened against the applicant and seven other suspects (the “first case”). the court noted that the applicant was a person of mature years, permanently residing at a known address, that he had no criminal record, had never attempted to abscond, and, at the time in question had been undergoing inpatient medical treatment in a hospital. that decision was upheld on appeal by the primosrskiy regional court on 21 november 2005. in the meantime, in august 2006, the authorities completed the investigation in the second case and sent the case file, comprising 326 volumes, to the frunzenskiy district court of vladivostok for examination on the merits. according to the government, given the non-attendance of the applicant’s lawyer and the failures of the detention authorities to ensure the presence of the applicant, the proceedings were postponed on several occasions. they were eventually held on 7 february 2008. the court ordered him to be released on bail. it also appears that certain delays were attributed to changes in the composition of the trial court. on 5 april 2006 the applicant was discharged from the prison hospital. having suffered a serious hypertensive crisis in late june 2006, the applicant was admitted to the prison hospital on 7 july 2006. he remained there until his release from detention on 28 may 2008. dietary nutrition and multidrug therapy were prescribed. throughout his stay in the hospital the applicant was seen by the attending doctors around four times per week. some days later the applicant’s drug regimen was adjusted.
the applicant was born in 1976 and, prior to his arrest, lived in oblivskaya, rostov region. on 22 october 2007 the applicant, a police officer at the time, was arrested on suspicion of drug dealing. on 24 october 2007 the leninskiy district court of rostov-on-don authorised the applicant’s remand in custody. he remained in custody pending investigation and trial. referring to the seriousness of the charges and the applicant being a police officer, the courts extended his pre-trial detention on the grounds that he might abscond, or interfere with the administration of justice, or put pressure on witnesses and other defendants. the applicant lodged appeals against the detention orders. on 4 january and 22 february 2008 the regional court upheld the decisions of 29 december 2007 and 6 february 2008 in the applicant’s absence. the applicant and his lawyer were informed about the hearings but the applicant was not granted leave to attend. the applicant’s lawyer attended the hearing on 22 february 2008. the prosecutor was present and made submissions to the court. on 17 december 2008 the district court found the applicant guilty of several counts of illegal drug dealing and sentenced him to fourteen years’ imprisonment. on 10 june 2009 the regional court quashed the judgment of 17 december 2008 on appeal and remitted the matter to the trial court for fresh consideration. the court ordered that the applicant remain in custody. on 15 july 2009 the district court scheduled a preliminary hearing of the case and ordered that the applicant remain in detention. on 6 may 2011 the applicant was found guilty.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in oradea. on 11 december 2008 the national anticorruption department instituted criminal proceedings against the applicant and a police officer for traffic of influence (trafic de influenţă). the applicant was accused, as a lawyer, of having requested and received money from a client in return for persuading certain judges, other than in the context of the judicial proceedings, to adopt a favourable judgment in his client’s case. according to the warrant, the applicant’s presence was required in order to be heard as a suspect (învinuit) in the criminal investigation instituted in file no. no other reasons or conditions were stated on the authorisation or the warrant itself. on 12 december 2008 at 8 a.m. a police officer went to the applicant’s office in the city of oradea to enforce the warrant to appear. according to the record of the statements the applicant made before the prosecutor, he was heard as a suspect by the prosecutor at the t.n.a.d. according to the applicant, his phone, wallet and watch had been confiscated by the police officers and were held during this entire time. moreover, he had been constantly guarded by the police. by an order issued on 12 december 2008 the applicant was placed in police custody for twenty-four hours commencing at 5.10 p.m. 12. on 13 december 2008 the prosecutor’s request for the placement of the applicant in pre-trial detention for thirty days was allowed by the timişoara court of appeal. the applicant complained before the court that he had been unlawfully deprived of his liberty from 8 a.m. to 5.10 p.m. on the previous day. he requested that the above-mentioned period be deducted from his time in custody. the court considered that it was not competent to decide on this complaint and suggested that the applicant should have used the procedure provided by article 1401 of the criminal procedure code. on 12 march 2010 the applicant was found guilty with final effect and given a suspended sentence of four years’ imprisonment for traffic of influence.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in chișinău. on 2 october 2008 the chișinău court of appeal delivered a judgment acknowledging the applicant’s entitlement to a disability pension. owing to the lack of an appeal, the judgment became final on 22 october 2008. on 1 december 2008 the ministry of defence lodged an appeal on points of law. on 4 february 2009 the supreme court of justice allowed the appeal on points of law, quashed the judgment of 2 october 2008 and remitted the case for a fresh examination on the merits. after several rounds of proceedings, on 2 march 2011 the supreme court of justice finally acknowledged the applicant’s entitlement to a disability pension. meanwhile, after communication, the prosecutor general, following a request from the government agent, lodged an application for revision with the supreme court of justice, seeking the reopening of the proceedings and redress for the violation of the applicant’s rights. in those proceedings, the applicant claimed 29,069.17 moldovan lei (mdl) in respect of pecuniary damage, mdl 25,000 in respect of non‑pecuniary damage, mdl 29,784.60 for legal costs and mdl 4,000 for miscellaneous expenses. on 23 june 2011 the supreme court of justice found a violation of the applicant’s rights as a result of the quashing of the final judgment in his favour. it set aside the judgment of 4 february 2009 and the subsequent judgments adopted in the reopened proceedings and decided to restore the final judgment of 2 october 2008 in the applicant’s favour. the court then awarded the applicant mdl 15,000 (equivalent to 890 euros (eur)) in respect of non-pecuniary damage, mdl 15,000 for legal costs and mdl 1,000 for miscellaneous expenses. the court dismissed the applicant’s claims in respect of pecuniary damage, arguing that they could not be examined by direct application of article 41 of the convention.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in baktalórántháza. in response to a request lodged on 16 october 2001, the applicant was granted a disability pension (rokkantsági nyugdíj) later that same year on the basis of a retrospective finding that she had lost, as of 1 april 2001, 67% of her capacity to work on account of various ailments. this assessment was maintained in 2003, 2006 and 2007. as of 2008 the legislation on the methodology used to assess health impairment in occupational contexts changed. as a consequence of the applicant’s newly assessed 40% level of disability, on 1 february 2010 the relevant pension insurance directorate withdrew her entitlement to the disability pension. the applicant appealed against that decision. on 25 march 2010 the applicant brought an action before the nyíregyháza labour court, challenging the administrative decision. in an opinion of 16 february 2011, the expert submitted that the old score of 67%, as well as the new one of 40%, were correct under the respective methodologies; at any rate, the applicant’s condition had not significantly improved since 2007. it drew her attention to the possibility of making a renewed application for disability pension should her health deteriorate. in 2011 the applicant requested another assessment of her disability. on 5 september 2011 the first-instance authority assessed it at 45%, scheduling the next assessment for september 2014. nevertheless, no such rehabilitation took place, and the applicant did not receive rehabilitation allowance. as of 1 january 2012, a new law on disability and related benefits (act no. it introduced additional eligibility criteria. on 27 march 2013 the applicant filed an action with the nyíregyháza administrative and labour court, challenging these administrative decisions.
the applicant was born in 1989 and lives in nyzhni sirogozy. on 31 may 2013 the solonyansky district police department in dnipropetrovsk region instituted criminal proceedings in respect of a carjacking. on 4 june 2013 the applicant was arrested as a suspect in connection with the incident. it was also considered that he might evade his procedural obligations and abscond to avoid investigation and trial. on 21 june 2013 the applicant was charged with the robbery of g., committed together with v. 10. on 21 june 2013 the pre-trial investigation ended and the case against the applicant and v. was referred to the solonyansky district court. the case was then transferred to the krasnogvardiysk district court in dnipropetrovsk (“the district court”). on 1 october 2013 the district court held a preliminary hearing in the case and extended the detention of the applicant and v. until 29 november 2013. on 19 march 2014 the district court rejected a further application for release lodged on 26 february 2014 and extended the applicant’s detention until 19 may 2014 on the same grounds as those given on the two previous occasions, adding that he was aware of the punishment for the crime he had been charged with and thus might obstruct the criminal proceedings to avoid criminal liability. on 4 september 2014 the district court examined and rejected that application, extending the applicant’s detention until 2 november 2014. it also added that he and his co‑accused v. had no strong social ties. on 30 september 2014 the applicant lodged another application for release, which was rejected on 9 october 2014. on 27 january 2015 the applicant and v. were convicted by the krasnogvardiysk district court of robbery and carjacking and sentenced to five years’ imprisonment. the court also decided to reduce the remainder of the prison sentence (namely the part not covered by the pre-trial detention) by half under the amnesty act. on 12 june 2015 the mensky district court in chernigiv region allowed the applicant’s application for early release.
the applicant had a restitution claim concerning movable property located in opočno castle. the castle itself belonged to another person, of whom the applicant is not an heir. that expropriation was quashed on appeal by the national council in prague (zemský národní výbor) on 21 january 1947 after it had been established that the applicant’s predecessor was of czechoslovak nationality and had been loyal to the czechoslovak state. what happened to the property afterwards is disputed and was discussed in the domestic decisions. on 31 march 1992, the applicant’s father, together with his cousin, ms. the applicant entered the proceedings as the heir and legal successor to his father, who died in 1998. those proceedings are not part of the present applications. it found that the applicant’s predecessor had been the owner of the property on the critical date, that is 25 february 1948 (see gratzinger and gratzingerova v. the czech republic (dec.), during a hearing on 8 october 2007, the court did not raise with the parties any questions or elements of evidence but was merely listening to the comments of the parties on the decision of the first-instance court, after which the case was adjourned for delivery of a judgment. the regional court based its decision on two pieces of evidence. on 11 february 2009 the supreme court (nejvyšší soud) dismissed an appeal on points of law (dovolání) lodged by the applicant. it noted that the appellate court had reached its conclusion, inter alia, on the basis of the 1947 decision. on 22 april 2009 the district court dismissed the rest of the applicant’s restitution claim. in its reasoning it referred to the judgment of the regional court of 18 october 2007 and that of the supreme court of 11 february 2009. on 28 november 2011 the supreme court dismissed an appeal by the applicant on points of law.
the applicants were born in 1983, 1987 and 1988 respectively. on the morning of 22 september 2011 the applicants were flown to palermo. all the migrants on each vessel were confined to the restaurant areas, access to the cabins being prohibited. they were allegedly insulted and ill-treated by the police, who kept them under permanent surveillance, and they claimed not to have received any information from the authorities. the applicants remained on the ships for a few days. –  the lodging of an appeal will not, in any event, suspend the enforcement (efficacia) of the present order. 286 of 1998; and with its registration under article 10 § 6 of the said legislative decree. these orders were each accompanied by a record of notification bearing the same date, also drafted in italian with an arabic translation. in the space reserved for the applicants’ signatures, both records contain the handwritten indication “[the person] refused to sign or to receive a copy” (si rifiuta di firmare e ricevere copia). on 3 april 2012 the public prosecutor sought to have the charges dropped. firstly, the cies were overcrowded, and secondly, the agreements with the tunisian authorities suggested that their return was supposed to be prompt. moreover, as recorded in a press agency note of 25 september 2011, t.r., a member of parliament (mp) had boarded the ships in the port of palermo, and had observed that the migrants were in good health, that they were receiving assistance and were sleeping in cabins containing bed linen or reclining seats (poltrone reclinabili). two other migrants in respect of whom a refusal-of-entry order had been issued challenged those orders before the agrigento justice of the peace. 286 of 1998 (see paragraph 33 below) did not indicate any time-frame for the adoption of such orders, the judge took the view that a measure which by its very nature restricted the freedom of the person concerned had to be taken within a reasonably short time after the identification (fermo) of the unlawful migrant.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in helsinki. the child had told her mother about things that her father did to her. she kept repeating these issues and suffered from increasingly bad nightmares. on 16 august 2007 she contacted the child welfare authorities in helsinki reporting her suspicions of sexual abuse. they recommended that the meetings with the father be discontinued for the duration of the investigation. at the time the child was two years and ten months old. on 20 september 2007 a physiological examination was carried out to determine whether the child showed any signs or symptoms of the alleged abuse, but no such external signs were revealed. on 18 january 2008 the applicant submitted another child welfare report and the second report to the police, insisting on another investigation and stating that she suspected that someone was abusing her child during visits to the child’s father. she also reported the matter to the social workers in helsinki. no somatic signs or symptoms of sexual abuse were found. on 16 april 2008 the parliamentary ombudsman decided not to take any measures as the police investigation was still pending before the kouvola police (see paragraph 20 above). he did not have competence to give orders to the police concerning the investigation of the matter as he could not examine the actions of private individuals. the child had only been two years and ten months old at the time of the first police investigation. taking into account what has been said above about the circumstances of the case and the nature of the criminal insinuation, there is no basis for considering that m.p. on 14 december 2011 the supreme court refused the applicant leave to appeal.
he is currently serving a prison sentence in valmiera. on several occasions between 2009 and 2011 the applicant was escorted to court hearings from various detention facilities where he was being held. during these transfers the applicant was subjected to strip-searches. the strip-searches of the applicant were carried out on 9 december 2009, 8 and 11 june 2010, 22 february and 8 june 2011. the applicant lodged several applications with the administrative courts concerning the strip-searches. they were all joined in one set of administrative proceedings (no. therefore these searches had not “significantly interfere[d]” with the applicant’s rights and had not constituted an “action of a public authority” (see paragraphs 17 and 18 below). on 13 september 2012 the administrative regional court (administratīvā apgabaltiesa) dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the ruling of the lower court. the senate of the supreme court found that the strip-searches had had a legitimate goal, namely ensuring public safety, and had not been carried out in an abusive manner. on 27 february and 11 april 2013 hearings took place before the first-instance court. in order to clarify the facts eleven witnesses – seven escorting officers and four prisoners – were called. on 13 may 2013 the administrative district court dismissed the applicant’s complaints and terminated the proceedings. as concerns the strip-searches carried out on 9 december 2009, 8 and 11 june 2010, the court, on the basis of witness testimony, found that the applicant had been searched in the presence of one inmate and at least one additional escorting officer. however, taking into account that the applicant had not voiced any concerns in this regard during the first round of proceedings, the court concluded that “the strip-searches ... had not humiliated the applicant in the eyes of others or in his [own] eyes”. on 9 july 2013 the senate of the supreme court, by a final decision, dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the ruling of the lower court.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in novomoskovsk. at about 5.30 p.m. on 1 august 2004 a fight took place involving the applicant, z. and sh. and gave him a suspended prison sentence of three years. on 10 february and 19 december 2006 respectively the court of appeal and the supreme court upheld the applicant’s conviction and sentence. the applicant was also diagnosed with concussion. during subsequent examinations by a forensic expert in december 2004 and april 2006, the applicant was found to have developed post-traumatic otitis media. the applicant’s injuries were classified as being partly minor and partly moderate. on 1 august 2004 the applicant filed a complaint with the novomoskovsk police, seeking to have criminal proceedings instituted against those who had beaten him. the applicant’s complaint was examined initially by the police and later by prosecutors. between december 2004 and march 2009 they issued a number of decisions rejecting the applicant’s complaint, finding, inter alia, that the applicant had been injured after disobeying the lawful orders of the volunteer citizen guards, who had lawfully resorted to force in order to take him to a police station in relation to the incident of 1 august 2004 (see paragraph 5 above). in the course of the investigation the two volunteer citizen guards who had taken part in the incident on 1 august 2004 at the applicant’s house died. for that reason, the proceedings concerning those two people were terminated on 17 july 2009. on the same date the police terminated the proceedings concerning z. and sh., finding that there had been no elements of a crime in their actions. no further investigation was carried out.
ms n. zīmele, the applicant’s grandmother, informed the court of her wish to pursue the proceedings on his behalf. the relevant facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. in july and august 2011 the police opened four criminal investigations into three incidents of theft and an incident of robbery. on 29 august 2011 these investigations were joined. on 12 august 2011 the police arrested the applicant on suspicion of robbery. he was held in custody on this basis until 14 august 2011, when he was placed under arrest on suspicion of theft. on 16 august 2011 an investigating judge granted the application. with regard to the suspicion of theft, he reasoned as follows:“there are reasons to suspect that [the applicant] has committed the crime under section 175(3) of the criminal law (krimināllikums) [theft] ... these suspicions are confirmed by the evidence gathered in the criminal case.” on 2 september 2011 the latgale regional court (latgales apgabaltiesa) dismissed the appeal. no appeal lay against the aforementioned decision. on 26 september 2011 the applicant familiarised himself with the case material. she set out the case against the applicant and detailed the evidence upon which the prosecution intended to rely. on 28 december 2011 and 23 april 2012 the applicant’s detention was extended. on 3 february, 19 june and 6 august 2012, the applicant complained to the ludza district court that it had failed to assess his detention in relation to the alleged robbery. the aforementioned decisions were not subject to appeal.
on 9 june 2004, the applicant, 69 at the time, was walking in the centre of kharkiv and was hit in the face by a pellet fired from an air gun. the applicant was admitted to hospital the same day and the pellet was removed from her face. it was subsequently seized as evidence by the police. the doctors noted in the applicant’s medical file that she had a gunshot wound on the infraorbital region of her face. later that day she lodged a criminal complaint with the police. the applicant alleged that the shot had been fired from a particular flat in a building in the centre of kharkiv. from 10 to 26 june 2004 the applicant underwent outpatient medical treatment for her injury. on 31 october 2005 the applicant underwent an additional medical examination, which confirmed the previous conclusion. by decisions of 22 march and 8 december 2005 and 9 august 2006, the police refused to open criminal proceedings, stating that it was not possible to identify the offenders and that the applicant’s allegations that the shot had been fired from a particular location were unfounded. despite her repeated requests, the applicant was not given access to the police investigation file related to the incident of 9 june 2004. on appeal by the applicant, those decisions were annulled by different prosecutors and the courts generally on the grounds that the police enquiry had fallen short of the requirements of a full and objective examination of the circumstances of the case. in particular, on 21 august 2007 the dzerzhynskyy district court of kharkiv ruled that the case should be returned to the prosecutors for further investigation. no further investigation was carried out after that date. there is no information as to any further developments in that regard. her death was unrelated to the incident of 9 june 2004.
from 20 january 2006 onwards the tax agency (skatteverket) conducted audits of value-added tax, employers’ social security contributions (arbetsgivaravgifter) and income tax at the three swedish companies ergonia sweden ab, sns-lan trading ab (“sns”) and mouse trapper nordic ab. present were mr carl lindstrand, a lawyer of the applicant law firm, representing mr jurik (who was at the time in switzerland), and – towards the end of the search – mr roland möller, who, as an associate of the law firm, had been the liquidator of sns and who was also the designated person to be served writs on behalf of draupner in sweden. during the search of the flat, material of interest that belonged to draupner was found. this was specified in a report drawn up and submitted to the parties concerned the same day by the enforcement authority. the issue of possible exemption of documents was discussed and the representative was given a list of the officers attending. the agency stated as reasons for its decision that draupner had had transactions connected to sns, its subsidiary company, that there had been special reasons to search for material at the applicant law firm as two of draupner’s representatives, mr jurik and mr möller, had offices there and that the risk of corruption of material was acute in view of the fact that, during the ongoing enforcement, it had become apparent to persons involved which transactions and connected documents were to be examined. by a judgment of 22 august 2008 the administrative court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal and agreed with the lower court that the applicant did not have legal standing concerning the requested exemption of documents, as the coercive measures had not been directed against the law firm. the applicant made a further appeal, stating, among other things, that the tax agency’s original interim decision of 14 march 2008 concerning draupner and the county administrative court’s judgment of 26 march 2008 confirming that decision had been directed against the law firm because they allowed a search in the firm’s offices. moreover, the coercive measures employed had led to the seizure of material which allegedly belonged to the applicant and could contain information covered by attorney-client privilege. she was also a civil servant at the tax agency, albeit formally on leave of absence while temporarily serving with the court. on 14 may 2008 the administrative court of appeal, sitting in a different formation, rejected the objection, noting that the co-opted member was on leave from her post at the tax agency. it stated that draupner was the subject of a tax audit and that all electronic or paper documents linked to the company’s business found on its premises should be considered as belonging to it and being eligible for examination in the audit. the county administrative court then directed draupner to specify its request in greater detail, which the company did. by a judgment of 14 september 2009 the court rejected the company’s requests for an oral hearing and an inspection of the flat but granted that a few seized documents be exempted from examination by the tax agency, as they were considered to be mr jurik’s private documents. on 15 november 2010 the supreme administrative court refused draupner leave to appeal.
the first applicant, ms lia shioshvili, was born in 1977 and lives in gurjaani (georgia). after a period of custody in police stations, they were grouped together and taken by bus to a court, which summarily imposed administrative penalties on them and gave decisions ordering their administrative expulsion from russian territory. owing to the absence of visa documents the officer asked all applicants to follow him to the local police station, where an administrative offence report was drawn up. the applicants left the police station after approximately 30 minutes. a)  the applicants’ version of the subsequent events 19. two migration officers escorted the group but would not inform them of the authorities’ intention nor where the group was being taken. her oral complaints to the officers about these circumstances were of no avail. once the group arrived in derbent, the migration officers asked the group to accompany them to the migration service office. on 29 november 2006 the first applicant tried to cross the russian/azerbaijani border with her three eldest children, the second, third and fourth applicant. on 3 and 4 december 2006, after having gone back and forth to the migration service office, and with the help of an employee from the consulate service of the georgian embassy in moscow, the first applicant finally obtained transit visa for her children and all other necessary documents, so that all five applicants could leave for georgia. on 5 december 2006 a group of 30 georgians, including the applicants, travelled to the russian/azerbaijani border in two buses that they had hired. with another bus the group travelled through the city of baku to the azerbaijani/georgian border. she suffered from a severe cough and fever, her right leg had grown numb and her general condition was extremely weak. the birth history no 364/12, issued on the same date, stated that “the stress experienced by the pregnant mother during the expulsion could be considered a reason for the child’s death”. on 9 october 2008, the first applicant’s representative received an answer, informing him that the complaint had been forwarded to the prosecutor of derbent and that he would be notified about further procedural actions taken in this respect.
the applicant was born in 1942 and lives in kutina. by a judgment of the kutina municipal court of 20 may 1994, which became final on 30 november 1994, the applicant was ordered to pay to the sellers (hereinafter “the creditors”) the equivalent of dem 17,000 in domestic currency, together with accrued statutory default interest (running from 15 december 1989) and the costs of the proceedings. since the creditors did not pay the purchase price within the set time-limit, on 28 november 2006 the court set aside its decision of 13 april 2005 and re-ran the third public auction. the court again based its decision on section 97(4) of the 1996 enforcement act, as amended by the 1999 amendments (see paragraph 11 above and paragraphs 25-26 below). following an appeal by the applicant, on 1 april 2009 the sisak county court (županijski sud u sisku) quashed the decision of 10 december 2008 to award the applicant’s house to mr d.d. ...by having sold for hrk 50,000 a property [worth] hrk 384,197, the first-instance court evidently misinterpreted ... [section 97(4) of the enforcement act]. that is so because the rule contained in section 97(4) is not of a mandatory nature [ius cogens], as it merely allows that property ... to be sold at a third public auction without restrictions regarding the lowest price ... (the text of that provision literally reads ‘ ... may be sold ...’ ). by selling for hrk 50,000 property [worth] hrk 384,197 and awarding it to the buyer, the first-instance court breached section 6 of the enforcement act, which imposes the duty on an enforcement court, in carrying out an enforcement, to respect the debtor’s dignity and make [the enforcement] the least onerous for him or her. furthermore, the purpose of enforcement proceedings is to settle the claim of an enforcement creditor. accordingly, by a decision of 3 june 2009 the court awarded the applicant’s house to d.d. on 2 october 2009 the enforcement creditors informed the enforcement court that they considered that their claim had been settled in full. by a decision of 20 december 2010 the sisak county court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of 3 june 2009 to award the applicant’s house to d.d. ( in so doing he repeated, in substance, the arguments raised in his appeal. that decision was served on the applicant’s representative on 6 june 2011. the applicant’s appeals against those decisions were dismissed by the sisak county court.
the applicant is a community of owners of a building located in madrid. on 13 june 1991 l., the co-owner of a house located next to the applicant’s building, filed a complaint before the madrid municipality, complaining that a dividing wall belonging to the applicant’s building and two other buildings located next to it was in poor condition. on 30 august 1994 the applicant received a decree issued by the municipality on 29 july 1994, informing it that the repairs had been carried out in view of the “serious risk of harm” posed by the condition of wall in question, and ordering it to pay a provisional amount of 18,030.36 euros (eur). on 16 july 1996, before the madrid high court of justice, the applicant initiated a second set of judicial administrative proceedings (recurso contencioso-administrativo), contesting the amount of the requested payment and asking for a suspension of its obligation to pay that amount. on 20 november 1996 the application to suspend its obligation to pay was rejected. that decision was confirmed by the madrid high court of justice and the supreme court on 11 july 1997 and 23 february 2001 respectively. on 6 march 1998 both sets of judicial administrative proceedings were joined. on 9 december 2004 the madrid high court of justice ruled against the applicant, on the grounds that the repairs had been carried out by the municipality in view of the poor condition of the wall and the “serious risk of harm” present at that time, which had given the municipality no other choice but to repair it and then ask the applicant for payment in respect of the costs incurred. the madrid high court of justice also confirmed the amount set for the costs of the repairs. on 3 march 2005 the applicant lodged a cassation appeal with the supreme court, which was declared inadmissible more than four years later on 29 may 2009. this decision was served on the applicant on 9 june 2009. on 10 december 2009 the applicant lodged an amparo appeal with the constitutional court. on 31 january 2010 the community of owners agreed to authorise mr. garcía caballero to act on its behalf in the framework of the judicial proceedings concerning the costs of the repairs to the wall. this decision was served on the applicant on 6 may 2010.
during the period from the end of september 2006 to the end of january 2007 identity checks of georgian nationals residing in russia were carried out in the streets, markets and other workplaces and at their homes. on 5 october 2006 the kuzminskiy district court of moscow fined the applicant (rub 1,000) for failure to observe the applicable registration procedure and ordered his administrative expulsion from the russian federation. on 8 october 2006 the applicant left the russian federation by his own means. the applicant entered the territory of the russian federation on 12 august 2006 on a multiple entry business visa. on 17 october 2006 the applicant was taken to a military airport and flown to georgia with a cargo plane. the applicant entered the russian federation on an unknown date on a multi-entry business visa, valid until 15 august 2007. 2, where she was detained until her expulsion. 1, where he was detained until his expulsion. (h)  kakha tsihistavi (born on 24 february 1983) 24. (i)  koba norakidze (born on 17 april 1969) 25. the applicant arrived in the russian federation in 1993 for the first time. for the relevant time the applicant had a visa and registration, valid until respectively 8 october 2006 and 28 february 2007. the exact circumstances and dates of the applicant’s arrest, detention, court decision and expulsion are matters of contention (see paragraphs 67-70 below). at the latest on 12 october 2012 the applicant was transferred to the centre for temporary detention of aliens no. the conditions of detention in the different places of detention are a matter of contention (see paragraphs 111-112 below).
on 26 march 2004 the applicant acquired an apartment in housing cooperative (“borettslag”) x. at her request, on 29 march 2004 its governing board (hereinafter “the board”) approved the applicant’s acquisition. mr a did not lodge an appeal against his above conviction and sentence which thus became final. the city court sentenced mr a to eighteen days’ imprisonment. the condition for requiring sale was that the owner of the part in question had “substantially defaulted” his or her obligations (“misheld pliktene sine vesentleg”). it was only after the housing cooperative x’s request to the applicant of 19 may 2004 for confirmation that mr a would not move to the estate that attorney b. had responded in the affirmative by letter of 26 may 2004. both the board’s approval and her confirmation had dated approximately six years back in time and it was only at present that she for the first time had alleged that the housing cooperative had forced her to make the said declaration by threatening to take unlawful action. also in this judgment it had been found proven that mr a had generally behaved in an intensive and intrusive manner. he was moreover inclined to block the passage of people he wanted to talk to and had a low threshold for taking one step further and grab or push people. despite her own confirmation that she moved in alone, the applicant had let her son live in the apartment with all the problems this had caused to other occupants. by a decision of 5 august 2010 the high court rejected her appeal. as regards the applicant’s allegations that the imposition of compulsory sale suffered from deficiencies, the high court found it clear that the board’s decision provided an adequate basis for notifying her of the measure in accordance with section 5-22 of the housing cooperative act. in that event, as also assumed by the city court, it was obvious that there was a possibility to opt for the less intrusive measure, namely the imposition of an order to sell the flat. having reached this conclusion, the high court found it unnecessary to examine whether mr a’s moving into the applicant’s flat contrary to the declaration made on her behalf by attorney b on 26 may 2004 amounted to serious default in the sense of the housing cooperative act. nor could the applicant succeed with her argument that the conditions had subsequently improved. on 5 december 2012 the court of the office of the city recorder warned the applicant that, as previously announced on 22 october 2012, he had decided to take the necessary steps to have her evicted from the flat on 18 december 2012 at 10 a.m., should she not voluntarily vacate the premises.
the first applicant, mr j. maxian, was born in 1949. the second applicant, ms i. maxianová, was born in 1965. they are spouses and live in vienna, austria. a number of those sets of proceedings were interrelated and were often stayed pending the outcome of another set of proceedings concerning related matters. during the main proceedings, the applicants were involved in two other separate sets of auxiliary proceedings held before the same court (see paragraphs 18 to 21). on 16 may 2005 the district court issued a payment order which was challenged by the defendants. between 9 september and 1 december 2008 the district court monitored the first set of auxiliary proceedings and once those were finalised it resumed the main proceedings on 20 march 2009. on 17 september 2012 the district court stayed the proceedings for the second time pending the outcome of the second set of auxiliary proceedings (see paragraph 21). the main proceedings have not been resumed since their interruption. however, the district court has regularly monitored their state. on 7 september 2010 the constitutional court (file no. i. ús 291/2010) rejected their first complaint as manifestly ill-founded on the grounds that the proceedings had been stayed between 2006 and 2009 pending the outcome of the first set of auxiliary proceedings. it also found that the applicants had contributed to the delays by making five applications to modify the particulars of their claim. the judgment dismissing that claim became final on 10 november 2008. 10816/12), the court established of its own motion that on 7 may 2015 the applicants had challenged the length of the second set of auxiliary proceedings (file no.
during the period from the end of september 2006 to the end of january 2007 identity checks of georgian nationals residing in russia were carried out in the streets, markets and other workplaces and at their homes. after a period of custody in police stations, they were grouped together and taken by bus to a court, which summarily imposed administrative penalties on them and gave decisions ordering their administrative expulsion from russian territory. in may 2006 the applicant returned to georgia because her visa had expired. mr togonidze informed the medical staff that he suffered from asthma attacks and was subsequently placed together with another georgian detainee who suffered from asthma in a cell measuring between 35 and 40 m2 with 25 to 30 other georgian nationals. a re-examination the same day showed that his temperature was back to normal. on 14 october 2006 mr pataridze, consul of georgia in the russian federation at the material time, visited the detention centre. prior to entering the bus the detainees and their belongings were searched. on the way to the airport the bus stopped five times to let people, allegedly for a bribe, use the toilet and purchase food. exiting the bus was closely monitored by the accompanying police officers. based on these findings the bureau of forensic medical examination of the moscow health department finally concluded that mr togonidze had died of methadone poisoning. on 8 november 2006 the decision not to initiate criminal proceedings of 19 october 2006 was quashed and the case file was forwarded for additional examination. the experts pointed out that the russian authorities gave the cause of death as methadone intoxication based on the fact that methadone was detected in the blood and urine of mr togonidze and that he had three injection marks on his body. they further indicated that methadone is usually taken in liquid form and only very uncommonly by injection. being a sedative, people dying from methadone intoxication typically do so after a period of unconsciousness. the deterioration of his health, however, would have been noticeable, as he would have been unwell and showed signs such as wheezing and coughing.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in sumgayit. the applicant did not appeal against that decision. on 10 march 2010 the applicant met his lawyer for the first time when he was brought before the sumgayit city court. following a conversation between the applicant and agents from the ombudsman’s office in a temporary detention centre, on 22 april 2010 the ombudsman requested that the prosecutor general’s office carry out a forensic examination of the applicant and conduct an effective investigation into his allegation of ill-treatment. he concluded that the injury had been caused by a hard blunt object, and could have been inflicted on 6 march 2010. he also claimed that, although numerous injuries were still visible on the applicant’s body, the expert had noted only one injury in his report. on 26 may 2010 the investigator granted the request and ordered a new forensic examination of the applicant. although the police officers denied the ill-treatment allegation, the investigator who had replaced the first investigator in charge of the case stated that he had also noticed the signs of a beating on the applicant’s body during his questioning. the court further found that the applicant had been unlawfully detained in the police office, and that he had been questioned by the investigator in the absence of his lawyer. during the examination the applicant stated that he had been tortured in police custody, and gave a detailed description of his ill-treatment. the appellate court’s reasoning was essentially the same as that in the first-instance court’s decision. on 3 june 2010 the sumgayit city court again extended the applicant’s detention for a period of one month. on 16 august 2010 the sumgayit city court dismissed the application, finding that there was no basis for such an extension. on 23 august 2010 the sumgayit court of appeal dismissed the prosecutor’s objection and upheld the first-instance court’s decision. the decision did not detail the duration of that preventive measure.
the applicant was born in 1968 and is serving a prison sentence in samara. on 26 december 2004 the applicant was arrested during an attempted car-jacking. on 28 december 2004, in response to a complaint by the applicant, the investigator looking into the matter noted that the applicant had resisted arrest and that the police officers had had to use force on him. as regards the interception of the defendants’ mobile telephone calls, the court noted as follows:“it is clear from the material in the case file that the regional court authorised the interception of the [defendants’] telephone communications ...pursuant to [the applicable legislation], information about covert operational and search activities is classified as a state secret. the applicant did not receive a mattress or sheets. according to the applicant, his requests for medical assistance were ignored. their submissions can be summarised as follows:period of detentioncell no. the partition separating it from the living area of the cell was only 1 m high and there was no door. (c)  description provided by other inmates 28. the inmates often suffered from colds and scabies. in the summer the temperature in the cells exceeded 30oc. (b)  description provided by the applicant 34. on the way back, the applicant was again placed in a holding cell measuring 12-13 sq. m with another fifteen to thirty inmates. there was no internal lighting when the engine was off.
the facts of the applications, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the first applicant was born in 1967 and lives in perm. on 6 may 2003 the first applicant was stopped by a customs officer at a moscow international airport and found to be in possession of 10,200 euros (eur) and 8,755 us dollars[1] (usd) which he failed to report on his customs declaration. on 4 december 2003 the golovinskiy district court in moscow convicted the first applicant of smuggling and issued a confiscation order in respect of the foreign currency he had carried on him. on 5 february 2004 the moscow city court upheld the judgment on appeal. further to an application from a deputy moscow prosecutor, on 5 december 2008 the presidium of the moscow city court amended the judgment. noting that there was no evidence that the confiscated currency had been the instrument of a crime or had been criminally acquired, it cancelled the confiscation order and ordered the confiscated money to be refunded to the first applicant. on 3 june 2009 the amount of 628,750 russian roubles (rub)[2] was credited into the first applicant’s bank account. the first applicant sued the ministry of finance, seeking to recover the interest accrued on the retained amount during the period from 6 may 2003 to 3 june 2009, which he assessed at rub 458,777. on 25 august 2009 the tverskoy district court in moscow granted his claim in part. it awarded the first applicant rub 11,719.20[3] in respect of the period from 2 april 2009 when his representative had submitted the bank details to the ministry of finance until 3 june 2009 when the transfer had been made. the district court did not say anything about the part of the claim concerning the previous six-year period. the second and third applicants were born in 1967 and 1971 respectively and live in graz, austria. on 14 and 16 february 2006 the golovinskiy district court in moscow found the second and third applicants guilty as charged and issued confiscation orders. noting that there was no evidence that the confiscated currency had been the instrument of a crime or had been criminally acquired, it cancelled the confiscation orders and ordered to refund rub 526,471.62 to ms sumann and rub 540,174.30 to mr sumann.[4]
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in dębowa kłoda. in january 2005 he moved out of the flat he had lived in with r. 8. on 25 september 2006 the applicant filed a petition for divorce. at first he requested a no-fault divorce. subsequently, the applicant requested a divorce on fault‑based grounds. during the proceedings thirteen witnesses were heard. during the final hearing on 9 february 2009 the respondent reiterated her refusal to divorce. the court did not find it credible that problems had already begun within the first year of the marriage. it observed that until 2004 the applicant had not wanted children. he had no longer wished to have a child with his wife. the respondent had been shocked by the applicant’s unfaithfulness and had been treated for depression since autumn 2004. reconciliation was unlikely as the applicant had consistently rejected all attempts made by r. to reconcile their differences. the court emphasised that under article 56 § 3 of the family and guardianship code, a divorce could not be granted if it had been requested by the party whose fault it was that the marriage had broken down, if the other party refused to consent and the refusal of the innocent party was not “contrary to the reasonable principles of social coexistence” (zasady współżycia społecznego) within the meaning of article 5 of the civil code. the applicant appealed against the judgment. the court should have examined the negative social consequences caused by continuing the formal existence of failed marriages.
the applicants are owners or co-owners of residential buildings which comprise flats that were or still are subject to rent control. under the relevant legislation they had to accept that the flats were occupied by tenants with a regulated rent and that they could charge them no more than the maximum amount of rent fixed by the state. the situation of the applicants is structurally and contextually the same as in bittó and others v. slovakia (no. 19294/07; bukovčanová and others v. slovakia, no. by extension, that disagreement translates into an argument over the proportion of the market rent that the regulated rent represents. in that connection, the government submitted an expert’s opinion drawn up in 2010 in relation to all four applications (“the government’s expert opinion”), according to which the monthly free-market rent for flats comparable to the applicants’ was between 6.13 and 6.48 euro (eur) per sq. m in the municipality of bratislava-staré mesto and eur 5.05 and 5.35 per sq. m in the municipality of bratislava-nivy. m. according to those calculations therefore, the regulated rent of the flats possessed by the applicants corresponded to some 14-26% of the market rent in 2010. the relevant data are set out in appendixes 2‑5 (columns g‑i). the applicants maintained that in 2007 the regulated rent ranged between eur 76 and 84 a month whereas the average free-market rent for comparable flats in a similar location was eur 956 a month. they further submitted that the sum which they and the other co‑owners had invested in repairing the building was ten times the income they obtained from letting the flats under the rent‑control scheme. in 2008 the applicant was allowed to charge a monthly rent of eur 40 to 60 for each of his flats. he relied on information about average rental prices published in the press. the applicants submitted that the regulated rent for their flats ranged between eur 38.5 and 104 a month in 2010.
the applicant was born in 1980 in tetovo and lives in golema rečica in the municipality of tetovo in “the former yugoslav republic of macedonia”. he arrived in switzerland in 1989 via family reunification and was granted a permanent residence permit. that court took the view that the applicant, by agreeing to engage in the race, had deliberately taken the risk of killing him. on 25 april 2006 the applicant started serving his sentence. b of the federal act on foreign nationals (ausländergesetz, aug, see relevant domestic law and practice paragraph 27 below) were met. after considering the circumstances of the case, it concluded that the public interest in the applicant’s removal outweighed his interest in enjoying his family life with his wife and children in switzerland. on 10 february 2010 the administrative court of the canton of zurich dismissed the applicant’s appeal lodged on 20 october 2009. while it acknowledged that he had lived in switzerland for over twenty years, which had thus become the centre of his life, it found that he was neither professionally nor socially integrated. it considered that he had no stable employment, but considerable debts. both he and his wife and children had benefitted significantly from social welfare. she knew albanian and visited the country annually on holiday. at the same time, she was not well integrated in switzerland as she did not undergo any professional training after leaving school, had received social welfare as from 2005 and only started to work in 2010. on 14 may 2013 the federal administrative court, on the applicant’s appeal, reduced the duration of the re-entry ban to seven years due to proportionality considerations. it considered that the offence committed by the applicant was particularly serious and that he continued to be a serious threat to public order, notwithstanding his mostly good behaviour since the commission of the offence and positive personality development. in august 2015, i.e. after almost four years, the applicant’s wife and children returned to switzerland to avoid the expiry of their permanent residence permit pursuant to article 61 § 2 of the federal act on foreign nationals (see relevant domestic law and practice paragraph 27) and because their socioeconomic living conditions in “the former yugoslav republic of macedonia” were difficult.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in the kyiv region. on 15 august 2006 the applicant got involved in a drunken brawl with a stranger and beat him to death. the date of his arrest cannot be established with certainty. an internal police inquiry established the date as 22 august. on 25 august 2006 the sovetskiy district court in omsk remanded the applicant in custody. on 28 december 2006 the applicant was convicted of murder and sentenced to nine years’ imprisonment in a high-security facility. on 21 january 2007 the applicant asked the prosecutor to investigate his allegation that police officers had beaten him up after his arrest. on 11 march 2008 the prosecutor refused institution of criminal proceedings. on the following day the decision was quashed and an additional inquiry was ordered. on 28 july 2015 the prosecutor of the sovetskiy district in omsk annulled the decision of 31 december 2009 and ordered an additional inquiry which should establish whether or not the applicant had been brought to the police station already on 20 august 2006 and whether or not the specific police officer described by the applicant had been on duty on that day. the dormitory was crammed and in a poor state of repair. on the latter date the applicant was transferred to ik-3 where he stayed until 26 march 2010. the access of natural light was restricted by plastic film covering the windows. the toilets, located in a separate building, were equipped with 7 pans for 600 detainees. the premises of the facility were overcrowded and afforded no more than 1.8 sq.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in krosno. from 29 april 1997 to 29 april 1999 he was employed by a polish company which was carrying out construction work in germany. on 19 june 2000 the opole regional court gave a partial judgment in which it established that the applicant was entitled to the rates of pay fixed in the employment contract. besides, in his view, the court had violated the provisions of the above‑mentioned international agreement, according to which the rates of the applicant’s pay should be comparable to those received by the german workers occupying the same positions. the court of appeal comprised three judges. he was not a judge rapporteur and he did not preside. in the applicant’s case there was only one claim and thus there had been no grounds for delivering the partial judgment. this part of the court’s reasoning read as follows:“as to the substantive grounds for the court’s legal view expressed in the judgment under appeal, it should be stated that it finds support in the content of the agreement between the governments of the republic of poland and the federal republic of germany on the secondment of workers of polish companies to carry out construction work (journal of laws 1998/84, items 474 and 475) as well as in the hitherto interpretation of this agreement in judicial decisions (see, e.g., iii a pa 29/00 wrocław court of appeal, decision of 31 may 2000).” on 24 may 2004 the opole regional court gave judgment granting the applicant’s claim in part and dismissing the remainder. the court accepted the reasoning of the first-instance court. on 28 march 2007 the applicant lodged a further cassation appeal with the supreme court. in the applicant’s opinion, the court’s finding that his hourly rate of pay had been fixed in his employment contract had been erroneous, because that contract had not contained any rates (only symbols which the applicant had not been able to understand). it was further argued that the court had failed to take into consideration the evidence gathered in the case. the court had also erred when refusing to allow certain requests for evidence to be taken. the supreme court noted that the appellate court, contrary to the applicant’s objection, had followed the interpretation of the applicable law expressed by the earlier judgment of the supreme court (pronounced on 29 november 2005) given in the same case.
the applicant was born in 1988 in margilan, uzbekistan. on 5 september 2014 the applicant was charged in absentia with participation in the extremist religious movement hizb ut-tahrir al islami and activities threatening the constitutional order. on the same day the authorities ordered his pre-trial detention and issued an international search and arrest warrant bearing his name. on 24 december 2014 the applicant was arrested in moscow. on 26 december 2014 the cheremushkinskiy district court of moscow ordered and subsequently prolonged his detention. on 23 january 2015 the uzbek prosecution authorities requested the applicant’s extradition on the above charges. the request included assurances regarding the proper treatment of the applicant, which were formulated in standard terms. the applicant challenged this decision in the courts, arguing that he belonged to a vulnerable group and therefore faced a real risk of treatment contrary to article 3 at the hands of the uzbek authorities. on 13 october 2015 his appeals were dismissed by a final decision of the supreme court of the russian federation. on 5 june 2015 the applicant lodged a request for refugee status, referring to persecution in uzbekistan on religious grounds. on 9 november 2015 his request was refused by a final administrative decision of the migration authorities. the applicant challenged this decision in the courts, referring inter alia to the risk of ill‑treatment. on 25 december 2015 the meshchanskiy district court of moscow ordered the applicant’s expulsion for violating the migration rules. on 16 february 2016 the applicant applied for temporary asylum. no information concerning the outcome of these proceedings was supplied by the parties.
the applicants were born in 1961, 1963 and 1966 respectively and live in the town of taganrog. on 2 july 2001 the neklinovskiy district court of the rostov region found the applicants guilty of various offences but declared that they need not serve their respective sentences because the case was time-barred. on 2 october 2001 the rostov regional court upheld the judgment on appeal. on 31 january 2002 the presidium of the rostov regional court quashed by way of supervisory review the decisions of 2 july and 2 october 2001 and discontinued criminal proceedings against the applicants. it found that the courts had not been in a position to decide on the applicants’ guilt because the whole case had been time-barred. the applicants sued the ministry of finance of the russian federation for, among other things, compensation in respect of non‑pecuniary damage in connection with their prosecution. in its judgment of 1 march 2005 the taganrog town court of the rostov region rejected their claims. it reasoned as follows:“... the court finds that, since the applicants’ guilt of the commission of the above‑mentioned crimes was established, the use of the measure of restraint was justified. this being so, the court has no reason to grant the applicants’ claims for compensation in respect of the non-pecuniary damage resulting from their unlawful detention and the obligation not to leave their usual place of residence. ...” on 11 may 2005 the rostov regional court upheld the judgment of 1 march 2005 on appeal. it stated that:“ ... the first instance court, in reaching its decision refusing to grant the applicants’ claims for compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damage, correctly assumed that the decision of the presidium of the rostov regional court dated 31 january 2002 cleared them of liability on non-exonerating grounds. in the court’s view, since the applicants’ guilt of the commission of the above-mentioned crimes was established, the application of the measure of restraint during the investigation was justified. the court’s conclusion is a correct one, made following the examination and proper assessment of the legally relevant circumstances of the case. ...”
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in białystok. on 15 november 2007 the białystok regional court granted a decree of divorce without ascribing blame for the breakdown of the marriage. on 23 march 2012 the białystok district court issued an interim decision allowing the applicant to visit his son during the second day of the easter holidays from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the child’s place of residence. the experts opined that an increase in contact, as requested by the applicant, was not advisable, on account of the limited level of communication between him and the child, the child’s age and history, and the strength of the child’s ties with the mother and maternal grandparents. the mother should cooperate with the father and support him in making his contact with the child more diverse. the court dismissed the applicant’s request for a second expert opinion since the earlier opinion was complete and comprehensive. on 9 august 2012 the białystok district court dismissed the applicant’s application for a change to the contact arrangements. he suffered from a hearing impairment and used a hearing aid. the court disagreed with the applicant that the paternal grandmother could ensure proper communication between him and his son. the court noted that the neighbour was a familiar person to the child, since he had been regularly visiting the child’s family. it noted that the experts had opined that both parents required contact with a specialist who would assist them in mutually accepting each other as a parent. the applicant contested the lower court’s finding that the child’s paternal grandmother was a stranger to him; he argued that the child would not be exposed to stress in the event of contact without the mother’s presence and outside her home in view of the fact that the child attended nursery school and was cared by a neighbour a few times a week. it stressed that the priority of the court in such cases was to take into account the interests of the child, not the interests of either of his or her parents. it dismissed the applicant’s counteraction. the applicant was not to be solely blamed for this situation.
the applicant was born in 1988 and is detained in saransk. on 3 august 2009 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of the rape of a girl, who was also a minor. on 5 august 2009 the staroshaygovskiy district court of the mordovia republic remanded him in custody. he remained in pre-trial detention pending investigation and trial on the grounds that he was accused of a serious crime, might reoffend, abscond, destroy evidence, threaten witnesses, or interfere with the investigation. on 24 december 2010 the supreme court of the mordovia republic found him guilty as charged. on 4 october 2010 the applicant, acting for himself, submitted his first letter to the court. on 4 august and 4 october 2010 he provided two powers of attorney authorising mr frimu, one of his cellmates, to represent him before the court.
the applicants were born in 1976 and 1978 respectively and live in basle. the first applicant, who was born in turkey, moved to switzerland at the age of 10. she moved to switzerland in 1999 under the provisions for family reunion. when the present application was lodged she was on a training course to become a playgroup leader (spielgruppenleiterin). the first applicant speaks fluent swiss german. the present application concerns only the first two daughters. they were initially enrolled in the vogelsang primary school in basle. the eldest daughter subsequently attended an “orientation school” (orientierungsschule, between the primary and secondary levels). by a letter of 13 august 2008, the public education department of the canton of basle urban (erziehungsdepartement des kantons basel-stadt) advised the applicants that under section 91 (9) of the education act of the canton of basle urban (see paragraph 24 below), they were liable to a maximum fine of 1,000 swiss francs (chf) (around 923 euros (eur)) each if their daughters did not comply with the obligation to attend school. on 30 march 2010 the head teacher of the school held a meeting with the applicants in order to resolve the situation. the applicants continued to refuse to send their daughters to the swimming lessons. on 17 june 2010 the applicants were invited to comment again as part of those proceedings. drawing on its leading decision of 24 october 2008 (see federal supreme court judgment 135 i 79; paragraph 29 below), the federal supreme court, by a judgment of 7 march 2012, dismissed an appeal by the applicants, holding that the authorities’ refusal to exempt their daughters from mixed swimming lessons in primary school had not breached the applicants’ right to freedom of conscience and belief. it further stated that, in accordance with section 68 of the act, the precise organisation of this subject, especially the various lessons and the number of hours allocated to them, was set out in the curriculum, point 9.2.4 of which provided that swimming formed part of compulsory gymnastics and sports lessons. the federal supreme court accordingly concluded that the measure had a valid legal basis.
the applicants, dorina and viorel-aurel[2] ioniță, were born in 1976 and 1972 respectively and live in brăila. decided to perform the operation under general anaesthetic with tracheal intubation. after surgery the child was immediately transferred to the intensive care unit. the child suffered a haemorrhage, causing blood to flood his lungs. on 8 november 2005 the child’s father lodged a disciplinary complaint against dr c.b. although the committee concluded that there had been no direct link between the child’s death and the doctors’ medical conduct, it reprimanded both doctors for their failure to perform the necessary pre-surgical medical tests and to seek the applicants’ informed consent before surgery. following a request of the brăila police inspectorate, on 19 july 2006 brăila emergency hospital stated that the medical staff members in charge of monitoring the child were dr p.a. on 5 january 2007 the prosecutor’s office of the brăila district court decided to institute criminal proceedings against dr p.a. during the criminal proceedings against dr p.a., the iaşi forensic institute replied that a new forensic report could not be produced as the evidence examined had been sent by brăila forensic service to the mina minovici national forensic institute. and the investigating authorities submitted several questions for the forensic experts. copies of the documents from the disciplinary file were added to the criminal file. a complaint by the applicants against the prosecutors’ decisions was allowed by the brăila district court on 25 february 2009. it considered that although a new forensic report had not been produced, the decision of the superior committee of the national college of doctors provided enough information concerning the cause of death, which had been the presence of blood in the child’s airways owing to the balloon of the tracheal catheter not being tight enough. the applicants lodged an appeal on points of law against that decision.
on 27 june 2005 a criminal investigation was initiated into a theft allegedly committed by the applicant in the republic of uzbekistan. on 12 september 2005 an investigator ordered the applicant’s arrest and placed him on the list of fugitives. it appears that in the meantime the applicant moved to the russian town of perm. on 21 january 2007 he was arrested there. on 23 january 2007 a prosecutor issued a decision to detain the applicant pending resolution of the extradition request in his regard. the decision referred to article 61 of the convention on legal assistance and legal relations in civil, family and criminal matters (signed in minsk on 22 january 1993 and amended on 28 march 1997, “the minsk convention”). it did not indicate that it was amenable to appeal. on 25 january 2007 the prosecutor wrote to the prison authorities asking them to hold the applicant in detention until further notice. on 19 february 2007 the uzbek authorities requested the applicant’s extradition. on 6 march 2007 the prosecutor applied to the court for authorisation of the applicant’s detention pending extradition. on 9 march 2007 the leninskiy district court of perm authorised the applicant’s detention pending extradition. the district court did not set a limit on the length of the applicant’s detention. on 27 march 2007 the perm regional court upheld the decision on appeal. no court subsequently reviewed or extended the applicant’s detention. it appears that on 10 july 2007 the applicant was handed over to the authorities of the republic of uzbekistan.
the applicants are the wife and daughter of mr ivan mirchev pashaliysky, who was killed on 2 june 2000 in an office situated in a hotel in sofia. he died as a result of suffering severe trauma to his brain, chest, torso and limbs, which led to irreversible damage to several of his vital organs. the trauma was caused by a number of kicks and punches and blows inflicted with different objects. on the day of the incident a private security guard was called to the office premises where mr pashaliysky was later found dead in order to investigate a brawl reportedly happening there. that there was no problem, the security guard left. a friend and business partner of mr pashaliysky, threatening to kill them both if ch.m. failed to deliver an undisclosed sum of money to s.v. a prosecutor from the sofia city public prosecutor’s office found on 20 april 2001 that there were reasons for amending the indictment by applying a law providing for a heavier penalty. the case file was sent to the sofia city court on an unspecified date in november 2003. at the start of the trial the defendant’s lawyer claimed that the indictment was defective because it did not contain a clear description of the offence with which the defendant had been charged; the lawyer sought, without success, the return of the case for further investigation. to fifteen years’ imprisonment and ordered him to pay damages to the second applicant. on 11 february 2009 the court recognised the second applicant as a civil party seeking non-pecuniary damages but refused to name both applicants as private prosecutors. subsequently, the presiding judge was elected president of the supreme administrative court as a result of which the trial stage was started anew. the inspectorate replied on 21 february 2012. guilty of murder and sentenced him to twelve years’ imprisonment.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in molodetske, in the donetsk region. on 28 january 2007 the applicant, at the material time a member of the shakhtarsk district council and president of the local branch of the party of regions, read out a letter at a meeting attended by over forty party members and inhabitants of the village of zolotarevka which contained the following text:“to the member of the shakhtarsk district council, president of the district branch of the party of regions, mr lykin v.v., how can he serve the district after having destroyed all the work in zolotarevka during his four years in office? and p. streets, and what did he spent it on? [he] removed all the metal parts from the boiler room in the kindergarten ... ;(3). with his knowledge, the century-old oak trees in the forest have been felled. ’s resignation from the district council. ’s performance as a party activist and an elected public official, and was joined in this by several other participants. he maintained in particular that the applicant had had no right to read out the letter, which had contained unverified defamatory information accusing him of criminal and corrupt conduct. as the purported authors of the letter had signed it without indicating their full names or address details, it should have been disposed of without any follow-up as an anonymous application within the meaning of the citizens’ applications act. on 17 september 2007 the shaktarsk court declared that the applicant had been at fault in defaming g.sh., the applicant, represented by mr v. filipenko, appealed. moreover, the letter was not “anonymous”, given that mrs a. at least had claimed authorship. there was also evidence in support of other factual allegations. critical assessment of those facts by some village inhabitants was not susceptible of proof and constituted reasonable value judgments on their part, for which the applicant could not be held responsible.
the applicants were born in 1984, 1988 and 1987 respectively. the following is a summary of the events that led the applicants to seek asylum outside their countries of origin, as submitted by the applicants. the first applicant is an orthodox christian. when the vessel was passing through the suez canal, the insurer tried to arrange with the egyptian authorities that the applicants could disembark in egypt, but the authorities refused the request. the discussion was in english in the presence of three border guards and two port security officers. as only the first applicant could speak english, he interpreted the discussion into amharic, which the other two applicants could understand. on the same grounds the border guards refused to allow the applicants to disembark. z. left the vessel without raising any complaints. on 28 february 2012 the applicants, allegedly having been misled by the vessel’s captain who was acting on the instructions of the ukrainian border guards, signed type-written statements in english, according to which they had boarded the vessel with the aim of reaching sweden “in search of better living conditions” and that they did not “need the status of refugee, addition[al] [or] temporary protection in ukraine”. on 2 march 2012 z., acting on the applicants’ behalf, lodged with the court a request for interim measures to be imposed under rule 39 of the rules of court. on the same day the court granted the request. on 16 march 2012 the applicants were questioned by the migration authorities concerning their asylum applications. it appears from their submissions that in 2014 the applicants lodged new asylum applications with the authorities. the unhcr helped him to organise the travel arrangements. the proceedings were eventually terminated as the second applicant died on 6 march 2015.
the applicant was born in 1942 and lives in lamlash. however, tods murray’s fees were not settled in full by arakin. on 27 april 2007 the case was remitted to the outer house. on 18 january 2002 it directed that the case be heard on 13 february 2002. on 21 april 2004 the inner house dismissed the application to appeal as incompetent since leave had not been obtained from the outer house. the court also ordered that their payment was a condition to proceed with the counterclaim. between 2004 and 2009 the amounts remained unpaid and the matter proceeded on the basis that the only issues to try were contained in the principal claim. as to the counterclaim, after a careful examination of the applicant’s evidence, the court held that it was an “abuse of process”. the applicant appealed against the decision. on 3 march 2011 the inner house heard the appeal and refused it. on 11 may 2011 the outer house heard both parties and fixed a hearing on the facts. tods murray applied for its costs and the applicant lodged various applications. the applicant did not appear at the hearing on 22 july 2013. the judge found in favour of tods murray on the issue of expenses at an enhanced, punitive rate of expenses in light of the applicant’s conduct. in relation to the applicant’s conduct he found that it had been:“ ...unreasonable and incompetent.
the applicants were placed in menemeni police station in thessaloniki, either in pre-trial detention or serving prison sentences. at the time they submitted their application they had been detained for periods ranging from one to six months. the first six applicants were transferred to thessaloniki general detention facility on the following dates: applicant no. 4 was transferred on 11 february 2014, applicant no. the parties disputed the date on which applicant no. according to the material in the court’s possession, applicant no. 7 was still being detained in menemeni police station on 24 may 2014. the applicants alleged that menemeni police station had been entirely inappropriate for long periods of detention, as in their cases. 3 had measured 6 square metres and had accommodated five detainees. they had had to ask permission from the guards to use the restroom. recreational activities had not been offered and cells had not been equipped with televisions. 2 had measured 23.3 square metres with four built-in beds and cell no. 3 had measured 26 square metres with five beds. the government affirmed that there had been two sanitary facilities with hot water outside the cells. in urgent cases, inmates had been transferred to local hospitals.
the applicant was born in 1970 in rafah, gaza. in 1993 the applicant went to ukraine to study. the applicant visited gaza twice in 2000. according to the applicant, one of the visits was due to his father’s death. the documents have not been returned to the applicant. subsequently the applicant contacted a lawyer, who helped him to obtain copies of the decisions concerning his expulsion and to lodge an appeal against them (see paragraph 28 below). the applicant also argued that he had not been aware that subsequently, in may 2010, the police had initiated court proceedings for him to be forcibly removed from ukraine. in the latter regard, the police argued that there were reasons to believe that the applicant would try to remain illegally in ukraine. on 18 may 2010 the kyiv administrative court heard the case in the absence of the parties, having noted that the applicant had submitted a written statement that he did not wish to be present and that he agreed with the expulsion decision, and also that the police were not able to attend the hearing because of their high workload. the court relied on the findings in the decision of 17 march 2010 and allowed the claims of the police. on 29 november 2011 a lawyer submitted an appeal on the applicant’s behalf, together with a request for renewal of the ten-day time-limit, to the kyiv administrative court for further transfer to the kyiv administrative court of appeal. it is unknown whether the applicant or his lawyer intended to take part in the hearing and, if so, whether they informed the court of appeal accordingly. on 3 august 2012 the applicant challenged the refusal of his asylum application before the kyiv administrative court. the court in particular found that, although the arguments on which the applicant’s new application for asylum had been based were the same as in the applicant’s initial application, the new application needed to be reconsidered in the light of the decision of the desnyanskyy district court of 29 october 2014 and on the basis of the new act on the legal status of foreigners and stateless persons, which had entered into force on 25 december 2011. thus, no leave to immigrate could be granted to him on that ground.
the applicants were born in 1969, 1968 and 1972 respectively and live in lanžhot (messrs. as a result of her observations over the following two months, the customs officers were suspected of corruption, namely taking bribes from truck drivers in exchange for granting priority or trouble-free customs clearance. according to the applicants, interviews with four of the drivers were of decisive significance. the applicants, being not yet charged, were not present at these interviews. testified that he had paid 5 eur on each of the ten trips he had made to pass the customs control. confirmed the existence of corrupt practices at the customs office in question but could not specify any particular person. in february 2005 they were officially indicted. the third applicant was present at the hearing. the other two applicants were absent and were represented by a substitute defence counsel. who, according to their records, passed the border crossing point at the time in question, and their papers and travel documents bear the respective numbers of the defendant bátěk. as to counts 4 and 5 of the indictment, the defendant bátěk is also incriminated by a police officer of the czech republic who saw the defendant accepting a bribe and recorded this fact in the corresponding document, produced in evidence, which also corresponds with the testimony of the undercover agent given before the court. and by a report from his former employer stating the defendant’s whereabouts at the time concerned. who submitted details of his border crossing to the authorities and notes of bribes given at a specific time and place. in the instant case, the provisions of the ccp regulating the agent’s testimony were not violated and the allegations of some of the defendants that the agent had been heard as an anonymous witness in order to allow her to consult her notes or another person are unsubstantiated. on 2 april 2009 the constitutional court (ústavní soud) dismissed the constitutional appeal as manifestly ill-founded.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in daugavpils. beat up the applicant by delivering several blows to his head, near to his eyes. in december 1995 the warrant was sent to the daugavpils police station. in july 1998 and january 1999 the daugavpils court asked the russian authorities for assistance in obtaining originals of medical records relating to the applicant’s operations (see paragraph 7 above). a medical panel was asked to comment on what kind of trauma had caused the injuries; whether the applicant had lost his sight as a result of the injuries inflicted on him in 1995; to what extent he had been incapacitated before the injuries and their severity. on 7 december 1999 a medical report was drawn up. the injuries sustained by him were considered minor. the worsening of a pre-existing condition, including after earlier injuries, did not in itself provide a basis for determining a more serious classification of bodily injury. he was sentenced to three years’ imprisonment. in the claim the applicant relied on the operative part of the judgment of the daugavpils court (see above), section 27 of the law on police and various provisions of the civil law which regulated tort liability. only proved that he had committed a crime using violence against the applicant. in the judgment of 27 february 2003 the first and fourth criteria had been established. the supreme court analysed all the medical data before it concerning the applicant’s health and concluded that the state police were liable to pay pecuniary damages to the applicant for his medical expenses under section 2347 of the civil law. in this regard he had relied on sections 2347 to 2349 of the civil law, which provided that compensation could be claimed for mutilation and disfigurement. the supreme court also stated that with the amendments of 1 march 2006 the civil law contained a general legal provision (section 1635 of the civil law) for claiming non-pecuniary damages.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in prague. do i have to become evil before you can hear me out and are willing to talk to me? she decided to tell me about the entire matter only after he had allegedly sent her an email with the words ... ‘and don’t forget that you have a family – mother, brother – back at home’ ... given her experience of him, [c.] considers it very likely that this threat could be carried out by [the applicant]. she described in detail the acts of intimidation conducted by him in the form of phone calls, sms messages, emails, letters and verbal threats. furthermore, on 1 january 2006 they had been in a car together and the applicant had threatened to throw c. into a snowdrift and drive off, or to kill both her and himself in a deliberate car accident. on 25 october 2006 a judge at the prague 6 district court ordered the compilation of a list of incoming and outgoing telephone calls from the applicant’s mobile phone between 20 december 2005 and 31 july 2006. in april 2007 a search was conducted in both the applicant’s flat and the commercial premises where he ran his business, upon the search orders issued on 16 and 18 april 2007 respectively. the police continued to gather evidence during 2007 and 2008. ...i personally contacted the psychologist ... she confirmed that my daughter had phoned her as well. the district court tried to summons c. again. in which c. wrote to her female friend about the applicant’s violent behaviour. this is understandable given that she was allegedly abused by the mother’s partner (as the victim confided in the defendant). finally, one should not disregard the statement of an impartial witness ... namely the victim’s psychotherapist, who confirmed that the victim came to her because of relational problems with the defendant, confided in her about having been held by the defendant against her will and driven off somewhere in his car, and about his emails threatening to harm her if she left him. in respect of the applicant’s complaint concerning c.’s interview, which was conducted as an urgent and non-repeatable measure under article 158a of the ccp, the municipal court noted that:“the victim was duly interviewed in the presence of a judge ..., with the unrepeatability of the measure being determined by the long-term residence of the witness in the united kingdom. on 24 may 2013 the applicant filed an action for damages against the ministry, which appears to be still pending before the prague 2 district court.
the first applicant was born in 1933 and lives in brussels. on 12 january 1998 an attempted robbery was carried out on an armoured van owned by the b.z. two of the three occupants of the van were killed. who subsequently became a co-defendant (see paragraph 13 below). was heard by the investigating judge as a witness under oath. in particular stating the names of those involved in the attack, including the applicants, and mentioning that the attack had been prepared a long time in advance by a different team and that one of the weapons discovered in one of the vehicles abandoned at the scene of the crime had been purchased by l.m. in a statement of 28 october 2005 he mentioned the assistance which he had received by way of protection measures. was also questioned, in the framework of police protection measures, in particular concerning the b.z. on 3 december 2007 the indictments division committed the twelve defendants for trial before the liège assize court. van, as well as other offences linked to organised crime. on 28 september 2010 the jury found the applicants guilty, in particular, of the attack on the b.z. the main reasons for the jury’s decision were subsequently summarised as follows in a statement of reasons issued by the assize court that same day:“the [first applicant’s guilt] regarding his involvement in the attempted robbery in waremme on 12 january 1998 transpires from the concurring statements of [r.c. both of whom admitted that they had had talks with [r.c.], the reasons impelling a witness to testify may give rise to doubts concerning his or her credibility, but that is not necessarily inconsistent with the holding of a fair trial. finally, the first applicant complained that the judgment of 30 september 2010 determining the sentence had not taken account of the abnormal length of the proceedings against the applicants when the sentence was passed.
they were both born in 1957 and live in colares. the first applicant’s editorial reads as follows:“the strategy of the spider n.n., the gentlemen judges, who some time ago engaged in a dispute with [the judges of] the constitutional court to determine who occupied the more important place in the hierarchy (those of the supreme court won ... but gave to those of the constitutional court the consolation of having at their disposal a high-end car ...) aren’t even much respected. [ secondly, and much more serious, the man is volunteering himself to be the face of a group of judges [that is] against the reforming decisions of those holding political power which are currently the subject of a broad consensus between the government party and the main opposition force. it is so pathetic as to make one laugh, were we not in portugal and if we did not understand how the strategies of the spiders work. p.m.: it is a distorted system ... it is not the people – they are all serious and honest; the problem is the system itself. some of these articles called the system into question. on 13 november 2009 the lisbon civil court found for the plaintiff. ...[the editorial examines] the plaintiff on two levels: how he, allegedly, managed to achieve the electoral results; and his electoral programme as a candidate for election to the presidency of the supreme court. argued that the level of compensation should have been set at a higher amount and that the second applicant should have been considered a party to the proceedings. as to the facts, the lisbon court of appeal considered, inter alia, the following to have been established:(i)  the plaintiff had been the only candidate for the post of president of supreme court of justice and had previously been a member and the vice-president of the high council of the judiciary;(ii)  several articles had been published in the press and in blogs (in the periods preceding and following the election) about judge n.n. as to the analysis of the merits of the case, the relevant parts of the judgment read as follows:“...in the present case, it is important to take into account [the fact] that the person referred to in the ... text written by the defendant is a public figure, being the fourth-highest-ranking figure of state: the president of the supreme court of justice. ...besides that, and this is the decisive point for the determination of the amount to be awarded, the piece written by the defendant, despite the degree of offence and suffering [caused to] the plaintiff, was not an obstacle to his re-election by a large majority (larger than that previously, as everybody knew) to the same post. on 25 january 2013 the applicants submitted their grounds of appeal. had not submitted any grounds of appeal (julgado deserto o recurso e caducado o recurso subordinado).
the applicant was born in 1966 and is currently detained in giurgiu prison. the applicant is currently serving his prison sentence in giurgiu prison where he has been held since 21 january 2009. a305, a306, a328, b232, c109, c116, c126, c127, c215, c216, c225, e1.22, e3.7, e3.12, e3.24, e3.26, e3.32, e4.5, e4.14, e4.25, e4.27, e5.32, e10.8, e10.11 which each measured 17,65 sq. m and which he shared with a maximum of five other detainees, between 26 january 2009 and 5 august 2010, between 12 august and 6 september 2010, between 7 march and 28 april 2011, between 20 may and 22 august 2011, between 29 august 2011 and 3 february 2012, between 9 february and 2 april 2012, between 7 may and 23 july 2012, between 2 august and 13 september 2012, between 4 october 2012 and 4 march 2013, between 11 march and 11 april 2013, between 18 and 29 april 2013, between 7 may 2013 and 7 february 2014 and between 21 february and 22 july 2014. m and which he shared with another person, between 21 and 26 january 2009, between 6 september and 10 october 2010, between 12 and 20 may 2011 and between 7 and 21 february 2014. m and was provided with a sink, a shower cabin, shelves, mirror and a toilet. the detainees collected the trash and cleaned the cells twice every day. the inmates received the hygiene products from the prison administration and had access to warm water twice every week. the information submitted by the prison administration concerned conditions of detention only until 22 july 2014. 275/2006 on the execution of sentences; hereinafter “law no. by two decisions of 29 august and 21 november 2013 the post-sentencing judge for giurgiu prison noted that the applicant was no longer held with smokers. the judge also considered that because of the large number of inmates held in that prison, it was impossible to ensure more personal space for the applicant. the applicant appealed against these two decisions. on 7 october 2013 the post‑sentencing judge dismissed the request as having been lodged after the expiry of the ten-day time-limit provided for by law no. the decision was upheld by the slobozia district court on 10 march 2014.
the applicant company is a limited liability company with its seat in ansfelden. on 3 may 2000 the applicant company applied to the linz-land district administrative authority (bezirkshauptmannschaft – daa) for the permission to modify its facility site by constructing a loading zone and a noise protection wall. an oral hearing was held on 1 march 2001. on 12 july 2001 the applicant company lodged an application for transfer of jurisdiction, because the daa had not rendered a decision within the statutory six-month time-limit. by decision of 23 july 2001 the daa granted the applicant company permission to modify its facility site and dismissed the objections lodged by persons living in the vicinity of the site (hereinafter, “the neighbours”). the applicant company appealed against the latter decision, but its appeal was dismissed by the federal minister of economy and labour (bundesminister für wirtschaft und arbeit – hereinafter, the “minister”) on 20 august 2002. the administrative court (verwaltungsgerichtshof) lifted the minister’s decision on 17 december 2002 and held that the regional governor was the competent authority to decide on the matter. on 16 october 2003 the minister lifted the regional governor’s decision of 19 december 2001 and held that the latter was competent to decide on the merits of the applicant company’s case. meanwhile, on 14 january 2002 the daa had granted the applicant company permission to modify its facility site and dismissed the neighbours’ objections. on 22 december 2003 the regional governor lifted the daa’s decision because of lack of jurisdiction, and granted the applicant company the permission. on 26 january 2004 the neighbours appealed against this decision to the minister. on 7 september 2004 the administrative court ordered the minister to take a decision within three months. on 11 november 2004, upon request by the minister, it extended the time-limit by another six months. on 11 may 2005 the administrative court refused another request by the minister for an extension of the time-limit and assumed jurisdiction. after having requested an additional statement from an official expert (amtssachverständiger) on 14 october 2008, the administrative court dismissed the neighbours’ appeal as being unfounded by judgment of 1 july 2010 (served on the applicant company’s counsel on 28 july 2010).
the first applicant was born in 1971 and lives in devecser. they had also been informed that the demonstrators would seek conflict with the police and the minority community. announced that the demonstration was about the justified self-protection of hungarians. furthermore, one of his acquaintances had been injured by a stone thrown into his garden, but the police officer to whom the applicant had reported the incident had not taken any steps. it went on to state that by not enforcing the limits of freedom of assembly, the police had caused anomalies in respect of the right to peaceful assembly and the roma population’s right to dignity and private life. both applicants complained to the veszprém county police department about the failure of the police to take measures against the demonstrators, thereby endangering their life and limb and their human dignity. as regards the failure of the police to carry out identity checks on demonstrators and to hold suspects for questioning (előállítás), the police department found that such measures would only have aggravated the situation and strengthened the demonstrators’ hostility towards the police. nonetheless, it concluded that dispersing the demonstration would have carried a high risk since, based on previous experience, those participants intent on violence would probably have turned against the police. the national police service upheld those decisions on appeal on 19 december 2013 and 5 august 2014, respectively, stating that although under section 14 of act no. in its judgments delivered on 3 december 2014 and 19 march 2015 the veszprém administrative and labour court dismissed the applicants’ claims. following a complaint lodged by the applicants, the veszprém county prosecution office upheld the decision to discontinue the investigation. thus the applicants were not victims of the alleged criminal act and had no standing to lodge a complaint against the decision to discontinue the investigation. however, the county prosecution office re-examined the decision on its own motion. three of the alleged perpetrators could not be identified, while the veszprém county prosecutor’s office pressed charges against the fourth person, mr t.k. he was found guilty as charged on 2 june 2015 by the ajka district court and sentenced to ten months’ imprisonment, suspended for two years.
the first applicant, ms floare cacuci, was born on 2 march 1939 and lives in oradea. she is an accounting expert and the owner and general manager of the second applicant, s.c. both applicants were members of the romanian institute of accounting experts and certified accountants (corpul experților contabili și contabililor autorizați din românia). on 30 july 2001 the criminal department of the bihor county police ordered a forensic accounting report in a criminal case it was dealing with. according to the first applicant, on 21 october 2005, while she was in the street, having just left her house, she was stopped by a police officer, who told her that he had a search warrant for her home. the prosecutor’s notes in the search report produced on that occasion at the place of residence of the first applicant state that the first applicant was asked to surrender the items used to commit the alleged offence of intellectual forgery, namely the computer, the printer, and the documents on which the second expert report was based (articles 96-99 of the rccp, see paragraph 45 below). several items and documents were found, the first applicant claiming that everything belonged to the second applicant. consequently, together with her lawyer, she decided to leave the police headquarters without attending the unsealing and search procedure. on 5 december 2005 the first applicant submitted the missing 497 pages from the first expert report (see paragraph 6 above) to the oradea district court, following payment of 60% of her fee. the first applicant submitted that the warrant had been issued only in respect of her home, and not in respect of the registered office of the second applicant. the prosecutor also stated that the investigating authorities had been obliged to seize all pieces of physical evidence found at the search location, irrespective of who owned them, and that the pieces not belonging to the suspect had been returned to their owner at the end of the criminal trial. in any event, the manner in which the seized objects had been sealed could not affect the legality of the search, but possibly their use as evidence in the criminal proceedings. in the context of the second set of proceedings, on 28 june 2006 the first applicant lodged an application calling into question the constitutionality of the provisions of article 100 § 4 of the rccp (see paragraph 46 below). moreover, interested parties had at their disposal several opportunities and means to contest any measure taken during a criminal investigation or criminal trial. with reference to the documents found at the first applicant’s residence during the search carried out on 21 october 2005, the court stated that they had not been in her possession unlawfully, as all of them had been given to her by the police for the purpose of allowing her to produce the relevant forensic accounting reports.
according to the latest information in the court’s possession, he was serving a sentence in the pravieniškės correctional home. on 30 may 2006 the applicant wrote to the ministry of education and science (švietimo ir mokslo ministerija, hereinafter “the ministry”), requesting information about the possibility of enrolling at university. the applicant mentioned that he was a prisoner and thus could not physically attend the place of study. the site also contains historical data regarding education ...aikos provides information to three groups of users: adults, children (up to fourteen years of age) and english speakers. the users may use more functions after they have registered on this site. on 1 july 2006 the pravieniškės correctional home governor replied that the prison authorities did not consider the ministry’s reply to be comprehensive. the applicant then lodged a complaint with the department of prisons (kalėjimų departamentas), arguing that none of the laws prohibited him from obtaining information from a state institution electronically. the applicant referred to the ministry’s reply and asked to be granted internet access. the prisons department also asked the court to dismiss the applicant’s complaint, arguing that although article 96 of the code of the execution of sentences permitted prisoners to use computers (see paragraph 29 below), this did not encompass the right to internet use. there was no right under lithuanian law for a prisoner to be provided with internet access. however, the right to use the internet was not absolute and this right could be restricted to certain social groups. this stemmed from article 10 of the code of the execution of sentences (see paragraph 29 below). on 15 january 2007 the vilnius regional administrative court dismissed the claim by the applicant as unfounded. however, the court found that the conditions of the applicant’s detention had been satisfactory overall, except for a few minor details, and that the gravity of those violations was not such as would amount to inhuman or degrading treatment. however, the applicant later committed a disciplinary offence, and for that reason the extended visit was denied.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in valea călugărească. in 1993 the applicant was sentenced to twenty years’ imprisonment for homicide. the applicant alleged that, between 24 november 2004 and 2 october 2008, while he had been under a closed prison regime in arad prison, he had been taking his daily three hours of exercise in outside yards which lacked access to toilets or running water. at certain times there were as many as fifty prisoners in one recreation yard. his requests had been consistently ignored or had received the reply that renovation works were planned for the future. the prison authorities noted on the applicant’s request that in fact he had been allowed to take water with him during his daily exercise and he had also been able to go to his cell in order to satisfy his physiological needs during this time. 276/2006 on the execution of sentences did not provide for the right to have access to sanitary facilities and water during the prisoners’ daily outside exercise. the arad prison administration maintained before the court that the law did not provide for an obligation to equip the recreation yards with sanitary facilities. the court based its decision on witness statements as well as on information submitted by the prison authorities. in the meantime, on 23 october 2008 the post-sentencing judge in arad prison had studied another complaint lodged by the applicant in respect of another alleged breach of his rights. in this context the post-sentencing judge held that he was not competent in law to deal with the applicant’s request for compensation for non-pecuniary damage. on 2 october 2008 the applicant was placed under a semi-open detention regime, because his prison term was approaching its end. he was moved to a different prison wing, where the recreation yard was provided with both toilets and drinking water. on 12 november 2008 the applicant was conditionally released from prison. at the time the letter was sent, running water had been made available in all yards.
lojistik tasimacilik ticaret limited sirketi has its registered office in istanbul. the customs officers informed the police accordingly. on an unspecified date the applicant company received documents enabling the goods contained in the trailer to be delivered to their destination. the trailer was returned to the applicant company. on 8 december 2008 the court informed the applicant company of the charges against the driver. on 29 december 2008 the ptuj district court found the driver guilty of drug trafficking and sentenced him to nine years’ imprisonment. it held that the legislative framework provided for mandatory confiscation in cases of drug-related criminal offences since the nature of their commission, their magnitude and the dangerous consequences thereof called for the extension of coercive measures to persons who were not the perpetrators of the criminal offence, irrespective of whether or not the owners of the vehicle knew what the perpetrator had been transporting. claiming that it had not had an effective possibility to prevent the abuse of its property for criminal purposes, the applicant company stressed that the lorry had been subject to regular controls concerning possible vehicle modifications and hidden compartments. thus, according to the applicant company, the measure complained of constituted a punishment and an unjustified and disproportionate interference with its property and that it had not had the opportunity to participate in the criminal proceedings. thus, by virtue of section 73(2) of the criminal code, the confiscation did not affect the right of third parties to claim compensation from the offender. meanwhile, on 29 june 2009 the ptuj district court informed the applicant company that the lorry was to be sold at a public auction and that it could submit written comments in this respect. on 30 november 2011 the lorry was sold at public auction for 12,000 euros (“eur”). according to the government the lorry was sold to the applicant company. in this regard, they submitted a document stating that the lorry had been sold to “b.k.m. the government did not reply to this submission.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in tbilisi. she was raised mainly by her maternal grandmother in georgia while both parents, whose relationship soon ended, left to work abroad. on 19 may 2008 a summons was sent to the applicant at his registered address, informing him of k.g. according to the courier, the summons could not be served as the house was closed up and no one was living there. on 12 december 2008 the tbilisi city court, acting upon another application by k.g., unlike the first set of default proceedings, the summons was sent twice to the applicant at the address he had registered at. the courier noted that the house was closed up. it appears from the case file that the custody and guardianship authority, which represented the interests of the child in the above proceedings, made its own attempts to contact the applicant. on 6 june 2012 the applicant lodged a complaint with the tbilisi city court, seeking to have both default decisions set aside. he stated that he had learnt about the decisions only in may 2012. he also explained that he had not been living in georgia at the material time, which his former partner had well known. the default proceedings had been unfair as he had not been properly summoned to the hearings. by a decision of 16 august 2012 the tbilisi city court rejected the applicant’s application. the court ruled, with reference to articles 71 § 3 and 422 of the ccp (see paragraphs 15 and 17 below), that the applicant had been duly informed about the proceedings via public notifications in a newspaper and that there was therefore no legal basis to set the impugned decisions aside. it reasoned that the domestic courts had been right to send the summonses to the applicant’s only available registered address.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in kartsa, in the north ossetia-alania republic. according to the applicant, on 10 january 2007 at approximately 10.30 p.m. the applicant and k. were walking down the street in their town. a white lada car drove up to them and stopped. two persons in plain clothes got out, one of whom was a local police lieutenant, ts. the individuals who had arrested the applicant took him to an office on the third floor of the police station, where they punched and kicked him and insulted him, shouting that “all ingush should be crushed”. from time to time they put a black plastic bag over his head to suffocate him. when the applicant lost consciousness, they poured cold water over him to revive him. they then took him to another office on the first floor. they made the decision to use force to arrest the applicant, and when he resisted they restrained him, using a combative technique. the police officers then took the applicant to the police station, where he was subjected to a medical examination due to his inebriated state. on 11 january 2011 the investigator questioned the police officers who had carried out the applicant’s arrest. on 11 january 2007 police captain r. instituted criminal proceedings against the applicant on the charge of illegally possessing a grenade. on the same date the applicant’s parents retained a lawyer to represent him. on 12 january 2007 forensic medical expert tkh. they had kicked him, had beaten him with a stick and had throttled him.
the applicants are all romanian nationals of roma origin and heirs of i.b., went to clejani police and made a written statement before the chief police expressing her wish to live in her boyfriend’s home. if he was keeping a girl in his home against her will. several other people were also present in the house at that time: i.b. one year and eight months; see paragraphs 37 and 64 (b) below). the police broke a gate and five windows. he fell to the ground and was helped up by two neighbours. shortly afterwards, police officers entered the office, but the mayor asked them to leave again as the situation was calm. relying on the findings of the domestic courts, the government made the following submissions as to the incident in question. and the fifth applicant had informed the court officer that romano criss had taken on their defence case and that they would go to the prosecutor’s office if summonsed. they also recorded that the damage to the police van was being examined by a panel which would make a proposal regarding appropriate compensation. appealed against that decision but died while the appeal proceedings were still pending. the seventh applicant, who had also expressed her wish to participate in the proceedings after i.b. ’s death, did not object to the interlocutory judgment of 12 october 2010. she did not participate in the ensuing proceedings.
a list of the applicants is set out in the appendix. on 23 december 2011 the applicants, political activists, participated in a demonstration organised by the political party “politics can be different’” (lehet más a politika). the demonstrators blocked the entrance of a car park adjacent to the parliament building by chaining themselves to each other and to concrete columns situated next to the entrance. following the incident the budapest main police department opened criminal investigations against twenty-nine persons, including the applicants, on charges of violation of personal liberty under article 175(1) of act no. on 9 march 2012 parliament enacted act no. xii of 2012 (“the amnesty act”) (see paragraph 12 below), which entered into force on 10 march 2012. on 29 march 2012 the budapest main police department discontinued the criminal investigation against the twenty-nine suspects, pursuant to article 190 §§ 1 (e) and 2 of the code on criminal procedure on the grounds that they had been granted amnesty. the applicants did not appeal against that decision. on 6 september 2012 six of the applicants, ms bende, ms kalocsai, ms ámon, ms székelyné rákosi, mr moldován and mr gajárszki, lodged a constitutional complaint requesting the constitutional court to declare sections 1, 2 and 4 of the amnesty act unconstitutional as infringing the right to their reputation and the principle of presumption of innocence. the constitutional court declared the complaint inadmissible. it reasoned that the complaint did not raise any constitutional-law issues of “fundamental importance”, since it was based on an erroneous interpretation of the law. the constitutional court pointed out that the language employed by the act could not be interpreted as establishing that the applicants had indeed committed the offence. in any event, the complaint was time-barred since it had been lodged outside the statutory 180 days’ time-limit following the entry into force of the legislation.
the us nationals (“the us applicants”) started proceedings for the adoption of children from russia between 2010 and 2012. on 14 may 2013 the moscow regional court upheld the decision of 30 january 2013. on 1 october 2012 the us applicants obtained a referral to visit v.t. the us applicants initiated the adoption procedure in march 2012. having completed the necessary steps for intercountry adoption within the united states, she was registered in the russian state databank as a prospective adoptive parent on 9 october 2012. she visited her twice a day between 24 and 28 december 2012. has been adopted by a different adoptive family. they were assisted by the authorised adoption agency “international assistance group, inc.”. 23890/13 was lodged on 5 april 2013 by m.w., each visit lasted between an hour and a half and two hours. on 9 october 2012 according to the us applicant and on 11 october 2012 according to the government, the us applicant formally agreed to adopt m.i. born on 5 august 1971, who live in long beach, ny, united states (the us applicants), and k.k., petersburg city court returned the application without examination on the grounds that it had been submitted by a private person acting on the us applicants’ behalf, whereas pursuant to virtue of article 4 § 4 of the bilateral agreement on adoption it could only be submitted by an authorised agency. ’s adoption with the directorate of education and science of the kemerovo region. on 25 april 2013 the us applicants were informed that they had been removed from the state databank as prospective adoptive parents.
the first and second applicants were born in 1984 and 1982 respectively and live in vienna. upon her arrival in dubai the first applicant was taken to her employers, who were two sisters or sisters-in-law sharing one large residence with their families. one of them took possession of her passport. further, the first applicant was forbidden from speaking to any of the other workers from the philippines in their native language. in december 2008 the second applicant started to work in dubai. they threatened not to pay her family if she made any mistakes. they refused to let her leave dubai, including by refusing to return her passport and ordering her to repay them her travel costs and related expenses. she was told that these items would be returned to her when she finished her work in dubai. when the third applicant told her employer that she wished to return to the philippines, she was told that she would have to pay the cost of the flight and the agency fees, which her employer knew she could not afford at that point. in april or may 2011, approximately nine months after they had left their employers, the applicants contacted a local ngo called “lefö” for assistance in reporting their ill-treatment, abuse and exploitation to the police. lefö is actively involved in the fight against trafficking in human beings in austria. in their report, the officers concluded that the offences had been committed abroad. on 14 november 2011 the public prosecutor gave a short written decision with reasons for the discontinuation of the proceedings. in the public prosecutor’s view, the offence had been committed abroad by non-nationals, and did not engage austrian interests within the meaning of article 64 § 1 (4) of the cc. 11 os 161/81, which affirmed that austrian interests had been damaged as a result of the import into austria of a large amount of narcotics for transport...”this decision was served on the applicants’ counsel on 23 march 2012.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in toruń. he is a publicist and a professor of sociology. a journalist from rzeczpospolita, a national daily newspaper, on the subject of lustration of journalists which at that time was widely commented on in the media. the applicant sent the text back with some minor corrections. on 14 march 2007 the newspaper published the applicant’s opinion. niektórzy z łatwością sięgają w niej po argumenty personalne. zybertowicz teraz zabiera glos, choć za komuny siedział cicho. a.m. repeatedly said: i spent so many years in prison, so now i am right” 10. it further determined the exact length of the apology (not smaller than 10 x 15 cm) and ordered the applicant to pay pln 10,000 (approximately eur 2,380) to a charity and pln 1,500 (approximately eur 357) in court fees. the applicant claimed before the court that the phrase used in the interview was an acceptable journalistic summary of a.m.’s opinions and his set of views demonstrated during numerous public appearances. the court considered that even though the phrase was not in quotation marks, it was a direct quote, since there was a colon, thus: “a.m. repeatedly said: ...”. however, as no expert opinion on linguistics was obtained, further reflections on this issue were pointless. on 25 february 2010 the supreme court (sąd najwyższy) dismissed the applicant’s appeal. the court referred to the reasons given by the lower courts. in the present case it had not been necessary to order an opinion from an expert on linguistics.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in ceske budejovice (czech republic). on 12 september 1998 the applicant was arrested in germany and extradited to austria on an unspecified date. he remained in detention on remand until 23 july 1999. on 29 october 2003 the court decided to separate the proceedings against the applicant from those against the other accused. in march and july 2004 the applicant filed further requests under section 91 of the courts act. 127/05), complaining under article 6 of the convention about the length of the criminal proceedings against him. consequently, the court decided to strike application no. 127/05 out of its list of cases (see benes v. austria (dec.) on 4 september 2008, following the issuance of the above‑mentioned strike-out decision, the applicant requested the wels regional court to discontinue the proceedings against him, or in the alternative to set a new date for a hearing as soon as possible. on 15 april 2009 the wels regional court held another oral hearing. the applicant failed to attend because he had fallen ill. the following oral hearing was set for 21 october 2009, but was cancelled because the court-appointed expert had informed the court that he would need three to five more weeks to finalise his opinion. on 1 september 2011 a new expert was appointed. in its last decision, the court of appeal observed that the expert opinion had been finalised and submitted to the trial court on 19 december 2012. on 28 may 2013 the wels regional court acquitted the applicant from all charges, partly because his guilt could not be proven, partly because the public prosecutor had withdrawn the indictment.
the applicants, mr ramaz tsartsidze, mr samvel bozoyani, mr mamuka gelashvili (applicants nos. 1); mr alexander mikirtumov, mr binali aliev (applicants nos. at the same time, the police authorised a coach containing extremist members of the orthodox church, led by mr v. mkalavishvili, also known as father basil (see members of the gldani congregation of jehovah’s witnesses and others v. georgia, no. the attackers destroyed objects for religious use and seized items belonging to others. on 18 june 2002 the applicants lodged an appeal with the tbilisi regional court complaining that the court of first instance had ignored the fact that the police had turned back the jehovah’s witnesses but had allowed father basil and his supporters to go through the same checkpoints. the applicants argued that their witness statements had been disregarded by the first-instance court in favour of unsubstantiated statements by the police officers. on 23 february 2005 the supreme court, ruling in written proceedings, dismissed an appeal by the applicants on points of law. before leaving the police station, the applicant asked that his belongings be returned to him. reprimanded him, stating that his conduct was not worthy of a christian. when the applicant insisted that they return his bible, b.m. mr gabunia described in detail the place where he had met the two police officers, and stated that they had been in uniform and wore badges. the governor of dviri, and about fifteen local residents. he had found that the cupboard door had been broken and that eur 130 had been stolen. the officers had refused to accompany him. on 25 june 2004 the tbilisi regional court upheld the first-instance judgment, repeating the grounds used in it.
the first applicant was born in 1964 and lives in korsakov, sakhalin region. the second applicant was born in 1948 and lives in moscow. the applicants sued the trest zhilishchnogo hozyajstva municipal company (мп «трест жилищного хозяйства» – hereinafter “the municipal company”) in two unrelated sets of civil proceedings. the judgment became final on the same date, but remained unenforced. on 1 march 2004 the town court granted the claim by the second applicant for compensation for the damage to her health sustained as a result of the acts of one of the municipal company’s employees. the court awarded the applicant eur 16,256. the judgment became final on 25 may 2004. on 7 may 2007, in the course of insolvency proceedings in respect of the municipal company, the commercial court of the sakhalin region (hereinafter “the commercial court”) granted the second applicant’s claim for compensation of lost income and dismissed the remainder of the applicant’s claims. on 18 july 2007 the commercial court discontinued the appeal proceedings on the grounds that the municipal company had been liquidated. 29 of 15 december 2004 (see paragraphs 13-14 below). the municipal company was incorporated as a municipal unitary company set up by a decision of the local authority and provided heating supply and maintenance services in respect of municipal housing. according to the second applicant, on 27 april 2002 the local authority withdrew most of the assets from the municipal company’s economic control. the assets were subsequently transferred to a newly created company; the debts remained with the municipal company. on 27 september 2005 the municipal company was declared insolvent and it was put into liquidation. on 7 may 2007 the commercial court ended the liquidation proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in toruń. on 1 april 2008 the warsaw regional court transferred the case to the toruń regional court. on 9 june 2009 the warsaw regional court gave judgment and partly allowed the plaintiff’s claim. during the proceedings the court questioned the applicant and the plaintiff. the court also obtained an opinion from an expert on linguistics. in his opinion of 6 may 2009 the expert stated that the phrase in question had been a statement of fact and not a hypothesis or supposition. at the same time, the court accepted that had the applicant used a more general formulation and referred only to a.m.’s attitude towards the lustration law such words could have fallen within the limits of acceptable criticism and it would not have been necessary to protect a.m.’s personal rights. however, he had failed to prove that his statement had been true. the court referred to the ongoing public debate in poland about the necessity of lustration in order to explain and disclose the role of various special services after the world war ii. however, it considered that there had been no basis for concluding that a.m. had defended any agents, or more generally, defended activities of the communist secret services that had been harmful to the public. on the contrary, he had firmly condemned such activities. he had objected to lustration being understood as a tool to destroy people and being used as an argument in political games. in particular, he referred to article 10 of the convention. after the applicant failed to comply with that order, on 10 june 2011 the warsaw district court allowed a.m. to publish the apology in rzeczpospolita in the applicant’s name and ordered him to cover the fee for its publication in the amount of pln 23,124 (approximately eur 5,505). the applicant received a significant discount on that fee.
the first applicant was born in 1980 and the second applicant was born in 1981. one of the victims had died and the other had suffered serious injuries. she further stated that on the day her husband went to the forest she and her family were informed by a third party that her husband had met with an accident. for involuntary manslaughter (ucidere din culpă). with regard to the circumstances of the accident. on 26 march 2013 the lugoj prosecutor’s office noted the victim’s family’s requests for a murder investigation and decided to refer the case to the timiş prosecutor’s office, which had the competence to investigate the allegations. by a report of 14 november 2013 police officer c.s. also he did not have the appropriate equipment for working in the forest. on 27 january 2014 a superior prosecutor attached to the timiş prosecutor’s office allowed the victim’s mother’s challenge, quashed the decision of 26 november 2013 (see paragraph 27 above), and referred the case back to the lugoj prosecutor’s office. the report also held that according to i.m.r. had asked him to call the emergency services. or another person had hurt or threatened the second applicant. the second applicant challenged the decision before a hierarchical prosecutor. moreover, given the statements taken from the police officers and from the first applicant, there was no indication that i.d.d. also, the first applicant’s husband had been asked to take part in the logging operation by l.d.,
the first applicant divorced the second applicant’s father on 22 december 2008 by means of a court-approved divorce agreement. the child was to live with her mother, and her father could see her on the first and third weekend of every month, for thirty days during the summer, and for a week during the winter or spring. the agreement did not make reference to a specific address, or even a town or a city where the first applicant was supposed to live with the child. if the mother changed her address, she had to inform the father by registered mail within ten days of such a change. she submitted that she was in a committed relationship with a bulgarian man who lived in the united kingdom, where he worked as a ship engineer. they intended to marry and she wished to settle in the united kingdom, and live with him and her daughter. more specifically, the reasons given were that the mother could not show that she had a fixed place of residence abroad, or a secure income with which to ensure her daughter’s well-being, and that the child’s absence from bulgaria would pose an obstacle to the father’s exercise of his contact rights. the first applicant appealed against the refusal to the varna regional court. she claimed that the father showed no interest in the child and did not pay any child support. that had been decided at the time she had been granted custody of her daughter, and had not been either challenged or refuted subsequently. also, if the parent took the child to a country which was not a member of the european union, or with which bulgaria had no reciprocal agreement regarding legal assistance, the authorities would not be able to ensure that the contact rights of the other parent were enforced. she purported that she would get married; however, this was an uncertain future occurrence which did not depend solely on her will. the situation would have been entirely different, if she had been married and had settled in good material conditions in another country. on 18 december 2011, a little over a year after the final judgment of the supreme court of cassation on the issue of the child’s travel, the first applicant and her partner, who was still living in the uk, married in bulgaria. since leaving bulgaria in january 2012, the child has been in regular contact with her father over the phone and skype, and has spent time with him every summer.
the applicant, a former police officer, was born in 1962 and lives in zaporizhzhya. later the same day criminal proceedings were instituted against the applicant and two other people on suspicion of illegal production, storage and sale of drugs. on 2 october 2003 the applicant was questioned in the presence of his lawyer. on 6 february 2004 the applicant’s wife was admitted to the proceedings as the applicant’s lay representative. on 10 february 2004, upon his written consent, the applicant was questioned without a lawyer. on 22 december 2008, in its judgment upholding the applicant’s conviction, the court of appeal observed that the complaint related to the unlawful detention of the applicant’s son had been considered by the prosecutor’s office and no corpus delicti under criminal law had been found on the part of the sbu officers. running water and mains drainage had been available. he underwent urine and blood tests which revealed no pathology. it was also recommended that the applicant consult an ophthalmologist and a neuropathologist. the medication prescribed following the examination was administered to the applicant by the sizo. he was diagnosed with neurogenic dermatitis and prescribed the relevant medication. on 10 february 2006 the applicant underwent a medical check-up and was diagnosed with arterial hypertension and hypertensive encephalopathy. from 15 december 2003 the applicant’s wife lodged a number of complaints with the sbu, prosecutors, courts and other state authorities alleging, inter alia, that the applicant had been unlawfully arrested and detained; that his health was in a critical condition; and that no relevant medical treatment could have been provided to him within the sizo. on 15 august 2004 the applicant’s wife asked the prosecutor’s office to provide truthful information about the applicant’s state of health and stated that adequate medical assistance could not be provided to the applicant in the sizo in view of the absence of the relevant medical specialists at the detention facility. on 2 and 23 february 2006, on the basis of the above conclusions, the prosecutor’s office informed the applicant that no violations on the part of sizo medical staff had been established.
the applicant company is a german company based in auengrund. subsequently the open-cast quarrying of limestone began. it was necessary that the applicant company operated a plant directly next to the quarry in order to process the limestone into construction material. in 1997 it received permission to use the quarry as a landfill (deponiezulassung) using waste soil from earthworks at other sites. it was apparent from the disclosed documents that the quarrying operation would be affected by the motorway. consequently, the applicant company had to stop quarrying limestone in 2001 and transferred its activity to another nearby mining site. on 26 may 2003 the land of thuringia issued a planning decision (planfeststellungsbeschluss) for the construction of the motorway, which stated, inter alia, that it would be too costly and time consuming to circumvent the applicant company’s land. on 2 february 2004, after the federal administrative court had stated that the relevant part of the planning decision was not sufficiently precise, the land modified it. both parties requested a judicial review. pursuant to section 124(3) of the federal mining act (bundesberggesetz, see “relevant domestic law”, paragraph 22), mining rights under the terms of that act were granted only on the statutory condition that they would have to yield to a public infrastructure project without compensation. on 14 april 2011 the federal court of justice dismissed an appeal on points of law by the applicant company. the enterprise could not enjoy more extensive protection under the law than the economic basis it rested on: the mining right. referring to its case-law, it reiterated that it made no difference that the applicant company was the owner of the land and, at the same time, the holder of the mining licence. under german mining law, both entitlements needed to be assessed separately. the federal court of justice further acknowledged that quarrying was de facto no longer possible.
the applicants were or are still detained in korydallos prison in athens. 30 was released on 5 july 2013, applicant no. 33 was released on 4 october 2013, applicant no. 35 was transferred to larissa prison on 20 june 2013. the toilet facilities had been partially separated from the rest of the cells. access to natural light and ventilation had been inadequate. in addition, there had been insufficient heating and hot water. healthy prisoners had been held together with sick prisoners, resulting in their exposure to contagious diseases. there had been no adequate medical care, in particular as regards psychological and physical health. more specifically, inmates had been required to stay in their cells as follows: from 6.30 p.m. (on average) to 8.30 a.m. and from 11.30 a.m. to 2.45 p.m. every day. they had had to take their meals, which were of poor quality and nutritional value, inside their cells. on 21 june 2013 the applicants along with other prisoners lodged a complaint with the prison authorities, protesting about their conditions of detention, but did not receive any reply. the prison had had a central heating system and hot water had been available on a daily basis in the morning and in the afternoon. prisoners had been able to play sport and each prisoner had had a personal television set with a headset. in cases of emergency, inmates had been transferred to the korydallos prison hospital or to an external hospital.
the first applicant is a professional photographer. they discussed the receipt of the photographs of two people. according to the available information, he had received assistance from the first applicant. the applications were worded as follows:“in the course of the proceedings, the need has arisen to carry out a search and seizure in [the applicants’ house, the first applicant’s car, and the photography studio], since the available evidence gives probable cause to suspect that [these places] contain items of relevance to the case – items relating to the subject matter of the case. according to the record of the search, it lasted between 9.15 and 10.50 a.m. and took place in the presence of two certifying witnesses. according to the record of that search, the officers seized three desktop computers, two video cameras, two still cameras, several flash memory cards, flash memory drives, and cash. at about the same time, between 11.15 and 11.30 a.m. the police searched the first applicant himself, without a judicial warrant. in his report, submitted the following day, 21 march 2014, the expert said that he had copied all the files from two of the cards and that the third card did not contain any files. in his report, submitted on 18 june 2014, the expert said that he had copied 192,610 files with a total size of 333,204 megabytes from the laptop computer to an external hard drive, which he enclosed with his report, and that his inspection of the desktop computers had revealed that two of them contained software programs which could be used to edit image files, and that the third computer was defective and could not be booted up. the next day, 21 march 2014, those items were given back to the first applicant. on 7 april 2014 he appealed to the plovdiv regional prosecutor’s office, complaining of the refusal of the lower prosecutor’s office to order the return of the remainder of the seized items. the remainder of the seized items were given back to the first applicant a little more than three months after the seizure, on 18 june 2014, immediately after their contents had been inspected by the expert (see paragraph 21 above). on 10 september 2014 it sent the case file back to the police for further investigation. it appears that the proceedings are still pending. neither the first nor the second applicant has been charged with an offence.
on 28 april 1993 the applicant rented a municipally-owned shop in the town of primorsko. the shop consisted of a metal structure built on a concrete foundation on a municipally-owned plot of land. on 25 november 2005 and later again on 30 october 2006, primorsko municipal council explicitly refused to sell the shop to the applicant. on 12 may 1999 the buyer, assisted by municipal employees, prevented the applicant from entering the shop. according to the applicant, after she had re-entered the property she discovered that the electricity supply had been cut off. in 2000 the buyer brought a rei vindicatio claim in court against the applicant. according to the government, they were listed and taken for safekeeping. in february 2011, the applicant lodged a claim with the burgas administrative court for damages against the primorsko municipal authorities for their failure to implement the final judgments in her favour. the court split the claim to be examined into two separate sets of proceedings – the first one against the municipality (община) and the second one against the municipal council (общински съвет). in the second set of proceedings the applicant sought both pecuniary and non-pecuniary damages stemming from the failure of the municipal council to decide on her privatisation request by implementing the final court judgments ordering it to offer to sell the shop to her. as to the merits, the court held that the claim for pecuniary damages was unjustified and also that there was no causal link between the municipal council’s refusal to privatise the shop and the applicant’s claims for loss of financial opportunity as a result of the impossibility of buying the land and building on it. the applicant, however, was not among those persons. it was true that in legal terms the sole trader was a physical, as opposed to a legal, person; however, the damage suffered by the applicant stemmed specifically from the economic activity carried out by her in her capacity as a sole trader. she pointed out that the municipal council had not presented proof that it had indeed incurred those expenses and that, in any event, the council should not be allowed to benefit from its unlawful failure to implement the judgments in her favour. the applicant sought, alternatively, a reduction in those costs.
the applicants were domestic court judges. it decided to make submission to parliament to have the applicant dismissed from the post of judge for “breach of oath”. objections raised by the applicant were rejected as unsubstantiated. on 3 june 2010 parliament voted for the dismissal of the applicant and adopted a resolution to that effect. on 6 december 2010 the hcj established that the applicant had breached the judicial oath. on 17 may 2012 the hac rejected as unfounded the applicant’s claim against the hcj and parliament concerning her dismissal, noting in particular that the hcj decision of 1 march 2011 had been earlier reviewed by the hac. on 15 september 2010 the hac considered the case. objections raised by the applicant were dismissed as unfounded. on 19 may 2011 the applicant applied to the hac challenging the hcj’s decision and the parliamentary resolution concerning his dismissal. on 12 april 2012 parliament voted for the applicant’s dismissal and adopted a resolution to that effect. the applicant instituted proceedings before the hac, challenging the parliamentary resolution on his dismissal. on 27 june 2012 the hac rejected the applicant’s claim as unsubstantiated. the hcj noted that the applicant had on several occasions taken leave without obtaining the relevant approval from the court administration; he had failed to appear in the office without valid reason; he had refused to take cases for consideration; he had shown disrespect to the officers of the court registry; and he had not complied with the requirement to submit income-tax declarations. the hcj found that the applicant had committed numerous procedural errors when reviewing, under newly discovered circumstances, a case involving local authorities. on 4 july 2012 the hac rejected the applicant’s claim against the hcj as unsubstantiated.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in lviv. between march 1995 and july 1996 the applicant underwent outpatient treatment for overactive thyroid at the state oncology centre in lviv. in july 1996 the applicant’s health deteriorated; she was examined at the state endocrinology centre in lviv and was diagnosed with hypothyroidism. from 13 november to 10 december 1996 the applicant underwent inpatient treatment for hypothyroidism at the endocrinology centre. eventually, the applicant lost her thyroid and was recognized as suffering from the second highest official degree of disability. dr s. did not specify the dosage or dates on which the applicant had received the injections. the department invited the applicant to undergo a medical examination at one of the hospitals in lviv, however she refused. the department checked the records of the oncology centre and found that they contained no data as regards the applicant’s alleged treatment with radiopharmaceuticals. that being the case, the treatment mentioned in the certificate of 10 october 1997 had been inadequate. shortly afterwards dr s. retired from the oncology centre of her own motion. in the course of the investigation the applicant, dr s. and a number of other persons were questioned. also, several forensic examinations were performed. those decisions were eventually quashed for incomplete investigation. the most recent decision in that regard was taken by the frankivskyy district court in lviv on 18 january 2016, by which it instructed the police to carry out further investigation in the applicant’s case, finding inter alia that the police had failed to examine all pertinent evidence and that an additional forensic examination was necessary. the investigation has not been completed to date.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in kaunas. in march 2008 the applicant’s mother passed away. argued that by renouncing his part of the inheritance the applicant had violated her rights as a creditor because the inherited property could have been used to cover the applicant’s debt. she also asked the court to recognise that the applicant had de facto accepted the inheritance because he had been using his mother’s estate since her death (see paragraph 21 below). it held that the applicant had acted in bad faith by renouncing the inheritance while being insolvent and owing money to the claimants. the applicant appealed against that judgment. was given ten days to correct the deficiencies in her appeal. on 28 january 2010 the kaunas district court held that d.l. had not submitted a corrected appeal within that time-limit so it considered that she had not appealed (see paragraph 25 below). the applicant sent a letter to the kaunas regional court requesting a copy of the appeal. he received it on 10 april 2010 and submitted a reply on 16 april 2010. the court upheld the findings of the first-instance judgment that the applicant had acted in bad faith by renouncing the inheritance while being insolvent and owing money to his creditors (see paragraph 10 above). on that basis, the kaunas district court held that the applicant’s sister had not inherited any property which could have been used to cover the applicant’s debt to d.l., that judgment was not appealed against and became final. in march 2011 the applicant submitted a complaint to the commission on judicial ethics and discipline concerning the judge of the kaunas district court who had examined the civil case (see paragraph 10 above).
the applicants, mr khamtokhu and mr aksenchik, were born in 1970 and 1985 respectively. they are currently serving life sentences in the yamalo-nenetskiy region of russia. on 14 december 2000 the supreme court of the adygea republic found the first applicant guilty of multiple offences, including escape from prison, attempted murder of police officers and state officials, and illegal possession of firearms, and sentenced him to life imprisonment. on 19 october 2001 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the first applicant’s conviction on appeal. on 26 march 2008 the presidium of the supreme court of the russian federation quashed the appeal judgment of 19 october 2001 by way of supervisory review and remitted the matter for fresh consideration. on 30 june 2008 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the first applicant’s conviction on appeal. the court reclassified some of the charges against him but the life sentence remained unchanged. on 28 april 2010 the tomsk regional court found the second applicant guilty on three counts of murder and sentenced him to life imprisonment. on 12 august 2010 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld that conviction on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in skuodas. on the same day the website of lietuvos rytas carried an article headlined “after horrific accident in skuodas region [the minister of the interior] suggests [the police commissioner general] should resign”. especially as this was not the first time that police officers, who are supposed to stop traffic violations, have themselves caused terrible accidents. on 12 november 2007 the police commissioner general and the minister of the interior resigned. it must be thoroughly examined and especially strictly evaluated (kruopščiai ištirtas ir itin griežtai įvertintas). he also argued that the accident had been caused by the weather and the reckless actions of some of the children. several witnesses – the waitress from the restaurant, some of the applicant’s colleagues, and people who had been present when the accident had happened – stated that the applicant had looked and sounded drunk. who had been driving in the car behind the applicant, testified that he himself had been going at around 100 km/h but had been unable to keep up with the applicant. by failing to do so, he had breached article 144 of the criminal code (see paragraphs 29-30 below). the court also took the applicant’s character and his behaviour during and after the accident into account: he had been under the influence of alcohol, three people had died as a result of his actions, he had fled from the scene of the accident, had not expressed any remorse, had attempted to mislead the court by providing contradictory testimony, and his actions had discredited the authority of the police. reporting on the sentence, lietuvos rytas quoted excerpts from the judgment and published a brief statement by the mother of one of the children, who expressed her overall satisfaction with the judgment but stated that criminal laws should be changed to provide for stricter punishments. among other things, he argued that he had not received a fair trial because of a media campaign against him. on 5 december 2008 the klaipėda regional court partly amended the first-instance judgment. however, the klaipėda regional court accepted the applicant’s argument that the age of the victims should not have been considered as an aggravating circumstance because the criminal offence had not been premeditated. the prohibition on driving a vehicle for three years was upheld.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in vilnius. on 5 march 2009 the applicant and his grandmother’s neighbour, 88‑year-old j.s., signed a contract on lifelong maintenance (išlaikymo iki gyvos galvos sutartis). transferred the rights to her apartment to the applicant, who undertook to take care of her until she died by providing her with food and medication, looking after her apartment, walking her dog, and providing any other necessary assistance. lodged an application with a court to terminate the contract on the grounds that the applicant had not fulfilled his obligations and had not been taking proper care of her. the applicant objected to the termination and argued that he had complied with the terms of the contract. relying on the testimony of several witnesses, on 29 january 2010 the vilnius regional court, in an oral hearing at which both the applicant and j.s. ’s application and annulled the contract. the applicant appealed, arguing that he had complied with the terms of the contract and that it should therefore not have been terminated. on 11 october 2010 the court of appeal held an oral hearing at which j.s. ’s lawyer was present but the applicant and his lawyer were not. according to the government, a notification letter was sent to the applicant on 21 september 2010. during the hearing the court noted that the applicant had been notified of the hearing (apie posėdį pranešta) and proceeded to examine the case in his absence. the court of appeal delivered its judgment on 22 october 2010, upholding the first-instance judgment in its entirety. he complained, inter alia, that he had not been duly notified of the hearing before the court of appeal and had thus been unable effectively to defend his interests.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in tržišče. he was also suspected of the criminal offences of forgery, certifying false documents as genuine and smuggling. on 19 march 2003 the novo mesto district court approved the request. on the same day he competed in a hill climb race with the leased car. on 27 may 2003 the customs office issued a seizure order in respect of the same car on suspicion that the applicant had in december 2002 avoided paying duties when importing the car into slovenia. on 7 july 2003 the applicant paid the customs duties and the car was returned to him. on 30 june 2004 the proceedings for customs offences were discontinued because prosecution had in the meantime become time-barred. at a hearing held on 23 april 2007 the district public prosecutor withdrew the charges against the applicant. on 21 august 2007 the ljubljana district court dismissed the applicant’s application to reopen the proceedings. such a process included obtaining new approval papers and the registration of the vehicle as a special vehicle. he pointed out that he had finished that process and obtained all the necessary documents once the car had been returned to him. the search warrant had been general and lacking in precision and therefore could not be subjected to any scrutiny. however, the court found that the causal link between the unlawful seizure and the damage incurred by the applicant had been broken because the applicant would in any event have been unable to use the car for several reasons. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law (revizija), challenging the conclusions of the court in respect of the break in the causal link and arguing that the loss had already been incurred before the issue of customs duties had arose. on 17 december 2009 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law, confirming that the link in causality had been broken because the applicant had imported some of the car parts in violation of customs regulations.
in 1961 the applicants’ predecessors were deprived of certain land in favour of the state. on 26 january 2006 the niš municipal court ordered pik niš (the debtor), a company predominantly comprised of socially-owned capital, as the end user of that land, to pay the applicants specified amounts on account of the compensation for the land in question. on 25 october 2006 and 1 february 2007 respectively, upon the applicants’ request to that effect, the niš municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the applicants the enforcement costs. this judgment became both, final and enforceable by 16 august 2006. only one applicant, mr tomislav đorđević, never lodged an enforcement request. on 3 june 2009 the niš commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor (st. only one applicant, ms milica nikolić jajčević, duly submitted her claims therein. these insolvency proceedings are still ongoing. on 2 march 2009, 31 august 2009 and 9 june 2010 respectively, all applicants lodged their constitutional appeals. on 17 march 2011, 4 april 2012 and 23 may 2012, respectively, the constitutional court found a violation of the right to a hearing within a reasonable time in respect of all applicants, except mr tomislav đorđević. however, the court did not award the applicants any damages, merely stating that the applicants “had not claimed non-pecuniary damages”. the constitutional court dismissed the appeal in respect of one applicant, mr tomislav đorđević, since he had failed to request enforcement of the judgment in question.
the applicants – a married couple – were born in 1967 and 1955 respectively and live in colletorto. in parallel, on 5 may 2011, the public prosecutor’s office at the campobasso minors court requested the opening of proceedings to make the child available for adoption, since he was to be considered as being in a state of abandonment for the purposes of the law. on 16 may 2011 the minors court placed the child under guardianship at the request of the public prosecutor. on 1 august 2011 the second applicant and the child underwent dna testing. following the outcome of these tests, the applicants sought an explanation from the russian clinic. at the present time the only certainty is the identity of the woman who gave birth to the baby. the biological parents of the baby, that is, the man and the woman who provided the gametes, remain unknown. indeed, in order to be able to talk of gestational or traditional surrogacy (in the latter, the surrogate mother makes her own ovules available) there must be a biological link between the child and at least one of the two intended parents (in this specific case, mr campanelli and mrs paradiso), a biological link which, as has been seen, is non-existent.” of a heterologous type laid down by section 4 of law no. however, given the age of the child and the short time he has spent with them, the court cannot agree with the conclusions of the report by psychologist [dr i.] (instructed by mr campanelli and mrs paradiso), finding that it is certain that the child’s separation from them would entail devastating consequences. the applicants lodged an appeal (reclamo) before the campobasso court of appeal. by a decision of 20 november 2012, the campobasso court dismissed the applicants’ appeal on the ground of the strong suspicions that they had committed the offences in question. in the court of appeal’s view, given that there was nothing to show that the child had russian citizenship, the applicants’ argument that italian law was inapplicable ran counter to section 33 of the private international law act, which stated that the legal parent-child relationship was determined by the national law governing the child at the time of his or her birth. following execution of the decision issued by the minors court on 20 october 2011, the child was placed in a children’s home for about fifteen months, in a location that was unknown to the applicants. they were unable to obtain any news of him.
the applicant was born in 1948 and lives in donetsk, ukraine. the applicant submits that he did not yield to such pressure and did not make any statements nor confess to committing the murder. in order to arrange the latter, the court postponed the hearings until 12 march 2002. on 23 september 2003 the district court resumed the trial. in june and july 2004 additional forensic examinations were held. in another special ruling given on the same day, the court informed the head of police of its subordinates’ failure to bring the applicant to the courthouse for the hearings scheduled for 9 march, 28 and 29 july and 2 august 2004 notwithstanding the court’s requests; such a failure, according to the court, had delayed the examination of the applicant’s case. from 7 october 2004 to 28 february 2005 the applicant familiarised himself with the case file. at this stage of the proceedings the applicant again challenged the lawfulness of the minutes of the court hearings, obliging the district court to give interlocutory decisions. on 29 march 2005 the applicant repeatedly refused the assistance of his lawyer, alleging his collusion and incompetence. the text of the appellate court’s decision states that the hearing was held in the presence of the applicant and the prosecutor; no indication of the applicant’s lawyer’s presence at the hearing can be found. 2948 (акт судово‑медичного освідування) concluded that these injuries had been caused two or three days before the examination, during a fight or in self‑defence. the applicant denies that he had made that statement. according to the government, both decisions were sent to the sizo for the applicant’s information. on 7 february 2006 the district court remitted the case to the prosecutor in compliance with the appellate court’s instructions. according to the government, the prosecutor sent the copies of the earlier decisions of 13 april and 20 june 2002 to the court and the latter was satisfied with them.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in riga. she requested the restoration of her property rights to the whole nationalised real estate. had on 10 may 1994 submitted a request to jurmala municipality, within the time‑limit set down in the law, and had later, on 5 july 1995, turned to the court in an attempt to have her rights to the property restored. however, she had not completed the process owing to ill health. the judgment was not appealed against and became final on 29 february 2001. at the time the judgment was adopted the ministry of finance had not been registered as the owner of the contested property (see paragraph 10 above). on 21 and 22 may 2001 she sold the contested property to the applicant for 39,000 latvian lati (lvl) (about 56,000 euros (eur)). 349, by which the state had become entitled to the contested property. as defendants and jurmala municipality as a third party. on 16 september 2002 the riga regional court examined the joined claims of v.p.e. when he had purchased it and that he should enjoy protection as a bona fide acquirer of the property. 349 (see paragraph 41 below), the riga regional court recognised that the state had acquired the contested property in 2000. on the basis of the above judgment, on 27 january 2004 a judge of the land register recorded changes with regard to the contested property. the senate noted, inter alia, that the appellate court had ignored the applicant’s argument that it was necessary to decide on a reversal of the execution of the judgment of the jurmala city court. the long-term lease is valid until 31 august 2030.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in simferopol. in june 1997 the applicant asked n., the director of tavrida, to place him on the reserve list for promotion to an engineering position corresponding to his qualifications. on 6 march 2000 this application was refused. the defendant company further noted that as the applicant had not provided any subsequent information concerning his state of health, his appointment to an engineering position – which implied managerial responsibilities and supervision of other employees – was considered unwarranted. however, in his view he lacked the necessary personal skills to occupy a position with managerial responsibilities. in particular, occasionally the applicant had been involved in conflicts with his colleagues. all of them, when questioned by b., had suggested that they did not want to have the applicant as their supervisor. in august 2003 the applicant was appointed as a foreman and in april 2006 as an engineer-technologist. he alleged, in particular, that the defendant company had had no right to enquire of the enlistment office in 1997 about the grounds for his dispensation, to use this information in deciding on his promotion and to disseminate it to his direct supervisor and other colleagues, as well as to communicate it to the court in the framework of the civil dispute. on 23 january 2001 the central district court rejected the applicant’s claim as lacking legal basis. on 23 july 2003 the central district court took a fresh decision rejecting the applicant’s claims, referring, again, to article 7 of the civil code and having found that there was nothing unlawful either in tavrida’s or its director’s personal conduct with respect to the processing of the disputed information. without referring to any legal provisions, the court noted that the director had been authorised to know the reasons for the applicant’s dispensation from military service, as this information had been a part of the personnel record compiled and kept by employers in the ordinary course of business. the applicant appealed against this decision. the defendants had obtained access to the disputed information in accordance with the law and processed it for the sole purpose of deciding on the applicant’s promotion; this processing had been carried out in good faith and so had not been unlawful. on 24 january 2007 the court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal.
the applicant was born in 1962 and is detained in baku. on 9 june 2008 the assize court (ağır cinayətlər məhkəməsi – hereinafter “the assize court”), sitting as a court of first instance for serious offences, convicted the applicant and his wife of fraud. the applicant was sentenced to nine years’ imprisonment with confiscation of property, and his wife to seven years’ imprisonment, suspended for five years on probation. on 23 january 2009 the baku court of appeal (bakı apellyasiya məhkəməsi – hereinafter “the court of appeal”) overturned the judgment of 9 june 2008, reducing the applicant’s term of imprisonment to seven years and lifting the confiscation of property sanction. the applicant lodged a cassation appeal with the supreme court (ali məhkəmə – hereinafter “the supreme court”). the prosecutor lodged a cassation protest in respect of the judgment of 23 january 2009 with the supreme court, requesting that it be set aside and the case remitted to the court of appeal. the supreme court scheduled the first hearing for 10 june 2009 but adjourned the proceedings until 24 june 2009 at the request of the applicant’s lawyer who pleaded that he had not enough time to familiarise himself with the case-file and collect further evidence. at the hearing of 24 june 2009 the applicant’s lawyer requested another adjournment referring to health problems and lack of time for familiarisation with the case-file. the supreme court scheduled the next hearing for 1 july 2009. according to the minutes of the hearing of 24 june 2009 provided by the government, the applicant’s lawyer was present when the court declared that his request had been granted and that the proceedings were adjourned until 1 july 2009. on 1 july 2009, having examined the case in the absence of the applicant and his lawyer but in the presence of the prosecutor, the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and accepted the prosecutor’s application for supervisory review in part. the prosecutor made oral submissions during the hearing, seeking the dismissal of the applicant’s appeal. the supreme court upheld the court of appeal’s judgment as regards the applicant’s conviction, but quashed his wife’s conviction, remitting that part of the case to the court of appeal for fresh examination. the supreme court found that proof of the applicant’s guilt had been duly established during the trial in the first-instance court and the court of appeal and that his actions had been properly classified under criminal law. citing article 419.4 of the code of criminal procedure, the supreme court’s decision stated that the examination of the case was possible in the absence of the applicant and his lawyer given that the lawyer had failed to appear despite having been duly notified and the applicant, who was serving his prison sentence, had made no request to attend.
the applicant, mr x, is a sri lankan national of tamil origin, who was born in 1979 and resides in switzerland. he furthermore stated that he had been threatened and subjected to surveillance after his release. on 2 april 2007 the applicant left sri lanka for italy, where he lived until may 2009. his wife, who had remained in sri lanka, had allegedly been subjected to searches and questioning by the sri lankan police and security forces. on 8 december 2009 the applicant’s wife gave birth to their first child. in a decision taken on 1 june 2011, the federal migration office (“the fmo” – now the state secretariat for migration) held that the applicant and his wife did not fulfil the criteria necessary to obtain refugee status because they had failed to present sufficient evidence in support of their claim. in its judgment of 1 october 2012, the federal administrative court rejected the applicant’s appeal on the merits. in particular, weighing the preponderance of the evidence (mit beachtlicher wahrscheinlichkeit), it held that neither the applicant’s submissions nor the official file indicated that he or his wife would be subjected to treatment contrary to article 3 of the convention if they returned to sri lanka. the applicant claimed that the court had not adequately considered all the relevant evidence. he also submitted a letter from his sister dated 19 october 2012, as well as confirmation from the human rights commission of sri lanka that he had lodged a complaint with that institution on 5 october 2012. on 21 august 2013 the applicant and his family were deported to sri lanka. according to his wife, when she visited the applicant in prison she noted that his face appeared swollen and concluded that her husband had been beaten. these consisted of, in particular, the prolonged lapse of time between the asylum application (may 2009) and the execution of the deportation order (august 2013); the fact that the situation in sri lanka had changed considerably after the end of the civil war in 2009; the involvement of several fmo employees in different phases of the decision-making process throughout an extended period of time; the fact that the applicant’s hearing had been partly held in a superficial manner and that the authorities had not conducted additional investigations. the results of both reports were made public on 26 may 2014. on 10 december 2013 the fmo adopted an internal report on the arrest of the applicant by the sri lankan authorities.
he is currently serving a prison sentence in uzbekistan. the applicant, ms i. and the child got into the taxi. she took the child out of the taxi and the applicant waited in the car. that her son had been severely beaten while in detention. the applicant remains imprisoned in uzbekistan. on 29 july 2014 the moscow fms lodged an appeal against the judgment of 12 may 2014. by a letter of 1 july 2014 in reply to the court’s request for information of 10 june 2014, made at the same time as the indication of the interim measures (see paragraph 4 above), the government informed the court that “the relevant state bodies have been informed about the disappearance of the applicant and the indication by the court of the interim measures under rule 39 of the rules of court”. lastly, they noted that the applicant’s representative’s letter of 25 june 2014 (see paragraph 24 above) had been forwarded to the investigative authority for consideration. the russian authorities had not been made aware and could not have known of any risk that the applicant might be kidnapped. on 15 january 2015 an investigator with the investigative authority decided to suspend the investigation of case no. on 29 april 2015 the investigator’s superior at the investigative authority overruled the decision of 25 april 2015 to suspend the case and returned it to the investigator on the grounds that the suspension decision had been taken prematurely. (ii)  documents issued by the uzbek authorities 84. on 18 june 2014 the main investigation department of the ministry of the interior of uzbekistan informed the applicant’s father that his son, who had been wanted and “declared guilty in absentia”, had been arrested on 17 june 2014, placed in custody and had been participating in investigative measures. in the course of the interview the applicant stated that he had not been arrested by the russian authorities and that he had voluntarily left moscow to go to uzbekistan to visit his ailing mother. and the applicant, had received copies of documents pertaining to the applicant’s arrest, requested information concerning the border crossing and had identified two men allegedly connected with the applicant who as of november 2014 had been fighting on the side of isis in syria.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in syktyvkar, the komi republic. on 31 december 2007 the applicant published an article on his personal website about a local jazz festival and its president, mr y. the article contained a detailed description of the event and scathing criticism of mr y. using various derivatives of mr y.’s surname, the article mocked his professional qualities. the jazz festival was described as being “a shoddy piece of work” and mr y.’s delivery “crappy”. mr y. sued the applicant in defamation, arguing that the article was insulting and harmful to his reputation. on 14 august 2008 the syktyvkar town court found the applicant liable in defamation. the judgment consisted of the text of the article, a summary of the relevant domestic law, a two-page reproduction of the extracts from the article which had been mentioned in the statement of claim and two paragraphs of conclusions. they stated:“using a distorted form of the plaintiff’s patronymic and last name ... breaches the plaintiff’s right to a name and to a good name, which is unacceptable under the law. since the defendant committed a breach of the plaintiff’s intangible assets by way of distorting his patronymic and last name in a negative way, the latter shall have the right to compensation in accordance with article 152 of the civil code. [the contested extracts] undermine the honour and dignity of the plaintiff as a person, pedagogue and musician because they contain negative information about the plaintiff presented in an affirmative form. pursuant to article 152 § 1 of the civil code, the burden to prove the truth of the allegations is on the defendant, who did not submit any evidence to the court showing that the impugned statements were true.” the town court awarded the plaintiff 5,000 russian roubles (rub) in damages and directed the applicant to publish a retraction on his website. on 23 october 2008 the supreme court of the komi republic dismissed an appeal by the applicant. it endorsed the findings of the lower court in a summary judgment. it held that article 10 of the convention had not been breached because “the defendant published statements on the internet which undermined the honour and dignity of the plaintiff as a person, pedagogue and musician and which contained negative information about him”.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in belgorod. according to the applicant, one original was inserted in the file of a then pending case before a commercial court; the other one was used in submissions before the chief fire protection inspector. he notified the residence registration office about that change. on 13 july 2005 the applicant was informed of the decision to institute criminal proceedings against him. the applicant abruptly put an end to the conversations. thus, he was compelled to follow them to the police station to be taken before the investigator. following escorting to the competent official, it is necessary to draw up, within three hours, an arrest record. the applicant appealed, arguing as follows. thus, the police’s actions could not be declared unlawful ...[the applicant] was kept in the police station and before the investigator for less than three hours, which means that he was not ‘arrested’ [or] ‘detained’ within the meaning of article 92 of the ccrp.” on 14 april, 23 may and 1 june 2006 the investigator issued orders for the applicant to be taken to the investigating authority (article 113 of the ccrp). it appears that the investigating officer issued summonses for further interviews to be held on 28 and 31 july 2006. it also appears that the applicant did not attend the interview on 31 july 2006. a further decision to bring the applicant in for interview was issued on 1 november 2006. on 25 december 2006 the police arrived at the applicant’s office at around 2.45 p.m. and compelled him to follow them to the police station instead of the investigations department, which was situated elsewhere. apparently, on an unspecified date this decision was quashed.
the applicants were born in 1977, 1972 and 1987 respectively and lived before their convictions in krasnoyarsk, cheboksary and vologda region. the facts of the applications, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 3 may 2013 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of having committed a crime. on 4 may 2013 the oktyabrskiy district court of krasnoyarsk (“the district court”) remanded the applicant in custody. on 11 june and 11 november 2013, and 14 february 2014 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 30 november 2013, 28 february and 28 may 2014 respectively. on 4 april 2014 the district court convicted the applicant of robbery and sentenced him to three years and six months’ imprisonment. during the hearings before the district court on 11 june, 26 july, 1 october, and 11 november 2013, and 14 february, 14, 21 and 27 march, and 2, 3 and 4 april 2014 the applicant was held in a metal cage. on 23 june 2015 the krasnoyarsk regional court upheld the judgment of 4 april 2014 on appeal. on 30 june 2011 the novocheboksarsk town court of the chuvash republic convicted the applicant of embezzlement and the illegal acquisition, storage, transfer, transportation and possession of firearms and sentenced him to four years’ imprisonment. on 1 august 2013 the supreme court of the chuvash republic reduced the applicant’s fine. however, on 18 october 2013 the presidium of the supreme court of the chuvash republic granted a cassation appeal lodged by the prosecutor of the chuvash republic and quashed the judgment of 11 february 2013 and the appeal decision of 1 august 2013. the case was remitted to the district court for fresh examination. on 10 november 2014 the town court extended the applicant’s detention. on 12 december 2014 the town court convicted the applicant of inflicting grievous bodily harm and sentenced him to three years’ imprisonment. the applicant was confined in a metal cage when the custodial measure was applied to him, when it was subsequently extended and during the trial.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in bar (montenegro). on 6 february and 4 march 2009 the applicant entered croatia from montenegro and deposited – on each occasion – the sum of eur 90,000 with a commercial bank in dubrovnik, without declaring these amounts to the custom authorities. the money laundering prevention office stated that the funds had originated from the two above-mentioned cash deposits of eur 90,000 each. on the same day, 2 june 2009, administrative offence proceedings (prekršajni postupak) were instituted against the applicant before the administrative offences council (vijeće za prekršajni postupak) of the ministry for his failure to declare the sum of eur 180,000 while entering croatia, an administrative offence as defined in section 40(1) of the foreign currency act and section 74 of the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism act (see paragraphs 16-17 below). on 1 july, 17 august and 17 september 2009 hearings were held before the administrative offences council. in his defence, the applicant explained that he had sold business premises in montenegro, and that he had intended to use the money gained from that sale to purchase a flat in podgorica (montenegro) from a croatian national, s.k., who had insisted that the money be paid to him from a croatian bank account. the applicant provided a written copy of the contract of sale in respect of his business premises dated 25 december 2007, and a preliminary agreement relating to the purchase of the flat in podgorica dated 18 march 2009. by a decision of 19 october 2009 the administrative offences council found the applicant guilty of the administrative offence in question and fined him 10,000 croatian kunas (hrk). namely in order to transfer money from the sale of s.k. ’s wife’s house, deposited on his account, to s.k. earlier transfers from [the applicant’s] account and the motives for opening that non-resident’s account also influenced the decision to impose the protective measure ...in determining the amount of the fine the [administrative offences] council took into account [the applicant’s] admission of guilt and the absence of a criminal record as mitigating circumstances, and the value of the object of the administrative offence as an aggravating circumstance. [ therefore] it imposed a fine which corresponds to the gravity of the offence.” by a decision of 23 december 2009 the high court for administrative offences (visoki prekršajni sud republike hrvatske) dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the administrative offences council’s decision, endorsing the reasons given therein. the applicant then lodged a constitutional complaint, alleging, inter alia, a violation of his constitutionally protected right of ownership.
the facts of the cases, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the applicant was born in 1986 and is detained in sterlitamak, perm region. on 2 february 2010 the supreme court of the bashkortostan republic quashed the applicant’s conviction and remitted the case for fresh examination. on 19 february 2010 the sovetskiy district court scheduled the first hearing for 4 march 2010. according to the applicant, they never received this letter. this letter was not received by the bailiffs until 20 march 2010. on 19 march 2010 the trial court noted that the applicant had again failed to appear and decided to remand him in custody in absentia. on 10 may 2010 the applicant supplemented the appeal lodged against the decision of 19 march 2010. on 26 august 2010 the supreme court of the bashkortostan republic confirmed the decision of 19 march 2010, finding that the applicant had been duly apprised of the hearings of 4 and 19 march 2010 at his place of residence. on 15 march 2011 the trial court found the applicant guilty and sentenced him to four years and six months’ imprisonment. on 28 september 2010 the justice of the peace of judicial district no. he also held that, once arrested, the applicant should be remanded in custody. on 30 may 2013 the applicant’s name was placed on the international search list because he had fled from his place of residence. on 11 july 2013 the applicant was arrested. he also referred to article 6 § 2 of the convention, arguing that the wording used in the detention order ran counter to the presumption of innocence.
the applicants were born in 1966 and 1957 respectively. the second applicant is the wife of mr badrudi abubakarov, who was born in 1949. the applicants’ relatives drove to the side to let the ifvs pass. it had then gone through the checkpoint in staraya sunzha. the witness and others present during the incident had immediately driven to the police station to report it. traces of blood and brain matter were found inside the damaged vehicle. the case file was given the number 56155. on 1 october 2002 the investigators questioned mr b.s. 20102 to be provided information on the provenance of ifv no. who had worked as a driver at the khankala military base, had told him that at about 5 p.m. on 30 september 2002 he had seen three ifvs of the 78th regiment driving at high speed into the base. the driver of the ifv had fled the scene. on 30 october 2006 the applicants were granted victim status in the criminal proceedings. on 25 november 2006 the investigation was suspended again. on 4 july 2007 the grozny district court of the chechen republic allowed the applicants’ complaint against the decision to suspend the investigation. the government did not dispute the facts as presented by the applicants.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in yuzhnoukrayinsk. at the time of the events he was the director of a private joint stock company. in november 2003 the local court delivered a judgment ordering a debt recovery by a certain mr ts. on 9 march 2004 she revoked her power of attorney. the car, however, remained with the applicant. on 30 march 2004 the applicant was arrested in his office as a criminal suspect. he was placed in the arbuzynka temporary detention facility (“the arbuzynka itt”). wrote a receipt confirming that the applicant had paid him 1,700 us dollars (usd) in respect of pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage and that he had no claims against the applicant. he claimed compensation for pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage in respect of the following four issues: his arbitrary criminal prosecution, his unlawful arrest, the allegedly unlawful search of the company’s premises, and the seizure of the car as having amounted to his deprivation of property. more specifically, the applicant complained that there had been no reasons to arrest him and that he had never been summoned to the police. the applicant therefore claimed that that car should be returned to him. had indicated a lower amount, usd 1,700, in his receipt – see paragraph 8 above). as indicated on the post stamp, it was dispatched on 14 july 2006. the applicant received that letter on 19 july 2006. the appellate court awarded the applicant uah 5,000 (around 750 euros at the time) in compensation for non-pecuniary damage and uah 1,000 in costs and expenses.
the applicants were born in 1970 and 1935 respectively and live in sofia and ruse. father of the second applicant and grandfather of the first applicant, and his son p.r., father of the first applicant, owned a plot of land and a house in popovo. the decisions, based on section 98(1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973 (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство – hereinafter “the tupa”), provided that d.d. with the right to build a house on municipally owned land. in 1989 the expropriated house was pulled down and in 1994 construction work was started on the site. by a supplementary decision of 19 april 1991, based on section 100 of the tupa, the mayor specified the exact location and size of the future flat to be offered to d.d. no supplementary decision was issued however with regard to the right to build a house on municipally owned land which was due to p.r. passed away in 1998 and 2002 respectively, and d.d. this left the two applicants as heirs of d.d., and the first applicant as sole heir of p.r. the mayor did not respond, which under domestic law was considered a tacit refusal. after the applicants applied for judicial review, the refusal was upheld by the courts, in judgments of the targovishte administrative court (“the targovishte court”) and the supreme administrative court of 9 march and 11 july 2006 respectively. following a fresh request by the applicants for the revocation of the expropriation order, in judgments of 10 november 2006 and 25 april 2007 the targovishte court and the supreme administrative court annulled a new tacit refusal on the part of the mayor, acknowledging that the preconditions for such a revocation had indeed not been met, but instructing the mayor to examine the applicants’ request under paragraph 9(1) of the transitional provisions of the territorial planning act, providing for the possibility of monetary compensation (see paragraph 17 below). that sum was paid to the applicants in june 2012.
the applicant was born in 1955 and is currently serving a prison sentence in dnipro. the applicant was sentenced to fifteen years’ imprisonment with confiscation of property. according to the applicant, the presiding judge on the panel of the court of appeal dealing with his case had not been impartial, as allegedly he and the investigator in the case had studied together at the same law school and one of the witnesses had been the judge’s relative. in this connection, the applicant underwent a medical examination, according to which he had no mental illness. the applicant’s appeal against his conviction 11. in order to prepare an appeal against his conviction, the applicant asked the court of appeal to give him time to study the case file which consisted of 171 volumes. consequently, he did not familiarize himself with the entire case file. a judge of that court replied to the applicant that he had to request the local bar association to appoint him a lawyer. the applicant lodged a similar request with the odesa bar association. on 30 october 2007 the supreme court, having heard the applicant’s and his co-defendants’ appeals, found that the trial had been held in compliance with the procedure and that the first-instance court’s findings of fact had been based on sufficient evidence. the applicant was given no medical assistance as regards his injury and was placed in an isolation cell until 21 december 2007. between 22 november and 21 december 2007 the applicant allegedly could not sent letters to the court. on 22 november 2011 the applicant insulted several guards because they had opened and inspected a parcel which had been sent to him from outside the prison. subsequently, the guards took the applicant for medical examination, which did not reveal any serious health issue. in connection with this incident the applicant was disciplined and placed in an isolation cell for fifteen days.
the applicants were born in 1944, 1964 and 1966 respectively and live in razgrad. the decision, based on section 98(1) of the territorial and urban planning act (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство – “the tupa”), provided that the first applicant and h.p. were to be compensated with a flat and a garage. by a supplementary decision of 24 july 1991, based on section 100 of the tupa, the mayor determined the exact location, size and other details in respect of the garage to be offered in compensation, which was to be located in a residential building which the municipality planned to construct. had to pay for the cost of the garage that was not covered by the value of their expropriated property 4,479 old bulgarian levs (bgl). it appears that at the time they did not pay that sum, which has since then devalued significantly. on unspecified dates the flat due to be given to first applicant and h.p. the expropriated house and garage were pulled down. in 1996 the mayor of razgrad offered the first applicant and h.p. the building where the garage offered to them was to be situated was never constructed. in 2006 the municipality authorised the construction of another building by a private investor in the same place, which did not include garages. in reply, they stated that they did not want such compensation and insisted on receiving a garage. passed away and was succeeded by the three applicants. the action was dismissed by the supreme administrative court in a final judgment on 16 november 2011. it noted that the municipality had not acted unlawfully and had offered various solutions which the first applicant and her husband had rejected.
the applicant is a lawyer who also writes articles for various russian law journals and online legal information databases and networks. under the contracts he undertook the task of writing articles on specific topics of legal and social interest. having received an assignment to write an article on prostitution and the fight against it in the khabarovsk region, on 12 may 2009 the applicant wrote to the head of the khabarovsk region police department by registered letter, asking for statistical data for his research. ...[i] stress that i do not need any specific personal information about individuals found administratively or criminally liable; [i only need] general statistical information for writing a scientific article.” it appears from an acknowledgement of receipt that the letter reached the khabarovsk region police department on 25 may 2009. under russian law, state officials must provide a reply to letters from individuals within thirty days. relying on the information act (see below) and article 10 of the convention, he argued that the officials’ implied refusal to provide him with the information had been unlawful as he had not asked for access to any confidential personal information, state secrets or information related to internal police working methods. he claimed that his request had related purely to statistical data of a general nature collected by the information centre of the khabarovsk region police department (hereinafter “the information centre”). the information centre did not collect such information at the request of private individuals. general statistical data summarised by the information centre was provided to the federal service of state statistics and in particular its regional office for the khabarovsk region, to whom the applicant could apply for the statistical data. the applicant filed copies of his letters from the information centre and statistics service with the district court. under domestic law, the statistics service was tasked with dissemination of official statistical data on a broad variety of subjects, including those falling within the applicant’s field of interest. it also noted that the applicant had failed to obtain the information sought from open sources, such as libraries, archives and the internet. in addition, he submitted that the fact that his rights and legitimate interests were not affected by the requested information had no bearing on the case as under russian law, it was not only those directly concerned who were granted access to public information. on 16 september 2009 the khabarovsk regional court upheld the judgment of 4 august 2009.
the applicant was born in 1933 and lives in moscow. on 14 april 1994 the main directorate for architecture and planning of the architecture and urban development committee of the government of moscow (главное архитектурно-планировочное управление комитета по архитектуре и градостроительству г. on 31 december 1996 the prefect of the local administration gave his approval. that lease agreement remained in force until 31 august 2004. on 3 march 2003 the federal state unitary enterprise “oktyabrskaya railway of the mps” (“the oktyabrskaya railway of the mps”) concluded a lease agreement with the gsk in respect of the land occupied by the garages. under the agreement the lease was valid until 28 february 2004. clause 2.2.5 of the agreement proscribed the construction of permanent structures on the land and provided that temporary structures could be built only upon written approval by the oktyabrskaya railway of the mps. clause 2.2.10 stipulated that at the end of the lease, all temporary structures were to be removed. the rzd invited the gsk to vacate the plot by 20 august 2010. the district court held as follows:“it follows from the case-file material that on 3 march 2003 the federal state unitary enterprise “oktyabrskaya railway of the mps” and the gsk signed a lease agreement in respect of a plot of land situated within a railway right of way [полоса отвода железной дороги] for the purposes of reimbursement of its maintenance costs, valid until 28 february 2004, which was subsequently extended on the basis of additional agreements. 153-fz of 25 march 1995 on the federal railway system. ...the court has established that on part of the plot of land with cadastral number 77:02:21017:032 in the right of way of the oktyabrskaya railway ... there are garages, including garage no. a garage for parking a car by an individual is not a rail transport facility, therefore a plot of land within a railway right of way cannot be considered to be intended for the construction of such a garage (garages). 169 had it not been an unauthorised construction. 169 from the plot of land with cadastral number 77:02:21017:032 ...” 22.
the applicant was born in 1981 and lives in niš. from the applicant’s custody and, in so doing, assaulted the latter physically, knocking her unconscious. on 15 september 2005 the respondent and his father contacted the court, declaring that the child did not want to go to her mother and refusing to pay the fine. on 20 september 2005 a new attempt was made to enforce the interim order, this time in the presence of a psychologist from the doljevac social care centre, civilian police officers, the enforcement judge, a bailiff and the applicant. the respondent and the child did not appear. on 29 may 2006 the next enforcement attempt was made. the report contained the opinions of a psychologist, a sociologist and a neuropsychiatrist, all of whom had conducted interviews with the child and both her parents. to remain with her father since a separation could prove psychologically detrimental. on 18 august 2008, acting upon the applicant’s initiative, the niš municipal public prosecutor requested the revocation of the respondent’s probation, but withdrew the request on 16 december 2008 because the respondent had in the meantime been granted custody of a.c. himself no longer had any objections to this arrangement. moved to the applicant’s flat shortly thereafter. in july 2013 the niš public prosecutor’s office received a criminal complaint that had been lodged against v.c. for failure to make maintenance payments. however, it seems from the documents submitted by the government that the mother-daughter relationship was not well re-established. kept returning to her father whenever she had a misunderstanding with her mother.
the applicants were convicted in russia of various crimes. the applicants and their lawyers, except for mr yakupov, whose lawyer was present, were refused leave to attend the appeal hearings on the ground that their presence was unnecessary or without addressing this issue at all. following communication of the cases, the supervisory-review courts quashed the appeal judgments at the prosecutor’s request and remitted the cases for fresh examinations before the appellate courts. in most of the cases the applicants and their lawyers were present at the new appeal hearings. mr trifonov and mr sidelnikov did not ask for leave to appear and did not attend the new hearings, but they were represented by lawyers. detailed information about the applicants’ attendance and dates of the hearings is set out in appendix ii. on 12 november 2002 criminal proceedings were initiated against mr zakhodyakin. since then the criminal proceedings were suspended and reopened several times. on 26 june 2007 the vuktyl town court of the komi republic found the applicant guilty of abuse of office and sentenced him to one year’s imprisonment. on 24 august 2007 the supreme court of the komi republic upheld that judgment on appeal. on 8 october 2008 the presidium of the supreme court of the komi republic quashed the judgment of 24 august 2007 and remitted the case for a fresh examination. on 7 november 2008 the supreme court of the komi republic upheld the judgment of 26 june 2007. on 3 october 2012 the presidium of the supreme court of the komi republic quashed the judgment of 7 november 2008 and remitted the case for a fresh examination. on 18 december 2012 the supreme court of the komi republic upheld the judgment of 26 june 2007.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in șopârlița. on 30 june 2013 the applicant’s sister called the emergency services and reported that the applicant was causing a disturbance in respect of his family (a făcut scandal ȋn familie). they handcuffed him with his hands behind his back, dragged him towards a police car, and banged his head against a metal gate owned by a neighbour, m.v. on the same date the olt prosecutor’s office interviewed both the applicant’s mother and n.b. on 31 october 2013 the olt county forensic medical service examined the applicant and the available medical documents. subsequently, he had been transferred to the hospital’s psychiatric unit and had been sedated. he had been examined and had been diagnosed with a cervical spine injury. most probably, the injury had been caused by a forced rotation movement of the neck when the applicant had been immobilised and handcuffed. however, his statements that his son had not been aggressive and that he had been unaware of the identity of the person who had called the emergency services had not been confirmed by the rest of the evidence adduced in the file. moreover, in such a case, it would have been highly unlikely that an individual would call the emergency services for no reason. according to the prosecutor, those arguments were also supported by the fact that, in the medical report produced by the psychiatric unit of slatina emergency hospital, where the applicant had been taken after the incident, it was stated that the applicant was suffering from a polymorphic personality disorder, which was aggravated by alcohol consumption. also, the police officers had stated that they had not hurt the applicant, and had confirmed that he had been drunk, and that he had been transported and admitted to hospital. ’s testimonies, as those witnesses had confirmed the police violence, and the forensic report had acknowledged that his injury had most probably been caused as a result of the forced rotation of his neck. according to a medical report produced by the hospital, he was diagnosed with an organic personality disorder and received treatment for his condition. according to the report, inter alia, the applicant continued to experience movement difficulties.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in tryszczyn. the applicant asked the court to order that he be able to see his son twice a month from 10 a.m. on friday to 7 p.m. on sunday; one day at christmas or easter from 10 a.m. to 10 a.m. the next day; and three weeks in the summer holidays and one week in the winter holidays. moved to germany with the child without the applicant’s consent. the applicant contested the conclusions of the opinions. on 19 march 2011 the bydgoszcz district court dismissed the applicant’s application to order that j.’s place of residence be with him, leaving the child in m.k. the court noted that the parties had had strong disagreements, had stopped talking to each other and should both be held responsible for the situation. on 3 november 2011 the bydgoszcz regional court partly granted the appeal lodged by m.k. on 19 may 2012 the applicant asked the court to further modify the contact arrangements. applied to annul the settlement of 29 september 2009. the boy, eleven years old at the time, stated that he no longer wished to see his father. it stated that the applicant would have the right to see j. every other weekend for two hours on saturday and two hours on sunday in a public place and in the presence of m.k. the rodk also proposed that j. should consult a psychologist. at a hearing on 24 june 2014 the applicant declared that he was no longer attending the meetings because of his son’s disruptive and aggressive behaviour. on 8 september 2014 the rodk issued another report which stated that the boy had been loyal to his mother and had turned away from the applicant. had started claiming that their child refused to meet him.
the applicants were accredited journalists who were authorised to report from the national parliament. they pulled the speaker out of the chamber and started forcibly removing the opposition mps. in a letter of 26 december 2012 addressed to the media, the speaker stated, inter alia:“having regard to the announcements (најави) that the opposition would not allow the budget act to be adopted and that there would be protests and incidents, i requested, under section 43 of the parliament act, that the parliament security service ensure proper work at the session. as speaker, i regret that such a measure regarding the journalists was taken ...” 9. they had also insulted and threatened him, whilst at the same time damaging technical equipment. however, the disturbance in the chamber had continued. in the circumstances, the speaker had requested, under section 43 of the parliament act (“the act”, see paragraph 17 below), that the parliament’s security service restore order so that the discussions could continue. a smaller group of people in the gallery, including [the applicants], confronted the security officers, disregarded their orders and resisted actively and passively. it was composed of five national members, two of whom were mps. it further included two non-national observers appointed by the european union. most of the journalists complied with that instruction. ...the legal ground for the impugned measure was section 43 of the parliament act, which specified who was responsible for keeping order in the parliament building – a special security unit, and which authorised the speaker to decide and take measures in the event of disturbance of that order by mps and other external persons participating in the work of parliament. in such circumstances, the parliament security service considered that in order to protect the journalists in the gallery, they should be moved to a safer place where they would not be in danger. accordingly, there was no preconceived idea to prevent the journalists from reporting on the debate. after they left the gallery, [the applicants] and other media representatives were allowed to remain in the parliamentary press centre ... from where they could have followed the live broadcast on the parliament website and on the dedicated tv channel.
the applicant was born in 1940 in troschenreuth, in the former german democratic republic (gdr), and lives in bayreuth. she lived in the territory of the former gdr until 1984, while her father lived in the federal republic of germany (frg), having married. the father and the daughter corresponded regularly during that period. between 1954 and 1959, the applicant also visited her father and his wife once a year. furthermore, she asked to receive copies of all documents relating to the estate. she asserted that between 2002 and 2007 she had regularly visited her father at his retirement home and had talked to him on the telephone. subsequently, her own health had prevented her from visiting. the retirement home had been in possession of her address and telephone number, and had phoned her on several occasions. in a decision of 28 january 2009 the memmingen district court dismissed the applicant’s application, as there were no indications that the applicant’s father’s wife could not protect the inheritance. the applicant pointed out that in her case there was no need to protect the legitimate expectations of the deceased or other heirs as she was her father’s only daughter and her father had been separated from his wife for more than ten years when he had died. furthermore, cultural and social changes within society had to be considered when interpreting the basic law. in a decision of 14 may 2009 the munich court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal on the grounds that it was bound by the decisions of the federal constitutional court in which the first sentence of section 12(10)(2) of the children born outside marriage (legal status) act had been found to be in conformity with the basic law. on 17 july 2009 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the federal constitutional court, claiming discrimination as a result of the application of the aforementioned provision. according to her there were no apparent reasons why children born outside marriage should be treated differently from those born within marriage. that provision prohibited a generalised application of the first sentence of section 12(10)(2) of the children born outside marriage (legal status) act.
the applicants were or still are detained in chios prison, either in pre-trial detention or serving prison sentences. the first to fifth applicants and the tenth and thirteenth applicants were placed in cell no. 5, and the fourteenth applicant was placed in cell no. the prison consisted of six cells which each had fifteen beds and five mattresses on the floor, and three cells which each had ten beds. as regards the cells in which the applicants were held, their measurements were as follows: cell no. m. and accommodated six detainees, cell no. filthiness of the cells, in addition to overcrowding, exposed the inmates to contagious diseases and created various psychological problems, in respect of which no medical treatment was provided. detainees lacked access to adequate dental care. meals, which were insufficient and of poor quality, were served in the cells and consumed on the beds. cells were sufficiently ventilated and heated and had adequate natural light. in respect of prison overcrowding, the government argued that the prison had accommodated 142 inmates at the time the applicants had lodged their application with the court, only slightly exceeding its capacity of 120 detainees. in case of emergency, or when a serious incident occurred, detainees were transferred to chios general hospital or korydallos prison hospital in athens. those suffering from contagious diseases were held separately or transferred to hospital. the government provided information showing that some of the applicants had had consultations with doctors in respect of various conditions. most of the applicants participated in some of the educational courses.
at the time when the application was submitted, the applicant was serving a sentence of imprisonment in oslo, norway. throughout the ensuing criminal proceedings he claimed to be innocent. the prosecution sought an eight-year prison sentence. it sentenced the applicant to four years and six months’ imprisonment. the court of appeal held a scheduling hearing (regiezitting) on 23 september 2008. the hearing was again resumed on 27 october 2009. on 29 march 2010 the applicant received a summons at his detention address in norway to appear at the hearing of the amsterdam court of appeal to be held on 1 and 4 june. on 10 may 2010 the applicant’s counsel sent an e-mail to the advocate general (advocaat-generaal) to the court of appeal, with a copy to the president of the criminal division, restating his request for the applicant to be brought to the netherlands in advance of the hearing of the court of appeal and announced his intention to oppose resumption of the hearing if this were not done. the applicant’s counsel asked for the hearing to be adjourned until the applicant could be present in person. in so doing, the court of appeal will base itself on the following facts and circumstances:-  the present case began in 2005. the [applicant] took part in the proceedings. -  the [applicant] was released on 26 march 2009. the hearing on the merits could therefore not be held on 27, 29 and 30 2009 october as planned and was moved to 1 and 4 june 2010. -  the [applicant] has indicated, following his arrest, that he wishes to attend the appeal hearing. contrary to the argument made by the drafter of the point of appeal, the court of appeal was under no obligation to consider the seriousness of the charges against the applicant in deciding on the request for an adjournment but it was at liberty to consider the presence of counsel authorised to conduct the defence and the length of the criminal proceedings.
the applicant company is a limited liability company with its seat in bad gleichenberg, producing building materials of concrete and using crushed stones (schotter) for this purpose. the owner of the sicheldorfer mineral water spring appealed against this decision, claiming that the dredging had a negative impact on the spring. on 8 september 2004 the ministry for agriculture, forestry, environment and water (bundesministerium für land- und forstwirtschaft, umwelt und wasserwirtschaft) (“the ministry”) ordered the applicant company to submit a plan of the projected dredging area and of all the springs and wells concerned. refused to provide the necessary information. the applicant company was requested to comment hereon. on 21 november 2005 an oral hearing was held. on 13 february 2006 the steiermark regional governor again issued the requested licence for dredging and imposed certain conditions. on 27 september 2006 the administrative court ordered the ministry to decide within three months. on 13 march 2007 the applicant company submitted another private expert opinion to the ministry. on 17 april 2007 the ministry rejected the requested dredging licence on the grounds that the applicant company had failed to submit all the requested documents. on 1 june 2007 the administrative court asked the ministry and the other parties to submit written observations within eight weeks. the bad radkersburg municipality and the bad radkersburg spring company submitted their written observations. nonetheless, it submitted a supplementary expert opinion. on 12 january 2010 the ministry requested the bad radkersburg municipality and the bad radkersburg spring company (h. p.’s appeal had meanwhile been considered to be withdrawn) to submit written observations on the documents recently transmitted by the applicant company. on 10 august 2010 the ministry communicated a further expert opinion for the applicant company’s information.
the applicant was born in 1981 and lives in piteşti. on the same date a general practitioner issued a medical note and referred the applicant urgently to hospital. according to the applicant’s own statement before the court, the examination at the panait sârbu clinical hospital confirmed that she was pregnant and was experiencing some complications as a result of stress and her medication’s side effects. authorised two police officers to enforce a warrant to appear (mandat de aducere) issued in the applicant’s name. she became scared, gave in and fully complied with the investigating authorities’ demands. at 11.30 a.m. two police officers went to the applicant’s home and presented her with the warrant to appear. was aware of her pregnancy, he left her waiting for eight hours in the corridor. on the same date the applicant signed a statement for the detention centre medical service. according to the statement, she informed them that she had been monitored for endometrial hyperplasia, that she agreed with the information recorded by the medical staff and that the information in respect of her health was complete and accurate. the cell had four bunk beds and was cold. she was forced to sleep in a bed that had a mattress but no bed linen or duvet. the toilet was separated from the rest of the cell by a curtain and was covered with a plastic device to prevent rats from entering the cell. a shower was fitted above the toilet which was also used for flushing it. no warm water was available and the cold water from the sink was contaminated and could not be used for drinking. in examining her personal situation, the court noted, inter alia, that she was a former national television presenter and a film producer.
he is currently serving a sentence in a prison in panama. were arrested on suspicion of drug trafficking. his request was refused on the ground that the anonymity of the undercover agents was protected. following another request lodged by the applicant’s counsel, on 5 march 2003 the court ordered the prosecutor to submit the authorisations it had issued for the undercover operation. the applicant’s counsel claimed that his client had committed the drug offence only after being incited to do so by the undercover police agents. on 9 april 2003 the arad county court convicted the applicant of drug trafficking and sentenced him to three years’ imprisonment. the county court imposed a lenient sentence in the light of the applicant’s good behavior after his arrest and the fact that he had pleaded guilty as charged. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law. the applicant was detained in jilava prison between 25 july 2003 and 6 january 2004. the water provided had been of very poor quality, being of a yellow colour, smelling and containing worms. sometimes, there had been no water – either for drinking or for the toilet. the food had also been of very poor quality. it had been possible to let in fresh air by opening the window to each cell. the prisoners had been allowed to take one hot shower per week in the communal bathrooms located in each section of the prison (between nineteen and twenty-three showers had been available). the applicant had been allowed to walk outside his cell for thirty minutes each day.
the applicant was born in 1986 and lives in botârlău. according to a report drafted on 1 march 2007, the meeting had been planned in order to verify information received by the police that the applicant might have been dealing drugs. a request to intercept his telephone conversations and make ambient voice recordings was authorised by a judge of the buzău county court. on the same date the prosecutor from the organised crime department authorised the use of x as undercover police agent in order to determine the facts of the case, identify the offenders and obtain evidence. in a report dated 17 may 2007 the chief of the buzău county police organised crime unit stated that x had called the applicant several times in april and may in order to enquire when the transaction might take place. x was accompanied by y, a colleague in plain clothes. the police operation was recorded on video. and x because the latter had asked him whether he could get drugs for him. stated that the drugs found on him had been for his own personal use and that he had had no intention of selling them. the applicant’s lawyer had the opportunity to cross-examine x. he asked whether the reports of 1 march and 14 april 2007 had been signed by him and whether the criminal investigation had already been open when he had been authorised to investigate undercover. the buzău county court gave judgment on 22 february 2008. the applicant appealed against the judgment. he alleged that x had exceeded his authority and that y should have also been called to testify in court. the court considered that the applicant had not been incited by x since it was apparent from the evidence in the file that he had called the officer on several occasions and had planned the meeting of 19 july 2007 (see paragraph 10 above). the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law (recurs), reiterating his previous arguments.
the applicant company is a joint-stock company incorporated under moldovan law. ms roșca was born in 1984 and lives in chișinău. on 2 may 2006 the economic court of appeal, by a final judgment, dismissed e.’s application as being ill-founded, noting that a duplicate of the writ had been issued in 2003. on 17 december 2008 the economic court of appeal upheld an application by e. for a revision of the judgment, quashed the decision of 2 may 2006 and allowed the statutory time-limit to run anew. the court did not reply to the applicant company’s contention that the application was time‑barred. on 28 february 2007 the ciocana district court acknowledged the applicant’s entitlement, as a young family, to a plot of land for construction purposes. as there was no appeal, the judgment became final on 20 march 2007. the applicant sought enforcement of the judgment of 28 february 2007, but to no avail. on 11 february 2009 the tohatin local administration lodged an application for a revision of the judgment, arguing that the applicant had not qualified as a young family because her husband had died in 2006 and she had therefore lost her entitlement to any land. her husband’s death had not qualified as a new circumstance because the local administration had been aware of that matter at the time of the proceedings. she referred to the period of twenty-six months between 20 march 2007 and 24 june 2009, during which the judgment of 28 february 2007 had not been enforced. on 16 march 2012 the rîșcani district court found for the applicant, acknowledged a violation of her rights and awarded her mdl 450,000 (equivalent to eur 27,250) in respect of pecuniary damage, mdl 66,000 in respect of non-pecuniary damage and mdl 38,193 for legal costs. it said that it had used the reference size of 0.09 ha because the tohatin local administration had granted plots of that size when executing similar judgments in respect of young families. it awarded the applicant mdl 30,000 (equivalent to eur 1,895) in respect of non-pecuniary damage and mdl 5,000 (equivalent to eur 316) for costs and expenses. the court dismissed the remainder of the claim, noting that the applicant had failed to substantiate alleged costs for renting alternative accommodation and finding that no compensation for the land should be awarded because the judgment acknowledging her entitlement to that land had been quashed.
according to the last information received by the court on 6 october 2016, the applicant is detained in lisbon. on 28 august 2014 the applicant was arrested in the united kingdom. under the eaw issued by the portuguese authorities, he was surrendered to the portuguese authorities on 27 february 2015. on 27 february 2015, the applicant was given the status of defendant in the criminal proceedings against him (constituição de arguido) and questioned by the investigating judge (primeiro interrogatório judicial). on the same day, the investigating judge remanded the applicant in custody. on 19 march 2015 the applicant lodged an appeal with the lisbon court of appeal, challenging the lawfulness of the decision remanding him in custody, pursuant to article 219 § 1 of the code of criminal procedure. on 2 april 2015 the investigating judge declared the appeal admissible and requested that the public prosecutor be asked to submit observations on the applicant’s appeal. on 4 may 2015 the file was sent to the lisbon court of appeal. on 11 may 2015 it was received and distributed. on an unknown date, a judge rapporteur appointed to the case made a preliminary examination of the applicant’s appeal and prepared a draft decision which was presented to two other judges. he further argued that the time-limit of thirty days established under article 219 § 1 of the code of criminal procedure had not been complied with. therefore, his pre-trial detention had been unlawful. examining the effects of the thirty-day time-limit on pre-trial detention orders, it considered that the thirty-day time-limit on pre-trial detention orders simply constituted a guiding principle illustrating the urgency of such matters. in this regard, the non-compliance with the thirty-day time-limit did not mean that the applicant’s pre-trial detention had been unlawful. on 2 july 2015 the lisbon court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the investigating judge’s decision of 27 february 2015 to hold him in pre-trial detention.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in orenburg. the applicant’s husband died in 2010 while serving his prison sentence. after his arrest mr grabarchuk was taken to a remand prison in orenburg, where doctors carried out a general health check and noted that he had hiv and hepatitis c. a month later hiv antibody testing confirmed the diagnosis. he had regular complete blood count tests, a basic metabolic panel, simple urine tests and a chest x-ray. on 30 april 2009 he complained of fever and a cough. in the hospital mr grabarchuk received tuberculosis treatment. the doctor recommended an immunological assessment. on 12 february 2010, on the basis of a routine complete blood count, doctors at the prison medical unit diagnosed mr grabarchuk with acute pyelonephritis, or inflammation of the kidney. three days later an infectious diseases doctor repeated the recommendation for an immunological assessment. one week later the following entry was made in his medical file:“we, the undersigned, have made the present record to state that mr s. grabarchuk has refused art.” mr grabarchuk lost weight and the ability to walk. an autopsy showed that he had died from hiv and tuberculosis which had led to pulmonary and cardiac failure. shortly after the death of her husband the applicant complained to the orenburg regional office of the federal service for the execution of sentences about the refusal on 14 may 2010 to transfer him to a civilian hospital. documents submitted by the applicant show that on 1 july and 27 october 2011 the investigating authorities obtained the autopsy report and questioned two doctors who had attended to mr grabarchuk in the prison hospital. according to the applicant, no further investigation followed.
the applicant was born in 1971 and is currently serving a prison sentence in vaslui prison. he was detained in several detention facilities. the food had also been of very poor quality. m, containing twenty‑six beds (that is, 1.2 sq. m per bed), occupied by twenty to twenty‑six detainees;- cell e 7.5., m, containing three beds (that is, 5.8 sq. m per bed) and occupied by four to eight detainees. the detainees were provided with cleaning materials and personal hygiene products and they were responsible for cleaning the cells. the applicant alleged that no special arrangements had been made for him as a person with severe visual impairment in iaşi and rahova prisons between 2 april 2013 and 30 january 2014. he had only received assistance from inmates in the facility in exchange for cigarettes and money. the government contended that the medical certificate on his disability had been issued only on 29 october 2013 (see paragraph 13 above) because the applicant had failed to submit the documents requested by the special commission for disabled persons. they further argued that even before the medical certificate had been issued, the prison authorities had on 9 august 2013 allowed a request lodged by the applicant on 7 august 2013 to be assigned a personal care assistant. the applicant lodged several complaints on the basis of law no. it further noted that on 9 may 2013 the prison authorities had appointed a commission of specialists, which had examined the applicant. sharing the applicant’s cell, had been assigned to support him in his daily activities.
since february 2015 he has been kept in a detention centre for foreign nationals in the town of makhachkala, dagestan republic, russia. as submitted by the government, he was therefore expected to leave russia in early 2012. the applicant did not leave and started to live together with ms b., a russian national. in november 2013 they had a child together. in the meantime, on 15 and 19 february 2013 the applicant was found guilty of an offence under article 18.10 of the code of administrative offences (cao), which provided that a foreigner could be punished for unlawful employment activities in russia. lawyer d. lodged a statement of appeal on behalf of the applicant against the judgment of 26 february 2015. on 4 march 2015 the supreme court of the dagestan republic upheld the judgment. it appears that the applicant engaged lawyer k. to assist him in those proceedings and had a meeting with him in the detention centre. on 2 june 2015 the applicant called the lawyer from the detention centre, complaining of beatings. on the same day, the lawyer was refused access to the applicant in the detention centre, apparently because he should have obtained authorisation for the visit from the regional migration authority. on 6 august 2015 the local migration authority dismissed the applicant’s application for temporary asylum. the applicant sought review of this refusal before the federal migration service (“the fms”). the applicant was unlawfully engaged in employment activities ...in february 2013 he was twice prosecuted for administrative offences. the applicant received a copy of the judgment in february 2016 and lodged an appeal. the appeal court held as follows:“the first-instance court considered that the applicant did not fall within the scope of the notion of “refugee” under the refugees act ... in view of the applicant’s failure to submit specific facts disclosing that in the event of his removal to syria he would be exposed to a real threat to his security ... or that he was persecuted in this country, the appeal court agrees with the first-instance court ... the appeal court also notes that the applicant arrived in russia in 2011 but only sought temporary asylum in 2015.”
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in ufa, the republic of bashkortostan. in february 1996 the applicant was severely injured in a traffic accident. 3 (государственное унитарное дочернее уфимское пассажирское автотранспортное предприятие 3 – hereinafter “the transport company”), seeking compensation for damage. on 29 november 2005 the sovetskiy district court of ufa (hereinafter “the district court”) partly granted the applicant’s claims. on 15 february 2006 the transport company was declared insolvent and it was put into liquidation. on 28 march 2006 the judgment of 29 november 2005 became final, as modified on appeal by the supreme court of the republic of bashkortostan. the judgment became final on 22 january 2009. on 3 march 2009 the commercial court once again granted the applicant’s application for payment as a lump sum of the amounts of the monthly allowance. on 15 july 2009 the commercial court accepted the applicant’s claim for transfer of the transport company’s debt to the russian federation, as provided for in section  135 § 3 of the insolvency act (see paragraph 21 below). on 3 december 2009 the commercial court of the uralskiy circuit upheld that judgment and it became final. the legal provisions on subsidiary companies are summarised in paragraph 22 below. the transport company had the right of “economic control” over the assets allocated to it by the parent company. 918-p, by which all the transport company’s assets were transferred to the parent company; the debts remained with the transport company. on 15 february 2006 the transport company was declared insolvent, and it was put into liquidation. the liquidation proceedings ended on 31 december 2013.
he has served sentences in several prisons. on 21 april 2015 he was released from târgu-jiu prison. the applicant alleged that while detained in cell no. 5 of târgu‑jiu prison for eight days, between 1 october and 9 october 2013, he had not had an individual bed and had therefore been forced to sleep on the cold floor on two blankets. as a consequence, the renal disease from which he suffered had been re-activated and he had experienced intense pain. on 3 october 2013 he had been examined by a prison doctor and had been prescribed medical treatment. however, he had been unable to submit any evidence in this connection as the prison authorities had rejected his requests for a copy of his medical records. he submitted instead an old medical certificate stating that on 23 september 2012 he had been hospitalised in the nephrology department of slatina hospital suffering from renal colic. the applicant lodged a complaint with the post‑sentencing judge asking for an individual bed. his complaint was examined on 15 october 2013. the applicant informed the judge that he had eventually been given a bed, but only after nine days. the post-sentencing judge took note that the applicant had obtained an individual bed; he did not draft an interlocutory judgment, but merely noted that the complaint had been withdrawn. the applicant lodged a complaint with the gorj district court seeking compensation in connection with the lack of an individual bed for eight days in cell no. on 12 november 2013 the târgu-jiu district court dismissed the applicant’s complaint as inadmissible without examining its merits on account of the fact that the applicant had not submitted an interlocutory judgment by the post-sentencing judge in connection with his complaint.
the first applicant was born in 1980 and lives in sharya, the kostroma region. cell 49 was used to accommodate between ten and twenty prisoners. cell 43 contained two two-tier bunk beds and accommodated four prisoners. the government submitted that the number of prisoners in the cells had not exceeded the occupancy limit. cell 29 had three sleeping places, cell 49 four places and cell 43 two places. all of these pages, except one dated 24 july 2009, indicate that cell 49 was designed for four persons and accommodated as many prisoners. the number “4” appears to be written over a different number that was erased. the entry of 24 july 2009 indicated that cell 49 was designed for ten persons and accommodated eight prisoners. similarly, the entries in respect of cell 29 show traces of erasures and alterations. its design capacity is listed as two or three places and the actual population is always three prisoners. between 14 july 2009 and 4 july 2010 the second applicant was held in remand prison iz-59/1 in the perm region. according to him, the facility was overcrowded. according to the government, the second applicant was held in cells 80, 90, 92, 98 and 103. the actual number of inmates detained in the cells did not exceed their designed capacity. the government submitted selected pages from registration logs, some of which appears to contain erasures and alterations in the fields showing the number of inmates in cell 90.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in baku. the opposition planned to hold demonstrations on 17 november 2012 and 26 january 2013 in baku. information about that assembly was disseminated through facebook or the press. the bcea refused to authorise the holding of the demonstration of 17 november 2012, stating in general terms that that assembly was not in accordance with the law on freedom of assembly. nevertheless, the organisers decided to hold the demonstrations in the centre of baku. in both cases the applicant was arrested during the dispersal operation and was taken to a police station, where he was questioned. in the first case the report stated that by deliberately failing to comply with a lawful order from the police, the applicant had committed an administrative offence under article 310.1 of the code of administrative offences (“the cao”). in neither case was he given access to a lawyer after the arrest or while in police custody. according to the applicant, the hearing before the court in both cases was very brief. members of the public were not allowed to attend, even though the court had not taken a formal decision to close the hearing to the public. at the court hearing in the second case a state-funded lawyer was appointed to assist the applicant. at the hearing in the first case the court did not question any witnesses. in the second case the court questioned two police officers. in both cases the first-instance court found that the applicant had participated in an unauthorised demonstration. in the second case he was not represented by a lawyer.
the applicants’ dates of birth and places of residence are given in the appendix. demonstrations were planned to be held on 31 july 2010, 2 april 2011 and 17 april 2011 in baku. similarly, the bcea refused to authorise the holding of the demonstrations of 2 and 17 april 2011 at the places indicated by the organisers and in both cases proposed a different location on the outskirts of baku, namely, the driving school yard mentioned above. according to the applicant in application no. on the day of the applicants’ arrests, “administrative offence reports” (inzibati xəta haqqında protokol) were issued in respect of them. 57737/11, 67351/11, 67977/11, 69411/11 and 69421/11). 57737/11, he obtained a copy of the administrative offence report several months after the administrative proceedings against him had ended. none of the applicants was given access to a lawyer after the arrest or while in police custody. according to all the applicants, they were not given an opportunity to hire lawyers of their own choice. state-funded lawyers were appointed to represent most of the applicants. 74609/10 and 57737/11 were not assisted by lawyers. the record of the hearing in the case of the applicant in application no. 69411/11 shows that in his oral submissions, the state-funded lawyer briefly asked the court to be merciful and adopt a lenient decision. made any oral or written submissions before the first-instance court. in the case of the applicant in application no.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in baku. at the material time he was a member of an opposition party, musavat. the applicant attempted to participate in a demonstration organised by the opposition on 20 october 2012. the bcea refused to authorise the holding of the demonstration at the place indicated by the organisers and proposed a different location on the outskirts of baku. nevertheless, the organisers decided to hold the demonstration as planned. however, shortly after that attempt he was arrested and taken to a police station. according to the applicant, he was arrested by people in plain clothes. when the court announced its judgment, those who had gathered outside began to protest against the judgment, which they considered unfair. in the first case the report stated that by deliberately failing to comply with a lawful order of the police, the applicant had committed an administrative offence under article 310.1 of the code of administrative offences (“the cao”). in the second case the applicant was charged with an administrative offence under article 298.2 (participation in a public assembly that had not been organised in accordance with the law) of the cao. in both cases he was not given access to a lawyer after the arrest or while in police custody. according to the applicant, in neither case was he given an opportunity to hire a lawyer of his own choice. according to the records of the court hearings in both cases, in their oral submissions the state-funded lawyers briefly stated that the applicant was not guilty and asked the respective court to discontinue the case. the applicant also complained that his arrests had been unlawful and that the hearings before the respective first-instance courts had not been fair. in both cases, on 29 october 2012 and 16 may 2014 respectively, the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of the first-instance court.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in baku. on 17 april 2011 and 26 january 2013 the applicant participated in demonstrations organised by the opposition in baku. information about that assembly was disseminated through facebook or the press. as a result, the muscles in her neck, arms, back and other parts of her body hurt. at the police station she was kept handcuffed. in neither case was she given access to a lawyer after the arrest or while in police custody. in the first case the applicant was brought before the nasimi district court on 18 april 2011, the day following her arrest. according to the applicant, in neither case was she given an opportunity to hire a lawyer of her own choice. the police officers testified that the applicant had attempted to stage an unauthorised demonstration, and, in the second case, had also incited others to participate in such an assembly. in the first case the first-instance court found that the applicant had participated or attempted to participate in an unauthorised demonstration. by a decision of 26 january 2013 the court in the second case convicted the applicant under article 298.1 of the cao and sentenced her to a fine of 2,000 manats (azn). she also complained that her arrests had been unlawful and that the hearings before the respective first-instance courts had not been fair. by a letter of 25 may 2011 the general prosecutor’s office informed the applicant’s lawyer that the complaint had been forwarded to the baku city prosecutor’s office for examination. according to the applicant, neither she nor her lawyer was informed about any actions taken by the authorities to investigate her complaint. it was only after making enquiries about the outcome of the investigation, in january 2012, that the applicant managed to obtain a copy of an investigator’s decision of 16 june 2011 refusing to open a criminal case.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in baku. at the material time he was a member of an opposition party – the popular front party of azerbaijan. it appears that no proper prior notice was given to the bcea by the organisers of the demonstration of 10 march 2013. information about that assembly was disseminated through facebook or the press. the bcea refused to authorise the holding of the demonstration of 17 november 2012, stating in general terms that that assembly would not be in accordance with the law on freedom of assembly. nevertheless, the organisers decided to hold the demonstrations in the centre of baku. the participants of the demonstration of 17 november 2012 were demanding democratic reforms in the country and protesting against impediments to freedom of assembly. according to the applicant, in the first case he was arrested by people in plain clothes. in the first case the report stated that by deliberately failing to comply with a lawful order from the police, the applicant had committed an administrative offence under article 310.1 of the code of administrative offences (“the cao”). in the first case the applicant was brought before the sabail district court on 17 november 2012, the day of his arrest. stated in general terms that the applicant was not guilty. at the hearing in the first case the court did not question any witnesses. testified that he and the applicant had attempted to participate in the demonstration but had been arrested even before they had entered the area where the assembly had been held. in the first case the applicant was assisted before the baku court of appeal by a lawyer of his own choice. in the second case the court of appeal found that the applicant had participated in a demonstration which had not been organised in accordance with the law.
between 1993 and 1999 the applicant, p., lu., served their prison sentences in volnyansk prison. in july 2001 the applicant had a meeting with lawyer l. hired by his girlfriend. also on 7 september 2001 the applicant was confronted with lu. on 10 september 2001 the applicant made a written statement in which he refused to participate in further confrontations with lu. on 9 october 2001 the applicant asked the investigator m. for a lawyer, mr l., to be assigned to defend him. despite that request, on 9 october 2001 the applicant was questioned without a lawyer and made an oral statement saying that he had committed the attack with the help of lu. on 4 august 2003 the applicant asked a prosecutor for a lawyer, mr k., to be assigned to defend him. on the same date that request was granted. the applicant had told m. that those two persons had threatened him and for that reason during the confrontations he had lied and said that he had committed the attack alone. and another individual brought the applicant to a forest, threatened him and suggested he repay the debt by robbing mr and mrs i.by the same judgment the court convicted p., lu. in fact, those individuals had not been involved in the attack. on 29 march 2006 the court asked the applicant to indicate on which date he first received legal assistance. the government stated (referring to a certificate issued by the state penitentiary service in 2011) that, from february 2003 to june 2005, the applicant had received anti-relapse medication. he did not provide any further details concerning his detention conditions and did not submit any evidence in this respect.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in kyiv. in 1995-2002 the applicant was convicted of and served a sentence for aggravated theft and burglary. on 27 december 2005 and 6 january 2006 the police found the applicant in possession of illegal drugs. on the same day criminal proceedings were instituted against the applicant and a certain mr i. for armed robbery committed in a group. on 23 january 2006 the kyiv podilsky district court (“the district court”) ordered the applicant’s detention on remand until 20 march 2006 on the grounds that he had previous convictions and there was a risk that he would abscond, continue his criminal activities or obstruct the investigation. on 16 march 2006 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 20 april 2006, stating that there was no reason to change it and there was a need to carry out investigative actions. on 27 june 2006 the district court held a preliminary hearing in the case and upheld the preventive measure imposed on the applicant without giving any reasons or setting a time-limit for it. on 17 march and 14 july 2008, and 19 january and 23 april 2009 the district court refused the applicant’s requests for release. on 17 july 2009 the district court convicted the applicant of drug possession and armed robbery committed in a group and sentenced him to nine years’ imprisonment. on 27 july 2010 the kyiv city court of appeal quashed that judgment and remitted the case to the district court for fresh consideration. on the same day the applicant was released against his undertaking not to abscond. on 30 september 2013 the district court sent the case against the applicant to the prosecutor for further investigation. on 25 april 2014 the charges concerning the armed robbery were separated into a second set of criminal proceedings. on 29 april 2014 the bill of indictment for robbery was approved and on 3 june 2014 the district court committed the applicant for trial on that charge. as at the date of the last communication from the parties to the court, 5 march 2015, proceedings against the applicant were still pending before the district court.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in baku. demonstrations were planned to be held on 31 july 2010 and 10 march 2013 in baku. information about that demonstration was disseminated via facebook or the press. the participants of the demonstration of 31 july 2010 were demanding free and fair elections and democratic reforms in the country. in both cases the applicant was arrested during the dispersal operation and was taken to a police station, where he was questioned. according to the applicant, he was never served with copies of the administrative offence reports or with other material from his case files. in the first case the applicant was brought before the sabail district court on 31 july 2010, the day of his arrest. according to the applicant, in both cases he was not given an opportunity to appoint a lawyer of his own choosing. at the court hearing in the first case the applicant was not represented by a lawyer. according to the material submitted to the court by the parties, he refused legal assistance. at the hearings in both cases the court did not question any witnesses. by a decision of 31 july 2010 the first-instance court convicted the applicant under article 310.1 of the cao and sentenced him to seven days’ administrative detention. by a decision of 11 march 2013 the same court convicted the applicant under article 298.2 of the cao and sentenced him to seven days’ administrative detention. on unspecified dates the applicant lodged appeals with the baku court of appeal, arguing that his convictions were in violation of his rights because the demonstrations in which he had participated had been peaceful. the applicant also complained that his arrests had been unlawful and that the hearings before the first-instance court had not been fair.
the applicant, a retired military officer, was born in 1947 and lives in the city of simferopol, ukraine. in december 2004 the applicant instituted proceedings before the simferopol garrison military court against a local military enlistment office seeking an order to recalculate his pension. on 20 may 2005 the court found against the applicant. on 11 august 2005, following his appeal, the navy court of appeal upheld the decision of the first-instance court. on 30 august 2005 the applicant appealed on points of law. on 17 october 2005 the higher administrative court of ukraine allowed the applicant a time-limit until 1 november 2005 to rectify the procedural shortcomings of his appeal on points of law. the relevant part of the decision reads as follows:“the [present] appeal on points of law does not comply with the requirements laid down in article 213 of the code of administrative justice, as the applicant failed to pay the court fee and to provide a number of copies of the appeal on points of law corresponding to the number of persons involved in the proceedings ...[the court decides to] set for gavrilov v.v. a deadline of 1 november 2005 for rectifying the shortcomings of the appeal on points of law submitted by him. [the court brings to] the attention of gavrilov v.v. that if he fails to rectify the above shortcomings, in accordance with article 108 of the code of administrative justice, the appeal on points of law will be returned to the applicant and considered not submitted.” the applicant dispatched his rectified appeal on points of law by registered post on 24 october 2005. it appears that the applicant resubmitted several copies of the appeal dated 30 august 2005 accompanied, in accordance with the instructions of the higher administrative court of ukraine, with proof of payment of the court fee. according to the acknowledgment of receipt form, the letter was received by the court registry on 27 october 2005. on 7 november 2005 the higher administrative court of ukraine adopted a decision which stated, inter alia, as follows:“gavrilov v.v. failed to rectify the shortcomings indicated in the ruling [of 17 october 2005] within the time-limit granted by the court, the appeal on points of law should, therefore, be considered as not submitted and be returned to the applicant.”
the applicant, mr volodymyr oleksandrovych kryvenkyy, is a ukrainian national who was born in 1934 and lives in velyki gadomtsi. a neighbouring collective farming company, which was designated as its successor. subsequently the two farms separated again. was obliged, in particular, to compensate the local council for the damage suffered by the agricultural producers in connection with the expropriation of the land. had to obtain and register a relevant state land-use certificate. according to the applicant, until 2004 u.c.c. on the basis of this decision, on 4 june 2003 the applicant was issued with the land-ownership certificate for the aforementioned 0.6021-ha plot. on 22 july 2005 the berdychiv district administration accepted the prosecutor’s objection and annulled its decision of 17 january 2003 in so far as it related to the 150 ha of land claimed by u.c.c. the issuance had therefore been devoid of legal basis. blocked the road leading to the plot disputed by the u.c.c. and it became impossible for the applicant to access it or use it for farming. on 12 december 2006 the zhytomyr regional court of appeal upheld the above judgment. on 4 april 2007 the supreme court of ukraine rejected the applicant’s request for leave to appeal in cassation. instituted administrative proceedings against the berdychiv district administration. ’s land, while the land, whose boundaries had been in dispute, had belonged to v.g.,
in december 1996 the first applicant concluded a three-year military service contract with the ministry of defence. in december 1999 the first applicant concluded another three-year military service contract. in december 2001 the first applicant rescinded his contract with the ministry of defence and resigned from military service, citing family circumstances. on an unspecified date and for unknown reasons the first applicant registered himself as a temporary resident at an address on p. street in kyiv. relying on article 132 paragraph 1 of the housing code (see paragraph 35 below), the plaintiffs argued that because the first applicant had resigned from military service, he and his family were obliged to vacate the accommodation, which had been provided to them on a temporary basis in connection with the first applicant’s military service. article 132 paragraph 1 of the housing code, which concerned accommodation for seasonal and temporary employees, did not apply in their case. they also noted that the first applicant had a dependent wife and young child, and that the family had no other accommodation in kyiv. on 9 december 2003 the first applicant lodged an appeal with the kyiv city court of appeal (“the court of appeal”). the fact that he had been provided with temporary accommodation at the ministry’s discretion did not mean that the state had a duty to accommodate him or his family after termination of the contract. according to the applicants, on 28 april 2004 they were evicted from the z. street accommodation. on 7 may 2004 the official gazette of ukraine (офіційний вісник україни) published the new code of civil procedure (hereinafter “the 2004 code”), which was adopted on 18 march 2004 and entered into force on 1 september 2005. on 3 october 2005 the deputy president of the court of appeal informed him that his case had already been decided and that the judgment of 11 november 2003 had been upheld. on 16 and 24 november 2005 the first applicant wrote to the court of appeal with a request to be provided with a copy of the decision taken on 29 january 2004. on 29 november 2005 the applicants received a copy of that decision. they also argued that the lower courts had erred in their assessment of the facts and application of the law in their case.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in kharkiv. this treatment continued for one hour and the applicant was then placed in a cell. on the same date the applicant complained to the duty officer that he was experiencing acute abdominal pain. he was discharged from hospital in a satisfactory condition, after being given the relevant recommendations as to further medical treatment. on the same date the applicant, having waived his right to legal assistance, confessed to the crime in question and was arrested. he was diagnosed with a twisted sigmoid colon and acute intestinal obstruction requiring surgery. from 16 may 2005 to 19 june 2009 the applicant was detained in the kharkiv sizo. the applicant’s medical file suggests that in 2003, while serving a prison sentence for another conviction, the applicant was recognised as falling into the second category of disability because of his intestinal problems and the need for appropriate surgery was stressed by physicians. on 3 june 2005 the sizo generalist doctor advised that the previously prescribed treatment should be continued. on 17 august 2006 a generalist confirmed that the applicant was suffering from peritoneal adhesions and prescribed him the relevant treatment. the relevant treatment was prescribed to him. no signs of active tuberculosis were found. on 20 february 2006 the applicant complained to a prosecutor about his ill-treatment by the police on 3 may 2005. he provided a detailed account of events and asked for the admissions register of the police station to be produced as evidence. on 1 june 2007 the prosecutor’s office again refused to institute criminal proceedings in response to the applicant’s complaint as there was no medical or other evidence to support the applicant’s allegations.
the applicant was born in 1948 and lives in kaunas. in november 1995 the applicant wrote to the authorities to ask why the buildings and the land had been sold to other persons in 1992. on 22 october 1996, upon their own initiative, the authorities suggested to the applicant that she submit a request to be paid monetary compensation for the buildings, if she did not have any objections to such a form of restitution. the applicant’s claim contained deficiencies, which she failed to eliminate within the time-limit set by the kaunas district court; accordingly, on 13 july 2004, the court decided to rule that the applicant’s claim had not been lodged. on 19 april 2006 the applicant lodged a modified claim in which, inter alia, she asked the kaunas regional administrative court to (i) annul the assessment of the value of the buildings made by the centre of registers, (ii) to annul that part of the order of the authorities for her property rights to be restored in which the value of the buildings was indicated and (iii) to renew the time-limit for lodging a complaint. on 9 may 2006, during the hearing at the kaunas regional administrative court, the applicant asked for the appointment of an expert to determine the market value of the buildings. in april 2007 the expert stated that on 14 july 2003 the market value of the buildings had been ltl 56,850 (approximately eur 16,465) and that the market value of the buildings at the time that the examination of the case had started had been ltl 164,900 (approximately eur 47,758). the applicant did not appeal and the decision became final on 5 october 2007. the court held that the assessment of value in itself did not give rise to any legal consequences for the applicant. the applicant requested that the proceedings be reopened. on 17 december 2010 the supreme administrative court refused her request. in october 2007 the relevant authorities were informed that an additional assessment of the value of the buildings had to be made and then the kaunas municipality administration asked the centre of registers to urgently assess their value. on 16 august 2010 the applicant submitted a request to be compensated in securities of a state-owned enterprise. she also requested the annulment of the assessment of value of the buildings at ltl 57,000 (approximately eur 16,508) made by the centre of registers on 17 march 2008. however, the applicant failed to do so in an acceptable manner and on 25 october 2010 the kaunas regional administrative court declined to examine her claim.
the applicants are:1)  ms marzhan kushtova, who was born in 1925,2)  mr magomet (in the documents submitted also spelt as magomed and magomed-bashir) kushtov, who was born in 1950,3)   ms minovsi (also spelt as minuosi) tsitskiyeva, who was born in 1954,4)  ms madina kushtova, who was born in 1960,5)  mr musa kushtov, who was born in 1961,6)  ms fatima kushtova, who was born in 1966 and7)  ms khulimat kushtova, who was born in 1968. the people who got out of the blue niva were wearing dark uniforms. on 28 may 2006 the investigation of the criminal case was suspended for failure to establish the identity of the perpetrators. on 28 june 2006 the investigation was resumed. on an unspecified date in june or july 2006 the first applicant again complained to the prosecutor general, the head of the federal security service and the minister of the interior, stating that her family was being threatened by law-enforcement agents, who had harassed her and her relatives and that her son mr ibragim kushtov had been abducted in order to make him confess to crimes he had not committed. on 27 november 2006, 29 april 2007 and on 21 december 2007 the investigators refused requests from the first and second applicants to have access to the investigation file. on 25 january 2006 she and her colleague ms s.s. the witnesses had thought that the men were fighting and wanted to approach them. on 31 january 2006 the investigators granted victim status to the first applicant and questioned her. she further stated that her other son, mr isa kushtov, was wanted by the authorities and that their family had not kept in contact with him. on 6 february 2006 the investigators questioned ms m.a. stated that she had noticed two traffic police officers sitting in a silver vaz-21099 parked at the scene of the incident and that she had been surprised to see traffic police officers there as usually they patrolled another area in the vicinity of the airport. had told the applicant that the fss was not involved in the abduction and that mr ibragim kushtov might have been detained on the premises of the police’s department for the fight against organised crime in khankala in chechnya. the servicemen, who had prohibited the family from moving around during the search, had scared her relatives and had on one occasion hit mr ibragim kushtov with their rifle butts. on 19 april 2006 the investigators questioned the applicants’ relative mr i.k.
the applicant is a non-governmental organisation that publishes orlovskaya iskra, a newspaper in the orel region. governor stroyev was a candidate at those elections: he was no. according to journalist o., that decision was a direct consequence of a conflict between mr stroyev and the newspaper’s former editor-in-chief who kept criticising stroyev’s policies. the second deputy was a history professor. the article suggested that his decision to leave the communist party was also forced. the newly appointed head of the audit chamber, who was mr stroyev’s man, came to the opposite conclusion, namely that the manipulation of the road funds had been perfectly in order. that case concerned a defamation claim lodged by a governor of another russian region against a journalist of a local newspaper. however, in the opinion of the journalist, there was little hope for impartiality on the part of the regional courts. according to the journalist, the proceedings in the case of mr g. were adjourned, probably because governor stroyev wanted to avoid a scandal before the date of elections. the official of the electoral committee compiled an administrative offence record against the applicant organisation, referring to the legislative provisions defining “campaigning” (see paragraph 40 below):“[the applicant organisation] has committed an administrative offence: publications on 7 and 14 november 2007 containing elements of election campaigning as defined in sections 10 and 55 § 1(6) of the state duma deputies elections act” ...liability for this offence is prescribed under: article 5.5 § 1 of the cao.” the applicant organisation appealed to the zheleznodorozhny district court of orel. the relevant extract from the judgment reads as follows:“having regard to the fact that the publication of the above articles took place during an election campaign period, the judge considers that the above-mentioned articles contained elements of election campaigning, and therefore could be described as campaign literature. the scope of that application remains unclear. on an unspecified date the applicant organisation received a copy of this decision. on an unspecified date the applicant organisation introduced an individual application before the constitutional court of russia, arguing that the impugned provisions of the electoral rights act and the state duma deputies election act ran counter to freedom of the press.
the applicant was born in 1981 and lived in yoshkar-ola before his conviction. a lawyer provided by the state at the applicant’s request. they called investigator a., who arrived with other members of the investigative team, carried out an examination of the place and seized the body. (d)  injuries recorded at the temporary detention facility 14. at 2.35 p.m. on 8 september 2007 the applicant was taken from the ivs to investigator g. to take part in two confrontations, which were carried out between 3.30 p.m. and 5.25 p.m. the applicant, who was represented by lawyer v.k., in a “statement of surrender and confession” (явка с повинной) drawn up by investigator g. at 7 p.m. in the absence of a lawyer, the applicant confessed to participating in a conspiracy to murder a.k. after being taken back to the ivs, the applicant signed a statement of surrender and confession, as requested by the investigator. on 16 july 2008 a criminal complaint lodged by the applicant on 1 february 2008 against the investigator was dismissed after a handwriting expert was unable to determine whether his signature had been forged. he reiterated his self-incriminating statements. had had a fight in a car and that he had seen them delivering several blows to each other. as regards the bruise on the applicant’s neck recorded upon his admission to the sizo on 9 september 2007, the investigator noted that its cause had not been established and concluded that it could have been self-inflicted. on 7 october 2011 the yoshkar-ola town court dismissed an appeal by the applicant against the investigator’s decision of 9 march 2011. it was necessary, inter alia, to establish the applicant’s location and a detailed chronology of the events in which had had participated in the period from 7 until 9 september 2007, taking into account the fact that he had actually been arrested at 3 p.m. on 7 september 2007, as established at the applicant’s trial. on 1 september 2008 the mariy el supreme court – after hearing the applicant and his legal counsel, who confirmed the withdrawal of the request – ruled that the request should not therefore be examined. who had also been in the car, stated that he had seen the applicant beating a.k.
the applicant, mr angelo de tommaso, is an italian national who was born in 1963 and lives in casamassima. 1423/1956, and impose a compulsory residence order on him during that time. he further submitted that no criminal charges had been brought against him since a conviction dating back to 2002. he argued that there was no need to place him under special supervision. in a decision of 11 april 2008, served on 4 july 2008, the bari district court placed the applicant under special supervision for two years. the district court further held:“the findings of the investigation (see documents and certificates in the case file) show that mr angelo de tommaso remains personally involved in various criminal activities, among which the greatest threat to public order and safety is posed by offences against property and weapon- and drug-related offences. on 31 july 2008 the bari prefecture ordered the withdrawal of the applicant’s driving licence. in a decision of 28 january 2009, served on the applicant on 4 february 2009, the court of appeal allowed his appeal and quashed the preventive measure ex tunc. it then observed that in several final judgments delivered between september 1995 and august 1999 the applicant had been convicted of tobacco smuggling. the court of appeal accordingly noted that the applicant’s most recent illegal activities relating to drugs dated back to more than five years before the preventive measure had been imposed. all that the court could hold against him was an offence of absconding, committed on 14 december 2004 (while he had been subject to a compulsory residence order). the note of 26 january 2008 in which the carabinieri mentioned that mr de tommaso associated with convicted offenders (to whom he had been caught speaking) does not appear sufficient to establish his dangerousness, bearing in mind that mr de tommaso has not been the subject of any further judicial proceedings since the decision to impose the preventive measure. in conclusion, in march 2008 there were no specific facts from which to infer persistent dangerousness on the part of the subject, who, after serving his lengthy sentence of imprisonment, has not displayed any conduct justifying the assessment made in the judgment appealed against, which is therefore to be quashed.” 399/02, 13 november 2007; perre and others v. italy, no. 4514/07, 5 january 2010), acknowledged that there had been a violation of article 6 § 1 of the convention on account of the lack of a public hearing, offered to pay a specified sum in respect of the costs relating to this part of the application and requested that this part of the application be struck out.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in poltava. the toilet was not separated from the living area, had no flush, and emitted a foul smell that lingered in the air. he had to take an empty plastic bottle with him so that he could relieve himself during hearing breaks. the government provided no details as to the exact size of the cells, but stated that an inspection carried out at some point after the complaint had been communicated to the government had determined that each cell in the sizo allowed each detainee at least 2.5 sq. m and accommodated ten to twelve prisoners. outside walks did not take place on a daily basis, but at the discretion of the prison authorities, and lasted about twenty to thirty minutes. the applicant’s plank bed was chained to the wall from 5 a.m. to 9 p.m., so he had to stand during this time, although this went against his medical prescription. shower, toilets and dining rooms were also in an unhygienic state. an appropriate temperature in the cells was ensured by radiators, and daily outside walks lasted not less than an hour. on 22 february 2008 the applicant was classified as having group iii disability status (group iii being the least severe category). on 21 august 2008 the applicant was examined by an infectious disease specialist. on 1 february 2009 the applicant was diagnosed with a chronic duodenal ulcer at an acute stage. on 27 february 2009 he was further diagnosed with hiv, chronic compensated hepatitis, a chronic duodenal ulcer in remission, chronic cholecystitis and pancreatitis in remission, and the after-effects of closed head injuries. on 3 april 2009 the applicant was examined by a neurologist, who confirmed the earlier diagnosis. he was advised to register with an infectious disease specialist based near his home.
the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in boscana. at the time of the events the applicant was a police officer. in december 2006 he and another police officer, v.g., on the street and took them to a police station. therefore, on 10 august 2007 the charges against the applicant were dropped. however, on 24 september 2007 that decision was annulled and the applicant was again charged with ill-treating one of the victims during the arrest. during the court proceedings, the two victims submitted that they had been approached by the two police officers on the street and had been asked to accompany them to the police station. the police officers had handcuffed him and had had to punch him in the stomach to make him bend over and enter the vehicle. at the police station, the personal items were returned to the victims. made two different and contradictory statements during the court proceedings. had kicked him at the police station after he had asked where his wallet and documents were, but later submitted that only v.g. had hit him, using a machine gun for that purpose. the applicant was convicted as charged and given a three-year suspended prison sentence. the rest of his statement was not mentioned. in his submissions to the supreme court of justice the applicant’s lawyer argued, inter alia, that the applicant’s conviction had been contrary to article 6 § 1 of the convention because the court of appeal had neither examined the case file nor heard him, the victims or witnesses in person.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in traun. the applicant was employed as a civil servant of the traun municipality (stadtgemeinde traun). on 5 august 2002 the applicant declared to resign from his civil service employment as of 31 august 2002. on 30 december 2003 the applicant appealed. on 18 june 2004 the traun municipal council (gemeinderat) dismissed the appeal, holding that the applicant was not entitled to his salary after 31 august 2002 and rejected his request for suspensive effect of 15 january 2004 as having been filed out of time. the remainder of the applicant’s objection was dismissed. on 5 august 2005 the applicant complained to the constitutional court (verfassungsgerichtshof) against the regional government’s decision of 24 june 2005. on 25 september 2006 the constitutional court declined to examine the complaint and on 15 november 2006, at the applicant’s request, transferred the complaint to the administrative court (verwaltungsgerichtshof). on 3 december 2006 the applicant complained to the administrative court about the municipal council’s failure to decide (säumnisbeschwerde) on his request for suspensive effect of 15 january 2004 (see paragraph  9  above). on 31 january 2007 the administrative court rejected the complaint because the municipal council had not been competent to decide on this issue. on 4 january 2008 the applicant complained to the administrative court about the municipal council’s failure to decide on his request for suspensive effect. on 27 june 2008 the municipal council dismissed the applicant’s appeal against the city council’s decision of 11 december 2003 (see paragraph 8 above) and his request for suspensive effect of 15 january 2004 (see paragraph 9 above). on 9 february 2009 the regional government dismissed the objection. therefore, on 13 march 2009 the administrative court closed the proceedings regarding the regional government’s failure to decide and awarded costs to the applicant. the decision was served on the applicant’s counsel on 9 february 2012.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in london. on 15 february 2001 the investigation department for criminal matters (hereinafter, the “idcm”) was ordered to conduct investigations. at the same time the vienna regional criminal court instructed the vienna tax authority to investigate the case and to submit a final report concerning the amount of taxes evaded. on 22 april 2003 the vienna local tax authority informed the vienna regional criminal court that they had completed the investigations and had sent their findings to another vienna local tax authority which would assess the facts and prepare the final report. on 5 march 2004 the applicant lodged a request for the discontinuation of the criminal proceedings with the vienna regional criminal court. on 14 april 2004 the vienna regional criminal court rejected the applicant’s request as it could not determine the case without having first obtained a final report from the tax authority. on 8 june 2004 the tax authority issued a decision, in which it assessed the applicant’s income tax for the years 1997 and 1998 anew. on 27 july 2009 the vienna regional criminal court dismissed the applicant’s second request for the discontinuation of the criminal proceedings stating that the persecution of the applicant did not seem inadmissible. on 27 november 2009 that decision was confirmed by the vienna court of appeal. the court noted however that the tax authority had still not submitted its final report even though it had concluded the investigations in 2003 and had already issued new tax assessment orders in 2004. it therefore ordered the public prosecutor to obtain the final report without further delay and thereupon to close the investigative phase as soon as possible. on 23 june 2010 the tax authority submitted the final report, covering three pages. on 15 december 2010 the applicant’s appeal lodged with the administrative court was dismissed. on 30 june 2011 the vienna regional civil court (landesgericht für zivilrechtssachen wien), upon the applicant’s request, suspended the official liability proceedings pending the outcome of the criminal proceedings. on 15 april 2011 the vienna court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s objection to the bill of indictment.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in remanzaccio. he was found in the street in a state of intoxication, with scratches on the left side of his face. hoping that she would be able to seek help once outside, she resigned herself to following him. ’s identity papers, and despite the applicant’s assertions that she had been threatened and beaten by her husband, they invited her to go home without offering her help and told a.t. the police sent the criminal complaint to the prosecution on 9 october 2012. on 18 march 2013 the prosecution, finding that no investigative measure had been carried out, again asked the police to investigate the applicant’s allegations rapidly. regarding the episode of june 2012 she stated that a.t. had unsuccessfully attempted to hit her and her daughter. she said that when she had been living at the shelter provided by the association, she had not spoken to her husband on the telephone because she had been told not to. was committed for trial on 28 october 2013. succeeded in catching up with her in the street, where he stabbed her several times in the chest. asked to be tried in accordance with the summary procedure (giudizio abbreviato). with regard to the ill-treatment, the preliminary hearings judge, after hearing witnesses and the applicant’s daughter, considered that the applicant and her children had been living in a climate of violence. at his trial, had confessed to experiencing feelings of hatred towards his wife. however, neither of the parties annexed the judgment to their observations.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in london. after claiming asylum, it would appear that the family were given a period of leave to remain in the netherlands. although the asylum application was unsuccessful the applicant was granted exceptional leave to remain until 2004. the applicant received ten criminal convictions over the period from 16 november 2001 to 4 august 2005. on 2 june 2009 removal directions were set for 17 june 2009. however, they were cancelled on 16 june 2009 when the applicant made an application to this court (application no. the form from july 2009 includes the following statement in reference to the rule 39 measure: “whilst this means that enforced removal is not possible, [the applicant] could reduce the length of time he spends in detention by withdrawing voluntarily”. however, following an appeal by the applicant, the secretary of state withdrew the refusal decision on 12 july 2011. permission was granted on 17 june 2011 but a further application for bail was refused. in a judgment dated 14 november 2011 the administrative court dismissed the claim. however, the fact remained that while he was free he was committing offences of such seriousness as to require him to be imprisoned, including robbery and public order offences. the court also considered whether alternatives to detention could be used such as electronic tagging, monitoring by telephone and regular reporting. at the time the administrative court noted that the interim measure under rule 39 of the rules of court, was awaiting a lead judgment on returns to mogadishu (sufi and elmi, cited above) and it was clear that there would be no resolution of the applicant’s claim - and the interim measure would therefore not be lifted - before that judgment was handed down. consequently, the administrative court did not accept that there was not, at the time the interim measure was indicated, a realistic prospect of removing the applicant within a reasonable time. with regard to the second ground of appeal, the court accepted that if the applicant were able to show that the decisions to maintain his detention were vitiated by public law he would succeed in establishing that the detention was unlawful and would have a claim of false imprisonment.
the applicant was born in 1954 and is currently residing in kostyantynivka. before his arrest the applicant was the managing director of a private company, a. 5. a. concluded a contract with e., a russian company, undertaking to export a certain amount of ferromanganese to russia. the applicant had then forged certificates of quality and fraudulently obtained certificates of origin for the goods. a. had legally bought ferromanganese from the private companies, exported it to russia and received tax refunds. the defence did not object and the statements were read out. the court then proceeded to examine the documents in the file. on 29 september 2004 the applicant’s lawyer requested the court to summon s., k. and r. again (see elements 1-3 in the table below), because the examination of documents had revealed inconsistencies in their pre-trial statements and because the reasons for their failure to appear had not been established. in convicting the applicant the court relied, in particular, on the statements of a number of witnesses given during the pre-trial investigation, as shown in the below table:table. had been wound up and its documentation destroyed confrontation conducted. operations with company f. n., deputy director: contract was fictitiousthe company which was supposed to supply the goods to company f. was deemed by the tax authorities to be fictitiousconfrontation conducted. did not insist on examination p., director: confirmed n.’s statementno confrontation conducted. they stated, inter alia, that the trial court had relied on the evidence of witnesses who had not been examined at the trial and that he should have been tried for smuggling under the criminal code of 1960. the supreme court dismissed the appeals lodged by the applicant and his lawyer, stating that the lower courts’ findings had been based on a substantial amount of evidence, in particular the statements of the directors of the seller companies made at the investigation stage. on 15 may 2009 the applicant was released from detention following a presidential pardon.
the applicant was born in 1967 and is currently serving his prison sentence. his request for a lawyer was allegedly ignored. on the same date the applicant’s arrest report was drawn up which stated that the applicant had been arrested for the murder of o. at 10 p.m. at the police station. he pleaded not guilty and repeated his statements made earlier. according to the applicant, his lawyer immediately indicated to the investigator that, under the code of criminal procedure, the applicant had to be provided with the possibility to talk with him in private before the questioning, with a view to defining the legal defence strategy. having heard that, the applicant insisted on such a meeting. on 17 november 2005 criminal proceedings were instituted against the applicant for illegal production, possession and storage of firearms. he submitted, inter alia, that his defence rights had been violated as he had not been given an opportunity to talk to his lawyer in private before his questioning at the police station on 1 june 2005, with no further details given. from 5 july 2005 to 25 january 2007 the applicant was detained at kyiv pre-trial detention centre no. the quality and quantity of food was unsatisfactory. 18 and 116 in conditions which were detrimental to his health and incompatible with human dignity. that fact had been confirmed by the results of an investigation conducted by the ministry of health and the prosecutor’s office following the applicant’s complaints. on 3 june 2006 the applicant asked the sizo governor to conduct a medical examination as he believed he had contracted hepatitis b because of the failure of the sizo staff to respect hygiene rules. this request was rejected; so was another request for a special diet in view of his possible hepatitis infection. his state of health did not necessitate a special diet.
the case originated in application against ukraine lodged with the court under article 34 of the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (“the convention”) on the date indicated in the appended table. the applicants complained of the excessive length of civil proceedings and of the lack of any effective remedy in domestic law. the court received friendly-settlement declarations under which the first applicant agreed to waive any further claims against ukraine in respect of the facts giving rise to the part of the application concerning her complaints, subject to an undertaking by the government to pay her the amount detailed in the appended table. the payment will constitute the final resolution of this part of the application.
the applicant was born in 1960 and until his conviction lived in the town of slantsy in the leningrad region. in 1991 the applicant sustained a penetrating head injury, which involved the crushing of brain tissue. in 2005 the applicant committed a homicide. on 15 august 2007 the leningrad region court upheld the sentence on appeal. in the remand prison the applicant was detained in a normal cell block where he allegedly faced great difficulties in his daily routine owing to the lack of special arrangements, in particular when using the squat toilet and shared dormitory shower, which lacked handrails and non-slip flooring. on 26 september 2007, when the sentence became final, he was transferred to correctional colony no. in the hospital he was subjected to various medical tests which showed that his health was stable. on 10 october 2008 the deputy head of the correctional colony ordered the applicant’s transfer to a special unit for disabled prisoners. it accommodated only disabled inmates, who were detained in a prison wing located close to the medical unit. the applicant submitted that even after his transfer to the special unit he had not been provided with nursing assistance. the doctors noted that the applicant’s health had remained stable, that he was able to look after himself, and that nursing assistance was not required for him. between 1 february and 18 march 2010, at his own request, the applicant was admitted to the prison hospital for treatment, and on 16 march 2010 he was re-examined by a medical board, which confirmed his right to early release on medical grounds. he was accommodated in a special unit for disabled prisoners. the applicant continued to receive benzonal from his wife and refused to take any substitutes. on 10 june 2010 the tosnenskiy town court dismissed the application for early release on medical grounds, referring to the gravity of the applicant’s offence, the fact that his health status had already been taken into account by the court which sentenced him, and, lastly, to the fact that the applicant’s medical condition had not worsened in detention.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in nagykozár. the applicant had been working as a tax inspector. in 1996 he applied for early retirement on account of disability. as of 1 april 1996, he was declared to have lost 67% of his capacity to work and was granted a disability pension of 114,880 hungarian forints (huf) per month (approximately 370 euros (eur) at the rate of january 2017). that disability assessment was maintained in 1999, 2003 and 2006. the relevant assessment methodology changed as of 1 january 2008. the applicant’s case was reviewed under the new rules in 2009. as a consequence, his disability pension was terminated and, as of 1 july 2009, he was declared suitable for institutional rehabilitation and granted a monthly rehabilitation allowance in the amount of huf 152,820 (approximately eur 490), minus payroll deductions. the monthly amount payable evolved in the period preceding the deadline. cxci of 2011 on the benefits granted to persons with reduced work capacity was enacted. it came into effect on 1 january 2012 and introduced a new system of allowances. on 28 march 2012 the applicant applied for a disability allowance under the new law. the monthly disability allowance corresponding to his situation was eventually set at huf 55,800 (approximately eur 180). on 26 may 2014 the kúria rejected his petition for review on the grounds that he had not relied on any particular breach of the law, as required by the code of civil procedure. following a further legislative amendment of 1 april 2014, the applicant became entitled to a disability allowance of huf 159,100 (approximately eur 520) per month retroactively as of 1 january 2014.
the first applicant was born in 1962 and lives in bizeljsko. the second applicant was born in 1946 and lives in artiče. another witness, the injured party’s husband, testified that b.k. however, stated that he believed that he had only cut down marked trees on the first applicant’s land. the court also appointed an expert, who estimated that the value of the allegedly stolen wood amounted to 2,028 euros (eur). who also appeared as witnesses in the proceedings. he also testified that the second applicant had admitted to him that he had cut down the trees, thinking that they had belonged to his land but that they had failed to agree on how much the second applicant should pay m.p. when pronouncing the verdict, had also given an oral summary of the main reasons (see paragraph 34 below), however, no indication of that can be found in the records of the hearing. in 2010, the local court reconstituted the files. see paragraph 9 above), which were served on the first applicant’s counsel on 17 august 2010. had been seen transporting trees over the injured party’s land. who also based them on the documents contained in the restored case file. in particular, the judge considered the statements of two witnesses, f.h. on 6 january and 1 september 2011 respectively, the supreme court dismissed the applicants’ applications for the protection of legality, holding that only the operative part of the judgment, namely the verdict, could have interfered with the rights of the parties, while the purpose of written grounds was to enable a decision to be reviewed by higher instances. however, in certain situations, such as when a judge was absent for a long time or died, the law had to be interpreted as permitting another judge to give the written grounds.
the applicants in each case were affected by decisions of the russian federal penal authority («федеральная служба исполнения наказаний», “the fsin”) on prisoners’ allocation to post-conviction penal facilities. the applicants’ individual circumstances are detailed below. she was represented before the court by ms l. ovchinnikova, a lawyer practising in vladivostok. on 22 may 2008 mr r. was convicted of drug-related crimes and sentenced to ten years’ imprisonment in a strict-regime penal facility. in september 2008 the head of the primorskiy regional department of the fsin decided to transfer mr r. to the krasnoyarsk region, some 5,000 kilometres from vladivostok. on 30 september 2008 the primorskiy regional department of the fsin informed ms polyakova that her request for mr r. to be allowed to remain in the facility in the primorskiy region had been refused, and advised the applicant as follows:“... pursuant to article 73 § 2 of the ces and the instruction by the fsin of russia, on 14 september 2008 mr r. was sent to serve the remainder of his sentence in the care of the krasnoyarskiy regional department of the fsin. the couple are the parents of linda and iman kibalo. on 29 may 2007 the supreme court of dagestan found mr kh. ms natalya kibalo asked the fsin to transfer mr kh. on 7 december 2010 the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 17 june 2010 on appeal. she visited her husband once in 2011 and once in 2012 but could not afford to travel at all in 2013 or 2014. on 11 april 2012 the fsin submitted their objections to the zamoskvoretskiy district court of moscow, which read, in particular, as follows:“the claimant’s arguments that he is unable to receive visits from his relatives cannot be taken into account, because the possibility of receiving visits from next of kin and relatives is governed by the norms of the russian code on the execution of sentences and is unrelated to the location of any penal facility.” the applicant, who had been granted legal aid. was represented before the court by mr e. markov, a lawyer practising in strasbourg. the conviction was upheld on appeal and became final.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in zhangala, kazakhstan. in june 2000 the applicant moved from kazakhstan to russia, where he married ms g.k., a russian citizen, with whom he had two daughters who were born in 2000 and 2002. the applicant and his family lived in the settlement of slantseviy rudnik in the saratov region. the applicant regularly visited his relatives in kazakhstan. 32469 granting the applicant yet another three-year residence permit, valid until 20 august 2016. according to the notice handed to the applicant at the border crossing, he was subject to exclusion from russia. on 13 may 2014 the applicant, through his representative, lodged an appeal against the exclusion order with the frunzenskiy district court of saratov (hereinafter “the district court”). the applicant stated, in particular, that since 2000 he had been married to a russian national and had two children who were also russian nationals. on 25 july 2014 the regional court examined the applicant’s complaint. on the same date, 25 july 2014, the regional court upheld the applicant’s exclusion until 2030. in its decision it did not cite any documents submitted by the fss as serving as the basis for the ban, apart from noting that the measure had been imposed on the basis of the report of 14 january 2014 and the relevant internal instructions of the fss. he stressed that the applicant had never committed criminal or administrative violations and that the exclusion and the re-entry ban had disrupted the applicant’s family life. as for the applicant’s complaint concerning the interference order with his right to respect for family life caused by the sixteen-year exclusion, the supreme court left this unexamined. in addition, the government submitted copies of the decisions of the regional court taken between 2011 and 2015 in respect of the following decisions taken by the domestic authorities: eight decisions granting appeals against expulsion orders imposed on account of criminal convictions and violations of immigration regulations, and three decisions granting appeals against exclusion orders and re-entry bans imposed on account of violations of immigration regulations.
the first applicant was born in tanzania. on 29 november 2008, the applicants requested that both paternity cases be reopened in order to establish formally e.’s fatherhood of l. and s. the first applicant submitted, in english, that e. was the children’s biological father and that he “had warned me not to tell the truth about the fatherhood of the children”. when l. was born in january 2004 the second applicant was considered to be the father. they had separated in 2005 but had continued to live together until the beginning of 2006. e. had come to see her at the hospital after she had given birth to s. he knew that he was the biological father of both boys. in 2008 she had told e. that he would have to take care of the children soon and that she would report to the authorities that he was the biological father. he had replied that he did not want any responsibility for the children and ended their relationship. the second applicant confirmed that he and the first applicant had not had a sexual relationship since l.’s birth. e. had stated that he did not want to take financial responsibility for the boys. the second applicant still saw the boys regularly and would continue to do so after the case had been settled. their relationship had continued until 2008. he and another man had had sexual relations with her at the same time, but he could not recall when. he could not remember whether they had had sexual relations in the fertile period between december 2005 and 26 february 2006 and they had not discussed whether he was the biological father. by the same line of reasoning, they did not find a basis for reopening the paternity case regarding l. under the stricter conditions set out in section 25 taken in conjunction with section 24 of the children act. in addition he pointed out that the second applicant had not been aware until autumn 2008 that the first applicant and e. had had a long relationship, and that he was probably not l.’s father.
details of the applicants are set out in the appendix. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 28 august 2005 the commission ruled in favour of the third and fourth applicants. on 17 april 2006 the commission issued a new decision, awarding compensation to all the applicants as they were all heirs of the legal predecessor. the second-instance body ruled upon a series of appeals and gave decisions within 55 days, 65 days, 30 days, 53 days, 14 days, 78 days, 94 days, and 132 days. the administrative court gave rulings within 1 year 8 months and 17 days, 7 months and 22 days, 7 months and 27 days, 3 months and 23 days, 5 months, 5 months and 19 days, 4 months and 16 days, and 4 months and 23 days. on at least four occasions, when initiating an administrative dispute before the administrative court, the applicants explicitly referred to section 37 and/or section 58 of the administrative disputes act (see paragraph 26 below) and urged the administrative court to decide on the merits of their request. the supreme court’s decision was served on the applicants on 8 july 2014. on 25 july 2014 the applicants each lodged a constitutional appeal against the decision of the supreme court, relying on, inter alia, articles 6 and 13 of the convention. the government submitted that, on the same day, in addition to those constitutional appeals against the supreme court’s decision, the applicants had also each lodged a second constitutional appeal against the decision of the administrative court of 27 march 2014. no copies of those second constitutional appeals were provided by either party. on 28 october 2014 the constitutional court rejected the applicants’ constitutional appeals against the supreme court’s decision as premature, given that the commission was still considering their compensation request. on 28 december 2015 the constitutional court issued another decision dismissing the applicants’ constitutional appeals. in its ruling, the constitutional court constantly referred to the “impugned judgments”. there is no information in the case file as to when that decision was served on the applicants.
at the time of the events giving rise to the present application, the applicants lived in istanbul and their children attended different public elementary schools. on unspecified dates in december 2001 the applicants (save for mr yılmaz yavuz) each sent petitions to the bağcılar, esenler and kadıköy education directorates with a request for their children to be provided with education in kurdish in their respective elementary schools. the istanbul state security court granted the public prosecutor’s request that day. on 9 january 2002 the public prosecutor instructed the anti‑terrorism branch of the istanbul security directorate to conduct the searches with a view to finding evidence that could link the relevant persons to the pkk as aiders and abettors. the applicants were arrested and taken into police custody following the searches on 13 january 2002. a note drafted by the police also suggests that the applicants other than meryem peker, halime günana, asiya karadeniz and yılmaz yavuz were illiterate. it appears that in the meantime, some of the applicants’ families contacted the istanbul bar association seeking legal aid for their relatives during their detention in police custody. on 16 january 2002 the istanbul state security court rejected a request by the lawyer to have the decision rendered by the judge set aside. some of the applicants claimed that they had submitted petitions after hearing about it from other parents at school or on television. on the same day the public prosecutor filed an objection concerning the decision to release the applicants, claiming that it was evident from the statements made by them following their arrest that they had submitted the petitions in an organised manner with the aim of assisting the pkk’s “politicisation” process. the court did not provide any reasons for its decision. the next day they were remanded in custody. in the indictment the public prosecutor stated that following the arrest and conviction of their leader abdullah öcalan, the pkk had set out to pursue new policies. when viewed against this background, the petitions in question – which had been submitted to certain authorities on predetermined dates and times – could not be considered to be individual acts. the judgment became final on 5 june 2003.
the applicant was born in 2001 and lives in st petersburg. had attempted to convince her and other staff members to falsely accuse the applicant’s father of assaulting ms k. and ms pt. by a letter of 13 march 2006 the local department of education informed the applicant’s father that an internal inquiry had established that teachers ms k. and ms p. had made some of the children sleep outside the sleeping quarters. she described the incident of 7 november 2005, complained that during the sleeping hours her son had been occasionally locked in the toilets with the lights off, and submitted that as a result of such treatment he had developed nervous tics. it also noted that the local department of education had failed in its obligation under section 9 of the minors act to inform the district prosecutor’s office of the applicant’s ill-treatment (see paragraph 134 below). ms k. had used physical force against those children who had resisted. he had, however, on occasions suffered allergic reactions. on 11 june 2008, in reply to a complaint by the applicant’s mother, the st petersburg prosecutor’s office again criticised the kirovskiy district prosecutor’s office for delays in the conduct of the pre-investigation inquiry and for its ineffectiveness. on 1 december 2008 the investigator questioned the mother of another child who had attended the nursery school with the applicant. most of them stated that their children had never complained of having been mistreated by ms k. or ms p. one of them stated that her son had on occasions been punished by the teachers; in particular he had been made to sleep outside the sleeping quarters, in the changing room. on 9 october 2009 a panel of medical experts examined the applicant’s medical records and issued an expert opinion. on 11 march 2009 the psychologist treating the applicant stated to the investigator that the applicant had been suffering from a neurological disorder since november 2005. the decisions to suspend the investigation were taken by the investigator on the basis of medical certificates showing that ms k. was on maternity leave and could not therefore participate in investigative measures. it found that the investigation had been ineffective. on 15 november 2012 the st petersburg city court quashed that decision on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in chernigiv. the relevant part of the ruling read:“acting investigator has applied to the court with a request to authorize search of the dwelling of [the applicant] ... with a view to locating a mobile telephone “nokia‑7270” stolen from private entrepreneur [k.] ... [theft] having taken place on 2 december 2006 at night. on 30 january 2007 the police searched the applicant’s flat in his presence and seized three mobile telephones, which, according to the applicant, belonged to him and his family members. as appears from a poorly legible copy of the list of the seized items prepared by the police, two of these telephones were apparently of samsung and one – of nokia make. according to the applicant, on an unspecified date the seized telephones were returned, and neither he nor any of his family members were ever indicted or involved in any other way in the criminal proceedings giving rise to the search warrant. on 3 march 2007 the applicant lodged an administrative complaint with the district court, alleging that his home had been searched arbitrarily and seeking moral damages for breaching inviolability of his home. on 5 march 2007 the district court refused to examine the above complaint, citing a lack of jurisdiction. it noted that all complaints regarding the unlawfulness of procedural actions by law-enforcement authorities taken in connection with a criminal investigation had to be lodged within the framework of relevant criminal proceedings based on articles 234 and 236 of the code of criminal procedure of ukraine (“the ccp”), then in force. the applicant appealed against that decision. in the applicant’s situation, such a remedy would not be effective, since he had no procedural status in the criminal proceedings at issue, and had never been informed of the progress of those proceedings. moreover, it was not certain whether or when the case would reach trial stage. however, as the applicant considered himself to have been a victim of an arbitrary search, regardless of the outcome of the relevant criminal investigation, he also considered that he had standing to bring an administrative complaint under articles 2 and 4 of the code of administrative justice of ukraine (“the caj”). on 15 may 2007 the kyiv administrative court of appeal rejected the appeal by the applicant, having essentially endorsed the findings of the first-instance court. he reiterated the arguments raised in his ordinary appeal and additionally submitted that his claim against the police for non-pecuniary damages could not be examined and resolved within the framework of criminal proceedings against a third party. on 13 may 2009 the higher administrative court of ukraine rejected the applicant’s cassation appeal.
the applicant was born in 1941 and lives in staryy oskol, belgorod region. on 6 may 2005 the applicant concluded a preliminary sale agreement with mr n. regarding a plot of land with a small house under construction situated in the belgorod region. on 10 october 2008 the son of the deceased, mr n. junior, sold the plot of land to another person, who registered her property right. later, the applicant sought to register her property right over the plot of land and found that it already had another registered owner. she then sued mr n. junior before courts. on 9 april 2009 the starooskolskiy town court of the belgorod region declared the sale contract of 10 october 2008 null and void. mr n. junior was declared the owner of the plot of land and of the house. on 4 august 2009 the belgorod regional court partly modified this judgment. it decreased the amount of damages to rub 246,569, notably quashing the part relating to unjust enrichment. on unspecified date the applicant lodged a supervisory review application. on 11 may 2010 mr n.’s son lodged a supervisory review application. as repeatedly indicated the european court (ryabykh v. russia, no. legal certainty presupposes that it is not permissible to have a second examination of the once decided case in the absence of fundamental errors. taking into account the aforementioned principle, the final decision in the present case should be the judgment of the belgorod regional court of 4 august 2009 which granted certain damages to the claimant and rejected her claims for the rest, including as regards unjust enrichment. on 3 november 2010 a single judge at the supreme court refused the applicant’s supervisory review application.
on 25 march 2004 the applicant company concluded a contract with univerzal banka ad (hereinafter “the bank”), a private institution based in belgrade. under the terms of this contract, the applicant company acquired a debt belonging to the bank resulting from a final court judgment of 28 december 1999. that judgment was rendered against a socially-owned company called mehanizacija (hereinafter “the debtor company”) with its seat in vladičin han. on 26 july 2005 the applicant company concluded a settlement with the debtor company, which was later annulled following an application by the debtor company by a decision of the leskovac commercial court of 22 january 2009. that decision became final on 3 march 2010. on 24 december 2001 the leskovac commercial court ordered the debtor company to pay the applicant company specified amounts. on 2 february 2005, upon the applicant company’s application to that effect, the leskovac commercial court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment. on 1 march 2010 the leskovac commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor company. as a result, all of the other ongoing enforcement proceedings against the debtor company were stayed. the applicant company duly reported its claims based on the above-mentioned judgments. on 15 october 2010 the leskovac commercial court recognised a part of the applicant company’s claims and instructed the applicant company to initiate civil proceedings in respect of the remainder. on 29 may 2012 the leskovac commercial court ruled partly in favour of the applicant company and dismissed the remainder of its claims. that decision was upheld by the commercial appeals court on 25 october 2013. the domestic courts found that the contract which the applicant company had concluded with the bank (see paragraph 5 above) entitled it only to the recovery of the amount paid for the transfer of the debt owed to the bank in question, not the judgment debt itself. the insolvency proceedings are still ongoing.
the applicants were born in 1972, 1980, 1937 and 1925 respectively and live in vilnius. submitted the necessary documents to the kaunas city municipality. the kaunas city council held that 22.42 sq. m of the house would be returned to l.n., m would be returned in natura to the third applicant. the decision also indicated that the remaining part of the house would be returned in natura when the tenants of the house had been provided with other premises, or compensation would be paid if the premises were not returned. the third and the fourth applicant in natura. the third and the fourth applicants (see paragraph 13 above), the kaunas city municipality assessed the value of the entire house and on 8 october 1996 set it at 239,190 lithuanian litai (ltl – approximately 69,274 euros (eur)) in total, the third applicant signed for himself and as l.n. the third and the fourth applicants were paid compensation on 17 october 1996 and 18 october 1996. on 1 june 2009, in accordance with an application by l.n., in november 2006 the kaunas city municipality administration asked the centre of registers to assess the value of the house and to establish the difference between the value assessed and the compensation that had already been paid. in january 2008 the centre of registers assessed the market value of the house in 1996 at ltl 855,000 (approximately eur 247,625) and established that the remaining compensation to be paid was ltl 615,809 (approximately eur 178,350) in total. the compensation was adjusted in line with the inflation index and amounted to ltl 818,458 (approximately eur 237,042) and was paid on 17 july 2008. died, and the first, the second applicants, who became her heirs, the third and the fourth applicants lodged a claim with the kaunas regional administrative court, asking for the annulation of one part of the order of the authorities of 19 march 2008 (see paragraph 20 above), and to oblige the authorities to calculate the remaining compensation as well as the compensation that had already been paid in accordance with the market price of the house in 2008. the applicants appealed, and on 29 march 2010 the supreme administrative court partly overturned the decision of the court of first instance.
the applicant was born in 1977 (in some of the documents submitted his year of birth was also stated as 1979). on 23 february 2006 the applicant was taken by russian police officers from astana to moscow. according to the government’s submission to the court, upon his arrival at the orb-2 in the evening of 23 february 2006 the applicant underwent a medical examination, which established that he had haematomas around his right eye and an abrasion on his back. he again had to memorise the details regarding the crimes allegedly perpetrated by him; the police officers instructed him regarding places, methods and other details concerning the crimes he was accused of perpetrating. a statement dated 13 september 2007); and mr m. ga. ( he does not complain about the state of his health. the applicant was not provided with a copy of that decision. refused to investigate the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment, stating, inter alia:“... according to the record of the initial medical examination carried out by the ivs of the orb-2, the examinations conducted on 7 march, 17 march, 29 march, 10 april, 24 may, 13 june and 11 july 2006 did not reveal any bodily injuries ...according to the documents received from sizo 20/1 dated 14 march 2006 and 5 june 2006 concerning bodily injuries allegedly sustained by a. mukayev, the leninskiy district prosecutor’s office refused to institute criminal proceedings. the escort guards had behaved normally towards him ...”the applicant was not provided with a copy of this decision. on 26 february 2006 the investigator appointed mr g. ber. as his lawyer, but the investigators did not allow him access to the applicant. ... under the law, a lawyer must obtain the approval of the head of the bar association for him to represent a client in criminal proceedings. on the basis of the complaints received by the bar association against the lawyer g. ber., his complaints were dismissed as unsubstantiated. in respect of the applicant’s allegations of torture, the trial court stated that there were“... no grounds for distrusting the statement given by the operational search officer mr as.vak.
the applicants are:1) mr oleg petrovich orlov, who was born in 1953,2) mr artem dmitrievich vysotskiy, who was born in 1974,3) mr stanislav valeryevich goryachikh, who was born in 1986, and4) mr karen edvardovich sakhinov, who was born in 1982. the second applicant was a reporter for ren tv, a russian television company. one of the intruders told him in unaccented russian that they were from the ministry of the interior. they then pulled a black plastic bag over his head and, continuing to beat him, took him out of the room and down to the minibus. (a)  main witness statements taken during the investigation 17. who stated that their hotel was usually guarded by police security officers, but they had been called off duty at about 9 p.m. on 23 november 2007 when a deputy minister of the interior of ingushetia had telephoned the hotel and ordered them to leave the premises. the witness had asked the second deputy minister whether he had been aware that his security had been called off, and he had confirmed that he had been aware of it. on 24 november 2007 the investigators again questioned the third applicant, whose statement was similar to the account before the court. he also stated that the abductors, who had acted as a well-organised professional group, had beaten him and the other applicants severely, and that he had lost consciousness at least once. on 26 november 2007 the investigators questioned police sergeant i.s., he had not known that on that date the applicants had been staying at the hotel and learnt of their abduction and beating only the following morning when he read the police service incidents report. on 18 january 2008 the investigators questioned first deputy minister of the interior of ingushetia mr s. seliverstov, whose statement was similar to that given by mr v. selivanov (see the paragraph above). he was discharged from hospital on 4 december 2007. telephoned the hotel at about 9 p.m. and recalled the police security officers; [...]9) to identify the police officers who had manned the checkpoints on motorway “kavkaz” on 23 november 2007 and question them about the passage of the gazel minibus and examine the passing vehicles’ registration logs; [...]15) to identify persons who had been staying at the hotel at the material time and question them about the events; [...]17) to establish whether there were cctv cameras inside and outside the hotel and examine their contents; [...]” 51. had they been members of illegal armed groups, they would have targeted the officials and not the applicants;-  the perpetrators identified themselves to the hotel receptionists as members of an anti-terrorism unit.
the applicant was born in 1940 and lives in tambov. on 8 august 2003 the justice of the peace of the 1st court circuit of the leninskiy district of the tambov region ordered municipal unitary enterprise of housing maintenance no. 1 («умпжх №1», hereinafter “debtor company”) to pay 348 euros (eur) to ms lisova aleksandra semenovna. the judgment became final on 19 august 2003. on 11 september 2003 the bailiffs’ service initiated enforcement proceedings. following ms lisova’s death, on 08 july 2005 the justice of the peace of the 1st court circuit of the leninskiy district of the tambov region replaced the initial applicant, mrs lisova, by her successor, mrs karpesh, in the enforcement proceedings. the award was subsequently index-linked in the course of the enforcement proceedings by the decisions of 02 march 2006 (final on 14 march 2006), 09 april 2007 (final on 20 april 2007), 09 january 2008 (final on 22 january 2008), and 27 march 2008 (final on 08 april 2008). each decision replaced and cancelled the previous one. the award has not been paid to the applicant to date. the company was incorporated as a municipal unitary enterprise set up by a decision of the local administration and provided housing maintenance services. the company had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to it by the administration in order to carry out their statutory activities. on 30 may 2008 the debtor company was declared insolvent and liquidation proceedings started. as a result, the company was liquidated on 27 may 2009.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in vila nova de famalicão. on 26 november 2003 the administrator of the estate (cabeça-de-casal) gave statements (declarações da cabeça-de-casal) during the proceedings and on 27 january 2004 she identified at least fifty people as being j.c. on 13 february and 13 june 2004 two additional groups of heirs sought to intervene in the proceedings as parties. the applicant was notified of these requests on 23 may 2005. on 21 april 2004 the administrator of the estate submitted a list of j.c. lodged a request to be allowed to intervene in the proceedings. on 24 june 2009 the administrator of the estate requested permission to step down from his post for health reasons. on 15 october 2009 the court granted her request and appointed a new administrator of the estate. on 7 june 2010, after requesting an extension of the initial thirty-day time-limit, the expert submitted his report. criticised the expert’s report, on 9 march 2011 the expert submitted a second report. between 7 january 2008 and 18 april 2013, a meeting of the parties was scheduled, re-scheduled or postponed twelve times, the last of them for an unknown date. between 11 february 2008 and 18 april 2013 the court was informed four times of the deaths of parties to the proceedings. procedural steps were taken to identify their heirs in order to continue the proceedings with those heirs as parties. on 6 february 2014 the administrator of the estate informed the court that she was unable to obtain information about the missing addresses of some of the heirs of a deceased party. according to the latest information received by the court on 10 january 2016, on that date the proceedings were still pending at first instance.
the applicant was born in 1944 and lives in kaliningrad. until 1999 the applicant was married to z. and was living with her in a state-owned flat which had been provided to z.’s parents. the applicant was registered as living in that flat. b. occupied a room in a three-room communal flat under a social tenancy agreement. the other two rooms were occupied by her neighbours. they never married and the applicant was not registered as living in the room. in may 2009 b. died and her neighbours locked the applicant out of the flat. on 28 september 2009 the applicant instituted court proceedings against the local administration, seeking recognition of his right to occupy the room as b.’s family member. the local administration did not appeal against the judgment of 6 may 2010. the third parties appealed against that judgment to the kaliningrad regional court (“the regional court”). they submitted that b. had on several occasions chased the applicant away. on 22 september 2010 the regional court quashed the judgment of 6 may 2010 and dismissed the applicant’s claims. the above circumstances are not in themselves exceptional, in particular given that no irrefutable evidence had been submitted to the court to prove that ms brazhnikova l. p. had let mr zakharov live in the flat as a family member rather than as a temporary resident. as well as acknowledging his right to occupy the flat in question. on 3 march 2011 a judge of the supreme court of russia (“the supreme court”) refused to refer the applicant’s application for supervisory review of the decision of 22 september 2010 to the civil chamber of the supreme court for examination, finding no grounds for such review and relying on the principle of legal certainty.
on 26 june 2006 the leskovac commercial court ordered ad perper-agrar, a socially-owned company based in bošnjace (hereinafter “the debtor”) to pay the applicant specified amounts on account of damages. that judgment became final on 14 july 2006. on 31 october 2006, upon the applicant’s request to that effect, the leskovac commercial court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the applicant the enforcement costs. on 27 may 2011 the leskovac commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor. on 3 february 2012 the applicant’s claim was formally recognised. the insolvency proceedings are still ongoing. on 22 april 2003, the debtor had been privatised and changed its name to ad perper-agrar. on 5 may 2005 the privatisation contract had been annulled and on 8 september 2006 the debtor’s name was changed to agrar fruit. according to the serbian ministry of economy, the debtor is still a company predominantly comprised of socially-owned capital (see http://www.priv.rs/ministarstvo-privrede/90/agrar-fruit--u-stecaju.shtml/companyid=1238, accessed on 6 december 2016). in their additional observations of 19 april 2016 the government informed the court that the applicant had transferred its judgment claims to a third person on 28 october 2015. on 9 november 2016, as a response to the government’s additional observations, the applicant submitted that the contract regarding the transfer of the claims in question had been terminated by 11 december 2015.
the applicant was born in 1968 and her two sons in 2001 (d.b.) in the period between 2002 and march 2009 the family lived together in their home in s., a small town located on the central dalmatian coast, north-west of the town of split. the child is very anxious and upset when the issue of going to the father is mentioned, [as evidenced by his] emotional reaction. in view of the applicant’s hospitalisation (see paragraph 12 above), the centre recommended that the children be temporarily placed in the care of their maternal grandparents, that the father be granted contact rights, to be exercised every second weekend in i. and that the children be referred to the polyclinic for the protection of children in zagreb for treatment in order for them to overcome their emotional difficulties. on 19 october 2009 the split social welfare centre submitted its report and recommendation, stating that reconciliation between the spouses was not possible because their relationship was deeply strained. the applicant did not attend the hearing on 5 november 2010 at which the court decided to hear as witnesses at the next hearing scheduled for 1 february 2011 the older son’s school teacher and school pedagogue, the younger son’s kindergarten teacher, and the psychiatrist, dr j.š. bi-monthly reports prepared by the supervising officer (who has been visiting the children at their father’s home twice a month) and various documents prepared by the split social welfare centre since 30 may 2011 suggest that only on a few occasions was the applicant able to see the children, not in i., but in s., and then only from a distance and for a very short time. he also submitted that he had acted in accordance with the instructions of the supervising officer, who had advised him against forcing the children to go and visit the applicant against their will. the applicant did not appeal against that decision. at the same hearing the court ordered the split social welfare centre to conduct a thorough examination of both parents and the children. the older son cried, refused to see the applicant and stated that he wanted her to leave. ...it is to be noted that any involvement of children in conflict between parents ... inevitably has harmful consequences for their development. see paragraph 63 above) stated that during the first two therapy sessions she could not gain the children’s trust, and that they perceived any contact with their mother as a threat to the current state of affairs and as bringing a change they could not accept. in her report of 19 september 2013 the psychiatrist dr d.b., at a hearing held on 31 august 2015 the applicant, relying on the above expert opinion, requested that i.b.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in bacău. m, which he shared with eleven prisoners; a second measuring 39.36 sq. m, shared with seventeen other prisoners. toiletries were provided within the limits of the prison budget. the food prepared was always tested by the prison doctor and a representative of the prisoners and the results were marked in a register. m, including a storage closet of 0.75 sq. m available for several non-consecutive periods totalling ten months. according to the government, the cells in which the applicant was accommodated were put in use on 1 may 2012 when new mattresses and bed clothes were distributed. hot water was provided for two hours twice per week while cold water was provided without interruption. according to the regulations in force at the relevant time a prisoner had the right to receive for free during a year a maximum of six tubes of toothpaste, twelve rolls of toilet paper, 10 kg of washing powder, three kilograms of poor quality soap and 3 litres of bleach. between april 2013 and august 2014, washing powder, chlorine, soap and toilet paper were distributed to prisoners on a monthly basis. he was released with the prescription of hepatoprotective and anti-inflammatory drugs and a special diet. he was diagnosed with lateral, latero-frontal maxillary edentation and latero-terminal mandibulary edentation. on 28 august 2013 he was treated for an abscess and was prescribed antibiotics. on 18 december 2013 in reply to the applicant’s request the national prisons administration confirmed that he needed dental prostheses for which the price should be calculated by the prison dentist.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in kharkiv. who tried to obtain false confessions from her concerning her and other persons’ involvement in drug dealing. however, the applicant was neither arrested, nor detained by the police at that time. on 17 april 2009 this complaint was rejected as unsubstantiated. on 31 march 2010 kyivskyy district court in kharkiv, which examined the criminal case against the applicant, ordered the prosecutor’s office to inquire into her ill-treatment complaint lodged again during the trial. on 26 june 2009 a new set of criminal proceedings was instituted against the applicant on suspicion of selling opium to three men on 24 june 2009 and of storing a jar of opium in her house (“the second set of criminal proceedings”). on an unspecified date the prosecutor’s office began a preliminary investigation into the applicant’s complaints, in the course of which a number of people were questioned as potential witnesses, including the police officers implicated by the applicant in her ill-treatment, the lay witnesses, who had signed the police report concerning seizure of opium from the applicant on 24 june 2009, the three men implicated in buying opium from the applicant, the applicant’s partner, brother, guests, and the applicant herself. two men identified as the lay witnesses gave statements largely consistent with the police officers’ submissions. the three men identified by the police officers as the drug buyers denied buying any opium from the applicant and submitted that they had visited her that day to borrow some money. her brother), and two persons identified by the applicant as the guests present during the purported forced entry, gave statements similar to the ones the applicant had provided to the department of the interior on 26 june 2009. on 21 january 2011 a further medical report was obtained. the applicant’s former partner) and a.b. ( her brother), also questioned again in september 2011, confirmed their previous statements that they had witnessed a forced entry and assault on the applicant. based on the case file, the second guest (the fourth person, who had earlier contended that he had witnessed the forced entry), was not questioned. it appears that the applicant was not informed of the above decision in due time, as in 2012 the applicant’s lawyers unsuccessfully contacted the law-enforcement authorities to obtain information on whether there had been any progress in the proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1934 and lives in strausberg. before the reunification of germany he lived in the former gdr, serving in the police force from 1952 to 1954. he was sentenced to one year and eight months’ imprisonment and served 14 months in prison. on 13 february 1995 the president of the frankfurt (oder) regional court, acting as the competent authority, awarded him compensation of 8,250 german marks, equivalent to about 4,218 euros (eur), pursuant to section 17 in conjunction with section 16 §§ 1 and 3 of the criminal rehabilitation act. on 14 november 2007 he was granted a special monthly pension of eur 250 pursuant to section 17a of the criminal rehabilitation act, with the reservation that information held by the federal commissioner for the records of the state security service of the former gdr (“the federal commissioner”) must not contradict the applicant’s statements. the president considered that the decisions had been unlawful from the beginning as the prerequisites for either entitlement had never been met and that the applicant could not legitimately rely on these decisions being maintained, as he had obtained them by giving information that was substantially incorrect. on 9 march 2009 the applicant applied for judicial review of that decision and asked to be heard in person. his father had returned, incapacitated for work, from soviet captivity only in 1947 or 1948. in any case, he ruled out that the wording was his own and that he had known that the reports were to be used by the state security service. acknowledging that in a dictatorship which lasted for decades, minor involvement with the regime was frequent, it considered that the applicant’s position as a secret informant of the state security service did not itself suffice to trigger the application of that provision. this could be assumed when a secret informant voluntarily reported on others and the reports could potentially cause persecution by the state security service. in that case compensation payments were ruled out, no matter how great the offender’s own suffering had been. the courts were not to compare the extent of suffering involved. the applicant mainly reported on their contacts with west germany and west berlin. he had reported twice on others, even before being recruited by the state security service.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in sofia. the applicant’s father co-owned a plot of land and a house in sofia. by a supplementary decision of 25 march 1987, based on section 100 of the territorial and urban planning act, the mayor determined the exact location, size and other details in respect of the future flat offered in compensation. it was to have a surface of 109 square metres and was identified as flat no. 17 on the fifth floor of a residential building which was to be constructed by a state-owned enterprise. lastly, it was decided that the flat would be given directly to the applicant. in 1990 the sofia municipality settled him temporarily in a flat which was property of the state-owned enterprise b. 9. on an unspecified date the construction of the building where the flat was to be located was commenced. in 1996 the sofia municipality concluded a contract with the company b., successor of the state-owned enterprise, delegating to it the construction works. the company was under an obligation to build, at its own expense, and deliver to the municipality, within twenty-four months, the flats earmarked for compensation of the expropriated owners; in exchange of that it was to become the owner of the remainder of the building. however, the construction was not completed within the deadline set. the applicant submitted a certificate of occupancy of the building at issue, dated 5 october 2007, but claimed that it only concerned “certain construction activities” and that the building was not in use. in the meantime, the applicant filed several requests with the municipal authorities in sofia asking them to complete the compensation procedure and deliver the flat due to him. in another letter of 13 august 2004 the municipality informed the applicant that it was the company that was responsible to deliver the flat to him. in 2007 the applicant was evicted from the flat where he had been temporarily settled, after it had been sold to a private party in the context of the winding-up of the company b. in the ensuing judicial proceedings whereby he challenged unsuccessfully the eviction it was established that at that time the applicant was not living in the flat, and that it was uninhabitable and in a very poor state of repair.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in athens. the applicant is a businessman and chairman of a public limited company. the applicant was not referred to by name as being suspected of involvement in the offences in question. the prosecutor’s warrant was worded as follows:“on the basis of decision no. and by other persons connected with them and acting in collaboration with them. on 24 september 2010 a police officer, accompanied by a deputy prosecutor, went to the applicant’s home. the search lasted for twelve and a half hours. a 41-page list of items and documents was drawn up. on 13 february 2013 the indictment division dismissed his application. the main issue examined by it was whether a search and seizure operation could be carried out in the course of a preliminary police investigation. it noted that the preliminary police investigation (προκαταρκτική εξέταση) and the subsequent pre-trial investigation (προανάκριση) pursued a common goal, that of establishing the truth. it held that this difference was not such as to deprive the bodies responsible for investigating a case of an important tool for uncovering decisive items of evidence, otherwise there would be a serious risk of a finding that there was no case to answer without the authorities having been able to exhaust all the investigatory options available to them. the indictment division held that the preliminary police investigation was judicial and not administrative in nature and that it was one stage in the criminal procedure. in the indictment division’s view, this meant that in deciding whether to bring a prosecution the public prosecutor’s office had to use all the means at its disposal to gather evidence, in line with article 178 of the ccp and the procedure applicable to the pre-trial investigation, with the exception of evidence that was incompatible with the nature of a preliminary police investigation (such as, for example, the memorandum of defence as a suspect and issuing an arrest warrant). it pointed out that any subsequent proceedings would have been impossible if this evidence had not been gathered, and that, given that these items were particularly decisive and crucial for the investigation of the case, they ought to remain in the case file.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in reykjavik. for some unknown reason, the police had not instigated an investigation. on 8 november 2010 pressan published an article about comments made by a to a newspaper where he rejected all the allegations and threatened pressan with a lawsuit for being the first to publish the allegations. pictures of the sisters were published with all the articles. by judgment of 22 february 2012 the district court found in favour of the applicant. as regards the issue of legality, the district court came to the conclusion that section 15 of the printing act did not apply to material published solely on the internet and that section 15, subsection 3, could not be applied by analogy in the case. there would be general elections, where the same rules about eligibility and the right to vote applied as in the parliamentary election”...when the statements in sections a-c are compared to the sisters’ writings on their website on 2 november 2010, the court has to agree with [the applicant] that both the headline in section a and the statements in sections b and c are verbatim from their letter. [...] the applicant’s] arguments about the public having the right to be informed about the candidates in public elections cannot be ignored. by introducing themselves publicly to gain voters’ confidence and to persuade people to vote for them, [candidates] in a way become public persons and cannot expect all media coverage about them to be as positive as their own. therefore, he will not be held accountable for the statements which are directly quoted from the sisters, which the latter have confirmed before the court to be theirs. the statements in sections d and e were published on 23 february 2011 when the elections for the constitutional assembly were over. [ the statement in section d that appeared as a headline on [pressan] quotes the sisters’ replies but is partly rephrased. everyone shall be free to express his thoughts, but shall also be liable to answer for them in court. a person who is found guilty of a defamatory allegation may be ordered to pay to the injured person, on the latter’s demand, a reasonable amount to cover the cost of the publication of a judgment, its main contents or reasoning, as circumstances may warrant in one or more public newspapers or publications.” by judgment of 24 november 2011 (case no 100/2011), which concerned defamation proceedings against editors and a journalist of a newspaper and newspaper website, the supreme court of iceland found that before the media act entered into force, there had been no applicable legal rule about the responsibility of an editor of web-based media which published material solely online.
the applicant was born in 1987 and is detained in lublin. he was charged with several counts of armed robbery. the incident of 21 february 2011 was notified to a prosecutor who investigated whether an offence had been committed. the applicant appealed against the decision of 24 february 2011, but on 27 april 2011 the lublin regional court upheld it. the applicant appealed against that decision. on 26 october 2011 the lublin regional court upheld the decision. the applicant, as noted by the prison officers and a psychologist, was calm, disciplined, and following the internal regulations. on 16 november 2011 the commission, having heard evidence from the applicant, lifted the measure. on 5 december 2011 the applicant was transferred to opole lubelskie prison. on 3 january 2012 the governor of opole lubelskie prison applied to the prison commission to impose the “dangerous detainee” regime on the applicant. he submitted that since the applicant’s arrival at the prison he had been aggressive towards the prison officers and had been trying to gain prominence in the prison community by plotting to assault a senior officer of the service. overall, he posed a real danger to the prison officers and to the security of the prison. there exists a real risk to the security of the prison. on 27 september and 27 december 2012 the governor of rzeszow prison made further requests to extend the measure imposed on the applicant. between 17 june 2009 and 9 december 2011 the applicant accumulated 372 polish zlotys (pln) in his release savings fund.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in sarbice pierwsze. it further noted that there was a reasonable fear that the applicant might obstruct the proceedings or go into hiding until the charges against him became time-barred. further hearings were scheduled for 2 and 30 december 2010, 25 january, 17 february, 17 march, 5 and 28 april, 17 may, 16 june, 14 july, 4 august, 6, 27 and 29 september, 6 and 27 october, 10 and 24 november, and 8 december 2011. apart from the grounds previously relied on, the court noted that the applicant had requested that several new witnesses be heard and considered that he might influence their testimony if released. as regards the applicant’s state of health, the court referred to a medical opinion issued on 28 october 2010 by an expert neurologist and orthopaedist according to which the applicant could participate in the court hearings and could be transported to court without a wheelchair. on 21 june 2011 the kielce regional court extended the applicant’s detention until 21 december 2011. as regards the applicant’s state of health, the court, relying on a physician expert opinion of may 2011, considered that there were no obstacles to his further detention and his treatment in the prison facilities. meanwhile, on 28 june 2011, the applicant underwent a medical examination ordered by the kielce regional court. apparently, the court had not yet become aware of the medical expert opinion of 14 november 2011. according to the last information available to the court, the criminal proceedings against him are still pending. on 1 june 2010 the applicant underwent a further neurological examination. - neurological examination”the applicant submitted another note made by a neurologist, which read:“today [he] lost consciousness. while undressing, he easily lifts his legs without manifesting pain. when he stands up he drags his left leg and claims that he cannot stand on that leg because it is weak. he also consulted a dermatologist, orthopaedist, neurologist and ophthalmologist.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in otwock. on 7 november 2003 the jarosław district court convicted the applicant as charged and sentenced him to five years’ imprisonment. throughout the entire proceedings the applicant was represented by two lawyers of his choice. on 29 november 2000 the siedlce regional court upheld the detention order. it was also observed that the trial had still not begun because the applicant had challenged the judges who would be hearing his case. on 5 november 2002 the mińsk mazowiecki district court once more extended the applicant’s detention. on 11 december 2003 the jarosław district court ordered that the applicant undergo psychiatric observation in the psychiatric wing of the warszawa-mokotów remand centre. on 28 january 2004 the siedlce regional court dismissed an interlocutory appeal brought by the applicant against this decision. this decision was upheld on 15 july 2004 by the siedlce regional court. on 10 february 2006 the siedlce regional court quashed the judgment of 1 september 2005 (see paragraph 45 above) and remitted the case to the first-instance court, ordering it to gather additional evidence. in the courts’ view, the latter element in turn created a presumption that the applicant would attempt to obstruct the proper conduct of the proceedings if released. the first hearing took place on 29 june 2006. on 15 january 2008 the ombudsman joined the proceedings, asking that article 263 § 3 of the code be declared unconstitutional in so far as it left a legal loophole which was filled in by an erroneously developed well‑established court practice not to include in the calculation of the statutory two-year period of detention on remand (prior to the first judgment of the first-instance court) periods of the detainee’s concurrent deprivation of liberty on the basis of a criminal sentence. on 18 july 2003 the lubaczów district prosecutor discontinued criminal proceedings against several judges of the jarosław district court who, in the applicant’s view, had monitored his correspondence with his lawyer. it was delivered in an envelope bearing the stamp “jarosław district court” and a handwritten note stating “censored on 26 july 2002” (cenzurowano dn.
the applicant was born in 1943 and lived in sremska mitrovica. it found that the applicant, after a quarrel in which his neighbour accused him of war profiteering, intentionally shot the neighbour in the head with a rifle, leaving him dead on the spot. it further found that the entire event had taken place in front of several eyewitnesses. the applicant was then sent to serve his prison sentence in “beli manastir district prison” (okružni zatvor u belom manastiru). the entity was never recognised as a state by the respondent state. shortly after the adoption of the erdut agreement, and upon the request of the “beli manastir district prison”, the applicant was transferred on 20 june 1996 to sremska mitrovica prison (kazneno-popravni zavod sremska mitrovica), which is on the territory of the respondent state. the reason for the transfer was listed as “security concerns”. no proceedings for recognition and enforcement of a foreign prison sentence were conducted by the authorities of the republic of serbia. he was sent to sremska mitrovica prison to serve the remainder of his sentence. on 4 february 2011 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal challenging the lawfulness of his imprisonment. on 10 may 2012 the constitutional court found that there was no violation of the applicant’s right to liberty. it further noted that the procedure governing the recognition of a foreign criminal sentence and its enforcement was not applicable in the applicant’s case because serbian krajina was not a state. the court concluded that the applicant’s transfer had been carried out for factual reasons – the deteriorating security situation in the war zone which could lead to the applicant’s escape from prison or his death. on 7 march 2011 the applicant initiated civil proceedings for compensation for unlawful imprisonment. on 13 december 2012 the first instance court in belgrade rejected the applicant’s claim finding that he had been lawfully convicted of murder by the courts of the “republic of srpska krajina” and that his imprisonment cannot be considered as unlawful.
the applicant is a man who is intellectually disabled. in june 2006 the foster family, the applicant and one of his brothers moved to a village in the north of finland. the foster parents brought an appeal in court against that decision, but the decision was upheld by the administrative court (hallinto-oikeus, förvaltningsdomstolen) on 18 february 2008 and subsequently by the supreme administrative court (korkein hallinto-oikeus, högsta förvaltningsdomstolen) on 10 december 2008. on 4 november 2008 a mentor (edunvalvoja, intressebevakare) was appointed for the applicant for matters other than those pertaining to his person. on 25 january 2009 the former foster parents took the applicant to the north of finland, invoking his decision to move there to live with them. on 18 june 2009 the district court, on the basis of the guardianship service act, appointed a mentor for the applicant in matters concerning his property and economy, as well as matters pertaining to his person to the extent that the applicant was unable to understand their significance. on 8 april 2011 the applicant asked the district court to discharge the mentor appointed for him from her duties as far as matters pertaining to his place of residence and education were concerned. it was likely that his opinion was influenced by that of the former foster parents. the applicant had in his home town a support network consisting of relatives, friends and staff of the social welfare authorities, a job, hobbies and educational possibilities. taking into account the evidence and the factual findings referred to above (see paragraph 17 above), the district court concluded that it was in the applicant’s best interests to remain in his home town. when the applicant had been removed from the former foster family in 2007 and placed in a children’s home in southern finland, no specific reasons had been given as to why this measure had been in the applicant’s best interests. the decision taken subsequently by the mentor in february 2011 had merely confirmed the earlier decision. according to the government, the applicant has not discussed the possibility of moving elsewhere for a long time. he is happy with his work and plays floorball twice a week as a hobby. there is nothing in his home town that keeps him there or makes him want to stay there.
the first applicant was born in 1943 and lives in cologne and the second applicant was born in 1940 and lives in stuttgart. however, on 10 december 2007 the cologne district court withdrew the certificate, stating that the first applicant, being a child born outside marriage, was not mr h.’s statutory heir. the first applicant appealed against that decision, but on 25 august 2008 the cologne regional court upheld it. in a decision of 16 february 2010 the cologne regional court upheld the district court’s decision, holding that the first applicant was not a statutory heir. there was a need to protect the legitimate expectations of the deceased and other heirs. the first applicant’s father had assumed that the first applicant would be his sole heir. in a decision of 11 october 2010 the cologne court of appeal dismissed the first applicant’s appeal on the grounds that it was bound by the decisions of the federal constitutional court and that it had found that the first sentence of section 12(10)(2) of the children born outside marriage (legal status) act was in conformity with the basic law. the second applicant is the natural son of a mr b. and was born in the former gdr, where he lived until his flight from the country in 1957. in 1949 mr b. was ordered by the hamburg-blankensee district court to pay maintenance for the applicant. the father died on 26 june 2006, naming his daughter as sole heir in his will. in 2009, after the european court of human rights had issued its judgment in brauer (cited above), the second applicant brought an action for a compulsory portion of the deceased’s estate (plichtteilsklage) with the hamburg regional court. that provision was in conformity with the basic law. as a consequence he had been denied his inheritance rights. it declared both applicants’ constitutional complaints admissible. the difference between children born outside marriage before and after 1 july 1949 had been abolished by the second inheritance rights equalisation act of 12 april 2011.
the applicant was born in 1988 and lives in zagreb. on 9 june 2013 zagreb police (policijska uprava zagrebačka, hereinafter “the police”) received an emergency call informing them that two men were attacking a man and a woman of roma origin. a preliminary report prepared by the police stated that the applicant and her partner had first had an argument with i.m. had then attacked the applicant’s partner. stated that he had then panicked and had drawn a knife in order to scare them. however, the attackers had managed to get hold of š.š. saying that he was a rom and should be killed. fuck your gypsy mother, you should all be exterminated, this will be a white croatia again, you are garbage” (tko je pijan, jebem ti mater cigansku, vas treba istrijebiti, ovo će ponovno biti bijela hrvatska, smeće jedno). but another woman had prevented her from doing so. the applicant was mentioned in the criminal complaint as a witness. in the course of the investigation the zagreb municipal state attorney’s office questioned the two suspects and on 17 june and 31 july 2013 it instructed the police to conduct an identification procedure and formal questioning of the applicant and š.š. of the institution of the proceedings in the zagreb municipal criminal court. in the meantime, on 29 july 2013 the applicant and her partner, represented by the lawyer l.k., who is of roma origin, but because they were drunk and they accidentally pushed her towards the stalls. inflicted injuries on maja škorjanec because of hatred towards roma, as she is not of roma origin, the criminal offence under article 117 § 2 in conjunction with article 87(21) of the criminal code has not been established.
the applicants were born in 1945 and 1935 respectively and live in moscow and lyubertsy. the draft guidelines were published in a local newspaper on 6 august 2002. m. under the investment contract, the municipality was to receive title to some thirty flats for the overall space of 1,907 sq. according to the government, on 3 july 2003 there was a meeting between kirova street residents and, apparently, a representative of the local authorities or the private company. however, she turned down these offers, considering them insufficient or the location of the alternative housing unsuitable. on 23 november 2004, in reply to an enquiry raised by the investor company, the municipality announced that it had no available plots of land that would be equivalent to the land to be expropriated from the applicants, namely those assigned for the construction of individual housing. (e)  the court held that the first applicant would receive compensation for the land and her part in the house equivalent to usd 28,500 and a social tenancy contact for a one-room flat in lyubertsy measuring 31 sq. with reference to the above considerations, the applicant’s own calculations amounted to usd 246,418 for her part of the land. on 22 november 2005 the application was examined and rejected by another judge of the regional court. the first applicant lodged an application for supervisory review with the supreme court of russia. in 2005 the second applicant brought separate proceedings challenging the orders of 18 march and 19 may 2003. sometime during that year the town court decided that the claims for compensation should be processed separately. on 26 february 2009 the moscow regional court quashed that judgment on appeal and instead awarded the applicant rub 3,161, considering that the judgment had been enforced on 26 august 2005 when the expropriation compensation had been credited into the bank account opened for her. on 22 may 2008 the district bailiff office replied that an inventory of her belongings had been compiled before the demolition. in february 2009 a new complaint by her was dismissed by the federal bailiff office, which noted that the notices dated 11, 12, and 15 august 2005 of the impending demolition of the house had not been served on her personally as she had been away from her temporary address.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in tbilisi. on 15 may 1999 the applicant was appointed president of the abasha district court for a ten-year term. he was accused in particular of having retained a criminal case file for six months after withdrawing from the case on 29 october 2003. the president of the panel and rapporteur), mr g.ch, mr d.s. it considered his conduct all the more serious because the defendants in the case had been in detention at the time and because he had had a duty, under article 6 of the convention, to act promptly and without fault. the panel took into account the nature of the misconduct, which it classified as serious, and the existence of another disciplinary measure against the applicant in the past, and decided to remove him from office. on 29 december 2004 the applicant lodged an appeal with the disciplinary council of judges (hereinafter, “the disciplinary council”) on points of fact and law under section 60(1) of the disciplinary proceedings act (see paragraph 17 below). he questioned the assessment of the circumstances of the case and the application of the legal provisions to the established facts in the decision of 23 december 2004. and mr th.th, who had sat at the first hearing. acted as president and rapporteur in the examination of the applicant’s appeal. by a decision of 27 january 2005, the disciplinary council unanimously upheld the panel’s decision of 23 december 2004 in its entirety. the appellate instance confirmed that the lower body had correctly established the facts and applied the relevant law to the factual findings. he argued that he had not been given notice that he could appear before the panel and that there had been a delay in the disciplinary council examining his appeal. at the hearing the applicant had admitted to the act of negligence with which he had been charged. the supreme court also found that the presence of four members of the panel as participants in the subsequent disciplinary council proceedings had not contravened the requirements of sections 22 and 24 of the disciplinary proceedings act (see paragraph 17 below).
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in kaluđerica. on 22 december 2006 the applicant was deprived of liberty on suspicion of participating in criminal association within the police operation “customs mafia” during which 43 persons were also arrested. the applicant was released on 15 june 2007. on 31 july 2009 the investigation against all the accused was transferred to the prosecutor’s office for organised crime. on 28 june 2012 the investigation was closed. on 17 january 2013 the criminal proceedings against the applicant were suspended.
the applicant was born in 1986 and lives in nizhniy novgorod. about forty minutes later they untied him and requested that he confess to the rape. four or five police officers punched and kicked him in the head and body, throttled him with a baton, put a plastic bag over his head and blocked off his access to air, sat and jumped on him having covered him with a blanket, grabbed him by the ears and forced him to do the splits. after being questioned by s. he was released. no criminal proceedings were brought against him. they were each set aside because a comprehensive inquiry had not been carried out. on 28 february 2006 the applicant was granted victim status. they denied any ill-treatment of the applicant. on the same day the investigation was suspended on the grounds that the perpetrator had not been identified. on 27 july 2006 the investigation was resumed and the applicant identified f. during an identification parade. on 24 august 2006 a face-to-face confrontation was carried out between the applicant and f. the applicant stated that f. had taken part in his ill‑treatment and had taken the confession from him. he was unable to recall any specific acts of violence by him. on 26 january 2007 a confrontation was held between the applicant and police officers a. and g., who again both denied using any violence towards the applicant. on the same day the investigating authority refused to bring criminal proceedings against a. on the grounds that the constituent elements of a crime were missing. in his eyes, by forcing him to sign the confession the police officers had humiliated him.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in kragujevac. on 13 july 2006 the applicant filed a civil suit together with 18 other persons with the kragujevac municipal court against his former employer telekom srbija ad beograd requesting the payment of funds from profit made in 2005. the applicant’s previous representative did not attend first preliminary hearing fixed for 15 november 2006, since he had been deleted from the register of the attorneys–at-law in may 2006. the applicant appointed the present representative on 25 january 2007. the preliminary hearing was held on 13 february 2007. on 27 august 2007 the proceedings were split to separate proceedings for each of the plaintiffs concerned. the preliminary hearing was held on 21 march 2008. within the period from 21 october 2008 until 29 april 2011 seven out of eight hearings were postponed for various reasons, mainly because the representatives on the both sides provided new submissions and evidence and on the proposal of both sides due to the cost-efficiency of the proceedings. on 29 april 2011 the kragujevac first instance court ruled against the applicant. on 20 february 2012 the kragujevac appeals court upheld that judgment. on 27 june 2013 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s appeal.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in kostrena. the company primarily provides public utility services such as parking, waste disposal, funeral services, maintaining green spaces, cemeteries and so forth. in an article published in the daily novi list of 19 september 2007, mr m.u., who was the mayor of kostrena municipality and chairman of the company’s general meeting (skupština) at the time, criticised the way the applicant performed her job. i first informed my [political] party but there was no reaction. then they asked me not to talk about it in the presence of d.g. [ marunić illustrates this by referring to the viktor lenac parking lot where the municipal utility company has been charging for parking on land which was not even owned by kostrena municipality. if, on the other hand, those allegations are not true but were nevertheless made in the publication that has the largest circulation in the area [of the country] then those allegations gravely harm the [business] reputation of the company because they suggest that kd kosterna operates unlawfully. the applicant argued, inter alia, as follows:“i contest entirely the argument that by making statements in the media i acted inappropriately and allegedly attacked the [business] reputation of the company ...the utility company is a public company which belongs to the [local] community ... it was my duty, as a member of the [company’s] management, to contact the media and inform the public because it is a public company and not someone’s private property. therefore, the arguments in the dismissal decision are a twisted interpretation of the events.” it appears that the applicant received no reply to her request. on 21 november 2007 she therefore brought a civil action for wrongful dismissal against the company in the rijeka municipal court (općinski sud u rijeci). however, the county court also disagreed with the view of the municipal court that the applicant’s behaviour, namely her statements in the media, had constituted a serious breach of employment-related duties such as to justify summary dismissal. specifically, in the opinion of this court, the plaintiff’s statements are to be seen as [a way of] informing the public of irregularities in the activities of the defendant company as a public institution; [the statements] were given in the public interest and in good faith and constitute a value judgment rather than a serious breach of employment-related duties. the final outcome of those proceedings is unknown.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in antalya. upon arrival at the gendarmerie station, ç.v. was at once brought before the samsun public prosecutor, where she stated that she had been having an extra-marital affair with the applicant for a while, but wanted to break the relationship off because of his constant threats and pressure; that she had agreed to meet the applicant earlier that day to talk for one last time, but that after meeting in his car, the applicant had driven her out of the city without her consent, hit her in the stomach with a truncheon and beaten her, tied her hands with a rope, and threatened to assault her sexually. two years before to help her through her divorce, including financially. had become very demanding and aggressive, and had threatened to expose their relationship and spread lies about him numerous times. which recorded a 0.5 cm cut on her tongue, a red ecchymosis of 3 cm x 2 cm on the right side of her neck, a red lesion on her upper right chest, and pain in her left thumb. claimed that she had submitted the written statement under duress and that her initial accusations had been truthful. maintained her allegations against the applicant, save for the attempted sexual assault. pointed to her bleeding mouth and signalled a gun with her hand. upon his demand, the applicant retrieved the gun from the boot and handed it over to the commander. on account of the latter’s wish to break up with him and therefore assaulted ç.v. it upheld the applicant’s acquittal for the remaining charges. basing itself largely on the evidence available in the criminal investigation file, on 15 february 2005 the supreme disciplinary council found it established that the applicant had committed the offences of attempted rape, assault and threatening violence with a weapon, and ordered his dismissal from the police force as requested. on 29 september 2005 the samsun administrative court upheld the dismissal decision of the disciplinary council as lawful. ’s initial statements to the gendarmerie, along with her medical report and the articles confiscated from the applicant’s car on the date of the incident, some of which he had attempted to hide from the gendarmerie, constituted sufficient evidence to hold that the applicant had committed the acts of attempted rape, false imprisonment and threatening with a weapon held against him, although there were no witnesses to corroborate ç.v.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in waldegg, austria. on 28 september 1994 the applicant initiated civil proceedings requesting the division of a certain estate. on 5 january 2009 the ivanjica municipal court suspended the said proceedings until conclusion of another civil case. it would appear that the said civil proceedings are still pending. on 23 june 2011 the constitutional court found a breach of the applicant’s right to a hearing within a reasonable time and ordered the speeding up of the impugned proceedings. the court, additionally, declared that the applicant was entitled to the non-pecuniary damages sought, in accordance with article 90 of the constitutional court act (see paragraph 13, article 90, below). it seems that, the applicant contacted the commission for compensation on 11 december 2011 and requested the payment of the compensation awarded, but apparently received no response.
the applicants found themselves staying in the transit zone of sheremetyevo airport of moscow. on arrival at sheremetyevo airport, he was not allowed to pass through passport control. the applicant described the conditions of his stay in the transit zone as follows. he sustained himself on emergency rations provided by the russian office of unhcr. there were no showers in the transit area. on 29 december 2015 the russian fms dismissed the applicant’s appeal on the grounds that he had not received any direct threats targeted against him personally and that “the applicant [had not submitted] convincing evidence that he might become a victim of persecution by isis militants or iraqi authorities on the grounds contained in the definition of the term ‘refugee’, including his religion”. he specifically argued that the migration authorities had not complied with the procedural rules by failing to interview him speedily or to issue him with an examination certificate, and that he had spent more than six months in the transit zone of sheremetyevo airport in conditions contrary to the guarantees of article 3 of the convention, without access to shower and other amenities. between april 2013 and august 2015 the applicant was in irkutsk, russia. on 1 december 2015 the moscow region fms dismissed the applicant’s refugee status application as ill-founded. on 7 december 2015 the russian fms dismissed an appeal by the applicant against the decision of 1 october 2015. it appears that the applicant remained in russia despite that refusal. on 18 august 2015 the applicant took a flight from moscow to antalya, turkey. the turkish authorities denied the applicant entry to the country and sent him back to moscow on 20 august 2015. from 9 september 2015 the applicant stayed in the transit zone of sheremetyevo airport. given the absence of any refrigerator or kitchen, his rations were extremely limited.
mr grigoryan and ms sergeyeva were born in 1981 and 1975 respectively and live in kyiv. indeed, in his submissions it is suggested that he was fully cooperative, got out of the car voluntarily and identified himself. ms sergeyeva also got out of the car and joined the discussion, after which the applicants, without putting up any resistance, got into the police car and were taken to a police station. on arrival at the police station the patrol officers handed over the applicants to police major a., the station’s duty officer. the reports state that they were drawn up at 11.50 p.m. on 6 april 2010. the police then overcame his resistance and tied him up for another thirty minutes. reports on the tying up of both applicants were drawn up by major a. on pre-printed forms. the pre-printed forms state that the tying up procedure was used to stop unruly conduct (“буйство”) and prevent self‑harm by an intoxicated individual. in particular mr grigoryan had haematomas in the following areas: forehead, left cheekbone, right shoulder, jaw, right side of the neck, clavicle, left hypochondrium, stomach, right elbow, right shoulder-blade area, popliteal spaces (back of the knees), and ankles. when questioned by the prosecutor’s office in the course of the subsequent pre-investigation enquiries, the expert expressed the opinion that the above injuries suffered by mr grigoryan were the result of at least twenty impacts by blunt objects. on 8 april 2010 ms sergeyeva complained to the prosecutor’s office about what she described as unlawful arrest and beatings by the police. he had started hitting the cell door, also wishing to receive an explanation. from 13-15 april 2010 the district prosecutor interviewed the applicants, the arresting officers, major a. and two other officers involved in the events at the police station. on 30 july 2012 the district prosecutor again refused to institute proceedings. her complaint contained no reference to alleged ethnic prejudice on the part of the police.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in ganja. the applicant had ownership rights to a shop at 32 attarlar street in ganja. m and it had been purchased by the applicant from the state for 1,309,000 old azerbaijani manats (azm) (equivalent to 261.8 new azerbaijani manats (azn) or approximately 230 euros). the property was classified as a non‑residential building used for wholesale or retail trade purposes. the applicant paid land tax for 2004 of azm 19,400 for the plot underneath the shop. the applicant refused and brought a legal action asking the court to order the gcea to stop its allegedly unlawful activities. according to the government, the shop, being a transportable metal construction, was lifted away by crane and moved to an unspecified part of the city. in its submissions to the court, the gcea as the respondent stated that a number of “old shops and other retail facilities” on attarlar and nizami streets had been removed owing to the urgent need to widen the streets in order to accommodate the number of pedestrians and cars. the applicant had not owned the original plot of land. following the respondent’s submissions concerning the alleged excessiveness of the compensation claim, by an interim decision of 15 july 2005 the khojavand district court requested a new valuation by a state expert. accordingly, the interim decision of 15 july 2005 remained unexecuted. being a metal construction it had been possible to move it in one piece. it had not been destroyed but simply transported to another location. the court also accepted that the applicant had been offered a new plot of land by the gcea but had refused it. no information is available in the case file as to whether a new land plot was allocated to the applicant or as to its location or any other details.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in makhachkala, republic of dagestan, russia. several hundred people took part, alleging corruption by local public officials. on 19 october 2006 the authorities took the decision to open another criminal case concerning the charge of abuse of power by a public official causing death (article 286 of the criminal code). it appears from the decision that it concerned persons other than the applicant’s son. the above-mentioned cases were subsequently joined. on 8 november 2006 the federal office of forensic examination issued a report, the relevant parts of which read:“ ... as the relevant 23 mm cartridges had not been submitted for test shots, a request for 23 mm volna cartridges was made to the relevant department of the ministry of the interior of the russian federation ... [footnote: volna cartridges are used for training purposes relating to the use of ks-23 and ks-23m carbines. on 26 february 2007 the investigating authority suspended the investigation. on 30 august 2007 the applicant’s other son, mr rafik nagmetov, brought court proceedings challenging the alleged inaction of the investigating authority. the necessary (medical, ballistics, criminological) examinations were carried out ... all carbines which had been used by the officers were seized ... all relevant officers were identified ... the logbooks concerning distribution of weapons and ammunition were examined ... on three occasions three different expert institutions were asked to submit ballistics reports. in a judgment of 6 october 2008 the district court granted the complaint, considering that by failing to submit appropriate comparative material to the forensic expert, the investigating authority failed to take “exhaustive measures aimed at identifying the perpetrator”. on an unspecified date, the applicant became aware that the evidence extracted from the body of his son had been lost. with regard to just satisfaction claims, i would draw your attention to rule 60 and would remind you that failure to submit within the time allowed quantified claims, together with the required supporting documents, entails the consequence that the chamber will either make no award of just satisfaction or else reject the claim in part. these costs must be itemised, and it must be established that they are reasonable and have been actually and necessarily incurred. ...rule 75 – ruling on just satisfaction 1. submitting claims for just satisfaction: formal requirements 5.
the applicant was born in 1947 and lives in yerevan. on 3 may 2005 the district court delivered a judgment upholding the settlement. it also stated that bailiffs would enforce the judgment if it was not complied with. no appeal was lodged and the judgment became final. according to the applicant, the bailiff found no funds or property belonging to k. during the enforcement procedure. the bailiff advised the applicant to institute proceedings against k. in order to have her ownership of the house recognised. it appears that later in 2007 the applicant brought a claim in the arabkir and kanaker-zeytun district court to have k.’s ownership of the house recognised. there was no appeal and the judgment became final. it also mentioned that k. was unlawfully occupying a plot of land whose status was unclear. on 8 february, 4 july and 4 august 2008 respectively, the bailiff made similar requests to the real estate registry in which he stated, with reference to section 22 of the law on the state registration of property rights, that an application from k. was not required. in 2008 the applicant brought a claim in the administrative court against the real estate registry and the bailiff, seeking to oblige them respectively to register k.’s ownership of the house and to confiscate it from her. on 1 december 2008 the administrative court granted the applicant’s claim by ordering the real estate registry to register k.’s rights to the house and the bailiff to confiscate it from her. it appears that no appeal was lodged against the administrative court’s judgment and it became final. on 18 february 2010 the applicant sought the payment of interest by k. via a claim in the district court. the judgment became final on 1 april 2011.
the applicants were born in 1938, 1940 and 1961 respectively. the first two applicants live in dolni dabnik and the third applicant lives in sofia. the first two applicants are the third applicant’s parents. in 1990 the three applicants bought from the state a flat in sofia measuring 144 square metres, which had become property of the state by virtue of the nationalisations carried out by the communist regime after 1945. in 1992 the heir of the pre-nationalisation owner of the flat brought an action against the applicants under section 7 of the restitution law, seeking to establish that their title was null and void. she also brought a rei vindicatio claim against them. the proceedings ended with a final judgment of the supreme court of cassation on 22 june 2004. the domestic courts dealing with the proceedings allowed both actions against the applicants. in relation to the action under section 7 of the restitution law, the courts found the applicants’ title null and void, since they had bought their flat in breach of the law: the area where the flat was located had been earmarked for the construction of buildings of more than three storeys, and the applicants’ building was of two storeys; and the legislation at the time prohibited the sale of flats in such buildings. it appears that on an unspecified date after that the applicants applied for compensation bonds; however, the parties have not informed the court of the outcome of the procedure. in 2005 the applicants brought a tort action against the sofia municipality (which was the legal successor of the state with regard to residential property). on 20 january 2010 the sofia city court allowed their claim. that judgment was quashed on 4 november 2010 by the sofia court of appeal, which dismissed the claim in its entirety. in a final judgment of 4 april 2012 the supreme court of cassation, finding that the applicants were only entitled to receive the price they had paid for the flat in 1990, which had devalued enormously over the years, awarded them the equivalent of about 12 euros (eur).
the applicants were placed in pre-trial detention at thessaloniki general police headquarters on monasteriou st in thessaloniki. they were detained for periods ranging from one to eight months. the sixteenth applicant was detained at thessaloniki general police headquarters from 18 april 2012 to 24 september 2012, except for the period between 27 april 2012 and 11 july 2012, when he was detained at the thessaloniki aliens division. detainees had been confined to their cells owing to the lack of an exercise yard. there had not been sufficient separation between detainees who were drug users or smokers and other detainees. detainees had not been allowed to bring their own sheets and towels, but had been obliged to use dirty ones provided by the prison authorities. as regards nutrition, meals had been of an insufficient quality and quantity and had never included meat. detainees had not been provided with water but had had to buy it themselves. on 30 august 2012 the applicants and other detainees had lodged a complaint with the public prosecutor about the conditions of their detention at thessaloniki police headquarters but had not received a reply. most of the cells had windows, which had been partially covered by walls and rails but which had still admitted natural light and fresh air. the sanitary facilities had been no different from the ones used by the police headquarters staff and had been cleaned by a cleaning company every day, along with the rest of the premises. the thessaloniki aliens division, where the eleventh, sixteenth and seventeenth applicants had been detained for several months, had ten cells measuring 58.85 square metres each, which included two toilets and showers. meals had been provided by a catering company. detainees had access to newspapers and televisions and were allowed visits from their family and friends three times per week. the fourteenth and eighteenth applicants had been detained in a cell of 26 square metres accommodating five detainees.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in antratsit, ukraine. in 1996 the applicant was dismissed from the state enterprise coal mine “yur-shor” («государственное предприятие «шахта «юр‑шор», “the coal mine”). according to the government, the mine was incorporated as a state unitary enterprise. it appears that the award became final ten days later. he informed the applicant that the judgment in his favour could not be enforced, since no funds had been allocated from the federal budget for these purposes. on 3 april 2001 the town court ordered the coal mine to pay the applicant eur 51 for court expenses. the applicant sued various domestic authorities for non-pecuniary damages and index-linking of unpaid salary. the court further found that awards made on 28 october 1999, 3 april 2001 and 24 april 2002 in the amount of eur 1,966 should be paid to the applicant by the ministry of energy, since the latter had been designated by the government to finance the debts of the coal mine, in so far as the salary arrears and related social payments prior to the decision to wind up the company were concerned. the judgment became final on 23 september 2004, as upheld by the supreme court of the komi republic. the decision acquired legal force on 23 september 2004. on 7 december 2004 the town court ordered to index-link the awards of 21 january 2004 and held that the ministry of energy should pay the applicant eur 155 and the coal mine eur 41 respectively. the judgment entered into force on 20 december 2004. it appears that the judgments of 21 january 2004 and 7 december 2004 and the decision of 21 january 2004 have not been enforced to date. on 30 november 2005 his application was rejected by the town court as having no grounds in the domestic law. the applicant further claimed that the respondent ministry be replaced by “sotsugol”.
the application concerns the murder on 15 january 2005 of elmas, zerrin and eylül güzelyurtlu, all cypriot nationals of turkish cypriot origin. the other two suspects were linked to the murder through other evidence. he also informed them that he would keep them informed of the progress of the investigation and reply to the queries that they had submitted on behalf of the victims’ family and that this could be achieved through meetings at his office between him, the applicants’ representatives and the police. 9/05, 10/05 11/05) before the larnaca district court. by a letter dated 24 november 2008 the director general of the cypriot ministry of justice informed the attorney-general of the return of all the above-mentioned documents and stated that it was clear that turkey was refusing to receive requests for the extradition of fugitives made by cyprus under the european convention of extradition, due to turkey’s refusal to recognise the republic of cyprus as a state. by a letter dated 27 january 2005 “trnc” nicosia police headquarters provided the turkish ministry of internal affairs with information about the suspects’ identities. and to inform them whether he was in turkey or not. they are both currently serving their sentences. in march 2007 the cypriot police informed the first applicant that the car and the material removed from the victims’ home and office could be returned. during that month the applicants were also informed by the cypriot police that the arrest warrant in respect of one of the suspects had been cancelled. three of the applicants had attended with their counsel and a local lawyer. the spa stated that she had had, on the same day, a long meeting concerning the murders with the “trnc” chief of police in the presence of other officers and the “trnc” attorney-general. (d)  internal note dated 25 january 2005 130. (d)  from the minutes of a meeting on 31 january 2005 142. a request was made to the spa to facilitate the exchange of information between the sides.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in split. it would appear that in 1971 the housing authorities awarded a specially protected tenancy (stanarsko pravo) of the flat to a certain ms n.r. on 5 november 1996 the lease of flats act entered into force. therefore, on 16 october 1997 she brought a civil action against him in the split municipal court (općinski sud u splitu) with a view to obtaining a judgment in lieu of such a contract. at the hearing held on 4 november 1998 the applicant argued that n.r. was not entitled to protected rent because she owned a house in the tourist village of rogoznica, some 53 kilometres from split. and her family to vacate the flat in question. he argued that he intended to move into the flat. on 21 october 2008 the split county court (županijski sud u splitu) dismissed an appeal by the applicant and upheld the first-instance judgment. the municipal and the county court established that n.r. was living in the flat with her son m.r., her daughter-in-law and her grandson whereas the applicant was living with his mother in a flat located in the same building. his mother also owned an adjacent building where he was running his medical practice in one of the flats. indeed owned a small summer home in rogoznica surfacing 18 square metres only. 12027/10, §§ 48-49, 10 july 2014), had not been met and that the applicant was therefore not entitled to refuse to enter into a lease contract with n.r.
the applicants were born in 1946, 1966 and 1973, respectively, and live in sisak. however, after he left she had not seen him again. in 1996 the united nations security council established the united nations transitional administration in eastern slavonia, baranja and western sirmium (the “untaes”). they had subsequently learned that an individual named g. had also been implicated. on 9 october 2008 the state attorney’s office issued an instruction to the county state attorney’s offices for implementation of the criminal code and the code of criminal procedure, in which it indicated that an inspection of their work had indicated two main problems: possible partiality of the persons involved in the pending proceedings as regards the ethnicity of the victims or the perpetrators, and the problem of trials in absentia. on 11 december 2008 an investigating judge at the sisak county court heard evidence from jasenka borojević and edita mihić, who repeated what they had said to the police. a relative of stevo borojević, on 30 december 2008 but he had no knowledge of the latter’s disappearance and killing. on 27 january 2009 an investigating judge at the sisak county court heard evidence from t.p., he said that one day in 1991 when sisak was being shelled, he and other tenants from the building had been in the basement when three armed men dressed in military uniforms had entered. had shown them the flats where serbs lived. on 20 june 2011 the sisak county police lodged a criminal complaint against đ.b., on charges of war crimes against the civilian population. head of the sisak police department in 1991 and 1992, v.m., on an unspecified date the investigation was opened. following the criminal conviction of v.m.,
the applicant was born in 1946 and lives in st petersburg. according to a report issued on 29 march 2007 by the local ambulance service the applicant called for emergency assistance at his home twelve times in march 2007 (five times on 28 march 2007 alone). on each occasion there was no apparent reason for the call. the applicant behaved aggressively towards medical personnel, made sexual advances to female doctors and consumed alcohol in their presence. the service requested a police escort for further visits to his address. the applicant’s alerts were acted upon and found to be groundless. the applicant refused to be treated or admitted to hospital voluntarily. the panel also found that the applicant was a danger to himself and others and that there was a risk of significant damage to his health due to the likely deterioration or aggravation of his psychiatric condition in the absence of psychiatric assistance. in the course of clinical development the organic defects have become predominant manifesting themselves through circumstantiality, a coarsening of emotions, and the exacerbation of his querulous tendencies. having regard to the lack of a critical attitude towards his improper behaviour, the presence of ideas about his own relevance and persecution, [it] can be concluded that he falls under section 29 (a) and (c) of the law of the russian federation on psychiatric assistance and guarantees of citizens’ rights related to its administration of 1992 (“the psychiatric assistance act 1992”).” on 9 april 2007 the primorskiy district court of st petersburg (приморский районный суд г. санкт-петербурга) granted the application to admit the applicant to hospital without his consent. during the hearing the district court examined the applicant’s medical history and heard the testimony of the psychiatrists, who referred to severe alcohol abuse, erratic behaviour, frivolous calls to the police, and threatening conduct towards medical personnel. did not consent to his admission to hospital since he refused treatment. on the same day the applicant left hospital.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in nairobi, kenya. on 14 november 2005 the applicant was released after serving his sentence. following his deportation, on 27 december 2007, the applicant, while in kenya, lodged a complaint with the ombudsman concerning his deportation and the ill-treatment he had received during the deportation process at nicosia central prisons, larnaca airport and on the aircraft to milan. the applicant started shouting and asked to call his lawyer, which the officers allowed him to do before leaving the detention facilities. on 9 july 2008 the president of the iaiacap concluded that the seriousness of the applicant’s allegations meant that his complaint ought to be investigated, irrespective of the police officers’ statements that they had not ill-treated him. no mention was made of the incident in the cabin crew report. it appears from the document that the applicant had written to the hospital on 21 december 2009 to request such a certificate. he was referred for a dental examination and told to rest for four days. for that reason, with the help of members of the irs who had restrained the applicant, they had wrapped the applicant’s head in bandages to protect him from possible self-harm. he could not remember whether he had made a note in his personal notebook. on 22 july 2010 the investigator prepared a report on the investigation procedure and his findings. the report stated that the various police records (records of action and log or duty books) were deficient and had failed to keep track of ongoing events (such as the applicant’s being moved from block 10 to another area on the night of his deportation and the officers’ actions during the deportation). relying on a letter issued by the prison director in june 2009 the government made submissions about the conditions of the applicant’s detention as follows. - open area for exercise: there is an open area and it is considered sufficient- chair and table in each cell: tables and chairs have been placed inside the cells. in her reply of 5 december 2006 the ombudsman informed him that she would be conducting an investigation into the conditions of detention of foreigners in general in order to make suggestions for improving the situation.
at the material time the applicant union, founded in 1955 with its registered office in istanbul, represented workers in the food-processing sector. 2821; ...), the applicant union applied to the ministry of labour and social security (“the ministry”) for certification of its representative status (yetki belgesi) so that it could enter into collective labour agreements with tukaş on behalf of its members. in a decision of 26 may 2004 the ministry granted the application and confirmed the applicant union’s representative status. on the basis of a report drawn up by labour inspectors on the nature of tukaş’s activities and its labour force, the ministry found that, in view of the number of employees belonging to the applicant union and the total number of staff at the three factories, which operated in the food-processing sector, the conditions laid down in the trade union act (law no. 2821) for engaging in collective bargaining were satisfied. on 17 september 2004 the 3rd labour court appointed an expert to determine whether the applicant union’s membership attained the minimum level laid down in the trade union act (law no. on 13 november 2004 the expert submitted his report to the court. 2821), employees at the tukaş head office belonged to a different occupational sector, namely the “business, computing, education and arts” sector, and consequently could not form part of its membership. that being so, it contended that the expert report should not have included staff at the head office in its calculations. the ministry asked the labour court to reject the application by tukaş, arguing that its decision of 26 may 2004 authorising the applicant union to represent employees in collective bargaining with the company had been lawful. in a judgment of 2 december 2004 the i̇zmir 3rd labour court found in favour of the company and withdrew the applicant union’s representative status. it based its decision on the arguments set out in the first approach referred to in the expert report of 13 november 2004. on 21 december 2004 the applicant union appealed on points of law and reiterated the observations it had made before the labour court. the judgment was finalised on 15 april 2005. some had complied but forty employees had refused.
the applicant was born in 1941 and lives in belgrade. on 27 june 2001 the obrenovac municipal court ordered a socially-owned company, holding - prva iskra ad barič (hereinafter “the debtor”), to pay the applicant specified amounts on account of compensation for expropriated real estate plus the costs of the civil proceedings. on 18 march 2003, upon the applicant’s request to that effect, the obrenovac municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the applicant the enforcement costs. on 23 april 2003 the privatisation agency ordered the restructuring of the applicant’s debtor. as a consequence, the ongoing enforcement proceedings against the debtor would appear to have been stayed. on 29 february 2016 the belgrade commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor. the applicant duly reported her claims based on the above-mentioned judgment to the insolvency administration. the insolvency proceedings are still ongoing and the said court judgment remains unenforced to the present day. according to publically available information the debtor is still, predominantly comprised of socially-owned capital (see http://pretraga2.apr.‌gov.rs/objedinjenepretrage/search/search, accessed on 7 february 2017). on 7 october 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal with the constitutional court. on 15 may 2012 the applicant noted the adoption of the amendments to the constitutional court act, and specified her compensation claims accordingly. on 21 may 2014 the constitutional court found, in the operative part of its ruling (u izreci), that the applicant had indeed suffered a violation of her right to a fair trial within a reasonable time, as well as a violation of her property rights and awarded her eur 1,000 in respect of the non-pecuniary damage in question. however, it rejected the compensation claim regarding the pecuniary damages sought by the applicant. the constitutional court, lastly, ordered the speeding up of the impugned enforcement proceedings. in so doing, it merely referred to article 85 § 3 of the constitutional court act, as amended in 2011, requiring that such claims be brought simultaneously with the lodging of a constitutional appeal.
the applicant was born in 1949 and is currently serving a prison sentence in lepoglava. gave to the applicant eur 50,000 in connection with his investment project. on 16 june 2007, on the basis of an application by the state attorney’s office, the investigating judge ordered the termination of the special investigative measures, indicating that their use had produced the results sought. in its request for investigation the state attorney’s office relied on the results of the special investigative measures suggesting that the applicant, in his capacity as vice-president of the fund, had requested bribes in order to support m.m. returned ninety-eight secret surveillance cd recordings in the case at issue that did not contain the communications of the suspects in respect of whom the investigation had been opened. the applicant pleaded not guilty to the charges against him, contending that he had been entrapped by j.k., he explained that the relevant contacts with the applicant had been arranged and directed by j.k., the applicant argued that the recordings were incomplete and confusing and that there were discrepancies between the transcripts and the recordings. concerning several other secret surveillance recordings. the expert produced his additional report on 2 january 2009. further hearings were held on 17, 23-26 and 30 march 2009 at which the trial bench heard evidence from several witnesses. produced transcripts of the secret surveillance recordings related to the zagreb county court’s order of 16 march 2009 (see paragraph 57 above). in addition, this panel finds, that, with regard to the recordings which were to be examined at the trial, there was no obstacle to the defence lawyers examining [those recordings] in the court-house before the commencement of the trial. as to the applicant’s plea of entrapment, the zagreb county court noted:“... this panel finds that [the evidence obtained by the use of informants] is not unlawful evidence because it was obtained on the basis of an investigating judge’s orders. after that the activity of gathering evidence commenced.
the applicant was born in 1941 and lives in birkerod, denmark. on 11 april 1995 the applicant formed a limited company, n.r. the company”) together with a turkish partner, n.k., to provide tourist services in alanya, turkey. on 19 march 1997 the applicant applied to the alanya civil court of first instance to cancel n.k. on 2 october 1997 the court ordered the cancellation and on 18 may 1998 it appointed a trustee for the company. meanwhile, it was discovered that the applicant’s partner n.k. had fraudulently transferred the company’s assets to a new company. before the alanya civil court of first instance and sought compensation for his loss incurred due to the fraudulent acts of n.k. the court decided to join the compensation cases and to examine them together. on 7 june 2005 the alanya civil court of first instance accepted the applicant’s compensation claim and granted him the equivalent of 203,000 deutschmarks (dem) (103,792 euros (eur) at the time) with statutory interest for his loss, to be paid in euros, and dem 10,000 (eur 7,158 at the time) in compensation without interest of 40% (inkar tazminatı), to be paid in turkish lira (try). the court further ruled that the legal costs and expenses of the proceedings were to be borne by n.k. on an unspecified day the applicant requested that the judgment be served on him in order to commence enforcement proceedings. the court rejected the request, stating that it was not possible to provide the judgment unless the charge required by section 28(1) (a) of law no. the applicant was therefore unable to lodge enforcement proceedings in order to have the above-mentioned judgment executed.
the applicants were born in 1953 and 1951 respectively and live in čačak. this judgment became final on 2 july 2008. on 4 august 2008, upon the applicants’ request to that effect, the čačak municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the enforcement costs. on 30 march 2010 the privatisation agency ordered the restructuring of the debtor. subsequently, the enforcement proceedings against the debtor were stayed. on 29 july 2010 the applicants lodged an appeal with the constitutional court. in terms of redress, relying on the constitutional court act 2007, the applicants sought, inter alia, compensation for the damage suffered due to the impugned non-enforcement. on 19 and 20 march 2013 the applicants noted the adoption of the amendments to the constitutional court act, and specified their compensation claims accordingly. specifically, on account of the pecuniary damage, the applicants requested the respective amounts awarded to them by the final judgment in question, whilst as regards the non‑pecuniary damage sustained they claimed 2,000 euros (eur) each. on 18 september 2013 the constitutional court found a violation of the applicants’ right to a hearing within a reasonable time and of their right to the peaceful enjoyment of their possessions. however, it rejected their compensation claim regarding the pecuniary damage sought by the applicants. the constitutional court, lastly, ordered the speeding up of the impugned enforcement proceedings. the remainder of the judgment remained unenforced. moreover, she stated that they had never received a letter from the national bank of serbia related to enforcement issue. lastly, the applicants’ representative submitted that the national bank of serbia had informed her in its letter of 16 august 2016 that the amount of rsd 143.707,89 was paid only to the second applicant.
the applicant, ms ljiljana milisavljević, is a serbian national who was born in 1966 and lives in belgrade. the applicant was a journalist employed at politika, a major serbian daily newspaper. the integral translation of the impugned article, titled “the hague investigator”, reads as follows:“‘even my son blames me for protecting everybody but the serbs’, says the director of the fund for humanitarian law. nataša kandić provokes stormy reactions wherever she appears. most of all they blame her for never pursuing the crimes against serbs but exclusively dealing with those committed by serbs against other ethnicities. she participated in the 1968 student demonstrations. in the 1970s she started working in the belgrade municipality of palilula. a year later, on the invitation of ms jeri laber, the helsinki watch executive director, she left for new york. that is how this organisation became the [icty] ‘investigator’. starting from the second half of the 1990s the centre became involved in the kosovo and metohija issues. on 1 september 2005, after a remittal, the first municipal court (prvi opštinski sud) in belgrade found that the applicant had committed a criminal offence of insult when having stated for ms kandić “although she has been called a witch and a prostitute” and gave her a judicial warning. however, the applicant did not put it in quotation marks which meant that she agreed with it, thus expressing her opinion. on an unspecified date thereafter the applicant appealed. the fact that she wrote also on the negative attitudes towards the private prosecutor and her work could not and must not make her, the applicant, criminally liable. the applicant did not appeal against that decision.
the applicant was a member of a hunting association, v., based in čaglin (hereafter “the association”). on 17 june 2012 the association’s executive board initiated internal proceedings against the applicant before its disciplinary commission. by a decision of 25 august 2012 the disciplinary commission dismissed the disciplinary action against the applicant. no appeals were lodged against that decision. the executive board nevertheless referred the matter to the general meeting for re-examination, convening an extraordinary session. on 2 september 2012 the general meeting adopted, by twenty votes to seven, a resolution expelling the applicant from the association. the applicant appealed, but the general meeting’s resolution was upheld by twenty-one votes to three following the adoption of another resolution at the annual session held on 20 february 2013. on 11 january 2014 the applicant brought a civil action against the hunting association in the požega county court (županijski sud u požegi), whereby he asked the court to declare unlawful the general meeting’s resolution of 20 february 2013 and to reinstate him as a member. the relevant part of that decision reads as follows:“section 26(1) of the associations act suggests that legal protection by way of civil action in the county court could be sought only if the general meeting or the other relevant body of the association had failed to examine a member’s report regarding irregularities in the implementation of the statute [of the association], or had failed to correct such irregularities. such a civil action would therefore be aimed at securing the implementation of the statute of the association, and thus would not provide for legal protection in the sense that a specific decision ... of the association could be declared unlawful. under section 50 of the defendant association’s statute [statut] the disciplinary tribunal imposes disciplinary measures against members who have breached their duties stipulated in the statute. the time-limit for the general meeting to adopt a resolution on the request is not stipulated. therefore, the decision to expel a member does not fall within the jurisdiction of the courts under section 26(1) of the associations act. that is also the opinion of the constitutional court, as expressed in the case u-iii-140/2006. it found that the case did not raise any constitutional issues.
the applicant, who was born in 1989, was detained at the tekirdağ prison when the application was lodged. on 9 july 2010 the applicant was taken into police custody on suspicion of membership of a terrorist organisation. on 13 july 2010 the investigating judge at the istanbul assize court, after questioning the applicant, ordered his pre-trial detention having regard to the nature of the offence, the state of the evidence and the strong suspicion of the suspect’s having committed the offence in issue. on 7 september 2010 the istanbul public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul assize court, charging the applicant with membership of an illegal terrorist organisation. the trial commenced before the 9th chamber of the istanbul assize court and the first hearing was held on 15 february 2011. in the hearings held on 21 february 2012 and 3 may 2012, respectively, the applicant appeared before the court, and the judges ordered his continued detention. the applicant filed objections against these decisions. on 7 march 2012 and 8 june 2012 respectively, the 10th chamber of istanbul assize court dismissed the applicant’s objections without holding an oral hearing and based on the public prosecutor’s opinion which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative. during the eleventh hearing held on 30 july 2013, the 9th chamber of the istanbul assize court ordered the applicant’s continued detention on remand.
the applicants’ dates of birth and places of residence are given in the appendix. on 12 january, 26 january, 10 march and 29 december 2013 demonstrations were planned to be held in baku. according to the applicants, the demonstrations were intended to be peaceful and were conducted in a peaceful manner. the applicants were questioned at the police stations they were taken to. they were not given access to a lawyer after their arrest or while they were in police custody. 20589/13 and 26424/14 were released after being kept in police custody for a few hours, subject to an undertaking to reappear at the police station on various dates. most of the applicants were taken to trial courts directly from the police stations, either on the day of their arrest or the following day. 20589/13 and 26424/14 were brought before first-instance courts on the day they returned to the police station. 21219/13, 33164/13, 33593/13 and 26994/14 were not represented by a lawyer. 21219/13, 33164/13 and 26994/14 refused the assistance of a state-funded lawyer and decided to defend themselves in person. 20589/13, the state-funded lawyer stated briefly in his oral submissions that the applicant was guilty and asked the court for lenience. similarly, the state-funded lawyer for the applicant in application no. the only witnesses questioned during the court hearings with respect to the applicants in applications nos. on various dates the applicants lodged appeals with the baku court of appeal, arguing that their convictions had been in violation of their rights because the demonstrations in which they had participated or attempted to participate had been peaceful. they asked the baku court of appeal to quash the first-instance courts’ decisions in their cases.
the first and second applicants were born in 1981 and 2002 respectively, and live in sofia. had expressed an intention to cooperate, the social services met him and the second applicant a number of times between september 2012 and april 2014. the third applicant submitted that thereafter she had repeatedly attempted to reach an agreement with the child’s father on the child’s return to live with her, as well as that she had contacted two private bailiffs over the following months but neither of them had taken any action because they considered that the case was too difficult. the child arrived in a negative frame of mind and acted coldly towards the third applicant, refused to take the presents she had brought for him and asked to leave with his father. on 26 april and 31 may 2013 the bailiff fined him for his failure to take the child to the appointments scheduled on those two days. ’s lack of cooperation, in not taking the child to the appointments. a psychological assessment of the child and the situation with his parents was drawn up in september 2013. on 3 september 2014 she asked the bailiff to order weekly meetings between her and the child on the premises of the social services, emphasising that that was something to which kh.p. on 22 october 2014 the third applicant again asked the social services to provide counselling for her child. they also informed the third applicant that the bailiff had ordered the child to report to the social centre every thursday at 4 p.m. in order to meet with the third applicant. the third applicant subsequently received a letter from the state agency for child protection, which directed her to seek counselling from the social services. in particular, the court found the complaint about psychological violence ill-founded as it had been based on the mother’s repeated attempts to have the bailiff hand the child over to her in accordance with the court’s decision. sought a change in the arrangements for contact between the fourth applicant and the child. the fourth applicant submitted during those proceedings that he had had a hernia operation in july 2012 and had been put on sick leave until 31 march 2013. in a final decision of 4 may 2015, the stara zagora regional court dismissed the complaint made by the fourth applicant in criminal proceedings he had brought against r.d.
the applicants were born in 1974 and 1994 respectively and live in baku. the applicants participated in an assembly on 6 may 2014. the courtroom was full, and therefore some people gathered outside the court to wait for the outcome of the proceedings. the protest was brief, spontaneous and peaceful. the applicants were arrested during the dispersal operation and were taken to a police station, where they were kept overnight. they were not given access to a lawyer either after their arrest or while they were in police custody. according to a police officer’s decision and an order dated 6 may 2014, a state-funded lawyer (mr o.a.) was invited to defend the first applicant. according to the applicants, the hearing before the first-instance court was very brief in both cases. the second applicant was not represented by a lawyer. according to the transcript of the hearing concerning the first applicant, the state-funded lawyer did not make any oral or written submissions. with respect to the second applicant, the court did not question any witness. in both cases the nasimi district court found that the applicants had participated in an unauthorised demonstration. on unspecified dates the applicants lodged appeals with the baku court of appeal, arguing that their convictions had been in violation of their rights, because the protest in which they had participated had been spontaneous and peaceful. the first applicant was assisted by a lawyer of her own choosing before the baku court of appeal.
the applicant was born in 1936 and lives in skopje. at the time of the events, he neither held a public office nor was a candidate for such an office. referring to a report registered as file no. it contained information about the applicant’s place of birth, his personal identification number and the positions he had held. 2599 and denied that he had ever collaborated with or provided any information about any colleague to the state security services, let alone that any such collaboration had met the criteria specified in section 18 of the lustration act (see paragraph 24 below). as to his arguments that the commission had erred in finding “conscious, secret, organised and continuous collaboration” with state security bodies, the court held:“[the applicant] was entitled to obtain access to the documents attesting to his collaboration. it found no grounds to depart from the facts as they had been established and the reasons given by the commission and the administrative court. it involved collecting information about an individual, violating their human rights on ideological or political grounds, in return for material benefit for the collaborator or informant, or favours during employment or in getting promotion. sub-section 2 stated that the lustration commission had to publish its decisions of a finding of collaboration with the state security services on its website. that had to be done immediately and in any case no later than three days after completion of the procedure. the commission’s decision was to be published on its website. section 4 provides that administrative disputes are decided by administrative court (at first instance) and by the higher administrative court (on appeal). when the evidence suggests that the actual facts are different from those established by the public entity in the administrative proceedings, the administrative court may itself establish the facts and decide the case. in such cases the facts are determined at a hearing in the presence of the parties. among other provisions, the court set aside section 13, which had provided for the publication of a collaborator’s name in the official gazette after final conclusion of the lustration proceedings (see paragraph 17 above).
the applicant was born in 1937 and lives in sofia. the applicant’s husband owned part of a house and a yard in sofia. by a decision of the mayor of 15 october 1981 the property was expropriated with a view to constructing a metro station. the decision, based on section 98(1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973, provided that the applicant’s husband was to be compensated with a three‑room flat in a building which the municipality planned to construct. in 1989 the applicant and her husband were moved out of the expropriated property and settled in a two-room municipally-owned flat. the expropriated house was subsequently pulled down. by a supplementary decision of 1 september 1989, based on section 100 of the territorial and urban planning act, the mayor determined the exact location, size and other details in respect of the future flat offered in compensation, which was to measure 94 square metres. in 1993 the applicants’ husband passed away, after which the applicant became the owner of the future flat allocated in compensation to him. in the years that followed the applicant requested on many occasions that the authorities complete the compensation procedure and deliver the flat due to her, but to no avail. the construction of the building in which the flat was to be located did not commence. in 2001 the applicant brought a tort action, claiming wrongful failure on the part of the sofia municipality to build and provide her with the flat due to her during the period from january 1993 to september 2001. in a final judgment of 6 march 2008 the supreme court of cassation, holding that the municipality was responsible for the failure to deliver the flat within a reasonable time-limit, awarded the applicant 10,000 bulgarian levs (bgn) in non-pecuniary damage and bgn 44,320 for loss of profit. in 2009 the applicant brought a new tort action against the sofia municipality covering the period after october 2001. in 2013 the sofia municipality informed the applicant that the construction of the building where the flat due to her was to be located was to start in the near future. according to the latest information submitted by the parties in 2014, the municipality was looking for a company to carry out the construction works.
on the date of lodging of the applications, the applicants were regarded for civil-law purposes as belonging to the male sex. in the first two certificates, dated 12 april 2007, dr bo. in the third certificate, dated 16 january 2008, dr h. stated that he had been overseeing the applicant’s hormone treatment for “typical primary gender identity disorder since 1 june 2006, together with dr b.”, and that “following endocrinology and metabolic tests, including karyotyping, [he was being] treated with anti-androgens and oestrogen”. she was accepted for the appropriate surgical treatment, namely gender reassignment surgery. in a certificate signed on 10 september 2008 dr h. confirmed that the first applicant “[had] undergone irreversible male-to-female gender reassignment surgery”, and stressed that “the request for a change in civil status [was] compelling and admissible [and was] an integral part of the treatment”. she has had hormone treatment and the surgery required to make her appearance and behaviour female. in the fourth certificate, dated 16 march 2010, dr p., a doctor specialising in fundamental psychopathology and psychoanalysis and a psychotherapist, stated that he had started psychotherapy sessions with the first applicant and, in particular, had “noted ... the consistency between ms [a.p.] on 10 november 2009 the paris tribunal de grande instance rejected the first applicant’s request. first of all, the court of appeal inferred from article 8 of the convention that “where, following medical and surgical treatment undergone for therapeutic purposes”, a person with a gender identity disorder no longer possessed all the characteristics of his or her original sex and had taken on a physical appearance closer to that of the opposite sex, which matched his or her social behaviour, the principle of respect for private life warranted amending the civil-status records to indicate the sex corresponding to the person’s appearance. secondly, he argued that it had been fully established by the medical certificates he had submitted that he was transgender, that he had undergone surgery which made him a woman, and that his physical appearance and social behaviour were female. he submitted that, although he had been entered in the register of births as male, he had been aware from a very young age of belonging to the female gender. he dressed as a woman and was perceived by others as a woman. since 2004 he had been undergoing treatment with feminising hormones and had undergone genital reconstruction surgery. in a judgment of 13 march 2009 the nancy tribunal de grande instance noted that the third applicant had not produced medical and surgical evidence of gender reassignment, and therefore rejected his request. given that [the third applicant] has not furnished intrinsic evidence of the irreversible nature of the gender reassignment process in his case, which cannot derive from the sole fact that he is seen by others as female, the dismissal of his claims by the court of appeal did not infringe the principles laid down under articles 8 and 14 of the convention ..., but rather struck a fair balance between the requirements of legal certainty and the inalienability of civil status on the one hand, and the protection of private life on the other ...” 53.
the applicants were born in 1964, 1935, 1963, 1965 and 1963 respectively. the churches decide independently whether to levy a tax and what its rate should be. in that case, in some german länder (inter alia, baden‑württemberg, bavaria and thuringia), the church entitled to levy taxes charges its members a special “church fee” (besonderes kirchgeld). at the same time, the special church fee levied on one spouse can be offset against any tax reimbursement due to the other spouse. his wife is member of the protestant church, which is authorised to levy church taxes. for the tax assessment period of 2008 the spouses opted for a joint tax assessment. zur einlegung des einspruches ist derjenige befugt, gegen den sich die kirchensteuerfestsetzung richtet.”). the second applicant is a member of the protestant church. his wife, who was not member of a church, had income of eur 162,522. on 29 august 2005, 5 february 2006 and 26 june 2008 the competent tax office levied church tax on the third applicant for the years 2004 to 2006. as the applicants had opted for a joint tax assessment, the third applicant’s church tax was calculated with his income tax as a proportion of the income tax attributable to him, rather than in proportion to his share of the spouses’ total income (see paragraph 12 above). on 23 june 2008 the competent tax office dismissed an objection by the third and fourth applicants against the church tax calculation. on 28 october 2010, the federal constitutional court declined to consider the third and fourth applicants’ constitutional complaint after joining it, inter alia, with those of the second and fifth applicants (file no. the fifth applicant lives in nuremberg, situated in the german land of bavaria. on 22 july 2009 the fifth applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the federal constitutional court, alleging, inter alia, a violation of her right to freedom of religion.
the applicant was born in 1988 and lives in baku. the opposition planned to hold demonstrations on 12 and 26 january 2013 in baku. information about the demonstrations was disseminated through facebook or the press. the applicant attended both demonstrations, but shortly after they had begun the police started to disperse the assemblies. in neither case was he given access to a lawyer after his arrest or while in police custody. a statement written by the applicant on 26 january 2013 at the police station and submitted to the court by the government showed that in the second case the applicant had declared that he did “not need a lawyer because of his financial [situation]”. in the first case, after having been held for a few hours in police custody, the applicant was released, subject to an undertaking to reappear at the police station on 14 january 2013. members of the public were not allowed to attend, even though the court had not taken a formal decision to close the hearing to the public. according to the applicant, in both cases he was not given an opportunity to hire a lawyer of his own choice. in both cases, the court questioned police officers who had participated in the dispersal operations and police officers who had prepared the administrative-offence reports against the applicant. in both cases the first-instance court found that the applicant had participated in an unauthorised demonstration. the court sentenced him to fines of 500 manats (azn) and azn 400 respectively. he also complained that his arrests had been unlawful and that the hearings before the respective first-instance courts had not been fair. in the first case, the applicant was not represented before the baku court of appeal by a lawyer. in both cases, on 25 january and 6 february 2013 respectively, the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of the first-instance court.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in mondsee. among the injured parties there were also austrian banks. however, he subsequently absconded and did not appear at the court hearing in which his sentence was to be determined. the applicant unsuccessfully requested his release also on 28 january, 8 may and 12 august 2008. on 14 april 2008 the applicant lodged a complaint relating to his fundamental rights (grundrechtsbeschwerde) with the supreme court (oberster gerichtshof), which was dismissed on 19 june 2008. on 23 september 2008 the prosecutor’s office informed the applicant about the intended appointment of expert s.j. on 9 october 2008 the applicant lodged another complaint relating to his fundamental rights with the supreme court. he argued that he had already been tried and sentenced in the united states for the same offences. on 7 october 2010 the regional court dismissed the application. on 14 march 2011 the vienna court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal, holding that even though it was difficult to clarify the facts of the case after more than ten years, the applicant had significantly contributed to the length of the investigations by having absconded. further, it held that the main reason for their length was that the applicant had filed a large number of objections and appeals. on 14 august 2013 the applicant lodged an objection because of an alleged violation of his rights, repeating his arguments that the expert b. was not impartial. on 26 december 2013 the regional court granted the objection, holding that the prosecutor’s office had not adequately reacted to the exceeding of the time-limit by the expert, who should have been discharged as a consequence. on 4 march 2014 the expert b. was discharged and on 5 may 2014 another expert, m., was appointed. therefore, it has become legally binding.
on an unspecified date in 1995 the applicants brought an action against the bucharest municipal council and the local council of the sixth district of bucharest, seeking the recovery of property rights over 1,761 sq. by a decision of 9 april 1998 the bucharest county court allowed the applicants’ action on the merits. the decision was not appealed against by the parties and thus became final. on 27 january 1999 the office of the mayor of bucharest, relying inter alia on article 322 § 5 of the romanian code of civil procedure (hereinafter “the rccp” – see paragraph 13 below), brought extraordinary appeal proceedings against the applicants, seeking review (revizuire) of the final judgment of 9 april 1998, and submitting that a new document had appeared concerning the land claimed by the applicants. they referred to a report drafted on 29 december 1998 by the management agency for markets of district no. 6 (administraţia pieţelor sectorul 6 bucureşti), which stated that the land claimed by the applicants was occupied by a marketplace. by a decision of 24 september 1999 the bucharest county court allowed the action brought by the office of the mayor of bucharest on the ground that the document had not been in the file during the first set of proceedings and that it showed that the land claimed by the applicants was occupied by a marketplace. by a decision of 29 january 2002 the bucharest court of appeal allowed an appeal by the applicants on the ground that the document invoked by the office of the mayor of bucharest was a document which did not comply with the requirements set out in article 322 § 5 of the rccp, since it had not existed at the time when the final decision of 9 april 1998 was delivered. furthermore, the court found that the domestic authorities had failed during the first set of proceedings to raise the issue of the legal situation of the land before the court without an objective reason and could have recovered the investment made on the land claimed by the applicants by bringing separate proceedings against the applicants and seeking recovery of the money. furthermore, the court found that the provisions of article 322 § 5 of the rccp had to be interpreted as referring to documents used by one party to prove, in the light of new elements, facts which generally had not been known by the court which had delivered the judgment under review. in the light of the above, the court held that the concept of “document” had to be interpreted restrictively. lastly, it considered irrelevant the fact that the document relied on by the party seeking review had been obtained by means of the undertaking of research into other documents which had existed at the time of the judgment of 9 april 1998 and which attested to the same facts, but had not been brought before the court delivering the judgment in question. on 12 february 2002 the applicants filed a request pursuant to law no. 10/2001 on the rules governing immovable property wrongfully seized by the state between 6 march 1945 and 22 december 1989; they requested the restitutio in natura of the plot of land of 1,761 sqm. it appears from the file that in 2010, the request was still pending before the administrative authorities, in so far as further documentation needed to be submitted.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lived in pamažupiai, pasvalys region. he noted that at the time of the examination the scaffolding was intact and no workers were present at the construction site. the inspector spoke to the construction site manager, v.j.s., on 9 october 2007 the investigator instructed a court medical expert to examine the applicant’s medical file in order to determine the number, severity and causes of his injuries. he stated that just before the accident he and five other workers had been carrying a metal platform to attach to a reservoir tank. none of those interviewed had seen how the applicant had fallen from the scaffolding. he relied on the state labour inspectorate report that no damage to the scaffolding on the day of the accident had been observed (see paragraph 9 above), and noted that none of the witnesses had corroborated the applicant’s description of how he had fallen. accordingly, the prosecutor decided that the scaffolding had complied with safety requirements, and that there were no grounds to find that the applicant’s employer had violated any laws. the applicant appealed against the prosecutor’s decision. in january and february 2009 the investigator examined the site of the accident and interviewed more witnesses. on 12 may 2009, in response to a prior complaint by the applicant, the deputy chief prosecutor of the klaipėda city prosecutor’s office informed him that there were no grounds to find that the pre-trial investigation in his case had been unduly protracted. on 3 july 2009 the prosecutor discontinued the pre-trial investigation. the prosecutor appealed against that judgment, but on 28 october 2009 the klaipėda regional court dismissed the appeal. submitted a request to continue the investigation and carry out additional investigative measures but that request was dismissed. the klaipėda district court held a hearing on 8 may 2012 from which the applicant was absent.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in moscow. n. and her son b. had resided there as tenants since 1968 under the social housing agreement with the city. on 19 november 2002 the registration committee registered the applicant’s title to the flat. the applicant moved into the flat with his family. on 14 august 2003 the police opened a criminal investigation into the fraudulent acquisition of the flat by k. and other persons. on 14 february 2004 the investigation was suspended as the whereabouts of the alleged perpetrators had not been established. on an unspecified date the prosecutor brought a civil claim on behalf of the moscow department of housing policy and the housing fund (“the housing department”), seeking annulment of all the transactions on the flat, the applicant’s eviction and the restitution of the flat to the city of moscow. on 17 april 2006 the timiryazevskiy district court of moscow granted the prosecutor’s claims. on an unspecified date the applicant reintroduced his claim against the city of moscow for damages. on 18 september 2008 the moscow city court upheld the judgment on appeal. on 5 february 2007 the bailiff instituted enforcement proceedings in respect of the judgment of 17 april 2006. on 1 june 2007 the timiryazevskiy district court of moscow suspended for six months the enforcement of the part of the judgment concerning the applicant’s eviction. on 5 march 2012 the registration committee registered the city’s title to the flat. on 28 december 2013 the applicant rented another flat for the period from january to march 2014. on 11 february 2014 the enforcement proceedings were discontinued as the housing department had withdrawn the writ of enforcement.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in orenburg. on 30 august 2006 the applicant was arrested by the department for combating organised crime of orenburg regional police (“the ubop”) on suspicion of having committed the robberies. on 31 august 2006 he was questioned as an accused in the presence of his lawyer and denied being involved in the crimes. they shackled his hands and legs and tied his arms with a belt. the applicant fainted several times so they burned him with cigarettes to make him come around. at 9 p.m. the applicant was taken back to the sizo. 249 of 18 september 2006, акт медицинского освидетельствования). according to the additional medical records on the applicant from the sizo for the period from 19 to 23 september 2006, he complained of headache, nausea, dizziness, vomiting and pain on the left side of his body when breathing. he was diagnosed with neurocirculatory dystonia of a hypertensive type and received treatment. on 20 september 2006 the applicant went for questioning and his lawyer, ms s., noticed that he had injuries on his forehead which he had not had before, that he looked unwell and had difficulty moving. the next day she asked for a forensic medical examination. the investigator relied on l.’s denial of ill-treating the applicant. on the same day the promyshlennyy district deputy prosecutor annulled the investigator’s decision as unlawful and ordered an additional inquiry. the applicant appealed against the decision of 27 october 2006, arguing, inter alia, that the inquiry had not been thorough and that the state’s responsibility had been engaged under article 3 of the convention because he had received injuries during his detention that had been confirmed by medical evidence. on 19 september 2007 a judge at the promyshlennyy district court of orenburg dismissed the applicant’s complaint.
the applicant was born in 1939 and lives in vienna. he is a former lawyer who was admitted to the bar in 1969. on 28 june 1999 the applicant was convicted of aggravated fraud and embezzlement and sentenced to seven and a half years’ imprisonment. on 22 june 2001 the applicant was interviewed by a medical expert, who submitted his report on 20 july 2001. on 5 february 2002 the competent division of the committee (hereinafter, “the committee’s division”) partly rejected as being lodged out of time and partly dismissed on the merits the applicant’s application for an invalidity pension. on 30 april 2002 the plenary of the committee (hereinafter, “the plenary”) dismissed the objection. on 18 january 2008 the applicant requested the administrative court to decide on the merits, claiming that the plenary still had not issued a decision. on 25 january 2008 the expert submitted his report and on 11 february 2008 he submitted a supplementary report. on 8 april 2008 the committee’s division dismissed the applicant’s application for an invalidity pension. consequently, on 26 june 2008 the administrative court closed the proceedings regarding the applicant’s complaint of 14 june 2007 about the plenary’s failure to decide (see paragraph 11 above), and awarded costs to the applicant. on 20 october 2008 the applicant complained to the administrative court about the plenary’s decision. on 17 december 2009 the administrative court quashed the plenary’s decision, holding that the committee’s division had not been competent to issue its decision of 8 april 2008 (see paragraph 14 above), as the case had been pending before the plenary after the administrative court had quashed the latter’s decision of 30 april 2002 (see paragraph 10 above). on 15 july 2010, under article 132 of the federal constitution, the applicant complained to the administrative court about the plenary’s failure to decide. on 22 february 2012 the administrative court dismissed the complaint as unfounded. that decision was served on the applicant on 5 march 2012.
the applicant was born in 1990 and lives in budapest. the court maintained its previous reasons justifying the need for his detention and emphasised that the investigation regarding a third suspect was still ongoing, so that if released the applicant might jeopardise the procedure. the application was served on the applicant’s lawyer on 31 july 2013, the day before the court extended the applicant’s detention until 6 october 2013. on 15 august 2013 the budapest high court dismissed an appeal brought by the applicant, without hearing him in person. as regards the specific grounds of his pre-trial detention, the court no longer referred to the fact that he had fled, since he had then voluntarily appeared before the police. both the applicant and his lawyer were present at the hearing. on 11 october 2013 the budapest high court upheld this decision. the expert opinions obtained by the authorities and forwarded to him did not contain anything supporting his involvement in the crime. on 3 april 2014 the budapest high court dismissed the applicant’s application for release and extended his detention until 6 june 2014. he submitted a statement saying that a company intended to employ him after release. on 8 july 2014 the budapest chief public prosecutor’s office preferred a bill of indictment, as the investigation had been terminated. without hearing from the applicant, the court pointed out that the severity of a potential punishment was not in itself sufficient to establish a risk of a person absconding; however, the applicant’s personal circumstances, such as him being unreachable even to his family members, showed that such a risk existed. on 10 september 2014 the budapest court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal, adding that a risk of collusion had also been established in his case. the first-instance decision was upheld by the budapest court of appeal on 17 february 2015. the budapest high court held further hearings on 13 november 2014, 15 january, 7 april, 19 june, 15 september, 7 october, 3 november, 1 and 21 december 2015, 9 february and 23 march 2016.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in norway. he had also been the owner of the magazine since 1996 and wrote analytical and investigative articles for each edition under his own name. it appears from the record that one bullet and seven cartridges were found at the crime scene and that two bullets were removed from the body. the expert also found that death was likely to have occurred a few minutes after the injuries had been sustained. on the same day the investigator questioned the applicant as a witness in connection with her husband’s murder. further to various requests sent in march 2005 to the russian authorities concerning the pistol found at the crime scene, the russian authorities confirmed that the pistol in question had been produced in russia as a gas pistol and had then been exported to bulgaria on the basis of a contract with a bulgarian company. in the meantime, the prosecuting authorities identified two mobile telephone numbers which had allegedly been used by the perpetrators of the murder. on the same day the investigator charged t.x., on 27 may 2005 a panel composed of three experts issued report no. on 9 august 2005 the investigator showed various photographs to the applicant for identification. on 14 november 2006 the investigator again questioned the sister of t.x. it was further stated that in accordance with articles 87 and 102 of the code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 61 below) the applicant had the right to familiarise herself with the case file and obtain copies of documents only when the preliminary investigation was over. stated that he had not seen them since his release from detention on 19 march 2007 and that he had no information about their whereabouts. on 4 july 2008 the applicant’s norwegian lawyer and the norwegian helsinki committee wrote to the prosecutor general’s office and the mns asking for the documents relating to the criminal investigation of the murder of the applicant’s husband. by a letter of 17 march 2009 the national central bureau of interpol in azerbaijan informed the head of the investigation department of the mns that t.a.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in san marino. 769/12 was partially classified and thus partially subject to non-disclosure. 184/14 had been partially declassified before the appeal judge’s decision). in particular, he reiterated his complaints under articles 5 and 6 of the convention in so far as he had not had full disclosure of the documents and evidence collected despite the court’s order of 30 june 2014 (see paragraph 22 above) and argued that there was no reasonable basis to justify his detention on remand. by a decision of 18 july 2014, notified to the applicant’s legal representatives on 22 july 2014, the judge of criminal appeals upheld the order of 30 june 2014 and dismissed any further claims. he found that no new elements had emerged since the interim decision of 30 june 2014. indeed, more information than that strictly required had been communicated to the applicant and the judicial communication at issue had been exemplary, both in respect of the quantity and the clarity of the information provided. the court noted that the investigation file had not yet included a detailed list of its contents. according to the applicant a further request to examine witnesses remained unheeded. indeed, in the present case, to make sure that there were no reasons to warrant a change in the applicant’s pre-trial conditions, the judge had used information which, although having come to his knowledge by other means, was also found in the public domain (in the press and in publicly available judicial documents concerning the proceedings against m.). on 6 march 2015 the inquiring judge dismissed the application. following a further request by the applicant, by a decision of 4 may 2015 the inquiring judge released further documentation in light of the fact that the needs of the investigation had diminished. the secrecy regime was however maintained, in part, in connection with certain documents concerning both proceedings at issue as well as other documents and evidence yet to be collected following this decision. by an interlocutory decision of 2 july 2015, the third-instance judge suspended the order for the applicant’s detention on remand and ordered that he be put under house arrest until a decision on the merits of the constitutional challenge had been issued. the applicant was ordered not to communicate with his co-accused (mrs b.) and had to submit his travel documents to the authorities, in line with a travel ban which was being imposed concurrently.
the applicant was born in 1940 and lives in plungė. participated in a meeting at the plungė district land service of the telšiai county administration (hereinafter “the plungė district land service”), where he was informed that all of his father’s land was already being used by others and could not be returned to him in natura. he stated that he would have to think about the offer and would inform the authorities before 1 may 2002. to choose a form of compensation for the land. the plungė district land service repeated that the document on a transfer of the land had already been prepared and the applicant had to sign it and indicate the area where she would like to receive a plot of land of equivalent value. in february 2007 the plungė district land service informed the applicant about the procedure for restitution and reiterated that the applicant had to sign the document on the transfer of land. in response, the applicant stated that she would sign the land transfer document after she had been shown a plot of equivalent value. in august 2007 during a meeting at the plungė district land service it had been decided to include v.v. ’s request to restore his property rights into the preparation of an additional territorial plan of the area. however, they had never expressly done so. in october 2008 the applicant lodged an appeal. had been asked several times by the national authorities to choose another form of restitution but he had insisted on restitution in natura. had died, the applicant had been asked to choose the form of restitution but had persisted in asking to have the land returned to her in natura or to be provided with a plot of equivalent value. the court also considered that although at some point the applicant had indicated that providing her with a plot of land of equivalent value was an alternative way to restore her property rights, she had tied that form to her own rules and requirements, which were not possible under the domestic law. the court further observed that the national authorities had decided to pay the applicant monetary compensation as the form of restitution.
the applicants were detained in korydallos prison in athens when they lodged their application with the court. the second applicant was detained in korydallos prison on 22 march 2013 and the third applicant on 21 august 2013; they were still in detention when they submitted their observations to the court. the fourth applicant was detained in korydallos prison from 26 june 2013 to 1 may 2014, except for the periods from 17 july 2013 to 3 september 2013, from 27 november 2013 to 10 december 2013, and from 6 february 2014 to 17 february 2014, during which time he was detained in chania prison. the sixth applicant was detained in korydallos prison from 30 january 2013 to 15 august 2014. the toilet facilities were partially separated from the rest of the cell. in addition, there was insufficient heating and hot water. inmates had to use a washbasin to wash themselves, as well as their dishes and clothes. rubbish was not properly collected and food remains were left in the cells and corridors for days. prisoners were not sufficiently separated according to their health conditions or whether or not they were drug users. there was no adequate medical care, in particular as regards psychological health. the government asserted that the first to fifth applicants had been detained in various cells in wings a and d. all cells measured 9.60 sq. every cell was furnished with a washbasin, a toilet, beds, a table, chairs and, usually, wooden shelves. detainees were provided with sheets and blankets, except for when they chose to use their own. cells were regularly disinfected and cleaned twice a day by cleaning crews consisting of detainees. additionally, the prison’s social services took care of detainees’ needs, including those of the applicants, who had used those services on a number of occasions.
the applicants were all detained in the transfers department of thessaloniki (τμήμα μεταγωγών); they were either in pre-trial detention or serving a prison sentence. specifically, the first applicant was detained in the transfers department of thessaloniki from 24 january 2013 until 29 april 2013; the second applicant was detained in the transfers department of thessaloniki from 27 november 2012 until 1 march 2013; and the third applicant was detained in the transfers department of thessaloniki from 29 january 2013 until 11 march 2013. detainees had been confined to their cells and had not been allowed to spend time outside, which had affected their psychological health. recreational activities had not been offered and cells had not been equipped with televisions or radio. the meals that had been provided to detainees had cost 5.87 euros (eur) per day and had not sufficed to cover their daily dietary needs, either in terms of quantity or quality. on 22 february 2013 the applicants lodged a complaint with the public prosecutor, complaining of the conditions of their detention but received no reply. the government firstly argued that the applicants had complained in a general way, without providing specific references concerning the actual conditions of their detention. m each and had been designed to accommodate ten male detainees. there had been another two cells which had accommodated female detainees. all cells had had in-cell sanitary facilities and had had sufficient light and received sufficient ventilation through large windows. cells had accommodated five to fifteen detainees. most of the detainees had been held in the facility for very short periods of time, as the transfers department had been used when transferring detainees from one facility to another or to the court room. as a result, when the number of detainees had exceeded the number that the cells had been designed to accommodate, that had only remained the case until transfers had been completed. in any event, the space available for each inmate had never been less than 4 sq. an external contractor had cleaned the facilities every day and had disinfected the detention areas once a week.
the applicants were or are still detained in ioannina prison. of the applicants, the fourth was released on 11 march 2013 and the eighth was transferred to alikarnassos prison on 6 december 2012. the thirty-fourth and fifty-third applicants were released on 31 may 2013, the thirty-ninth and forty-eighth on 26 april 2013, the fortieth and fifty-second on 30 april 2013, the forty-sixth on 10 april 2013 and the fifty-first on 11 april 2013. there were four big cells measuring approximately 45 sq. m each, which had accommodated 32 detainees. there were also four smaller cells: cell no. m and had housed 20 detainees while cell no. 8, which used to be laundry room, measured 10 sq. they had had to take their meals inside their cells. inmates had to wash and dry their clothes and underwear in the toilet facilities, which further spread contagious diseases. medical care had been inadequate, particularly as regards psychological health. m and two solitary confinement cells, each 8 sq. the cells had been regularly disinfected and cleaned on a daily basis. appropriate standards of hygiene had been strictly observed and each new inmate was provided with clean clothing and blankets. all detainees had access to the prison infirmary and there were two general doctors, a dentist and three nurses.
the applicants were born in 1970, 1966, 1976 and 1972 respectively. mr rezmiveş, mr moşmonea and mr gazsi are currently detained in timişoara, pelendava and baia mare prisons respectively. mr mavroian, who had been detained in focşani prison, was released on 13 january 2015. on 5 april 2011 the first applicant was admitted to gherla prison. he remained there until 12 march 2012, when he was transferred to aiud prison. on 13 april 2012 he was transferred to oradea prison, where he stayed until 20 december 2012, before being moved to timişoara prison on 5 august 2013. the first applicant complained about the conditions of detention in gherla, aiud and oradea prisons. in particular, he complained of overcrowding (submitting that there was between 1.60 sq. m of living space per prisoner), the lack of natural light, the short duration of daily exercise and the lack of recreational activities. ... on 13 february 2008 the second applicant was placed in pre-trial detention in craiova prison. following his conviction, he served his sentence there until 17 may 2012, when he was transferred to târgu-jiu prison. on 11 july 2012 he was transferred to pelendava prison. on 15 december 2009 the third applicant was admitted to rahova prison, where he stayed for several months before being transferred successively to tulcea (2010), iași (2010-14) and vaslui (2011-13) prisons. the third applicant complained about the conditions of detention in rahova prison, referring in particular to overcrowding, lack of ventilation in cells, mould on the walls, poor-quality food and the presence of bedbugs. ... in his application form the fourth applicant complained of poor hygiene conditions, the lack of a toilet, running water, natural light and adequate ventilation, the presence of rats and the insufficient access to showers at the baia mare police detention facility.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in donji milanovac. he was employed by ðerdap, a company in kladovo (ribarsko gazdinstvo “ðerdap” – hereinafter “the debtor company”). on 28 december 1998 the applicant was reassigned to a lower post by his employer. he was subsequently dismissed on 20 january 2000. these two decisions, taken by the company’s managing director, were upheld by its board of management. on 18 february 1999 the applicant filed a civil claim against the debtor company; on 26 april 2000 he filed a separate claim seeking reinstatement to a suitable position, as well as the outstanding salary payments and social benefits. this judgment became final on 23 october 2003. on 16 february 2004, 9 march 2004, 18 and 19 october 2004, respectively upon the applicant’s requests to that effect, the municipal court accepted the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the applicant the enforcement costs. the municipal court provided the national bank of serbia (narodna banka srbije – “the central bank”) with the above-mentioned enforcement orders on 14 april 2004, 20 july 2004 and 11 november 2004, respectively. it would appear that none of the above-mentioned enforcement orders have been enforced to date. on 8 april 2010 the central bank informed the zaječar commercial court of the suspension of the debtor company’s accounts for three years. on 30 june 2010 the commercial court opened and closed the insolvency proceedings against the debtor company and that decision became final on 10 august 2010. the debtor company was ultimately struck from the relevant public register on 31 august 2010. the debtor company in the present case had been a socially owned company. in 1991 it was transformed into a limited company which remained mainly socially owned, and remained as such until it was struck off the register (see http://apr.gov.rs/, accessed on 1 december 2016).
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in kosovo. in november 1994 the applicant was arrested for working illegally, and on 16 november 1994 the dornbirn district administrative authority (bezirkshauptmannschaft) issued a decision imposing a five-year residence ban (aufenthaltsverbot) on him. on 5 january 1995 the applicant lodged an asylum claim, which on 27 january 1995 was dismissed by the federal asylum office (bundesasylamt) as unfounded. they received a temporary residence permit, which was extended several times. he was in pre-trial detention and then prison from 28 july to 11 november 2003. the applicant was in prison from 23 may until 12 november 2007. on 2 august 2012 the regional court convicted the applicant of aggravated threat and sentenced him to seven months’ imprisonment. he and his parents lived in the same house. his father still owned some land and three shops in kosovo, which were run by relatives at that time. he would, however, prefer to stay in austria, where his children went to school. turning to the applicant’s rights under article 8 of the convention, the federal asylum office acknowledged how established his private and family life was in austria, where his family members were living. further, it held that the applicant still had ties with kosovo, because he had grown up there, spoke albanian, and was physically capable of working in order to earn a living. the actual prison sentences he had received amounted to twenty-two months in total, which was considerable. the applicant lodged a complaint against that decision with the constitutional court. the asylum court replied on 13 september 2011 that the applicant had spoken of four children throughout the proceedings, but had never mentioned that one of them had in fact been born as a result of an extra-marital relationship and had never lived with him in the same household.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in kresnice. although company p. had initially requested that the enforcement be carried out by seizing the applicant’s house, its claim was subsequently paid from the applicant’s bank account. the decision was served on the applicant on 24 june 2009. the case was subsequently transferred to the litija local court for further consideration. on 7 january 2010 an enforcement officer went to the applicant’s house with a view to seizing movable property. on 21 april 2010, as part of the proceedings instituted by company p., the litija local court ordered a valuation of the applicant’s house. in the meantime, on 29 april 2010, the enforcement officer inspected the interior of the applicant’s house in the presence of the applicant’s wife and concluded that it contained no objects which could be seized and sold to cover the debt concerned in the proceedings instituted by company j. the officer again left a note inviting the applicant to pay the debt, now amounting to eur 516, voluntarily. the decision was served on the applicant on 6 september 2010. however, there were no interested buyers. the decision also contained a notice to the bank, which stated, among other things, that if no assets were currently available, the bank should proceed with the seizure once assets became available; if no assets became available within a year of the decision being served on the bank, the latter should inform the court to that effect. on 24 november 2010 the applicant lodged an appeal against the award decision in which he informed the court that he had repaid the debt (see paragraph 26 above). he further submitted that in the meantime he had repaid his debt. he stressed that in the event that the award decision were not revoked, his family would risk becoming homeless. the applicant lodged an objection to the above decision (see paragraph 32 above), stating that the enforcement proceedings instituted by company j. had already been discontinued and that he wished to have a.a. the applicant lodged an objection and a further appeal, which were both dismissed.
at the material time the applicant company was the publisher of kvartirnyy ryad, a newspaper specialising in coverage of the housing market in the moscow area (“the newspaper”). on 20 may 2004 the newspaper published an article by g. entitled “so sorry for the bird. g. suggested in the article that a number of residents of the bluebird flats had been affected by the alleged misuse of common areas, in particular attics in the blocks of flats and that t., the head of the commonhold association, had been behind the misuse. the relevant parts of the article read as follows:“residents of eight blocks of flats in severnoe butovo keep sending letters to the courts, the prosecutor’s office, the city administration and even president putin to complain about the head of the “bluebird” commonhold association, t., [w]ho has developed an indecently hasty business activity spitting in the face of the association’s charter and a number of regional and federal laws. ... on 28 may 2004 t. lodged a defamation claim against the applicant company and g. with the presnenskiy district court of moscow (“the district court”). the court received the statement of claim on 15 june 2004. on 8 december 2004 the district court examined and partially allowed the claim, referring to article 152 of the civil code and resolution no. the defendants, a third party and witnesses explained that an attic ... had been unlawfully rented out. the lease agreement had been unlawfully concluded by t. ...however, no evidence has been provided [by the defendants] to the court to prove that the plaintiff’s actions were unlawful or illegal or in violation of federal and regional law or the commonhold association’s charter. moreover, the issue of the lease of the attic ... was examined by the zyuzinskiy district court of moscow. by the decision of the zyuzinskiy district court of moscow of 19 may 2004 actions of the bluebird commonhold association headed by t. were found to be in compliance with the law in force. as to the statements: “... the commission was not elected, but appointed, which guaranteed the appointment of t. for a third term ... in sum, even though t. did not have the majority of the votes, he nonetheless managed to conclude the contract ...” ... they are not to be retracted as they are not damaging to the honour and dignity of the plaintiff. the applicant company and g. appealed against the judgment to the moscow city court (“the city court”). on 25 july 2005 the city court rejected a request by the applicant company for supervisory review. on 13 october 2005 the enforcement proceedings were terminated by a bailiff as the judgment of 8 december 2004 had been enforced in full.
the applicant was born in 1938 and lives in hamburg. in 1992 they moved to riga but maintained their place of residence in hamburg. the couple maintained contact by telephone and post. there is no information on the content of that document. upon receiving the information from post authorities that the applicant did not live at the above address, on 27 january 2004 the applicant was summoned to the hearing scheduled for 1 march 2004 with a notice in the official gazette. after hearing testimony from two witnesses, who stated that they had not seen the applicant since 2000, the court granted the divorce. no appeal was brought against this judgment and it came into force on 27 april 2004. one of the witnesses who had testified in the divorce proceedings. the government did not dispute this fact. had been aware of the applicant’s address in hamburg. the senate of the supreme court concluded that, since a.s. ’s claim had not contained a reference to the applicant’s address and since the riga city ziemeļu district court had therefore been unaware of her whereabouts, its actions had been compatible with the procedural requirements of the civil procedure law. passed away on 30 april 2004, a fact which excludes any further proceedings. the government, in turn, relied on the information a.s. on 3 november 2005 the applicant brought civil proceedings against a.a.
the present case concerns the applicant’s trial and conviction for attempted murder of m. g., a businessman and former parliamentarian. on 29 december 2001 a bomb placed under m.g. ’s car detonated when the latter started the engine in the morning. with whom he had major disagreements over business-related issues, as the only possible offender. was arrested on suspicion of attempted murder. she mentioned that about a year before, the applicant had complained about m.g. the parents had maintained good relations and the family was in contact almost every day. the applicant’s neighbour, was interviewed. the applicant and their two children v.g. since 2001, when they had settled in the building. on an unspecified date the investigation was concluded and the criminal case was referred to the avan and nor-nork district court of yerevan for trial. on 29 october 2007 the applicant lodged an appeal against the judgment of the district court. in the course of the proceedings before the criminal court of appeal y.w. however, he had no intention of killing m.g., on 21 november 2008 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law claiming, inter alia, that the court of appeal had based its conclusions on the pre-trial statements of l.g.,
the applicant was born on 12 may 1988 and at the time of his most recent communication with the court was detained in toretsk (previously dzerzhynsk). once at the police station, the applicant was separated from his father and questioned as to whether he had any information about the grinder which had disappeared from the shop. however, in the applicant’s story as retold by the father, the grinder was found in a different street. at 3.20 p.m. the applicant was questioned in the presence of l. he stated that on the night of the murder he had been walking home after a night out with friends. when he had brought the grinder home he had said to his father that someone had been offering to sell a grinder. on the evening of 20 february 2005 the applicant was placed in a cell in the police’s temporary detention facility with two adult detainees, k., born in 1975, and o., born in 1956, who were at the time registered as suffering from drug addiction. the applicant continued to be detained in the cell with o. and k. until a court detention order arrived on 23 february 2005 and he was transferred to the remand prison (see paragraph 26 below). on 23 february 2005 the toretsk court remanded the applicant in custody pending the completion of the investigation. it held that while the applicant had no prior convictions and had positive character references, he had no employment and had been charged with grave offences. in particular, according to the forensic and other evidence, d. had been raped with a vodka bottle, which was not in line with the applicant’s initial statements that he had accidentally killed her after being surprised by her and had then run away almost immediately. accordingly, the regional court refused to declare the applicant’s arrest unlawful. he had chosen the false confession as a lesser evil. on 26 january 2006 the toretsk prosecutor’s office, in response to the applicant’s mother’s complaint of 16 january 2006, refused to institute criminal proceedings in relation to the applicant’s complaints for lack of a corpus delicti in the police officers’ actions, concluding that there was no evidence of any physical or psychological ill‑treatment. the copies of those decisions have not been provided to the court. o. had had a conviction at some point in the past but his conviction had been considered sufficiently old to have been considered expunged by time the applicant had been detained with him.
the applicant was born in 1952 and lives in cologne. on 1 march 2011 the public prosecutor asked for a list of all transactions concerning the applicant’s bank account from 1 january 2009 until that day. he asked the bank not to reveal the request to the applicant. (d)  do other accounts exist of which the person in question is the beneficiary? (g)  which addresses of the person in question are known to you? (h)  are you aware of any money transfers to or other transactions with foreign countries? (i)  please submit a list of all transactions for all existing or closed accounts from 1 january 2009 onwards. the information received was analysed by the police and the public prosecutor, and a list of fifty-three transactions deemed to be relevant was included in the investigation file as evidence. therefore, everyone who had access to the case file, such as the lawyers of the co‑accused, also had access to the applicant’s banking information, including the names of his clients who had transferred fees. he further argued that the investigative measures lacked a legal basis. therefore, since the investigative measures were legitimate, the information received had to be kept in the investigation file. subsequently, the file was transferred to the bochum regional court (“the regional court”), because the criminal proceedings against the applicant’s client had started. the applicant therefore asked the regional court to return the data. he challenged in particular the findings that the bank had acted voluntarily and that there had been sufficient suspicion for such an extensive analysis of his banking transactions. on 13 september 2012 the hamm court of appeal confirmed the decision of the regional court.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in shakhty, the rostov region. on 29 march 2005 the rostov-na-donu military court (“the military court”) ordered, inter alia, the commander of the military unit no. 3654 (“the military unit”) to provide the applicant certain monetary compensation and allowance for the periods specified in the operative part of the judgment. the judgment came into force on 15 april 2005. according to the government, on 6 may 2005 the applicant received two writs of execution in his case and sent them to the military unit. according to the parties, the judgment was enforced only in part. as submitted by the applicant, despite his subsequent requests, the original copy of the writ of execution in respect of the judgment of 29 march 2005 was never returned to him by the military unit. therefore, on an unspecified date he requested the military court to issue a duplicate of the enforcement document. in 2005, 2006 and 2008 the applicant applied for an additional decision to be made in his civil case against the military unit which resulted in the judgment of 29 march 2005. he considered that an additional decision specifying the amounts to be paid to him under the judgment of 29 march 2005 would resolve his difficulties in claiming the outstanding amounts. in his application of 26 may 2006 he also asked the court to index‑link the delayed payments and claimed non-pecuniary damage for the delayed enforcement of the judgment of 29 march 2005. the military court rejected all of the applicant’s claims, explaining that he should have applied for an additional decision before the entry into force of the judgment of 29 march 2005. on 3 april 2008 the military court refused the applicant’s request to clarify the judgment of 29 march 2005 by indicating the specific amounts to be paid. the court considered that the applicant’s request amounted to a call to amend the judgment rather than to clarify it. on 14 may 2008 this decision was upheld on appeal.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the applicant, may be summarised as follows. the organisers assured the mayor that the demonstration would be peaceful. 16 nadrzeczna street, opposite two warehouses. nadrzeczna street is used by public transport minibuses and by the school bus. therefore organising a demonstration on that street between 7 and 10 a.m. would block the entire length of the street and also limit or even make impossible any journey by car to krakowska street and in the farther direction of grojec. in the event of a traffic accident, the intervention of the police, the fire service or the ambulance service would be difficult, if not impossible. similarly, access to a doctor by the residents of wólka kosowska during the demonstration might be totally impossible. this authority concludes that the holding of a demonstration on this street during heavy traffic might put people’s health at risk.” according to the company, the only aim of such actions was disruption and they could not influence its position on the contested measures. in conclusion, the applicant association was urged to stop organising illegal demonstrations on premises belonging to company x. if the association failed to comply, company x would take all necessary legal actions and inform the prosecuting bodies. the decision was delivered to the applicant association’s lawyer on 25 august 2008. on 21 may 2008 the mayor gave a decision in which she banned the demonstration, relying on the same legal grounds as those relied on previously, and putting forward similar arguments. access by those entrepreneurs and for deliveries would be impossible. on 1 september 2008 the applicant association informed the mayor of lesznowola about a demonstration planned for 2 october 2008. she stated that disruption to traffic would make impossible any intervention by the police or other emergency services.
the applicant was born in 1988 and lives in the village of trudobelikovskiy, krasnodar region. at around midnight on 15 august 2007 the applicant, who was 19 years old at the time, and b. were taken in a police patrol car to the police station of the syktyvdinskiy district of the komi republic for an examination of allegations of assault made against them by two individuals, in particular of the sexual assault of a woman. the police intervened immediately after the alleged assaults. investigator n. instituted criminal proceedings against him and b. and ordered a forensic medical examination of the applicant to establish, in view of the nature of the crime, whether the applicant had any pathology which would prevent him from performing sexual acts. on the same day the applicant complained to the ministry of the interior of the republic of komi that he had been ill-treated at the police station. on 17 august 2007 the applicant was arrested, questioned as a suspect and detained on remand by a court. the decision relied on the following statements. the applicant had not complained of any physical violence against him. investigator n. denied that the applicant had been put under any physical or psychological pressure. stated that he had learned from duty officer s.a. about the applicant striking his head against the bars of a cell. on 4 march 2008 the supreme court of the komi republic granted an appeal lodged by the applicant’s mother and quashed the district court’s decision, noting that no assessment had been made of the contradiction between the medical expert’s conclusions and the police officers’ allegations of the applicant’s self-harm. on 21 march 2008 the syktyvdinskiy district court ruled that the refusal to open a criminal case of 29 august 2007 had been unjustified for reasons largely similar to those cited by the supreme court. such records were normally kept for three days and then automatically deleted. on 16 june 2008 the syktyvdinskiy district court dismissed her appeal.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in zagreb. the applicant took early retirement on grounds of disability. on 29 january 1998 the applicant lodged a civil action against the hospital and the relevant insurance company with the zagreb municipal civil court (općinski (građanski sud) u zagrebu), claiming damages for alleged medical malpractice. the parties exchanged further submissions in february and march 1999. the applicant submitted an expert report drafted by v.f., according to which her medical condition had notably deteriorated in january 1997. produced a report in which he stated that he had found no indications of medical malpractice in the applicant’s treatment. on the basis of an objection by the applicant to j.g. submitted a supplement to her report, finding that there were no indications of medical negligence in the applicant’s treatment. an expert report was commissioned from the university of zagreb medical faculty on 14 january 2002. in september and december 2006 the applicant urged the zagreb municipal civil court to schedule a hearing. on 24 may 2007 the zagreb municipal civil court heard evidence from n.šp. the doctor who had treated the applicant, would be questioned as a witness. on 17 march 2010 the applicant appealed against that judgment before the zagreb county court (županijski sud u zagrebu) alleging, inter alia, that the medical experts who had drafted the reports had a personal and professional conflict of interest in the proceedings, as they involved allegations of malpractice against their colleagues and the experts were financially dependent on the hospital system. the decision of the zagreb county court was served on the zagreb municipal civil court on 22 october 2008.
on 26 february 2014 the applicant began to serve a three-year prison sentence. he was placed in zagreb prison hospital (“zph”). on 18 april 2014 a zagreb county court judge responsible for the execution of sentences dismissed the applicant’s request. this decision was based entirely on an opinion given by dr b., an expert in internal medicine and cardiology. dr b. concluded that the applicant was not suffering from any acute illness and that during his time in zph his chronic illness had not worsened. on 25 april 2014 the applicant lodged an appeal, in which he argued that since incarceration his medical condition had been deteriorating constantly, that the zph doctors had themselves recommended that his prison sentence be suspended on medical grounds, and that dr b. could not give a proper opinion on his health since he was not an expert in neurology. on 27 august and 4 september 2014 the applicant lodged appeals, in which he contested the qualifications of dr m. and the validity of her opinion. following a suggestion by zph that there was no need for the applicant’s further hospitalisation, on 29 september 2014 the head office of the prisons administration ordered his transfer to zagreb prison. the applicant’s appeal was dismissed on 14 october 2014 by the prisons administration. on 19 november 2014, at his request, the applicant was taken to the sisters of mercy hospital in zagreb so that neurological tests could be carried out. during his transfer in a police van he suffered an epileptic fit and lost consciousness. he spent ten hours at the hospital and was then returned to zagreb prison. the applicant also complained about the conditions in zagreb prison. there had been no lift, which had prevented him from accessing fresh air. a report drawn up there on 15 january indicates that there was no need for any urgent measures.
the applicant was born in 1979 and is currently serving a prison sentence in frolovo, volgograd region. according to the applicant, they demanded that he give statements concerning the circumstances of the crime committed by him and subjected him to ill-treatment which the applicant described as follows. the applicant gave the statements as demanded. on 20 april 2009 the krasnoarmeyskiy district court ordered his detention on remand. he complained of pain in his chest and in his left knee joint, and of generally feeling unwell. on 21 april 2009 the applicant was placed in pre-trial detention facility sizo-4, where he was examined by the sizo doctor who recorded multiple abrasions and haematomas on his trunk, and contusion to the thoracic cage and left wrist. the applicant was interviewed by the sizo officer. the sizo operative unit carried out an inquiry into the incident and concluded in a report of 22 april 2009 ‒ approved by the acting head of the sizo ‒ that the applicant’s injuries had been inflicted by police officers from the krasnoarmeyskiy district police department at about 11 a.m. on 18 april 2009 during the applicant’s interview. the applicant reiterated his self-incriminating statements. those refusals were overruled by the head or deputy head of the krasnoarmeyskiy district investigative committee as being unlawful, and the investigators were ordered to carry out additional inquiries. on 10 september 2009 the krasnoarmeyskiy district court of volgograd convicted the applicant of manslaughter and sentenced him to nine years and six months’ imprisonment. according to police officers b., d. and m. ‒ as well as e., the head of the criminal investigating unit of the krasnoarmeyskiy district police department ‒ the applicant had been brought to the police station on suspicion of having inflicted very serious bodily injuries on k. at some point the applicant had been taken from a cell to e.’s office. the police officers had inteviewed the applicant and established the circumstances of the crime against k. according to b., the applicant had complained of pain in his chest, explaining that he had fallen down a flight of stairs. the applicant’s mother stated that on 16 april 2009 she had seen the applicant without any sign of physical injury. the investigator further noted that the applicant’s forensic medical examination results indicated that the applicant’s multiple abrasions and haematomas could have come about as a result of blows from hard, blunt objects or collisions with such objects or surfaces – including the applicant falling from his own height.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in vilnius. the court considered that the available evidence (testimonies of witnesses and other suspects and other data collected by the authorities) was sufficient to hold that the applicant may have committed the crimes of which he was suspected. lastly the court noted that the pre-trial investigation was ongoing (see paragraph 40 below) and the remaining investigative actions had to be carried out urgently, so the applicant’s detention was necessary to ensure the unimpeded course of the investigation. the court of appeal observed that, in accordance with the domestic law, detention on remand could last longer than six months only when the case was especially complex or of a large scale. on 14 september 2010 the vilnius regional court extended the applicant’s detention for a further three months. it appears that the applicant did not appeal against that decision. on 20 september 2010 the applicant was officially notified that he was suspected of leading a criminal organisation armed with firearms (article 249 § 3 of the criminal code) and possession of a very large amount of narcotic and psychotropic substances with the intention to distribute them (article 260 § 3 of the criminal code). on 3 december 2010 the prosecutor charged the applicant with the aforementioned crimes (see paragraph 16 above), and the case was referred to the vilnius regional court for examination on the merits. it also underlined that after the case had been referred to the first-instance court for examination on the merits, the law had no longer established the maximum length of detention; however, it had to be compatible with the grounds and procedures provided for by law (see paragraphs 46-51 below). he was given a suspended prison sentence of two years and one month. from june to december 2012 the vilnius regional court extended the applicant’s detention every three months and the court of appeal dismissed his subsequent appeals, relying on essentially the same grounds as in previous court decisions (see paragraphs 14, 15, 18, 24 and 26 above). the vilnius regional court released the applicant immediately and placed him under house arrest (see paragraph 52 below). however, on 7 january 2014 the court of appeal quashed that decision. the applicant appealed against his conviction. according to the latest information submitted to the court, at the time of the present judgment his appeal was still pending because the appellate court had decided to re‑examine the evidence in the light of new material.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in the town of lyskovo, nizhniy novgorod region. four years later he was certified as having a second-degree disability. on 26 november 2010 the police arrested the applicant on suspicion of drug trafficking. on the same day the lyskovo district court of the nizhniy novgorod region remanded the applicant in custody. after successful surgery the applicant was discharged from the hospital on 30 december 2010. in june 2011 the applicant applied for an examination by a special medical board with a view to determining whether his medical condition warranted early release. on 8 june 2011 the detention authorities wrote to him refusing to arrange the examination. three months later the nizhniy novgorod regional court quashed the conviction and ordered a retrial. on 28 december 2011, while hearing the applicant’s criminal case anew, the district court asked officials whether “prosthesis-orthopaedic assistance” was accessible to him in detention. according to the applicant, no reply was received. on 28 april 2012 the district court found the applicant guilty of drug trafficking and sentenced him to five years and six months’ imprisonment. the sentence was upheld on appeal by the regional court and became final on 11 september 2012. ten days later the applicant was discharged from the hospital. on 10 december 2013 the applicant was transported to the premises of the nizhniy novgorod state orthopedic service, where he was given the prosthetic leg and afforded the necessary prosthesis-orthopaedic assistance. the applicant was released from detention in november 2014.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in athens, greece. she was informed that she only had the right to take five pieces of non-identical jewellery out of country, no matter their value. the applicant missed her flight and spent two weeks in moldova during which time she went to the police station on several occasions. there she made an official declaration and signed a formal undertaking to appear before the prosecuting authorities and courts when necessary. she informed the authorities about her intention to leave the country and obtained their permission. she also gave her greek address and telephone number. on 1 october 2008 the applicant returned to greece because she could no longer be absent from work. she had no difficulties in leaving the country through the same airport. both of them stated that the applicant was in greece and that they did not know when she intended to return to moldova. on 19 june 2009 the botanica district court ordered the applicant’s detention for a period of fifteen days. the publicly appointed lawyer did not challenge that decision. on an unspecified date the applicant’s representative lodged a habeas corpus application with the botanica district court in which it was argued, inter alia, that the applicant had not been aware of the criminal proceedings against her, that she had never been summoned to appear before the prosecutor’s office and that she had not been informed that she could not leave the country. the appeal was dismissed by the chişinău court of appeal on 30 september 2010. in the absence of any such agreement between moldova and greece, the extradition request could not be upheld. it appears that the applicant has not returned to moldova ever since.
the applicants were born in 1973, 1985 and 1981 respectively. on 10 july 2006 the leninskiy district prosecutor’s office of orenburg brought criminal proceedings against the applicant in relation to the attempted murder of d. on 12 july 2006 the applicant was arrested. on 31 july 2006 an investigator from the promyshlenniy district prosecutor’s office of orenburg ‒ who had carried out a pre-investigation inquiry into the applicant’s allegations of ill‑treatment by the ubop officers ‒ refused to initiate criminal proceedings, relying on statements by the ubop police officers, in particular g. and o., that on 17 may 2006 the applicant had been arrested on suspicion of having ordered a murder, and had been taken to the ubop and interviewed, and that no violence had been used against him. the investigator also referred to statements by the applicant’s father and other persons who had been in the ubop building at the same time as the applicant and had not seen or heard that the applicant had been subjected to ill-treatment. on 14 may 2008 the promyshlenniy district court granted an appeal lodged by the applicant against the investigator’s decision. as a result, the applicant had allegedly received abrasions to the head, face and neck. on the applicant’s arrival at the ivs, the officer on duty examined the upper part of his body above the waist and recorded bruises and abrasions. the applicant lodged a complaint with the investigative authorities about his alleged ill-treatment and on 4 february 2011 gave a statement. the other four police officers who had interviewed the applicant had given similar statements. on 18 november 2011 the nizhegorodskiy regional court upheld the judgment on appeal. that conclusion was based on statements by police officers based at the centre, namely sh., they denied the use of any violence against the applicant. he was then asked to stand up on his feet but was unable to do so, fell over and was hit by the truncheon on the left side of his torso. they stated that as soon as the applicant had seen them he had run away and they had lost sight of him. the applicant’s “statement of surrender and confession” served as a mitigating circumstance.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in moscow. the flat at 137a-9-267 samarkandskiy boulevard, moscow, had been owned by the city of moscow. g. had resided there as a tenant under the social housing agreement with the city. on an unspecified date g.’s daughter get. on 19 march 2008, following the expert review of her application, she obtained the relevant certificate. on 28 july 2008 n. sold the flat to the applicant. he and his family moved into the flat and resided there. the government did not inform of the outcome of the proceedings. on an unspecified date the department for municipal housing and housing policy of the city of moscow (the “housing department) brought a civil claim seeking (1) the annulment of the entry in the real estate register confirming the existence of get. on 25 january and 12 may 2011 the applicant unsuccessfully lodged an application with the housing department asking for provision of housing. on 13 december 2011 the applicant was evicted from the flat. according to the government, on 16 july 2012 the housing department assigned the flat as social housing to a family of four. on 25 april 2014 the ownership of the flat was transferred to them under the privatisation scheme. on 12 october 2011 the bailiff opened enforcement proceedings. according to the government, the enforcement proceedings are still pending.
a report of 28 october 1991 drawn up by the bosanski šamac police in bosnia and herzegovina indicated that the body of a man had been found on 27 october 1991 on the right bank of the river sava. the applicants’ respective husband and father, because an identity card bearing that name was found on it. on 15 january 1998 the untaes mandate ceased and the transfer of power to the croatian authorities began. and b., both of whom were known to her son r.m., said that he had joined the volunteers from rijeka and that on 21 september 1991 a group of them had gone to novo selo. said that he had gone with a group of volunteers from rijeka to novo selo on 5 september 1991. had heard about so called “night actions” there had been rumours that some of those who were staying in the fire station had gone to one such action and had come back after two or three hours. said that at the beginning of september 1991 he had gone with a group of volunteers which included lj.g., he could not tell which of the men from rijeka had held the position of commander, but the most prominent men had been d.p. said that he had been in the second group of the rijeka volunteers who had gone to novo selo in autumn 1991. on 25 september 2003 the police interviewed n.s., he had heard rumours about arrests and liquidations of civilians but could not confirm that any of the soldiers from the rijeka unit had participated in it. on 9 october 2008 the state attorney’s office issued an instruction for implementation of the criminal code and the code of criminal procedure to the county state attorney’s offices, in which it stated that an inspection of their work had indicated two main problems: possible partiality of the persons involved in the pending proceedings as regards the ethnicity of the victims or the perpetrators; and the problem of trials in absentia. the claim was dismissed on 3 may 2007 and was upheld on appeal by the sisak county court and the supreme court on 4 december 2009 and 27 april 2011 respectively. on 6 february 2015 the sisak municipal court accepted that request.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in pechora, the komi republic. the applicant sued the municipal unitary enterprise for housing and communal services (mup pechorazhilkomhoz or mup pzhkh – муп печоражилкомхоз – hereafter “the company”) of pechora, the komi republic, for salary arrears. on 31 may 2007 the justice of the peace of the privokzalnyy court circuit of pechora awarded the applicant the equivalent of 18,358 euros (eur) of the salary owed to him for the period from 1 january 2005 to 31 december 2006. the judgment became final ten days later. on 12 january 2009 the pechora town court granted another claim which the applicant had lodged against the company, awarding him eur 592. the company was incorporated as a municipal unitary enterprise. it was set up by a decision of the local administration to provide heating supply and housing maintenance services in the local area. the company had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to it by the administration in order to carry out its statutory activities. in 2006 the owner (the local administration) withdrew several of the company’s assets and transferred them either to the local treasury or to other legal entities. on 17 january 2007 the respondent company was declared insolvent and liquidation proceedings started. the company sued the owner in subsidiary liability proceedings. on 13 may 2009 the commercial court of the komi republic dismissed that action, having found that the owner had acted without intending to cause the company’s insolvency when transferring the assets. on 16 june 2009 the company was liquidated. on 21 june 2012 the court dismissed the applicant’s claim against the owner as unfounded. on 3 september 2012 the supreme court of the komi republic upheld that decision.
the applicant is a swedish national born in 1950. he alternated between full and part-time sick leave from 1996 to 2001. in 1999 he received a partial early retirement pension and in 2002 a full disability pension. the social insurance office (försäkringskassan) appointed an in-house specialist in orthopaedic surgery who, in a written statement, concluded that there was not a high degree of probability (hög grad av sannolikhet) that any harmful element in the applicant’s former employment had caused his problems. the applicant appealed to the county administrative court (förvaltningsrätten) of stockholm. on 19 april 2007 the court, after having held an oral hearing, upheld the social insurance office’s decision in full. the applicant was given the opportunity to submit further observations. the appeal must consequently be rejected.” the applicant appealed to the supreme administrative court (högsta förvaltningsdomstolen). on 4 august 2009, the supreme administrative court refused leave to appeal. consequently, on 30 december 2013, the applicant lodged a claim for compensation for the alleged breaches of the convention with the chancellor of justice. he argued that the administrative court of appeal’s lack of reasoning, as well as its refusal to hold an oral hearing, had infringed his right to a fair trial within the meaning of article 6 of the convention. in response, the applicant maintained, and developed the grounds for, his claim. it had further accounted for the considerations and conclusions drawn from the evidence submitted by the parties, namely, that the investigation in the case did not demonstrate that the applicant had been exposed to any such harmful influences in his work which, with a high degree of probability, could have caused his problems. thus, the chancellor of justice found that the administrative court of appeal had taken a stance on the central and decisive question in the case, that is, whether the applicant had been exposed to harmful influences in his work.
the applicant was born in 1937 and lives in sumgayit. on 7 december 2006 the investigator in charge of the case refused to institute criminal proceedings. had suffered from epilepsy and that the fire had begun after his cigarette had fallen onto the bed during a seizure. after the incident, which stated that the fire had broken out because he had had an epileptic seizure while smoking. ’s cell had been equipped with an adequate fire detection system, to question other inmates, prison guards, and the medical staff who had given first aid to m.m. had not been taken to hospital immediately after the incident. the investigator also noted that handwriting report no. 2375 dated 19 march 2007, handwriting report no. he also argued that the investigator and the first-instance court had failed to examine photographs of m.m. had been ill-treated, as alleged by the applicant. on an unspecified date the applicant appealed against that decision. the court further found that it had not been established whether m.m. on 7 may 2008 a prosecutor at the garadagh district prosecutor’s office again refused to institute criminal proceedings, using wording that was almost identical to the decisions of 26 april 2007 and 7 january 2008. ’s death and his delayed transfer to hospital. on an unspecified date the applicant lodged a complaint against the prosecutor’s decision of 7 may 2008, arguing that the prosecuting authorities had failed to investigate the questions raised by the previous court decisions.
the first applicant was born in 1953 and lives in mosfellsbær, the second applicant was born in 1980 and lives in reykjavík and the third applicant was born in 1980 and lives in seltjarnarnes. in october 2010 the liquidator of the bankruptcy estate hired an accountancy firm to investigate the company’s accounts. the chairman of the board, a, who was also one of the owners of the company, was an assistant professor at the university of iceland at the time. 7,150,000 euros at the time) to a large bank in iceland. the amount had increased significantly after the financial crisis in 2008. the applicants and a were heard and the email of 16 march 2011 from the police prosecutor to a’s lawyer was submitted as evidence. however, article 73(3) of the constitution allows certain restrictions on the freedom of expression. in chapter xxv of the penal code, freedom of expression is restricted in the interest of the rights and reputation of others. it is undisputed that, before the newspaper coverage, [the police] had been informed by the liquidator of a reasonable suspicion of criminal acts by the company’s board members, of which a was one. however, it is stated that no formal decision has been taken about a police investigation nor possible criminal acts defined. here it has to be taken into account that in general the media are required to base coverage on thorough research of the facts. it was not unreasonably difficult to verify whether such an investigation had in fact been opened. the annulled statements were wrong and defamatory for [a]. when examining the coverage and the publication of pictures of [the company] and its representatives in the printed issue of dv and in the online edition of [dv], [a’s] reputation was attacked, at a time when there were no grounds for it ...” 20. by letter of 31 may 2013 the special prosecutor notified another company representative that “the investigation” into the complaints against him and a had been closed and the case had been dismissed.
after the regaining of independence, in 1991 property reform legislation came into force in latvia and provided that former owners or their heirs could reclaim property nationalised in 1940. as that had been established by a court order in 1995. the judgment was not appealed against and became final on 8 june 1999. had been the sole purchaser of 30 ha of a forest. a copy of that application was sent to the second applicant and the other two parties to the initial proceedings, inviting them to submit comments within thirty days of receipt. the fifth applicant entered into various transactions with the contested property. on 27 february 2004 the fifth applicant sold another part of the property to k.k, who on 18 june 2004 sold it to the first applicant for about lvl 29,000 (about eur 41,500). and the two other claimants in the initial proceedings. on 30 may 2004 the riga regional court decided to join the claim lodged by the prosecutor general’s office and the claim about the restoration of property rights (see paragraph 17 above). moreover, the joint ownership of the land had ceased after the passing of a decree in 1937, and after that date a.s. the plots of land were returned to jurmala municipality in order for it to finalise the land reform. the first, second, fourth and fifth applicants lodged an appeal on points of law. with respect to the property claim brought by the prosecutor general’s office, the senate noted that even if the state’s property rights had not been infringed, that did not prevent the court from finding that the second applicant and the two other claimants in the first set of proceedings had had no rights to the contested property. on 16 october 2012 the third applicant was declared insolvent and the riga district court appointed e.k. on 19 february 2013 the insolvency proceedings were terminated and on 14 may 2013 the third applicant was deleted from the company register.
the applicant company, chap ltd, is a private armenian company that was set up in 1999 and has its registered office in gyumri. in 2005 the applicant company established a regional television channel, gala tv, with the intention of broadcasting in the local region. the licence was granted for a period of seven years. the head of the ntrc;b)  statements by the heads of companies and individual businessmen that they had placed advertisements on gala tv but had not received any documents acknowledging payment to the applicant company for such services. the applicant company objected to the allegations of tax evasion as fabricated and politically motivated as home-made advertisements that had a social function, which gala tv had broadcast for free, had been taken into account by the authorities in calculating the tax arrears. the investigating authorities discontinued the proceedings after the required amount had been paid. on 27 november 2007 the commercial court admitted the case to its proceedings and at the same time dismissed the application to freeze the applicant company’s bank accounts. could not be used as evidence to support the findings of the srs in its report. on 29 january 2008 the administrative court admitted the case. on 12 march 2008 the applicant company’s lawyer lodged an application to obtain and examine the tax records of the companies that had advertised on gala tv and had been inspected by the srs. to whose statements the srs had referred in its report. which had been referred to in the srs’s report. on 18 june 2008 the applicant company lodged an appeal on points of law with the administrative court. on 4 august 2008 the court of cassation returned the applicant company’s appeal on the grounds that it had failed to pay the correct amount of state fee and set a deadline for resubmission. after paying the required state fee, the applicant company resubmitted its appeal on 3 september 2008.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in cocieri. the background to the case, including the transdniestrian armed conflict of 1991-1992 and the subsequent events, is set out in ilaşcu and others v. moldova and russia ([gc], no. 48787/99, §§ 28-185, echr 2004‑vii) and catan and others v. the republic of moldova and russia ([gc], 43370/04 and 2 others, §§ 8-42, echr 2012 (extracts)). on 22 august 2010 the applicant, who is an entrepreneur, was transporting merchandise to an agricultural market in the town of dubasari in the self-proclaimed “moldovan republic of transdniestria” (the “mrt”). he was stopped by two persons presenting themselves as customs officers of the “mrt” who seized his van and the merchandise contained therein on account of his having allegedly failed to register the vehicle. on 7 october 2010 the “mrt” customs authority issued a decision obliging the applicant to pay a fine of some 1,320 euros (eur) in return for being able to recover his van and merchandise. in the meantime the applicant complained to the authorities of the republic of moldova about the seizure of his van and merchandise. on 9 september 2010 the dubasari prosecutor’s office initiated a criminal investigation into the facts of the case and several suspects were declared wanted. however, the investigation was suspended in 2014. on 21 july 1992 the presidents of the russian federation and the republic of moldova signed an agreement in moscow to put an end to the military conflict in the transdniestrian region of moldova. under the agreement, a security zone was created between the conflicting parties and a joint control commission (hereinafter “the jcc”) was set up to monitor the implementation of the agreement in the security zone. the jcc is composed of representatives of russia, the republic of moldova, and the “mrt”. any decisions made by the jcc must have the consent of all the parties (for more details, see ilaşcu and others (cited above, §§ 87-91). reports by inter-governmental and non-governmental organisations, the relevant domestic law and practice of the republic of moldova, and other pertinent documents were summarised in mozer v. the republic of moldova and russia ([gc], no.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in portorož. lodged a criminal complaint against the applicant. the judge found it unnecessary to obtain the evidence in question and the following day acquitted the applicant finding that it had not been proved that the applicant had directed the threats against r.h. be examined at the hearing as well, and explained that this evidence would have undermined the credibility of r.h., who stated that the cleaning lady had on the day of the incident told him that the applicant had not allowed her to enter the courtyard. ’s written statement of 30 november 2008. he said that he did not know why he had been summoned to testify but, further to the question by the applicant’s counsel, confirmed that he had spent ten minutes with r.h. had been opposing parties in a number of civil and criminal proceedings. could not be considered a reliable witness. as to the applicant’s reference to an investigation against k.c. ( on 30 august 2010 the applicant applied to have the above criminal proceedings against him reopened on the basis of the evidence adduced at the hearing of 12 february 2010 (see paragraph 22 above) and requested that d.č. on 28 june 2011 in the presence of the applicant. testified that he had been a friend of r.h. had told him if he had been threatened by the applicant. the court also had regard to the fact that the koper higher court as well as the supreme court had examined the applicant’s request to hear d.č.
the applicants were born in 1971 and 1974 respectively and live in sesvete. on 12 december 1996 at about 8.30 p.m. one d.m., and one other person died and the second applicant was gravely injured. the relevant part of the report reads:“on 12 december 1996 at about 8.30 p.m. at the n. pizza parlour ... soldier d.m. was consuming alcoholic beverages at the bar in the company of d.ma., an employee of the judicial police) and ž.b. seeing that the grenade had been activated, took it in his right hand and turned sideways from the counter, after which an explosion occurred. [ sustained grievous bodily injuries and ž.b. ... on 1 july 1998 the applicants brought a civil action against the state in the zagreb municipal court. the first-instance court again allowed the claim on 17 september 2010. used an m-75 grenade, which served a military purpose and was registered for [use by] the members of the croatian army;- the decision of 12 october 1998 ... issued by the croatian pension fund stated that the mother of d.m., who had been a croatian homeland war veteran, obtained the right to a survivor’s pension because [d.m.] the damage most likely would not have occurred. lastly, this court considers ... in respect of the failure of the defendant to carry out a check on the carrying of weapons and to seize [weapons] where there is no licence [to carry them], as the basis of the defendant’s liability, that there is no proof ... that the military police had a duty to carry out a check in the pizza parlour in question on the critical evening or that the competent authorities knew that d.m. possessed a grenade and failed to seize it from him.
the applicant was born in 1975 and is detained in sofia prison. on 3 october 1999 the applicant was arrested in sofia. none of the case papers indicate whether he received a copy of the 9 july 1999 order after his arrest. at noon, assisted by his officially appointed lawyer, the applicant was formally charged with the double murder and the hold-up in the bureau de change in burgas. on 4 january 2000 the applicant and a.s., on 16 february 2000 the burgas regional prosecutor returned the file to the investigator for further inquiries. in his statement the applicant related a version of events to the effect that the robbery and murders in question had been committed by a certain v., an iranian national, aided and abetted by an unknown second person. who was a close relative of the owner and an employee in the same establishment. on 4 december 2001 the reporting judge responsible for the criminal case rejected the requests for further evidence‑gathering as irrelevant. the court of appeal turned its attention to the applicant’s version of events to the effect that the two murders and the robbery had been committed by a certain v., an iranian national, and that the applicant himself had been at his place of work in sofia at the material time. it held that even though the regional court had been dilatory in issuing the grounds for its judgment, the defence had nonetheless been able to submit additional observations on appeal after having secured a copy of those grounds. m. it had contained a bed and a metal rack. the two beds had taken up most of the floor area, leaving the two prisoners with a free area of only 2 sq. m. there had been no running water in the cell and the prisoners had used a bucket as a toilet. he had been allowed to attend the prison chapel twice a year, at easter and christmas, although not during worship so that he would not meet other prisoners.
on the night of 25 july 2009 traffic police stopped the applicant’s car. following the applicant’s failure to produce his driving licence and suspecting that it had been withdrawn, police officers took him to the duty unit of the ezhvinskiy district police station, where he was kept in a cell for administrative detainees until the following morning. a record of the applicant’s administrative arrest was drawn up. on 26 july 2009 the justice of the peace of the vezhdinskiy court circuit of the ezhvinskiy district found the applicant guilty of driving a vehicle after the withdrawal of his driving licence (an administrative offence under article 12.7 § 2 of the russian code of administrative offences) and sentenced him to fifteen days of administrative detention. on 31 july 2009 the applicant made a written request to the head of the detention unit seeking a family visit. on 14 august 2009 the applicant’s representative lodged a complaint with the syktyvkar town court, alleging that the applicant’s right to family life guaranteed by article 8 of the convention had been unlawfully restricted. the police officials filed a written objection, arguing that the internal rules governing detention facilities for administrative detainees did not provide administrative detainees with the right to have a family visit. on 15 september 2009 the syktyvkar city court dismissed the applicant’s complaint, having accepted the police authorities’ argument that administrative detainees were not entitled to a family visit under the domestic law in force and that the applicant had been subjected to those limitations of his rights as a negative consequence of the administrative detention. 25498/94, § 61, echr 2000‑x) and vlasov v. russia (no. the representative submitted that there was no norm in russian law imposing restrictions on family visits for administrative detainees. on 22 october 2009 the supreme court of the komi republic upheld the city court’s decision, having reasoned as follows:“there is no prohibition on family visits for administrative detainees. ...[at the same time] a refusal to authorise a family visit has a basis in russian law; however, it should be warranted by circumstances and conditions providing the competent authorities with the right to apply the disputed restriction. providing law‑enforcement bodies with unlimited powers in issues pertaining to fundamental rights could run contrary to the superior role of the law and could result in arbitrary interference with human rights. in the case under examination, there are no grounds for concluding that the actions of the acting head [of the detention unit of the police station where the applicant had been detained] were unlawful because, having applied for a family visit, [the applicant] had not indicated whom he had wanted to see and what the relationship was between him and that person. if those important details are not provided, the authorisation of a family visit cannot be considered lawful.”
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in bela crkva. he was employed by “betonjerka”- dp, a socially-owned company based in bela crkva (hereinafter “the debtor”). on 20 may 2003 the bela crkva municipal court ordered the debtor to pay the applicant specified amounts on account of salary arrears and social insurance contributions, plus the costs of the civil proceedings. on the same day this judgment became final. the government in its observations maintained that the said judgment had been fully enforced by the domestic decisions of 2 december 2004, 4 november 2005 and 19 may 2006 respectively. the applicant did not contest this submission. in addition the domestic court ordered each party to pay its own costs of the civil proceedings. this judgment became final on 18 february 2009. on 30 april 2009 upon the applicant’s request to that effect, the bela crkva municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the applicant the enforcement costs. the said decision remains unenforced to the present date. on 12 may 2009 the pančevo commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor. on 22 september 2009, upon a submission to that effect, the pančevo commercial court recognized the applicant’s respective claims. the insolvency proceedings are still pending. in particular, the applicant had referred only to the judgment which had been adopted in his favour on 10 february 2009. on 31 march 2015 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal finding that it is not vested with the power of the insolvency court to enable the payments of the claims recognized in the insolvency proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in vienna. he worked as a civil servant for the ministry of economics and labour (bundesministerium für wirtschaft und arbeit). on 23 august 2004 the disciplinary prosecutor (disziplinaranwalt) of the ministry of economics and labour reported to the disciplinary council (disziplinarkommission) of the ministry of economics and labour that it suspected the applicant of having committed disciplinary offences. furthermore, the applicant had allegedly placed orders without consulting the ministry and asking for permission beforehand. he had thereby caused damage amounting to around 200,000 euros (eur). he had therefore breached his official duties (verletzung der dienstpflicht). in his submissions of 7 september 2004, the applicant contested these accusations. on 25 january 2005 the disciplinary council decided to institute disciplinary proceedings against the applicant. on 7 april 2005 the appeals commission dismissed the applicant’s appeal against this decision. meanwhile, on 20 december 2005, the disciplinary council had decided to summon the applicant to an oral hearing and specified the offences of which he was accused, namely the breach of official duties. it held that the applicant was suffering from a personality disorder, was not able to exercise his official duties and was therefore unfit for service. on 28 june 2006 the disciplinary council convicted the applicant of breach of official duties and imposed the disciplinary penalty of loss of all his rights and entitlements from his public employment. thereupon the disciplinary council held oral hearings on 27 april, 5 and 18 may, 3, 4 and 10 june and 1 july 2009. the disciplinary prosecutor appealed against this decision. by judgment of the vienna court of appeal of 25 may 2011 concerning the official liability proceedings instituted by the applicant, he was awarded eur 4,608, corresponding to the costs of his appeals against the disciplinary council’s decisions of 28 june 2006 and 20 june 2008 (see paragraphs 19 and 26 above), which were both quashed by the appeals commission due to procedural errors and lack of reasoning (see paragraphs 22 and 27 above).
the state authorities reclaimed the flats, and the applicants’ title to the real property in question was annulled. on 18 may 2005 m. bought the flat from a person acting on k.’s behalf by virtue of a power of attorney. on 7 april 2006 o. sold the flat to v. 9. on an unspecified date the police opened an investigation into the fraudulent sale of the flat after k.’s death. on an unspecified date the housing department brought an action against the applicant seeking the transfer of the title to the flat to the city of moscow and the applicant’s eviction. the court established that k. had died intestate with no surviving kin and that the flat should have been considered bona vacantia. on 16 may 2013 the city court refused to allow the applicants’ cassation appeal. on 14 august 2013 the supreme court of the russian federation refused to allow the applicants’ second cassation appeal. on 19 june 2013 the district court granted the housing department’s claims in full. on 14 november 2013 the city court upheld the judgment of 19 june 2013 on appeal. the flat at 33-31, stremyanniy pereulok, moscow, had been owned by n., who died intestate with no surviving kin on 14 april 2006. on 30 january 2007 p. sold the flat to the first applicant. the applicants moved into the flat and resided there. it appears that the judgment in the city’s favour has not been enforced to date. the applicants continue to reside in the flat.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in vladimir. in 2008 the applicant was indicted with fraud. on 21 march 2008 the frunzenskiy district court of vladimir (“the district court”) ordered temporary suspension of the applicant from the post of the chief accountant of municipal hospital no. at the same time, the district court awarded the applicant an allowance for the period of the suspension in the amount of five statutory monthly wages. the decision came into force on 1 april 2008. on 11 august 2009 the district court cancelled the suspension of the applicant from the office as no longer necessary. the decision came into force on 24 august 2009. on 12 july 2010 the presidium of the vladimir regional court (“the regional court”) quashed the decision of the district court of 21 march 2008 in the part concerning the monthly allowance. the presidium of the regional court found that while ordering the suspension and the allowance for the period of such suspension, the district court had failed to specify from which funds the allowance was payable, thus the decision of the district court in that part had remained unenforced. the case was remitted for a new examination. on 3 august 2010 the district court awarded the applicant monthly allowance for the period of her suspension from the office in the amount of 266,812.92 russian roubles. the allowance was to be paid from the federal budget. that decision was upheld on appeal on 22 september 2010. on 31 january 2011 the amount mentioned above was transferred to the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in istanbul. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 22 december 2009 the ankara magistrates’ court decided to restrict access to the investigation file in accordance with article 153 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure (the “ccp”), law no. on 9 february 2010 the applicant was arrested and taken into custody on suspicion of forming a criminal organisation and fraudulent use of credit cards. on 11 february 2010 the applicant’s statement was taken by the police in the presence of his lawyer and he was questioned at length about his telephone conversations that had been intercepted. the police read out the transcripts of the intercepted conversations, and the applicant did not deny that he had had these conversations but claimed that they did not prove that he was guilty. on 12 february 2010 the investigating judge questioned the applicant in the presence of his lawyer. the applicant denied that he was involved in a criminal organisation and submitted that the intercepted calls did not prove that he was guilty. the investigating judge ordered the applicant’s detention on remand taking into account the strong suspicion that he had committed the alleged offence, the risk of absconding and tampering with evidence as well as the risk of coercing some of the witnesses and victims. on various dates the applicant requested his release pending trial. these requests were dismissed by the courts, having regard to the nature of the offence with which the applicant was charged, the existence of a strong suspicion that the applicant had committed the offence in question, the state of the evidence, the risk of absconding and tampering with evidence as well as the time spent in detention. the applicant objected to these decisions. by decisions of 22 april 2010 and 20 october 2010 the appeal courts, without holding a hearing, rejected the applicant’s objections based on the information contained in the case file. upon his application, on 19 january 2011, the 26th chamber of ankara criminal court ordered the applicant’s release having regard to the time he spent in detention.
the applicant was born in 1948 and lives in bucharest. as an officer in a sub‑unit of the special anti-terrorist unit within the special forces for state security (hereinafter “the securitate”), the applicant participated in the events which commenced in bucharest on 21 december 1989 and led to the fall of the ceausescu dictatorship on 22 december 1989. the applicant was arrested by army forces and held in detention from 22 december until 23 december 1989. during this period of time, he was subjected to ill-treatment and, as a result, he suffered depression and he was placed on the officers reserve list on the grounds of poor health (see paragraphs 8 - 13 below). the military prosecutor questioned the defendants and a large number of witnesses during the criminal investigation and gathered medical evidence. on 2 march 1995 the military prosecutor decided not to initiate criminal proceedings against the doctor p.i. on the ground that the constituent elements of the alleged offence were not present. following the applicant’s appeal, this decision was set aside by a decision of 25 september 1996 and the investigation continued. on 21 october 1997 the military prosecutor found doctor p.i. liable to pay an administrative fine; however, the type of offence he committed had been pardoned by a decree of july 1997. the investigation into crimes allegedly committed by three of the defendants was severed and jurisdiction was relinquished to the prosecuting authorities at the high court of cassation and justice in order to be joined to the main criminal investigation into the events of december 1989. on 27 june 2005 and 23 august 2007 the applicant was heard as a witness and as a civil party in the main criminal investigation. 33810/07 and 18817/08, §§ 12-41, 24 may 2011), and alecu and others v. romania (nos. 56838/08 and 80 others, §§ 10-13, 27 january 2015). on 14 october 2015 the prosecutor’s office closed the main investigation, finding that the complaints were partly statute-barred and partly ill-founded.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in calaraseuca. on 27 july 2005 the applicant was stopped by the traffic police for speeding. by an order of 5 september 2005 the traffic police fined the applicant 60 moldovan lei (mdl) (the equivalent of some 4 euros (eur) at the time). the applicant did not challenge the police order. as the applicant failed to pay the fine, on an unspecified date a bailiff applied to the ocnita district court to have the fine converted into thirty days’ administrative detention, under article 26 § 5 of the code of administrative offences (see paragraph 14 below). according to the bailiff, the applicant had been ordered to pay the fine by 28 february 2006; however, he had failed to do so and had thus acted in bad faith. the document constituting the court’s decision was a pre-printed template which the judge had completed by hand with the specific details of the case, such as the names of the judge, the applicant and the bailiff, the relevant dates, the amount of the fine, the applicant’s address and the number of days of detention to be served by the applicant. it did not contain any indication that the applicant had been summoned to appear at the hearing. at 8 a.m. on 12 june 2006 the applicant was arrested at home and placed in detention. at about 5 p.m. the same day he suffered a heart attack and was taken by ambulance to a hospital. he recovered shortly thereafter and was soon discharged from hospital. on 16 june 2006 the applicant lodged an appeal against the ocnita district court’s decision of 26 may 2006, arguing, inter alia, that he had not been summoned to appear at the hearing of 26 may 2006, that he had had no knowledge of the decision of 26 may 2006 prior to his arrest, and that he had not been given a chance to contest the court’s decision before being placed in detention. the applicant also argued that the traffic police’s order of 5 september 2005 imposing a fine on him for speeding had been abusive because the police had no evidence to prove that it had been his car which had been caught speeding and not other cars on the road. the court of appeal did not respond to the applicant’s argument about the failure to summon him to the hearing of 26 may 2006. it does not appear from the materials of the case that the applicant served the rest of the detention term.
the applicant, mr gökhan aydın, is a turkish national who was born in 1983. he was detained in tekirdağ f-type prison at the time of the introduction of the application with the court. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 11 november 2002 the applicant was taken into custody by police officers from the anti-terrorist branch of the istanbul police headquarters on suspicion of membership of tkp/ml-tikko, an illegal organisation. on 14 november 2002 the istanbul state security court ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention. on 26 december 2002 the public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court filed a bill of indictment charging the applicant and ten other persons with attempting to undermine the constitutional order, an offence prescribed by article 146 § 1 of the former criminal code. 5190 of 16 june 2004, the case against the applicant was transferred to 10th chamber of the istanbul assize court. during the proceedings, the first-instance courts examined the applicant’s continued detention at the end of every hearing, either on their own motion or upon the applicant’s request. on 25 december 2007, at the end of the hearing and in the presence of the applicant, the 10th chamber of the istanbul assize court ordered the applicant’s continued detention. on 27 december 2007 the 11th chamber of istanbul assize court dismissed his objection without holding an oral hearing and relying on the public prosecutor’s opinion which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative. on 24 march 2009 the applicant was convicted as charged and sentenced to life imprisonment. this decision was upheld by the court of cassation and became final on 20 january 2011.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in şanlıurfa. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 22 july 2008 the applicant was dismissed from her post of officer in the army due to non-compliance with disciplinary rules and immoral behavior. on 14 august 2008 the applicant brought an action before the supreme military administrative court and requested the annulment of her dismissal. on 16 june 2009 the supreme military administrative court dismissed the applicant’s case taking into account “secret documents” submitted by the ministry of defence. these documents were not disclosed to the applicant. on 29 september 2009 the applicant’s request for rectification was rejected by the same court.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in riga. later, four police officers from the organised crime department, an expert and officers from the police press centre arrived. in june and july 2004 the applicant submitted various complaints to the state police authorities concerning the events of 11 june 2004. the decision further stated that on arriving at the address of the company registered at the applicant’s apartment, the police officers had had no intention of drawing up an administrative offence record. the latter had been drawn up only after the examination of all the evidence seized during the inspection. the decision also stated that the applicant himself had not taken back the computer. the applicant did not appeal against the decision. on 17 november 2004 a prosecutor in charge of investigating financial end economic crimes replied to the applicant that the inspection of the applicant’s apartment, which was also the registered address of company “baltijas elektronikas izstrādes”, had been carried out “in accordance with the law”, and that the items from the apartment had been seized, recorded and filmed in accordance with the provisions of the code of criminal procedure. the prosecutor’s reply was amenable to appeal to a higher prosecutor. on 5 april 2005 the applicant was offered to receive back a computer hard drive seized in 2004. the computer was added to the materials of the criminal case. meanwhile, in august 2009 and again in august 2010 the applicant claimed compensation for non-pecuniary damage from the office of the prosecutor general on the basis of the alleged unlawful activities of police officers on 11 june 2004. on 15 april 2010, by a final decision, the regional administrative court upheld the vid’s decision. as a consequence, the appellate court did not find that any of the evidence had been obtained unlawfully. the decision was upheld at three levels of the administrative jurisdiction and came into force in june 2009.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in yerevan. moreover, it ordered the applicant’s reinstatement in his previous position and awarded him compensation for lost earnings. by a decision of 7 october 2009 the civil court of appeal rejected the appeal and upheld the district court’s judgment. on the same date he decided to oblige the committee to comply with the requirements of the writ within two weeks. the applicant sent several letters to the committee and to different officials, complaining that no measures had been taken to enforce the final judgment of 11 august 2009 and requesting that the committee be compelled to comply with that judgment. in particular, the applicant could not be reinstated because his previous position was no longer vacant. on 25 july 2011 the applicant contested the bailiff’s decision before the administrative court. on 7 may 2012 the applicant contested that decision before the administrative court. by a judgment of 16 october 2012 the administrative court decided to grant the applicant’s claim in respect of the payments for his forced absence, stating that the period should be calculated up to 15 december 2011, the day on which that particular unit of the committee had ceased to exist. on 11 march 2013 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law against the decision of 21 february 2013 with the court of cassation. three days later, via telephone, the applicant was again invited to the committee, but he failed to appear. he claimed that the compensation for his forced absence should amount to amd 9,975,970. on 9 june 2015 the amount of amd 4,017,860 was transferred by the committee to the bailiff’s account. on 22 may 2016 the administrative court allowed the applicant’s appeal and quashed the bailiff’s decision of 18 june 2015. that judgment became final on 26 may 2016.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in petroşani. a second forensic medical certificate, issued on 6 september 2007, stated that the applicant had an excoriation (scratches) on her ear lobe and several bruises on her arm and thighs. they required two to three days of medical care. on 8 september 2007 the applicant was again physically assaulted by her husband. she was diagnosed with an open facial trauma and a contusion of the nasal pyramid. on 3 august and 2 october 2007 the applicant lodged complaints with the prosecutor’s office attached to the petroşani district court, alleging that she had been physically assaulted by her husband in their home, in the presence of their children, on 24 june, and 3 and 8 september 2007. she also mentioned that he had told the children not to speak about it. who had moved out of their apartment and had taken two of the children with him, had threatened to kill her when they had accidentally met on the street a week before. and imposed an administrative fine of 200 romanian lei (ron) (approximately 50 euros (eur)) on him. she alleged that the administrative fine, which n.c. in order to prove that she had been assaulted and threatened by him in september 2007. in the last paragraph of her submission, the applicant stated that she feared for her life and asked the court to “punish [n.c.] explained that on 8 september 2007 the applicant had been drunk and had threatened him with a knife. no mention was made in the judgment of the applicant’s request for protective measures made in her complaint of 21 april 2008 (see paragraph 21 above). was a violent person who continued to assault her, even after being punished with an administrative fine by the prosecutor on 19 december 2007.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in samobor. on 20 april 2009 she sustained an injury in a car accident while returning home from work. on the basis of her work-related injury the applicant was granted sick leave between 21 april 2009 and 3 july 2009. she argued that she should be granted sick leave entitlement on the basis of the work-related injury that she had sustained on 20 april 2009. she submitted medical documentation in support of her argument. on 6 december 2011 an authorised doctor of the zagreb office of the croatian health insurance fund (hrvatski zavod za zdravstveno osiguranje, područni ured zagreb – hereinafter “the zagreb office”), specialised in physical medicine and rehabilitation, examined the applicant’s medical documentation and reported finding no direct causal link between the work-related injury sustained by the applicant in 2009 and the sick leave she had begun on 27 october 2011. the applicant availed herself of that right and asked for a written decision. following the appeal by the applicant, the central office asked an in-house medical commission to conduct an expert examination regarding the matter. she requested that she be heard and that an expert medical report on the matter be obtained. on 27 june 2012 the central office submitted a response to the applicant’s administrative action. this response was forwarded to the applicant. on 27 august 2012 the zagreb administrative court held a public hearing, to which the applicant was duly summoned. the representative of the central office contested this. it stressed, in particular, that two expert medical bodies of the fund, as well as the applicant’s chosen general practitioner, had established without a doubt that the applicant’s sick leave beginning on 27 october 2011 was not linked to the work-related injury she had sustained in 2009. on 6 february 2013 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint as manifestly ill-founded.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in beveren. the proactive investigation continued until 17 september 2008. a “traditional” reactive investigation ensued, conducted by the investigating judge. in addition to the observation and infiltration operations, recourse was had to phone-tapping and international mutual legal assistance. at a hearing on 2 march 2010 the indictments division heard the federal prosecutor separately, in the absence of the parties. on that occasion, the confidential case file was made available to the division. subsequently, several defendants, including the applicant, were invited to present their case, assisted by their lawyers. that appeal was dismissed by judgment of the court of cassation on 21 september 2010. by order of the hasselt court of first instance sitting in private session on 29 september 2010, seventeen defendants, including the applicant, were committed to stand trial. in the present case this aspect is especially important given that the infiltration continued over several years and that friendly links had grown up between the agents and several defendants and their partners. during the preliminary investigation photographs of the undercover agents were apparently published on the internet to alert others to their undercover status. the court replied to the applicant’s plea that he had been unable to verify whether an undercover agent had been engaged in incitement to crime in the present case as follows:“in the present case the undercover agent only acted in the framework of the offence mentioned in point c of the indictment. [ this information shows that there was no incitement to crime. it added that it only ascribed relative evidentiary value to the statements of the undercover agents, and that the truth and proof of guilt had also been established on the basis of other evidence. that restriction of the right to adversarial proceedings is exceptional throughout the proceedings and is counterbalanced by the fact that the lawfulness of the investigative methods implemented is overseen by an independent and impartial tribunal, in this case the indictments division, which has discretionary power to ascertain that the content of the criminal file, including the implementation report and the [reports] on the proactive investigation, correspond to the evidence in the confidential file.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in bratislava. he is and at the relevant time was a supreme court judge. under article 141a of the constitution (law no. of the remaining seventeen members, eight were elected by judges and three were appointed by each the national council of slovakia, the president of slovakia, and the government of slovakia. this decision followed another decision of the judicial council taken on the same day under section 120(2)(c) of the act to file disciplinary charges against the applicant. the withheld part of the applicant’s salary might or might not be restored to him, depending on the outcome of the disciplinary proceedings (section 22(8) and (9) of the act). on 25 november 2009 the constitutional court declared the complaint inadmissible. it noted that the applicant’s applications before the judicial council and administrative tribunals were still pending and considered that, under the principle of subsidiarity, his constitutional complaint was accordingly premature. as to the applicant’s submission to the judicial council, its president responded to it in a letter of 27 january 2010 informing the applicant that the law did not allow for decisions of the council to be challenged by means of appeals to the council and that its decisions were reviewable by administrative tribunals. on 17 june 2011 the applicant lodged a fresh complaint with the constitutional court, alleging a breach of article 6 § 1 of the convention on account of the ordinary courts’ decisions, as detailed above. the disciplinary charges against the applicant fell to be determined by the supreme court, sitting as a disciplinary tribunal. on 9 may 2011 the minister of justice withdrew the application to discipline the applicant. on that ground the supreme court discontinued the disciplinary proceedings against the applicant on 13 may 2011. the applicant challenged that decision by way of an appeal, only to withdraw it on 11 august 2011. the decision thus became final on 27 september 2011.
the first applicant, mr kęstutis matiošaitis, was born on 3 february 1961 and is serving a life sentence at lukiškės prison (lukiškių tardymo izoliatorius – kalėjimas) in vilnius. he was then placed in a punishment cell for fifteen days. in 2012 the applicant submitted a pardon[1] plea to the president of the republic. his plea was rejected by the pardon commission at its meeting on 29 january 2013. in a final decision the court of appeal held that there were no grounds for commuting the life sentence imposed, because the crime which the applicant had committed was particularly grave. the third applicant, mr stanislovas katkus, was born on 26 october 1956 and is currently serving a life sentence in lukiškės prison. according to the government, the conviction was upheld by the higher courts. the applicant has been serving his sentence for eighteen years, since march 1999. that being so, on the basis of the applicant’s character reports which lukiškės prison administration had drawn up for the purpose of possible transfer, the courts observed that in 2003 and 2008 he had received disciplinary punishments and had been placed for ten and fifteen days in a punishment cell, having been found in possession of a mobile phone, which was forbidden under the prison regulations. that led the courts to doubt the sincerity of his repentance. on 11 october 2001 the panevėžys regional court found the applicant guilty of aggravated murder and other crimes. on 14 april 1995 the šiauliai regional court found him guilty of aggravated murder and theft. he had taken part in individual and collective discussions, but without showing much interest. he also maintained that because the punishment – deprivation of liberty – remained the same, many persons sentenced to life imprisonment did not ask to be transferred to a correctional home. a working group had been created within the ministry to discuss the issue further.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in szajol. on 24 march 2006 the couple divorced and agreed on custody of the child and other parental rights. moved out of the former family home and took up residence in budapest. the applicant could exercise contact on 25 and 26 june and 24 july 2006. the applicant applied to the szolnok county guardianship authority to have the contact agreement enforced. subsequently, on a number of occasions ms n.r. was fined for not complying with the agreement. it appears from the case file that the applicant could exercise contact between 10 july 2007 and 10 november 2008. in a counterclaim the applicant requested that the child be placed in his custody. the applicant also filed a criminal complaint against ms n.r. in a judgment of 10 june 2008 the szolnok district court reduced the applicant’s contact with his daughter to every first and third saturday of the month from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. it held that the previously agreed form of contact was unlikely to be implemented and would only lead to further proceedings before the guardianship authority, which would be to the detriment of the child. the court based its judgment on an expert opinion finding that the child should have had an adaptation period to re-establish her relationship with her father. in 2010 the applicant’s contact rights and the amount of child allowance were subject to further litigation. in particular, he had paid no heed to her request to travel by public transport instead of in his car. on 12 december 2011 the budapest regional guardianship authority appointed the budapest xv district guardianship authority to deal with any further proceedings concerning the enforcement of the applicant’s contact rights, noting that at that point there were eight enforcement requests pending, the oldest dating back to january 2010.
the applicant was born in 1948 and lives in rešetari. in 1978 the applicant was employed by the z.b. after organisational changes within the company he was given notice of dismissal on 14 february 2000. pursuant to the notice his employment was terminated on 20 november 2000. on 27 november 2000 the applicant applied to the croatian employment bureau’s regional office in slavonski brod (hrvatski zavod za zapošljavanje, područna služba slavonski brod, hereinafter “the slavonski brod bureau”), for unemployment benefit. the applicant then received unemployment benefit on a regular basis until 31 march 2008. on 23 january 2007 the nova gradiška municipal court ruled that the applicant’s dismissal from work had been unlawful and that his employment had never been terminated. at the same time it ordered the applicant to reimburse the severance pay he had received, and dismissed the remainder of the employer’s counterclaim. on 30 april 2008 the applicant applied to the slavonski brod bureau for unemployment benefit for the period after 23 january 2007. the applicant appealed to the central service of the croatian employment bureau (hrvatski zavod za zapošljavanje, središnja služba, hereinafter “the central bureau”). in particular, he contended that the time-limit for lodging the unemployment benefit claim should not have been calculated from 23 january 2007, given that the termination of his employment had only been established by the slavonski brod county court judgment of 15 february 2008. on 20 january 2011 the administrative court dismissed the applicant’s administrative claim and upheld the administrative authorities’ decisions. a subsequent constitutional complaint by the applicant was dismissed by the constitutional court on 4 april 2012. on 18 august 2008 the fund granted him an early retirement pension of hrk 1,890.53 per month[2] from 11 july 2008. the applicant has been receiving that pension since.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in tiraspol. 43370/04 and 2 others, §§ 8-42, echr 2012 (extracts)). he was detained in custody until 8 july 2005 when he was released on bail. he claims that a doctor infected him with hiv after using the same syringe on all the inmates. the applicant claims that no procedural guarantees were in place and suggests that the investigator indicated to the victim which picture to choose. according to the applicant, at the time of the alleged offence, he was in moscow. on 29 august 2006 the tiraspol district court convicted the applicant as charged and sentenced him to seven years’ imprisonment. the applicant was placed in detention in tiraspol colony no. 2 where the conditions allegedly were very poor. the food was inedible and therefore detainees had to rely on the food supplied to them by their relatives. according to the applicant, he requested on numerous occasions that he be seen by a doctor in relation to his hiv diagnosis. on an unspecified date after his final conviction, the applicant’s mother engaged a lawyer with a view to lodging an application to the court. she later went to visit the applicant to obtain his signature on the application form. on 24 april 2012 the applicant was released from detention. it appears from the material in the case file and from the parties’ submissions that the applicant never informed the authorities of moldova about his detention in the “mrt” or about the criminal proceedings against him.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in yaroslavl. on 20 february 2009 the leninskiy district court of yaroslavl (“the district court”) remanded the applicant in custody. on 26 february 2009 the applicant was charged with eight counts of bribe-taking under article 290 § 2 of the russian criminal code. on 16 april and 17 june 2009 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 19 june and 31 july 2009 respectively. he had confessed only in part and had refused to testify as either a suspect or an accused. he could therefore have access to information and documents which might be of interest to him. all of the above, as well as the position which the applicant had taken in the proceedings, gave the court grounds to believe that, if released, he might exert pressure on witnesses (the students at the medical academy), destroy evidence or otherwise interfere with the proceedings. lastly, the court held that, in view of the above circumstances, the custodial measure could not be replaced by a more lenient preventive measure. however, it noted the gravity of the charges against the applicant, the fact that he was suspected of having committed a further fifteen similar offences and that three more criminal cases had been opened against him in that connection in february-march 2009, and the fact that on 29 july 2009 seventeen other criminal cases had been opened against him on suspicion of twenty-nine criminal offences. on 14 august 2009 the regional court upheld the above decision on appeal. on 16 september 2009 the charges against the applicant were finalised to include twenty-six counts of bribe-taking and forgery of official documents under articles 290 § 2 and 292 § 1 of the russian criminal code. on 5 march 2009 the applicant asked the investigator to allow his wife to visit him in the remand prison. on 13 may, 10 june and 24 june 2009 the applicant applied for permission for his wife and daughter to visit him. on 2 july 2009 the district court found the decision of 15 june 2009 unlawful and obliged the investigator to grant the applicant’s request. on 11 august 2009 the leninskiy district court found the decision of 24 july 2009, in so far as it limited the duration of the visit and imposed the presence of the investigator, unlawful.
the applicant was born in 1976 and, until his death in 2006, lived in vinnytsya. the background to the case, including the transdniestrian armed conflict of 1991-1992 and the subsequent events, is set out in ilaşcu and others v. moldova and russia ([gc], no. 43370/04 and 2 others, §§ 8-42, echr 2012 (extracts)). according to the applicant, during his pre-trial detention he was subjected to ill-treatment to make him confess to committing the murder. after his conviction the applicant’s mother made many requests to various ukrainian official bodies to obtain the transfer of her son to a ukrainian prison. the case file before the court contains approximately forty replies received by her from various ukrainian authorities. however, her efforts were not successful. in particular, the ministry of foreign affairs of ukraine informed the applicant that it had contacted its counterpart in moldova, which had informed it that moldova could not secure the applicant’s transfer to a ukrainian prison because it did not have control over the territory of the “mrt”. the ukrainian authorities also contacted the “mrt” authorities, but to no avail. in a letter to the applicant’s mother, the “mrt” authorities stated that they would only transfer the applicant to a ukrainian prison after the conclusion of a treaty between ukraine and the “mrt” which would make the transfer of prisoners possible. since ukraine refused to sign such a treaty with it, the transfer was not possible. the applicant’s mother also wrote to the osce mission in moldova, which informed her that her letter had been forwarded to the ukrainian embassy in chisinau. in around march 2006 the applicant broke his leg and was admitted to hospital. on 24 may 2006 the applicant was found hanged in the gym of the prison in which he was being detained. it does not appear that the applicant’s mother requested or obtained a medical forensic report concerning the circumstances of his death.
the applicants, mr ernest vardanean and ms irina vardanean, are moldovan nationals who were born in 1980 and live in chisinau. the background to the case, including the transdniestrian armed conflict of 1991-1992 and the subsequent events, is set out in ilaşcu and others v. moldova and russia ([gc], no. 43370/04, 8252/05 and 18454/06, §§ 8-42, echr 2012). the applicants are husband and wife and are journalists. the first applicant was employed by a russian news agency and by a moldovan newspaper. a search was carried out in the applicants’ apartment and many of their belongings – such as pictures, computers and a bank card – were seized. on 16 december 2010, a tribunal from the “mrt” convicted the first applicant and sentenced him to fifteen years’ imprisonment. after that date, the applicant and his family moved to chisinau. during his detention the first applicant met on several occasions with representatives of the “mrt” secret services, including the chief of the secret services, and was led to believe that his family might suffer if he refused to cooperate with them. he was asked to record a video of himself admitting having worked for the moldovan secret services. that video was aired on transdniestrian television. in the meantime, the moldovan authorities made numerous attempts to secure the first applicant’s release. the moldovan delegation distributed a circular letter during the april 2010 session of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe and raised the first applicant’s situation during meetings of the committee of ministers of the council of europe in january and february 2011. the first applicant’s situation was also raised by the moldovan authorities in their discussions with the osce representatives in chisinau, and a criminal investigation was initiated by the moldovan prosecutor’s office in respect of the applicant’s detention in the “mrt”. however, the criminal investigation was later discontinued.
the applicant was born in 1960 and is detained in vadul lui voda. on 22 february 2002 at 7 a.m. the applicant was arrested and placed in detention. she was released at 4.40 p.m. on the same day after a court had found that her detention had been abusive and had ordered her release. in the meantime, during her detention, the applicant was subjected to ill-treatment by the police. in particular, she was punched and strangled. after release, the applicant went to a hospital, where she was diagnosed with concussion and multiple bruises on her head and neck. she lodged a criminal complaint in relation to the above-mentioned facts; however, it was not successful. on an unspecified date, the applicant initiated civil proceedings against the state, claiming compensation for unlawful detention and ill‑treatment. by a final judgment of 9 august 2012, the supreme court of justice found a breach of the applicant’s rights, as guaranteed by articles 3 and 5 of the convention, on account of her unlawful detention and ill-treatment on 22 february 2002. the supreme court also found a breach of the applicant’s rights, as guaranteed by articles 6 and 13 of the convention, on account of the length and ineffectiveness of the criminal investigation conducted into the applicant’s complaints of abusive actions on the part of the police. the supreme court awarded her 3,200 euros (eur) in compensation.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in khachmaz. according to the record, the examination began at 9 p.m. and ended at 10 p.m. various photographs of z.b. had been in a bad mood and had told him about his family problems. on 17 november 2009 the investigator also took signature and writing samples from the soldiers of the military unit in order to identify the author of the written note found at the crime scene. it was also indicated in the letter that the soldiers had removed z.b. the relevant part of the document reads as follows:“it appears from the case material that the gazakh military prosecutor’s office received the information that z.b. on 27 february 2010 the applicant lodged a complaint with the gazakh military court against the investigator’s decision of 9 february 2010, complaining of the ineffectiveness of the criminal investigation. the expert stated that the seam of the left pocket of z.b. had called his parents “ana” (mum) and “ata” (dad) or “mama” and “papa”. who had served in the same military unit. on 13 july 2010 the applicant lodged a complaint against that decision, reiterating his previous arguments. replied to the investigator’s request of 27 august 2010. in that connection, the investigator found that z.b. had not been confirmed during the investigation. he also complained of the investigator’s failure to address the contradictions in the statements of the soldiers relating to the alleged existence of a fiancée and a mother-in-law and the alleged family problems of z.b.
the applicants were born in 1978, 1980 and 2007 respectively. the first applicant came to bulgaria in 1997. in 2001 he was granted long-term resident status, and in 2003 – permanent resident status. in 2005 he married the second applicant, and in 2007 the third applicant, their son, was born. on 29 may 2008 the head of the national security service issued an order withdrawing the first applicant’s residence permit, ordering his expulsion and imposing a ten-year ban on his re‑entering bulgaria on the ground that his presence in the country represented a “serious threat to national security”. that proposal, drawn up by the national security service on 27 may 2008 and initially classified, was declassified in 2016 and has been submitted by the government. no evidence was provided to substantiate those claims. on 12 june 2008 the first applicant applied for judicial review of the order of 29 may 2008. he denied the allegations against him and stated that his family resided in bulgaria and that the measures against him breached his convention rights. in addition, he presented a certificate that he had no criminal convictions in bulgaria. in a final judgment of 8 january 2009 the supreme administrative court dismissed the application for judicial review and held that the 29 may 2008 order was lawful. after summarising the allegations made in proposal no. b848, it held merely that they were sufficient to justify a conclusion that the first applicant represented a threat to national security. it is unclear whether the second and third applicants remained in bulgaria after that. in 2012 the first and second applicants had another child.
the applicant was born in 1941 and lives in the small village of yamna, which forms part of yaremche, a resort town located in the carpathian mountains in the ivano-frankivsk region of ukraine. the applicant’s yard was separated from the cemetery by a wire mesh fence. in hot weather unpleasant smells sometimes emanated from the cemetery. on 14 september 2000 yaremche’s sanitary officer banned burials in the new cemetery as its location was in breach of applicable sanitary standards. she noted, in particular, that the distance between her house and the cemetery was less than twenty-five metres. on 16 january 2003 the yaremche court found the decision of 25 june 2002 unlawful as the applicant’s house had been located within the sanitary health protection zone, which had been illegal. the judgment was not appealed against and became final. on 18 march 2004 the yaremche court found for the applicant in part. the decision became final and enforcement proceedings were instituted. at many of its meetings the executive committee discussed draft decisions banning burials, however, they were never approved by a vote as no suitable alternative location for the cemetery could be found. on 28 february 2005 the enforcement proceedings were terminated because of the impossibility of enforcement as members of the council refused to vote against the burials. on 26 july 2005 the yaremche council informed the applicant that it had been unable to relocate the cemetery in view of the unavailability of other suitable land. it was further noted that they were continuing to look for alternatives and, in particular, were negotiating to acquire a plot from the yamna forestry authority. she suggested a specific house that was for sale at the material time, which, according to her, was comparable to her present house. however, the town had no funds in its budget to buy the proposed house at that time.
the applicant was born in 1976 and is detained in lublin. on the same day, the penitentiary commission, viewing the applicant as someone who posed a severe danger to the safety of the facility, classified him as a “dangerous detainee”. he was punished by being placed in solitary confinement for fourteen days. on the latter date he was transported back to lublin. the applicant’s behaviour during 2011 varied: he was sometimes rewarded for good behaviour and sometimes faced disciplinary measures. after the visit he was ordered to undergo a strip search. on 5 june 2012 the applicant underwent a strip search which was accompanied by a search of his cell. the inspection of the cell was part of an action plan introduced at the lublin remand centre in 2012 to increase security. in his observations before this court, the applicant’s lawyer submitted that the applicant had been ordered to undergo a strip search on 5 june 2012, even though he had had severe back pain and had barely been able to walk. he had also had difficulties getting undressed. on 9 august 2012 the remand centre director dismissed the complaint. the guards did not use offensive language and did not debase you. in 2012 the applicant was seen by a neurologist seventeen times and on two occasions by a neurosurgeon. it also made no reference to his allegations that he had been left for about fifty minutes in a state of being unable to get dressed and that he had been forced to put his clothes on by someone letting freezing air into the room. on 12 september 2013 the lublin regional court, in view of the applicant’s state of health and his neurological and orthopaedic problems, granted him leave to undergo the operation outside prison.
the applicant was born in 1942 and lives in tomaszów mazowiecki. to account for his management of public funds. they appointed the applicant to be in charge of further action in that regard. it took me over one week to figure out a solution to this problem. the facts and circumstances are as follows. the document was sent to the district mayor before local elections which took place on 21 november 2010 (wybory samorządowe). on an unspecified date the tomaszów mazowiecki commune council audit committee analysed the document. he requested that the court order the applicant to publish an apology in the local weekly newspaper and pay 4,000 polish zlotys (pln) to the voluntary fire brigade (ochotnicza straż pożarna – “the vfb”). ’s involvement in matters such as the community hall refurbishment and running of the vfb. this included statements claiming that z.m., the court also found that the village shop was located in the building owned by the vfb, which also hosted the community hall, and that the rent under the lease was paid to the vfb through an intermediary, its treasurer. at the time, there were also building works being carried out in the same building. it was also established that the village had not received any funds directly from the commune. on 12 july 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal with the łódź court of appeal, alleging that the court had not considered that the relevant text had been communicated in the public interest. on 18 october 2012 the applicant lodged an appeal against the latter judgment.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in rostov-on-don, russian federation. ’s life and that the police officers had simply executed him in retaliation for his having injured one of their colleagues. on the same date an inspection of the crime scene was conducted and a report produced, which included sketch maps. death had occurred shortly after seyran ayvazyan being wounded. the investigator took statements from five of the seven police officers involved in the arrest operation and the fatal shooting (a.s., fired again and seyran ayvazyan dropped the knife. after the six police officers had entered the house, seyran ayvazyan threatened them and told them to leave. seyran ayvazyan reached him and stabbed him with the knife in the head. at that time he was standing with his rifle next to the porch windows. then seyran ayvazyan took out another knife and wanted to stab h.gev. between 20 march and 30 july 2006 the investigator took statements from six other police officers who had been present at the scene. filming the incident but was not sure whether he had been filming during the shooting. the wording of the decision first outlined the facts, as established by the investigation (see paragraphs 7-12 above), and concluded that the police officers had employed their service weapons in the light of the exigencies of the situation for the purpose of repelling a life-threatening attack on police officer h.gev. as to the finding of a grenade in seyran ayvazyan’s house, an.a stated that this could not serve as justification for the police officers’ actions, since it had been discovered only after the fatal incident had taken place, and her brother had never threatened the policemen that he would use it. on 23 may 2008 the court of cassation examined the appeal.
from 2004 until 16 january 2012 he was minister (landesrat) of the regional government of carinthia (kärntner landesregierung). the majority of its shares were held by landesholding until 2006. they said that landesholding should pay that fee. according to a note of 7 march 2008 written by a lawyer appointed by the second and the third applicant, they tried to persuade the privately commissioned expert in a telephone conversation to make several changes to his report and to declare that the fees were reasonable. the procurator general’s office transferred the file to the public prosecutor’s office for crimes of corruption (korruptionsstaatsanwaltschaft) (“the ksta”). the report stated that the services provided by d.b. commented on the private expert reports submitted by the second applicant. on 19 december 2011 the second applicant commented on that expert report. on 18 july 2012 the third applicant asked the court not to include the expert report of f.s. was a professional lawyer and university professor in germany and not registered in austria as an expert for book-keeping, cost accounting or financial auditing in the list of court appointed experts and therefore lacked the necessary expert knowledge for assessing whether the remuneration of d.b. as regards the argument that he had answered questions of assessment of evidence and questions of law in the preliminary proceedings, the court found that, even assuming that this had been the case, such statements had to be disregarded by the court. in the negotiation process only corresponded to fees in the amount of eur  300,000 and that the second applicant and the third applicant had been aware of that fact but had breached their obligation of diligence by authorising the payment of eur 6 million to d.b. criminal law (perjury) as well as the provisions on challenge for bias would ensure that his or her findings and conclusions were in accordance with the law. furthermore, the findings and conclusions of the official expert could be challenged even before the trial stage by lodging an objection (einspruch) against the bill of indictment, but this had not been done in the case at hand (see paragraph 50 above). would accept the task of drawing up an expert report and subsequent contacts consisted in supplementing the case file which had been transmitted to f.s.
the applicants were born in 1932, 1929, 1965 and 1956 respectively and live in sofia. on 15 january 1968 the second applicant, together with the antecedents of the other applicants, bought from the then existing local agricultural co-operative a plot of land situated on the outskirts of sofia measuring 953 square metres. until 2002 the applicants or their antecedents enjoyed undisturbed possession of that land. on 10 may 2002 a group of persons, the heirs of mr t.s., brought against the applicants a rei vindicatio action, stating that the plot of land was theirs. they stated that the plot, once the property of their antecedents, had been collectivised in the years after 1945, but had been returned to them within the context of the process of the restitution of agricultural land by a decision of the relevant body, the local land commission, dated 27 december 1999. they claimed that under section 10(13) of the agricultural land act (see paragraph 13 below), the fact that the second applicant and the remaining applicants’ antecedents had purchased the land in 1968 could not be held against them. initially, the sofia district court (its judgement is undated) dismissed the action against the applicants. on 5 november 2009 the sofia city court overturned that ruling, allowed the rei vindicatio claim and ordered the applicants to surrender possession of the plot. it found in particular that the land commission’s decision of 27 december 1999 was sufficient to render the claimants the owners of the disputed land. it pointed out that of the two rival claims to the same plot the law – namely section 10(13) of the agricultural land act – gave priority to the one based on restitution, and thus had the effect of rendering devoid of any legal force the contract under which the second applicant and the remaining applicants’ predecessors had bought the plot. in a final decision of 18 june 2010 the supreme court of cassation declined to entertain a cassation appeal by the applicants. on an unspecified date soon after that the applicants surrendered possession of the plot.
the applicant was born in 1990 and lives in turkey. in the same year, his grandparents, who had been looking after him while his father had been working, moved to turkey and took the applicant and his sister with them. in 1998, when he was eight years old, he and his sister moved back to austria to live with their father again. on 20 january 2005 the applicant attempted to shoplift. two of the women were seriously injured as a result. the probationary period of his previous criminal conviction of 13 march 2006 was prolonged to five years in total. it argued in its reasoning that the applicant had taken a leading role in the robberies. the applicant and his friends had deliberately targeted elderly women because they had expected they would not resist. moreover, the criminal court found that the applicant had been one of the main perpetrators, which is why there was no leeway to pronounce a more lenient sentence than two and a half years’ imprisonment. because of his young age he would not be able to live in turkey by himself. the iap further took into consideration that the applicant had only been 14 and 15 years old at the time of the offences, and therefore had still been in the process of reaching maturity. his probation officer (bewährungshelfer) testified that the applicant had developed a sense of justice after his conviction and that cooperation with him had worked well. 1638/03, echr 2008), it found that – in contrast to maslov – the applicant had repeatedly committed serious crimes of a violent nature. he spoke turkish and had last visited turkey in 2001. on 30 september and 16 december 2008 respectively, the constitutional court and the administrative court declined to hear prior appeals by the applicant against the iap’s decision.
the applicants were born in 1977 and 1979 respectively and live in tbilisi and tskaltubo. on 25 february 2004 the investigator drew up a report on the handing in to the police of a psm pistol, equipped with a silencer, by a woman and her child. a public defence lawyer was assigned to him. 7 on 16 may 2004, the first applicant was examined by the prison doctor, who noted in a report that there were no marks of violence on his body. on 22 june 2004 the first applicant submitted an alibi to the investigator, citing the names of six people he had been with on 19 january 2004, when the member of parliament had been injured. notably, an x-ray of his head, taken only from one side, and an x-ray of his thorax showed that at that time he bore no signs of lesions on those parts of the body. on 8 october 2004 the first applicant’s lawyer wrote to the tbilisi city prosecutor requesting, among other things, that secret recordings of various meetings between the first applicant’s wife and the member of parliament’s lawyer (see the details of the journalistic inquiry at paragraphs 83‑85 below) be obtained from the investigation into the ill‑treatment case (see paragraphs 46‑53 below) and added to the applicants’ criminal case file. in his view, a request by the applicants to be released on bail had to be rejected for the same reasons. he had also been beaten on the neck with a square padlock. in the experts’ opinion, the physical and psychological problems that had been revealed could well have been caused, in principle, by the type of ill-treatment complained of by the first applicant. when questioned by the trial court, the woman and son who had allegedly handed in the weapon used to commit the crime to the police on 25 february 2004, according to the official version of events contained in the case file (see paragraph 8 above), stated that they had never handed in such a gun to the police. among other statements concerning a possible motive for the attack allegedly perpetrated by the applicants, the member of parliament told the court that as one of the founders of the bank and one of its largest shareholders, he had recommended the second applicant’s brother for the post of manager of the bank’s batumi branch (see also paragraph 15 above). on 26 february 2007 the tbilisi regional court gave judgment. however, the time, place or circumstances of sustaining the injuries had not been established. in the trial court’s opinion, the same evidence as used against the first applicant had proven the charge of attempted murder against the second applicant (see the preceding paragraph):(i)  the written record of the first applicant’s confession during the reconstruction at the scene of the crime on 13 may 2004; and(ii)  the member of parliament’s statements concerning the private talk he had had with the first applicant on 13 may 2004.
the applicants were born in 1970, 1973, 1999, 2001 and 2007 respectively. the court has not been informed of their current place of residence. the first and second applicants, a married couple, arrived in bulgaria in 1997. their three children, the remaining applicants, were born in that country. on 29 may 2008 the head of the national security service issued an order withdrawing the first applicant’s residence permit, ordering his expulsion and imposing a ten-year ban on his re‑entering bulgaria, on the ground that his presence in the country represented a “serious threat to national security”. the document claimed, in addition, that the first applicant had been implicated in extortion, drug trafficking, smuggling, money laundering and other criminal activities. no evidence was provided to substantiate those claims, even though the document referred to some specific facts. it was stated, for example, that in 2006 the applicant and another person had attempted to smuggle into bulgaria a “highly toxic substance”, and that, also in 2006, he had threatened the seller of an expensive property in varna forcing him to choose as a buyer a person close to the applicant. on 12 june 2008 the first applicant applied for judicial review of the expulsion order. b849 and they presented evidence seeking to disprove some of the allegations it contained. after summarizing the claims made in proposal no. b849, it held briefly that it was bound by them. thus, in its view“it should be concluded that the presence and the activity of the [first applicant] amount to a serious threat to national security and to the international prestige of the republic of bulgaria.” that decision was quashed in a judgment of the sofia administrative court of 17 july 2008. the other applicants remained for several more years in bulgaria, but left in november 2015.
the first applicant, franz-olivier giesbert, is the publication director of the magazine le point. the second applicant, hervé gattegno, is a journalist with le point. mrs liliane bettencourt, principal shareholder of the group l’oréal, is one of the richest individuals in france. in september 2008 b. was taken into police custody. did he take advantage of liliane bettencourt? [ the article referred to various aspects of the case and in particular the very significant gifts made by “the heir of l’oréal”, for a total of one billion euros, to b. the journalist wrote, quoting the testimony of liliane bettencourt’s former accountant: “she too describes the psychological domination imposed on an elderly lady who is more fragile than she may like”. the first spoke of a “hold” over mrs bettencourt. a settling of family scores or the most perfect scam? in a judgment of 19 march 2010, the paris court of appeal upheld the decision of the court below, in the main, and raised the amount of the advance to eur 10,000, in addition to charging eur 5,000 for the costs of the appeal proceedings. the applicants appealed on points of law. it reiterated that the witness statements, “without engaging in any extensive interpretation of [section 38]”, could be characterised as procedural documents, even though the investigation had been discontinued: “the fact that they were transmitted at the request of the private prosecutor and not on the initiative of the public prosecutor is of little relevance in this connection because they support the prosecution case”. on 9 march 2010, b. brought proceedings against the applicants on the merits before the paris tribunal de grande instance seeking redress for the damage sustained on account of the publication of the articles of 10 december 2009 and 4 february 2010, in breach of section 38(1) of the 1881 act. in the first of the impugned texts, short quotations from procedural documents, which are reproduced in quotation marks in the body of the article and are therefore fully integrated into the journalist’s writing, mention certain facts and offer an analysis thereof. in a judgment of 22 february 2012, the paris court of appeal overturned that judgment. it added as follows:“... the reasoning given by the court below is tantamount to legitimising the practice, which is legally prohibited, of publishing extracts from an investigation file before they are read out in open court, first, on account of the interest of the subject, and secondly, while noting b.’s claim that his right to be presumed innocent was breached.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in kiev. in 1996 he started a relationship with ms m., also a ukrainian national. in 2003 the applicant was granted permanent resident status. on 6 november 2006 the head of the ministry of the interior’s national security service issued an order withdrawing the applicant’s residence permit, ordering his expulsion and imposing a ten-year ban on his re-entering bulgaria, on the ground that his presence in the country represented a “serious threat to national security”. that proposal, drawn up by national security service and also dated 6 november 2006, was submitted to the court. while enumerating the applicant’s presumed illegal activities, the proposal referred to specific dates and names, but to no evidence to support the allegations. lastly, it was stated that the applicant had left bulgaria on 29 october 2006. unaware of the ministerial order of 6 november 2006, on 15 november 2006 the applicant attempted to re-enter the bulgarian territory but was stopped at the border and not permitted entry. since then he has been living in kiev, while ms m. and his son remained in bulgaria. through his lawyer, the applicant submitted an appeal to the bulgarian minister of the interior against the order of 6 november 2006. the appeal was dismissed on 22 december 2006, the minister pointing out, in particular, that he considered irrelevant the applicant’s argument that he had settled in bulgaria with his family. after that the applicant applied for judicial review of the order of 6 november 2006. in particular, he pointed out in his application that his family resided in bulgaria and that their separation had been unjustified. in the course of the judicial proceedings the applicant’s lawyer was shown proposal no. 50963/99, 20 june 2002) and article 13 of the convention, even though, at the time the impugned order had been issued, judicial review had not been available under the legislation then applicable (see paragraph 16 below).
the applicant was born in 1979 and is currently in detention in zhytomyr, ukraine. in october 2001 ms k. was found murdered in her flat. the next day he retracted his confession. she also had tense relations with her daughter-in-law. to conceal his attempted robbery the applicant had then murdered the victim. on 16 february 2002 the applicant, still acting as a witness, participated without a lawyer in an on-site reconstruction of the attack on k. on 18 and 22 february 2002 he was again questioned, without a lawyer, about the attack. in the course of the trial the applicant stated that he was innocent of both murders but pleaded guilty to kidnapping s. he stated that on the day of k.’s murder he had met an old childhood acquaintance, m., in the street. on 10 october 2002 the supreme court, sitting as a court of cassation, upheld the applicant’s conviction. furthermore, the court notes that ukrainian legislation provides for obligatory legal representation of persons who could expect life imprisonment if convicted. the shabelnik judgment (cited above) became final on 19 may 2009. neither the applicant nor mr bushchenko requested that the applicant be escorted from his prison to the hearing before the supreme court panel. the lawyer made submissions to the court and a written summary of his remarks was submitted to the supreme court. on the same day the supreme court delivered its decision. it excluded the applicant’s original confessions from the body of evidence. in support of its findings the supreme court also referred to material and circumstances on which the trial court had not explicitly relied: (i) the fact that “in the course of psychiatric assessment [the applicant], told the experts about [k.’s murder] under the circumstances established by the [trial] court”; (ii) the applicant’s admission in court that he had visited the victim’s flat; and (iii) the testimony of ms g., the victim’s neighbour, that she had seen the applicant in the victim’s block of flats.
the applicants were born on 18 september 1971 and 24 december 1994 respectively and live in moscow. g. and her son resided there as tenants under the social housing agreement with the city. on 17 september 2003 the municipal authorities de-registered her tenancy. on 25 february 2005 the housing department transferred the title to the flat to a., her husband and her daughter under the privatisation scheme. on 15 december 2005 a. and her husband sold the flat to the applicant. on 29 december 2005 the city registration body issued a certificate confirming the first applicant’s title to the flat. the applicants moved into the flat and resided there. on 20 march 2008 the nikulinskiy district court of moscow invalidated the social housing lease agreement of 9 february 2005 and the privatisation agreement of 25 february 2005. on 9 october 2009 the district court granted the housing department’s claims in full. the first applicant’s title to the flat was annulled and the title was transferred to the city of moscow. the court also ordered the applicants’ eviction. on an unspecified date the bailiff instituted enforcement proceedings. the applicants were required to vacate the flat by 1 august 2012. on 14 may 2012 the city court upheld the said decision on appeal. the applicants continued to reside in the flat.
he is serving a prison sentence in the orenburg region. and the attempted murder of r., i. and fl. the charge sheet stated, in particular, that the applicant had entered into a criminal conspiracy with n. and other unidentified managers of the menatep bank to murder kr., had been collateral victims of their actions. in 1998 [the applicant], upon instructions from n. and other employees of the yukos oil company ..., organised the murder of the head of the nefteyugansk town council p[.] ... who had acted contrary to their interests ...”. the applicant lodged a complaint with the tverskoy district court of moscow. he complained that the prosecutor’s statements had encouraged the public to believe him guilty and prejudged the assessment of the facts by the competent court. on 10 july 2007 the district court rejected the applicant’s complaint, finding that the applicant had been charged with many counts of murder and attempted murder. in his statements to the press k. had related the facts as established by the investigation and confirmed by the materials in the criminal case file. on 16 october 2007 the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 10 july 2007 on appeal. on 11 september 2005 the tvc channel broadcasted an interview with b., a lead investigator of the prosecutor general’s office in charge of the applicant’s case. b. said, in particular:“b.: at present we have already completed the investigation into several more episodes of the criminal activities of the yukos oil company. [ on 11 january 2006 the district court rejected the applicant’s complaint. on 6 august 2007 the city court found the applicant guilty of the murder of kr.,
the applicant was born in 1956 in the tambov region. the applicant was arrested on 23 august 2007. he suffered heart attacks in 2000 and 2007 and a kidney affected by cancer was removed in 2003. that procedure was performed approximately 250 times during the first year of detention. throughout 2009 the applicant’s urinary condition persisted. he urinated up to thirty-seven times per day and his nocturnal sleep was interrupted every hour or two. he had to continue resorting to urinary cauterisation. on several occasions he had a consultation with a urologist. given the absence of proper medical supervision, the experts also warned of a possible deterioration of the applicant’s urinary and oncological problems and a risk of those illnesses advancing to a stage requiring surgery, or to a stage with no prospects of the applicant being cured or even his life being saved. the experts observed that the medical unit of the detention facility where the applicant was kept was not equipped for treating patients in such a medical condition. on 21 december 2010 the doctors from the urology institute performed a surgery on the applicant. the applicant was discharged from the hospital to a remand prison under the supervision of the resident doctor. the next day, having lost more than one litre of blood, he was sent back to the institute, where his condition was brought under control. on 28 june 2010 the preobrazhenskiy district court of moscow dismissed his claim. the court found as follows:“from the [applicant’s] medical file submitted by the [remand prison] it is apparent that ... [the authorities] provided him with medical aid, subjected him to medical testing, and prescribed treatment.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in istanbul. according to the applicant’s allegations, her husband was informed that the truck in question had been booked by a transport company for the same day and that it would also be carrying some raw materials belonging to another client. on 6 may 2007, at the request of the sultanbeyli prosecutor, a traffic engineer submitted an expert report, where it was found that the deceased truck driver m.s. the driver of the other vehicle, had not been at fault. had also lost his life in the accident, the public prosecutor decided against prosecution. was questioned about the accident for the first time by the police. in a further petition submitted by the applicant to the sultanbeyli public prosecutor’s office on 23 may 2008, she expressed her concern that the investigation after the kadıköy assize court’s decision had appeared to focus solely on the liability of the transport company salihli ltd. or any others, for the accident in question. he confirmed that the truck had been involved in an accident shortly after loading and that it and his goods had been destroyed in a fire. although containers bearing the name “şenocak” had been found in the truck after the accident, there was no other evidence in the file to enable the institute to determine who had loaded the truck. on the basis of the forensic medicine institute’s report of 10 july 2008. they could not therefore be held accountable for the accident in any way. the applicant reiterated that her husband had not died as a result of a simple traffic accident, but had burned to death because of the inflammable goods carried unlawfully in the truck, for which all the defendants bore responsibility. on the basis of those findings, the experts stated that they agreed with the first report’s conclusions. at a hearing held on 7 october 2015 the civil court of first instance decided to appoint an expert to calculate the applicant’s pecuniary damage, on the basis of the findings of the third report of 13 november 2014.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lived, prior to his conviction, in the tver region. on 21 november 2000 a country house which belonged to a district prosecutor was set on fire. he remained in custody pending investigation and trial. on 6 february 2004 the kashin town court found the applicant guilty of arson. when questioned by the investigator, f. had confessed to arson and had testified against the applicant. shortly thereafter f. had been found stabbed to death. the article then quoted from the official information note issued by the regional prosecutor’s office:“the investigation has established’, states the information note, ‘that in 2003 [the applicant] and f[.] the applicant] organised f.’s murder to silence him. the jury trial started on 16 august 2004. at the request of the prosecutor, the written statements he had made during the investigation were read out to the jury. the applicant was then allowed to put questions to sh. the relevant excerpt from the record reads as follows:“[the applicant asks]: ‘how many times were you questioned? was questioned, as this issue is not within the competence of the jury. the presiding judge directs the jurors that they should disregard [the applicant’s statements] ... and should proceed from the understanding that all evidence presented to them ... was collected in accordance with the procedure established by law and was not [declared inadmissible].” on 2 september 2004 the tver regional court found the applicant guilty of incitement to murder and sentenced him to seventeen years’ imprisonment.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in cheboksary. on 31 january 2005 the supreme court of the chuvashiya republic quashed the district court’s judgment and remitted the matter for a new examination. in march 2007 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of large-scale bribery. he was detained in remand prison iz-21/1 in cheboksary. on 26 march the district court refused the applicant leave to be present at the hearings on the ground that the code of civil procedure made no provision for bringing detainees to courts. it mentioned that the applicant was held in a remand prison, that he did not recognise the paternity and that he had “previously given similar testimony before the court”. on 27 march 2008 the moskovskiy district court decided that he had breached the terms of the bail by exercising pressure on witnesses, issued a detention order and put the applicant’s name on the list of fugitives from justice. the applicant was not present at the hearing and could not be immediately re-arrested. they had been allegedly tipped off that the applicant was there. she did not open the door to the police immediately and told them that her father was in a hospital. on the following day the applicant was arrested and placed in custody. the applicant complained to a prosecutor about the unlawful actions of the police on 8 april 2008. on 16 may 2009 the prosecutor refused to institute criminal proceedings, finding that no criminal offence had been committed. the district court heard a number of witnesses. on 11 january 2010 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s appeal.
on 27 march 2009 the leningrad regional court convicted him of murder and sentenced him to thirteen years and six months’ imprisonment. since january 2010 he has been serving the sentence in correctional colony no. according to the applicant, his eyesight began deteriorating in 2008. in september 2010 he complained about this to a resident colony doctor. eight months later the applicant was examined by an ophthalmologist, who visited the detention facility. the doctor diagnosed an “almost mature” cataract of the right eye and a focal cataract of the left eye. an in-depth medical examination in a hospital was recommended. the ophthalmologist confirmed the presence of cataracts on both eyes. he established that the patient had lost his vision in his right eye and prescribed cataract surgery. the applicant was sent back to the detention facility, the ophthalmologist having recommended that the applicant undergo another eye examination between january and march 2012. his complaint was then referred to the medical unit of his detention facility, which dismissed it in a letter dated 25 april 2012, stating that the patient had been provided with medical assistance in full. in may 2012 the applicant was seen by the head of the medical unit and put on a waiting list for admission to the ophthalmological department of the prison hospital for a medical examination and eye surgery. on 24 october 2013 the applicant was seen by an ophthalmologist. the doctor endorsed the advice that the applicant had received on 1 july 2011 and confirmed that he needed cataract surgery. the surgery was performed in the prison hospital on 1 october 2014.
the applicants were born in 1974, 1975 and 2003 respectively and live in ankara. on 8 february 2007, by decision of the hospital medical board, the patient underwent a second operation carried out by a different medical team. the report drawn up following the internal investigation commissioned by the governor’s office stated that the patient was suffering from a very serious congenital heart disease, that treating that disease would entail a high-risk surgical operation and that in 52% of cases a leak was noted around the membrane, necessitating a second operation. in conclusion, the investigator recommended not authorising a criminal prosecution. it is not known in what capacity the author of the report, who is a doctor, was involved or to which hospital he is attached. he considered that open-heart surgery presented risks not only to the organ being operated on but also to other organs. the teams showed great efficiency and a high degree of medical expertise. according to that report the patient had originally been diagnosed with dilated cardiomyopathy (an illness which significantly diminishes the “pumping” capacity of the heart) at ankara university hospital, and following more detailed examinations at the sami ulus hospital, alcapa, also known as bland-white-garland syndrome, had been diagnosed. after those initial findings, the experts stated in their report that the heart disease from which the patient suffered and for which she had undergone surgery was rare, accounting for 0.5% of all congenital heart diseases. without treatment the mortality rate was between 80% and 90%, and those affected seldom reached adulthood. the applicants contested the report, deeming it inadequate. they considered that the document, which cited scientific studies, was more like a magazine article than an expert report. consequently, they asked the court to commission a second expert assessment, either from a different medical board or from a specialist section of the istanbul institute of forensic sciences. by judgment of 3 november 2009 the ccgj rejected the applicants request for a second expert assessment. on 7 october 2010 the court of cassation also dismissed the applicants’ application for rectification.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in perm. on 22 april 2008 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of drug dealing and was placed in pre-trial detention on the ground that he was suspected of committing a serious offence, was a foreign national, had no permanent place of residence in perm, no job, no income, he could abscond and commit crimes. on 18 june 2008 the permskiy district court of the perm region extended his pre-trial detention on the same grounds. on 5 august 2008 the permskiy district court issued the first conviction which was quashed by the perm regional court on 14 october 2008. the court held that the applicant should remain in detention without indicating any reasons. by decisions of 1 november 2008 and 18 march 2009, as upheld on appeal, the permskiy district court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention reiterating its earlier reasoning and stating that he could interfere with the investigation and put pressure on witnesses. on 20 may 2010 the district court issued a new conviction. on 14 december 2010 the perm regional court quashed this conviction. on 26 may 2011 the perm regional court convicted the applicant of drug dealing and smuggling and sentenced him to 10 years’ imprisonment. on 25 october 2011 the supreme court of russia commuted the sentence to 8 years’ imprisonment.
the applicant was born in 1954 and died on 27 may 2014. on 24 october 2014 his wife, mrs schwab, was established as his heir. as of 1987 the applicant had intermittently received emergency relief benefits (notstandshilfe) under the unemployment insurance act (arbeitslosenversicherungsgesetz). on 4 february 2008 the vienna prandaugasse labour market service (arbeitsmarktservice) retroactively revoked these benefits in so far as they related to the period from 22 august 2002 to 31 july 2007, and ordered the applicant to refund the payments concerned, holding that he had not been entitled to them as he had been living in a joint household with his wife during that period. the applicant appealed, claiming that his wife had moved to her parents’ house in september 2000, and that they had been running separate households ever since. on 8 august 2008 the vienna regional labour market service (arbeitsmarktservice landesgeschäftsstelle; hereinafter, “the labour market service”) dismissed the appeal. it held that its preliminary investigations had not shown that the applicant and his wife had terminated their joint household during the period in question. the applicant made a request to the constitutional court (verfassungsgerichtshof) for legal aid to lodge a complaint against this decision. on 6 november 2008 the constitutional court dismissed the request for lack of prospects of success. on 6 november 2008 the applicant complained to the administrative court (verwaltungsgerichtshof) about the labour market service’s decision of 8 august 2008 (see paragraph 9 above), explicitly requesting an oral hearing before the administrative court. he contested, inter alia, that he had been living in a joint household with his wife during the period in question. by decision of 25 may 2011 the administrative court, without holding an oral hearing, dismissed the complaint as unfounded. it held that the labour market service had, in view of the evidence established during its preliminary investigations, reasonably assumed that the applicant had been living in a joint household with his wife. the applicant’s request for an oral hearing was not addressed. the administrative court’s decision was served on the applicant’s counsel on 17 june 2011.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in blumau. have two children, born out of wedlock in 2002 and 2004 respectively. always had sole custody of the children as the parents never agreed to have joint custody. and the applicant separated and the children remained with their mother. on the same day the applicant applied for an extension of his visiting rights to the whole weekend. unilaterally stopped further visits, claiming that these had a negative influence on the children. between november 2008 and easter 2009, on his own initiative, the applicant secretly went to see his children at their school and kindergarten a few times. it dismissed the applicant’s application for sole custody. in its reasoning the court held that the children were well cared for by their mother. according to article 176 of the civil code (allgemeines bürgerliches gesetzbuch) as in force at the relevant time, a transfer of custody was only possible if the children’s best interest was at risk. in the present case the court found no such risk and the applicant actually had not claimed such a risk. according to the applicant’s submissions, his visiting rights were resumed on 24 april 2009 in the amount determined by the district court (see paragraph 13 above). it confirmed the reasoning of the district court and held that there was no indication of a risk to the children’s best interest if the mother maintained sole custody. the court also found that the parents had not mutually agreed on joint custody, therefore no further issues arose in this connection. moved with the children to the south of austria, about 400 kilometers from vienna.
the relevant details of the application are set out in the appended table. the applicant complained of the inadequate conditions of his detention. he also raised other complaints under the provisions of the convention. the government submitted a declaration with a view to resolving the issues raised by the applicant. in particular, the government acknowledged that the conditions of the applicant’s detention in facility no. iz-42/2 in novokuznetsk had not complied with the requirements of article 3 of the convention. they offered to pay the applicant the sum of 4,480 euros and invited the court to strike the application out of the list of cases in accordance with article 37 § 1 (c) of the convention. the amount would be converted into the currency of the respondent state at the rate applicable on the date of payment, and would be payable within three months from the date of notification of the court’s judgement. in the event of failure to pay this amount within the abovementioned three-month period, the government undertook to pay simple interest on them, from the expiry of that period until settlement, at a rate equal to the marginal lending rate of the european central bank during the default period plus three percentage points. the declaration did not mention the applicant’s complaint concerning the inadequate conditions of detention in correctional colonies, no. the applicant informed the court that he agreed to the terms of the declaration.
the applicant was born in 1946 in kazakhstan. he had kazakh nationality until 1997, when he was granted russian nationality and renounced his kazakh nationality. the court refused to release him on bail, stating that if the applicant were released, it might not be possible to detain him again in the future. in february 2011 the applicant asked the kazakh investigative authorities to authorise his release from detention in return for a written undertaking not to leave the place of his residence. on 18 february 2011, the district court, unaware of the decision of the kazakh investigators, extended the applicant’s detention until 23 march 2011. on 14 march 2011 the city court discontinued the appeal proceedings against the detention order of 18 february 2011. at the time of his arrest the applicant was suffering from advanced hypertension, which posed a high risk of cardiovascular complications, advanced atherosclerosis of the carotid arteries, ischaemic heart disease, and other illnesses. on 24 september 2010, the day following his arrest, the applicant suffered a hypertensive crisis and was taken to a civilian hospital in moscow. four days later, when his condition became stable, he was discharged from the hospital. the detention authorities sent him to the medical unit in prison no. on 11 february 2011 the applicant was admitted to a civilian hospital in moscow. a special medical board, comprising a surgeon, neurologist, urologist, cardiologist and an ophthalmologist, examined the applicant and his medical file. no deterioration in his condition was recorded. on 6 april 2011 the interim measure was lifted by the court. in april 2011 the applicant lodged a claim with the district court against the detention authorities, seeking that the following be declared unlawful: their refusal to submit him to medical examinations (including those ordered by the court) (see paragraphs 24 and 28 above); and the refusal of 14 february 2011 to allow him to receive medical attention and to grant his lawyer access to the applicant’s medical file.
the applicants were owners of flats in moscow and yekaterinburg. as it was later established by the police, a. submitted to the registration authorities a written consent for her registration in the flat allegedly signed by ye. on 10 october 2007 a. sold the flat to the applicant. the transaction and the applicant’s title to the flat were verified and registered by state authorities. according to the government, the applicant did not move into the flat. on 19 december 2012 the izmailovskiy district court of moscow granted the housing department’s claims in full. the court considered the housing and privatisation agreements to the benefit of a. to be null and void and reinstated the city’s title to the flat. the court also dismissed the applicant’s argument that she had bought a flat in good faith noting that the purchase price she had paid for the flat had been below the market value. nor had she demostrated due care or diligence when buying the flat. on 30 may 2013 the city court upheld the judgment of 19 december 2012 on appeal. on 7 may 2009 the city administration asked the police to carry out an inquiry as regards the persons residing in the flat. the government did not inform of the outcome of the inquiry. according to the documents submitted with the application, on 5 june 1992 the title to the flat was transferred from the city of yekaterinburg to t. under the privatisation scheme and on 16 january 1997 t. sold the flat to tikh. the transaction was verified and registered by state authorities. on 19 december 2013 the leninskiy district court of yekaterinburg invalidated the privatisation agreement and transferred the title to the city of yekaterinburg.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in balıkesir. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 26 may 2010 the applicant was dismissed from his post as an officer in the army due to non-compliance with disciplinary rules. on 22 june 2010 the applicant brought an action before the supreme military administrative court and requested the annulment of his dismissal. on 9 november 2010 the chief public prosecutor submitted his observations to the supreme military administrative court. these observations were notified to the applicant and he replied to it in his petition of 14 december 2010. on 8 february 2011 the supreme military administrative court dismissed the applicant’s case taking into account the “secret documents” submitted by the ministry of defence. these documents were not disclosed to the applicant. on 26 april 2011 the applicant’s request for rectification was rejected by the same court.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in ankara. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 13 april 2010 the applicant was dismissed from his post as an officer in the army due to non-compliance with disciplinary rules. on 16 may 2010 the applicant brought an action before the supreme military administrative court and requested the annulment of his dismissal. on 21 october 2010 the chief public prosecutor submitted his observations to the supreme military administrative court. these observations were notified to the applicant and he replied to it in his petition of 24 january 2011. on 15 february 2011 the supreme military administrative court dismissed the applicant’s action having regard to the “secret documents” submitted by the ministry of defence. these documents were not disclosed to the applicant. on 3 may 2011 the applicant’s request for rectification of the above judgment was rejected by the same court.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in garðabær. on 21 july 2010 a newspaper, dv, published an article regarding rumours that the liu was providing financial support to website b. it was alleged that this support amounted to 1,500,000 icelandic krónur (isk) each month. in the article, no mention was made of the liu’s chief executive office (hereafter “a”). the article stated that a had to do better than just denying that direct payments had been made to website b and that the liu, directed by a, was accountable for the offensive material published anonymously on website b. furthermore, the applicant called into question whether or not the respectable representatives of the liu’s member companies had agreed to the organisation’s funds being paid through intermediaries to gossips such as the owners of website b. 11. on 26 july 2011 the applicant published a third article on the matter on pressan. the applicant added that he had not received confirmation of the last statement. there are different views on this system in society, and it is of great concern, as the fishing industry is one of the fundamental and most important industries of this country. [ ...according to article 73(1) of the constitution no. 33/1944 everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and belief. article 73(3) of the constitution states that freedom of expression may only be restricted by law in the interests of public order or the security of the state, for the protection of health or morals, or for the protection of the rights or reputation of others, if such restrictions are deemed necessary and in agreement with democratic traditions. act no 62/1994 on the european convention on human rights and fundamental freedoms. the evaluation of whether or not the statement includes an accusation of a criminal act or is defamatory will not be based on how [the applicant] understands it but on how readers are expected to perceive and interpret it. the applicant] cannot prove the statement so it is considered not to be proved. the court considers that the second part of the statement, “i have been told that it is possible that no liu board members know that the organisation’s millions are being used to support anonymous slander on [website b] - that the ceo alone decided to use the organisation’s funds in this way”, can be understood as an insinuation of fraud by abuse of position [umboðssvik] and negligence at work as it implies that [a] allocated liu funds against the board’s will and without authorisation. [ the applicant sought leave to appeal to the supreme court, which was refused on 25 february 2013.
the applicant was born in 1992 and lives in istanbul. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 15 february 2009 the applicant was arrested by police officers from the istanbul police headquarters on suspicion of being involved in the activities of a terrorist organisation. on 18 february 2009 the applicant’s statement was taken by the public prosecutor. on 27 march 2009 the istanbul public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul assize court. 2911), and causing damage to public property. on 5 may 2009 at the end of the preparatory hearing, the istanbul assize court decided that the applicant’s detention should be continued taking into account the nature of the offence, the state of evidence and the fact that his statements had not yet been taken. on 2 october 2009 the applicant’s trial resumed. at hearings held on 16 february 2010 and 8 june 2010, respectively, the applicant’s requests to be released from detention on remand were rejected by the trial court. the applicant filed objections against these decisions. on 15 march 2010 and 7 july 2010, the istanbul assize court dismissed the objections. in delivering its decisions, the court also took into consideration the written opinion of the public prosecutors, which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative. on 23 november 2010 the istanbul assize court released the applicant from detention on remand taking into account the period he had remained in detention. on 17 october 2010 the case was transferred to the juvenile court. according to the information in the case file, the case is still pending before the istanbul anadolu juvenile court.
on 9 august 2004 the applicant lodged a civil claim concerning a property issue against eleven other persons with the court of first instance (osnovni sud) in herceg novi. on 15 march 2011 the court of first instance in herceg novi ruled partly in favour of the applicant. on 18 march 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal with the high court (viši sud) in podgorica. on 8 november 2013 the high court in podgorica quashed the judgement and remitted the case back to the court of first instance. on 6 july 2015 the court of first instance in herceg novi ruled against the applicant. on 3 august 2015 the applicant lodged an appeal against this judgment. the proceedings are still pending at the second instance.
the applicant was born in 1988 and lives in istanbul. according to the arrest and search reports, he was arrested and searched because “he was wanted by interpol”. on 10 september 2009 the bakırköy magistrates’ court ordered that the applicant be kept in provisional detention for forty-five days. 5271, and to obtain final defence submissions from the applicant before ruling. the court of cassation also noted that the assize court had failed to enquire whether the applicant had been convicted in uzbekistan or whether there was a case pending against him before ruling on the merits. on 10 november 2010 the ministry of justice sent them to the bakırköy public prosecutor’s office. on 27 december 2010, at the eighth hearing, the trial court asked the applicant to submit observations in response to the documents received from the uzbek authorities and adjourned the hearing. in the meantime, on 23 december 2010 the unhcr had sent a letter to the ministry of the interior. on 20 july 2011 the applicant applied to the bakırköy assize court for release. he noted, in particular, that he could not be extradited because he had been granted subsidiary protection status. he asked the court to consider measures other than detention such as a prohibition on leaving the country, release on bail or an obligation to report to a police station. on 2 august 2011 the applicant appealed against the judgment of 20 june 2011. he once again stressed that he had been granted subsidiary protection status and that therefore he could not be extradited. on 6 december 2011 the public prosecutor at the court of cassation asked the high court to quash the judgment of 20 june 2011. between 7 june 2010 and 23 may 2011 the bakırköy assize court ordered the applicant to be kept in detention owing to the nature of the offences in question, the state of the evidence and the fact that he was not a permanent resident of turkey.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in taganrog. in 1978 the applicant and her sister inherited a house. in 2001 the applicant had a civil dispute with her sister regarding division of the house. on 17 january 2001 the taganrog town court determined that the sisters had equal shares in respect of the inherited property. on 29 may 2002 the taganrog town court factually determined the equal shares of the house, as well as the way of its sharing. on an unspecified date the applicant’s sister lodged a separate claim, requesting the court to acknowledge her property right to the corridor and the kitchen in the house, referring to the fact that she had invested in their reconstruction in 1989 and built some attachments to the house. the court increased the share of the applicant’s sister in the property up to 64/100 and reduced the applicant’s part to 36/100. on 26 november 2003 the rostov regional court upheld this judgment. the proceedings resumed, but on 8 february 2005 the applicant withdrew her claim and the proceedings were terminated. in march 2005 the applicant’s sister again filed an action seeking to divide their property in kind. on 10 october 2006 the taganrog town court granted her claims. the house was divided in two parts and the parties were ordered to pay dividing costs. the court rendered the judgment in the absence of the applicant and her representative on the ground that she failed to appear without any reasons despite her having been duly summoned to the hearing. the court noted that the applicant had attended several hearings and had already presented her arguments on the merits. it also mentioned that the applicant had begun to avoid the court hearings in order to delay the trial.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in belgrade, serbia. the relevant facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 18 september 1995 the applicant and her family members instituted proceedings before the court of first instance (osnovni sud) in herceg novi, seeking division of their joint property. on 5 may 1997 the court of first instance in herceg novi discontinued these proceedings and instructed the parties to initiate a separate civil case given a number of contentious issues. on 8 september 1997 the applicant’s cousins brought a claim against the applicant and her parents before the court of first instance in herceg novi. on 30 december 1997, the cousins lodged an additional claim concerning the same matter. both claims were subsequently joined and examined in the same civil proceedings. on 1 october 2002 the court of first instance in herceg novi ruled against the applicant and her parents. on 25 june 2004 the high court (viši sud) in podgorica upheld this judgment on appeal. it was served on the applicant on 15 july 2004. on 17 august 2004 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law (revizija) with the supreme court of montenegro. this appeal was misplaced until 20 january 2006, when the applicant’s lawyers intervened and urged the authorities to find it. on 12 january 2007 the applicant amended her appeal on points of law. on 14 february 2008 the supreme court of montenegro rejected the applicant’s appeal on points of law as unfounded. this decision was served on the applicant on 6 march 2008.
the applicant was born in 1947 and lives in fryazino, the moscow region. brought defamation proceedings against the applicant and the newspaper’s editorial department before the shchelkovo town court (“the town court”), seeking a retraction of the information contained in the article and non‑pecuniary damages. on the same grounds, the court finds that the certificate issued by [strela] zhsk to confirm that a salary was paid is unreliable [as evidence]. ... ... given that it has not been proved during the court hearing that s.p. ... the allegations of improper behaviour on the part of s.p. towards visitors to the public reception office, such as raising her voice and being rude, have not been proven in the course of the court hearing. ... was allegedly responsible during the time she performed the duties of head of strela zhsk ... have not been proven [by the applicant] ...in determining non-pecuniary damages ..., the court takes into account that ... the published material was based on unverified information and that s.p., on 17 may 2006 the criminal investigation against s.p. the article was an interview with n., a local businessman standing for mayor of fryazino. n. and the applicant argued that the impugned statement had in fact been a value judgment which had not been susceptible of proof, which the town court dismissed as follows:“the argument by n. and his representative that the impugned statement was a value judgment is refuted by the case material. ... had committed a crime by stealing and replacing the land-use plan ...having analysed the complaint by members of the public to the shchelkovo town prosecutor regarding l.k., in reply to my question as to where he had got such a huge [amount of] money, g.a. pounced on me, punched me in the chest, and threatened to kill me and my family and shoot my guards. and u., was shot in the head and killed ...” 25. on 27 august 2005 the town court found for n. and stated that the impugned publication had been paid campaign material and as such had complied with the relevant regulations.
the first applicant is a sister of mr b., who died of aids in the botkin hospital in st petersburg on 6 may 2008. the second applicant is the mother of mr p., who died of the same disease in the same hospital on 19 june 2009. in response, the doctor “gave him a talk”. on 20 june 2007 mr b. was discharged from the prison hospital. on 2 april 2008 mr b. was admitted to prison hospital no. at that time he was unable to walk, was feverish and extremely emaciated. on 22 april 2008 the medical authorities applied for mr b.’s early release on medical grounds. on the same day mr b. was released from detention. a standard drug regimen was prescribed and administered to him in the prison medical unit. the result of a sputum culture test performed on 26 february 2007 was smear-positive. however, doctors noted a further development of opportunistic infections. the results of a smear test proved negative. the investigative authorities stressed that mr b. had managed to live in detention without the antiretroviral therapy for almost three years and that mr p. had died more than seven months after his release. on 28 october 2011 the tverskoy district court of moscow examined the claim. having noted the absence of a decision establishing a breach of the law by the prison authorities, and having referred to the decision not to open a criminal case into the deaths of the applicant’s relatives, the court dismissed the claim as unsubstantiated.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lived in voronezh prior to her arrest. at about 3.40 a.m. the police stopped the car; two men from the narcotics unit approached the car and asked the passengers to step out and produce their identity documents and luggage for inspection. the applicant stated that she was not aware of its contents. the applicant and b. were interviewed in separate rooms. four plastic bags containing yellow and green herb and cash money were found inside. at 8.15 p.m. the investigator compiled the record of the applicant’s arrest. on 15 july 2007 the applicant was formally charged and the investigator applied to a court for a detention order. however, the court did not heed that argument and ordered that the applicant be remanded in custody because the gravity of charges against her. on 19 july 2007 counsel for the applicant filed an appeal. on 25 july 2007 copies of the appeal were forwarded to the applicant and to the prosecutor for comments. instead, a court bailiff submitted reports about his unsuccessful attempts to ensure their attendance. the reports contained the same text to the effect that the witnesses could not be reached on the phone, that no one opened the door at their residence and that neighbours had told the bailiff that they had not seen them for a long time. the trial court refused the motion, without giving any reasons. it further held that there existed “exceptional circumstances” for the absence of the witnesses ms p. and ms a. and allowed their pre-trial statements to be read out, overriding the objections from the defence. by judgment of 8 april 2008, the district court found the applicant and b. guilty as charged and sentenced each of them to eight years’ imprisonment in a high-security correctional colony.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. in 1994, the applicant was convicted of theft and given a two-year custodial sentence conditional on one year’s probation. however, the court applied a general amnesty act and the applicant’s conviction, including the probation period, was spent with immediate effect. less than one year later, on 29 may 1995, a different court convicted the applicant of aggravated robbery and sentenced him to six years’ imprisonment. considering that the applicant had breached the terms of his probation by committing a new offence, the court ordered the suspended sentence to be activated and increased the total length of the sentence by one year. the length of the sentence was varied to six years’ imprisonment, calculated from 2 january 1995 which was the date of the applicant’s arrest. given that the applicant had already spent more than six years in detention, the presidium ordered his immediate release. the applicant unsuccessfully tried several avenues for claiming compensation for his unlawful detention during eleven months and fourteen days. he sought first to exercise the “right to rehabilitation” under the code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 13 below). on 5 august 2003 the oktyabrskiy district court in omsk rejected his application, pointing out that the “right to rehabilitation” only accrued to those who have been acquitted or exonerated which was not the applicant’s case. the applicant did not appeal against that decision. the applicant also tried to initiate criminal proceedings against judge b. who had given the judgment of 29 may 1995. his criminal-law complaint was rejected on the ground that the limitation period had expired. finally, the applicant filed a civil claim for compensation under the tort provisions of the civil code (see paragraph 14 below). on 14 june 2006 the omsk regional court rejected an appeal against that decision.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in šiauliai. arrived at a petrol station near the town of skuodas. on 13 march 2007 the police identified two suspects, e.g. and r.b., charging them with the crimes set out in articles 140 § 1 and 284 § 1 of the criminal code. on 18 december 2008 the applicant was examined by a court medical expert. were given suspended prison sentences ranging from twelve to eighteen months. the klaipėda regional court held that the district court had not based its judgment on circumstances examined at the hearing but solely on the description of the charges in the indictment. as a result, the case was remitted to the skuodas district court for re-examination. on an unspecified date the prosecutor amended the indictment and charged e.g., r.b. of the charges against them and gave them suspended prison sentences ranging from twelve to eighteen months. appealed against the district court’s judgment. had disturbed public order, as submitted in the amended indictment. on 26 march 2012 a different panel of the skuodas district court held that the five-year statute of limitations (see paragraph 26 below) had expired and discontinued the case as time-barred, leaving the victims’ civil claims unexamined. on 20 february 2013 the skuodas district court granted the applicant’s civil claim in part. however, the court considered that the applicant had not proven the pecuniary damage claimed and awarded him ltl 124.45 (approximately eur 36) under that head on the basis of petrol receipts he had submitted.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 25 march 1996 the applicant brought a compensation claim for damages suffered as a consequence of an expropriation of his property against the municipality of bar and one of the local primary schools before the court of first instance (osnovni sud) in bar. on 11 april 1996 the applicant’s representative informed the court of first instance that he had initiated a separate set of proceedings to determine the value of the above-mentioned damages. the court of first instance suspended the above mentioned civil proceedings pending the final resolution of this matter. no document was submitted by the parties as to whether or not the compensation proceedings have ended in the meantime. accordingly, it would appear that the said two sets of proceedings are still pending before the court of first instance. on 2 february 2004 the applicant instituted proceedings before the court of first instance in bar, against his neighbour, seeking a demarcation between their two plots of land. on 25 march 2004 the applicant amended his proposal to this effect. on 14 september 2004 the applicant and the respondent reached a friendly settlement which was approved by the court of first instance on the same day.
the applicants were born in 1966, 1967, 1988 and 2003 respectively and live in blagoevgrad. at the relevant time all the applicants were living together. he needs assistance for most daily activities, which is usually provided by the second applicant or his care assistant. one of his activities was giving short-term loans at high interest rates. upon arrival, his care assistant was arrested. the car remained in the carpark and the first applicant remained in it. on two or three occasions during the day the second applicant was allowed to come to help him with his physical needs. during the time the first applicant spent in front of the police station, police officers searched his home, his office and his pawnshop, as well as his parents’ flat and house. the operation against him had been planned in advance. they gave up, after becoming aware that they could hurt him. after that his care assistant, still in detention, was again brought out under guard. the applicant’s care assistant was released on 8 april 2011 and has not been questioned any further or prosecuted. on 15 april 2011 the first applicant was seen by patrolling police officers in the city centre. on 1 and 2 june 2011 the second applicant did not allow the police into the flat. on 21 june 2011 the first applicant was released from house arrest, by a decision of the sofia court of appeal, which noted in particular his grave state of health and the fact that much of the evidence in the investigation against him had already been collected.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in los angeles. sold the first floor of the house to e.t., and her family carried out construction works in the house and on the plot of land adjacent to it, modifying both the house and the surrounding area. they have built and are running a restaurant there. ’s title in respect of the first floor and the adjacent land, and to oblige her to demolish the buildings constructed without the permission of the authorities and to restore the stone wall that she had destroyed. in her turn lodged a counterclaim against the applicant, seeking to annul the will and the subsequent registration of his title as regards the plot of land adjacent to the house. on 22 august 2003 the civil court of appeal (հհ քաղաքացիական գործերով վերաքննիչ դատարան) re-examined the case on the merits. thereafter the head of the kentron division of the state real estate registry (անշարժ գույքի կադաստրի պետական կոմիտեի կենտրոն տարածքային ստորաբաժանում) requested the civil court of appeal to clarify the judgment of 22 august 2003. this decision became final and was also submitted for enforcement. it appears that she has also failed to pay the fines. by a letter of 25 december 2008 the minister of justice informed the applicant’s lawyer that the kentron division of the state real estate registry had justified the non-registration of the applicant’s title in respect of his property by pointing to the fact that the constructions situated therein had not been demolished because the deja did not have the appropriate technical equipment and workforce at its disposal. it appears that until 2010 other measures were initiated by the deja, such as obliging the kentron division of the state real estate registry to perform the registration of the applicant’s title, in accordance with the judgments in his favour, and setting new time-limits for e.t. following a complaint lodged by the applicant, on 3 july 2007 the district court annulled the decision of the general prosecutor’s office to refuse to institute criminal proceedings, on the grounds that the investigator had not taken proper action to verify whether the bailiffs had carried out their duties properly with a view to securing the enforcement of the above-mentioned judicial acts in favour of the applicant. thereafter, the criminal proceedings were again terminated three times, namely on 14 june 2008, 17 july 2009 and 23 april 2010. according to the applicant, he did not pursue this last complaint any further.
the applicant company is the publisher of an irish daily newspaper, the herald. the evening herald called into question the manner in which the tendering procedure had been conducted, the qualifications of ms l. for the work involved, the high level of remuneration she received, as well as the amount of work that was in fact done by ms l. it referred to eight trips abroad on which ms l. had been part of the ministerial entourage, in particular a trip to new york to attend a united nations conference. ms l. sued the applicant company for defamation. the two issues put to the jury were whether the articles, as a whole, including the accompanying photographs, meant that ms l. had an extra-marital affair with mr c., and whether the last article in the series meant that ms l. had travelled to new york at government expense in the company of mr c. for a united nations conference, but that she had not in fact attended it. he stated that the jurors could take account of ms l.’s standing in society and in the business community, the nature of the libel (the insinuations that she had betrayed husband and family and that she had misused public funds), the mode and extent of publication (carried repeatedly in a widely-read daily newspaper), the absence of an apology, and the fact that the applicant company pleaded the defences of justification and fair comment throughout the trial. the trial judge did not give any specific guideline to the jury regarding the appropriate level of compensation, stressed the limited nature of the guidelines he could provide and indicated, in broad terms, that, when assessing damages the jury must bear in mind reality, the current times, the cost of living and the value of money. he explained that the law did not permit him to suggest a figure or a range of figures to the jury:“the amount of damages, ladies and gentlemen, is a matter for you, should you choose to award them. i can give you what help i can, and i will, in coming to an appropriate figure for damages. put those out of your mind completely ... it is this case and what is appropriate in this case that is important and you have to reach that decision yourself and without as much help as i would like to be able to give you, but i am not permitted to give you.” the judgment of the majority was given by dunne j., with whom murray j. concurred. as for comparison with personal injury awards, she recalled the different function of damages in the two types of case. but the libel of ms l. was nonetheless a very serious one. the articles had been accompanied by photographs that had been cropped and manipulated to lend force to the implication that ms l. got her contracts by virtue of the fact that she was having an affair with the minister. i have no doubt that from her point of view it was a very serious matter. the nature and purpose of the two types of damages were inherently different.
the applicant was born in 1963 and is detained in riga. the applicant was charged with several counts of organising, inciting and aiding various crimes against persons and property. had given evidence against him when questioned by the police between january and may 2001; when giving that evidence they stated that the applicant had incited them to engage in certain criminal activities. subsequently, when questioned by a prosecutor on 17 october 2001, a.d. testified that they had never before met the applicant, and that p.b., who had died in the meantime, had been the instigator of some of the crimes. appeared before the first-instance court. was given an opportunity to put questions to them. submitted a written request to the first-instance court for it to disregard his pre-trial statements as he had been ill-treated and tortured during the pre-trial investigation in order to force him to incriminate his co-accused, including the applicant. he had not complained about these incidents at the time because he had been afraid of retribution. on 14 july 2003 the kurzeme regional court delivered judgment. had made the allegations of coercion in an attempt to explain why they had subsequently given evidence in favour of their other co-accused, including the applicant, and against their late co-accused, p.b. lodged an appeal against the first-instance judgment. on 17 march 2004 the appeal hearing was held before the criminal cases chamber of the supreme court (augstākās tiesas krimināllietu tiesu palāta). on 27 october 2004 the criminal cases chamber of the supreme court delivered judgment with respect to the appeals lodged by the applicant’s co-accused.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in riga. on 5 november 2004 criminal proceedings were instituted in connection with large-scale smuggling of oil products and on 27 september 2005 the applicant was declared a suspect. on 8 june 2006 charges were brought against the applicant and on 22 march 2007 he was issued with a full copy of his criminal case file. telephone conversations with the latter were recorded on 8 april, 22 and 27 may, 7 october 2005. the parties disagree as to when the applicant learned about those recordings. was the applicant’s lawyer at the time of those recordings. was his lawyer with effect from 8 february 2005. that document also contained further similar entries relating to subsequent authorisations on 25 january, 31 march, 1 june, 22 july, 20 september and 16 november 2005. she stated that the interception had been carried out by the constitutional protection bureau from december 2004 to january 2006. it had been done in accordance with domestic law on suspicion of large-scale tax evasion. on 13 november 2006 the same prosecutor refused the applicant’s request to have sight of the decisions authorising the interception of his telephone conversations as they constituted classified information. on 15 january 2008 the applicant appealed against the refusal to institute criminal proceedings and also complained that the reply of 3 january 2008 had not provided an answer to his request for evaluation of the lawfulness of i.k. ’s actions and his suitability for the position of prosecutor. to represent him in those criminal proceedings until 27 september 2005 and that the intercepted conversations prior to that date had therefore taken place between the applicant and o.s. that decision included a note that it was final.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in warsaw. on 11 april 2005 the applicant was brought by the police to the warsaw psychiatric hospital in order to undergo the psychiatric assessment. however, he refused to stay for the assessment, explaining that he had many urgent matters to attend to. in addition, there was a reasonable risk that the applicant would obstruct the proceedings or that he would go into hiding. he had been admitted to a psychiatric hospital on 23 october 2001, however the next day he had left the hospital on his own initiative. an appeal lodged by the applicant was dismissed by the warsaw regional court on 20 september 2005. the court relied on the grounds previously given. the applicant unsuccessfully appealed against all those decisions. the applicant underwent this assessment between 21 november 2005 and 1 february 2006. subsequently, on 5 april 2006, the applicant’s mother also refused to testify. the warsaw district court held further hearings on 27 april, 7 july and 16 october 2006 and on 24 january and 12 march 2007. on 12 march 2007 the warsaw district court gave judgment, acquitting the applicant on charges of domestic violence and convicting him of possession of a small amount of marijuana. it further noted that in the present case there had been no breach of procedural provisions of the ccp since the detention on remand had been applied mainly in view of the applicant’s repeated refusal to comply with the courts’ orders. furthermore, there had been a risk that he could have gone into hiding. lastly, the court noted that as soon as the applicant’s parents and sister had refused to testify, the applicant had been released.
on 9 march 1966 the municipality of ohrid appropriated from several individuals the right of use of nationalised building land (одземање од понатамошно користење на градежно национализирано земјиште) located in an area e. the land in question included a plot owned by the applicant’s legal predecessor, measuring 764 sq. on the basis of documentary evidence of 30 may 2002 obtained from the ministry of transport and communications (министерство за транспорт и врски), the restitution commission found that no structures of public interest, but rather “beach service facilities and a leisure centre” (сервис објекти за плажа и центар за забава), were planned to be constructed on the plot in question. on 4 and 9 june 2003 the state archives and the ohrid court of first instance informed the restitution commission that they had no information as to whether any compensation had been paid to the applicant’s predecessor for the appropriated land. by a letter of 26 august 2003 the municipality of ohrid confirmed that neither the applicant nor his predecessor had sought compensation for the appropriated land. as stipulated in the minutes, the plot in question had been given to the association for its use even earlier, on 9 march 1966. he further denied that any compensation had been paid to his predecessor or him. accordingly, possession of it could be restored (може да биде предмет на реално враќање). in this connection he referred to the ministry of finance’s report of 16 march 2005 (see paragraph 14 above) and another on-site report of 13 july 2007 drawn up for the purpose of an “action for disturbance of possession” in which it had been confirmed that the land had been vacant – a fact that had been established by bitola court of appeal in an earlier civil dispute between him and the association (see paragraph 33 below). in relation to this, the court emphasises that this provision does not concern only the factual, but also the legal impossibility of enforcement ...... in view of the above-cited statutory provisions, it is undisputed that lake ohrid and its shore are ... of general interest (добро од општ интерес), which is relevant, in the court’s view, for the restitution proceedings, within the meaning of the restitution act. ...” that decision was confirmed on appeal by the supreme court in a decision of 23 june 2010. on 1 february 2012, the administrative court quashed the decision. the applicant’s daughter, asked the restitution commission to stay the proceedings. it appears that the civil and the inheritance proceedings are still pending. it ordered the association to refrain from further disturbances. according to him, it had never been argued by the state that these neighbouring plots had been of public interest.
in 1995 dr marija arsovska, a psychiatrist whose name at the time was marija karanfilova (“the psychiatrist”), established a private practice called dr marija karanfilova’s independent psychiatric practice (самостојна специјалистичка ординација по невропсихијатрија „д-р марија каранфилова„ – “the practice”) where she treated people using carl jung’s analytical psychotherapy methods. the practice was assigned an individual tax number beginning with the numbers 503. in compliance with the inspectorate’s orders, the psychiatrist applied to the ministry of health to have the practice re-registered and to change its name, as required by the new statutory provisions. on 28 february 2006 the ministry of health issued a decision on the registration of the private health institution dr marija karanfilova’s specialist psychiatric practice (приватна здравствена установа – специјалистичка ординација по невропсихијатрија „д-р марија каранфилова„ – “the new practice”) at the same address as the previous practice. the inspectorate conducted a fresh on-site inspection on 6 march 2006. on 17 april 2006 the central registry recorded the registration of the new practice as of 29 march 2006. it kept the same tax number as the new practice. the link between the new practice and the applicant company was not disputed in the impugned proceedings (see below). both the new practice and the applicant company continued the proceedings as the claimant. on 10 june 2008 the first-instance court granted the claim in part. the applicant company submitted in reply that the re-registration of the practice had been carried out in compliance with the inspectorate’s orders and that the fund had been aware of the changes. it established that the contract had been signed by the fund and dr marija karanfilova’s independent psychiatric practice and that the applicant company could not be considered as the practice’s legal successor as they had different individual tax numbers. on 16 february 2009 the skopje court of first instance dismissed the applicant company’s claim, finding that it had no standing in the proceedings. on 11 december 2009 the skopje court of appeal dismissed an appeal by the applicant company and upheld the first-instance judgment. it stressed that a tax number was a unique attribute of a particular entity and would remain unchanged, regardless of any structural or other changes to the entity.
the applicants were born in 1974, 1984, and 1977 respectively. the first and the third applicants live in moscow, and the second applicant lives in gryazy, lipetsk region. on 4 december 2008 the ryazan regional duma adopted the law on administrative offences, which introduced administrative liability for public activities aimed at the promotion of homosexuality among minors. he was charged with an administrative offence for doing so. on 6 april 2009 the justice of the peace of circuit no. 18 of the oktyabrskiy district of ryazan found the first applicant guilty of a breach of section 3.10 of the ryazan law on administrative offences. he was ordered to pay a fine of 1,500 russian roubles (rub, equivalent to about 34 euros (eur)). on 14 may 2009 the oktyabrskiy district court dismissed the first applicant’s appeal. the amendments introduced administrative liability for public activities aimed at the promotion of homosexuality among minors. the second applicant was holding a banner stating “russia has the world’s highest rate of teenage suicide. this number includes a large proportion of homosexuals. the second applicant was ordered to pay a fine of rub 1,800 (about eur 45), and the third applicant was fined rub 2,000 (about eur 50). he had to pay a fine of rub 5,000 (about eur 130). on an unspecified date the first and the third applicants brought proceedings before the constitutional court of the russian federation. on 23 september 2014 the constitutional court examined the complaint on the merits and dismissed it, for the following reasons:“... citizens’ enjoyment of the right to disseminate information concerning the question of an individual’s sexual self-determination ought not to infringe the rights and freedoms of others; in regulating of this right by means of legislation, it is necessary to ensure that a balance is struck between the values protected by the constitution.
the applicant is an eritrean national and was born in 1990. once he had reported for duty, he had tried to escape but had been caught. he had managed to escape from prison one night when the guards were asleep. he had been picked up by ethiopian soldiers the next day. in order to support his account, the applicant submitted copies of his student card and a card showing that he was a church deacon, as well as the original of a card used for food distribution in italy. he did not recall any rules other than fixed meal times and being brought outside in the mornings and evenings to relieve himself. they had walked towards mereb, but had lost their way as it was night-time. again, a member of a non-governmental organisation was present as a neutral witness, who did not note down any observations relating to irregularities. the interviewer explicitly advised the applicant that the interview was taking place to give him another opportunity to describe his departure from eritrea, and that the account he had so far provided in this regard would probably be dismissed as not credible, which would result in the conclusion that he had left the country legally. on 8 march 2016 the state secretariat for migration rejected the applicant’s asylum request and ordered his departure from switzerland. on 14 april 2016 the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision before the federal administrative court. he had been caught and, as a result, detained in march 2013. furthermore, it was comprehensible that he could not give a detailed account about things which he had learned during that training, given that he had attempted to escape almost immediately after reporting for duty. referring to a letter from unhcr – the original of which he presented – stating that he was registered in the hitsas refugee camp in ethiopia on 8 november 2013, and to the fact that crossing the border to enter ethiopia by land was always unlawful (see paragraph 49 below), he argued that he had proved his illegal exit from eritrea. on 9 may 2016 the federal administrative court rejected the applicant’s appeal, finding that he had failed to credibly demonstrate his asylum claim.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in berezniki, perm region, together with her son, born in 2001. on the last page the following was written:“if you wish to save a child from loneliness and give him a hearth and home, come to us!” in december 2007 the department of the interior replied that there were no grounds to institute criminal proceedings. the photograph of the child had been placed on the booklet by mr p., who had been engaged by that company to prepare the layout of the booklet and who had found the photograph of the applicant’s son on the internet. it was impossible to establish from which website the photograph of the child had been taken. the applicant did not lodge any judicial appeal against those replies. the publication of the photograph had also affected her honour and dignity and her reputation as a schoolteacher. had sent him electronic copies of those photographs and since that time they had been saved in his computer. in 2007 he (mr p.) had been temporarily working for the publishing company and had been asked to prepare the layout of the booklet. he did not know who the boy on the photograph was. the representative of the centre, acting as a third party, submitted that the use of the photograph of the applicant’s son had not been agreed with the centre. it appears from the record of the court hearings that the applicant’s representative, g., submitted to the court that it had been established that the photograph of the applicant’s son had been used on the booklet without his parent’s consent, contrary to the requirements of article 152.1 of the civil code. the court takes into account that on several occasions in 2004 the plaintiff authorised mr sh., a photographer familiar to her, to take photographs of her son. since the publication of the booklet, children in the kindergarten had started calling her son “little vagrant” and “poor orphan”.
the applicant was born in zimbabwe and lives in london. in or around 2003 he began suffering from a mental illness which led to his hearing voices in his head and at least two suicide attempts. he was also convicted of resisting or obstructing a police officer and failing to surrender to custody. the applicant did not appeal against this decision. on 30 october 2008 the applicant was interviewed in relation to his second asylum claim. on 3 november 2009 the applicant’s representatives asked the government to allow them more time to submit medical evidence supporting the applicant’s second asylum claim. on 3 december 2009 the applicant applied for bail which was refused on 9 december because the tribunal judged he posed an unacceptable risk of absconding. the representatives indicated they would reply in writing. - your client has not produced satisfactory evidence of his identity, nationality, or lawful basis to be in the united kingdom. on 28 august 2010 the applicant was examined by dr s. and her expert report, dated 3 october 2010, was sent to the secretary of state on 22 november 2010. he was being treated but still experienced some symptoms, including auditory hallucinations and ideas of reference. the applicant’s appeal was dismissed on 7 april 2011. the dangers of absconscion and reoffending are and have always been real in view of the claimant’s behaviour between july 2005 and his arrest in respect of the drugs matter. on 22 february 2012 the court of appeal, civil division refused the applicant permission to appeal the decision of 31 october 2011, finding that the high court had been correct on every point. on 28 april 2012 the secretary of state agreed that the decision of 8 february 2011 refusing the applicant’s asylum claim was flawed and that the case should be remitted to the upper tribunal.
on 11 december 2002 the applicant instituted proceedings for restitution of a hotel in skopje which had been confiscated from his predecessor in 1948. on 7 june 2004 a commission responsible for such matters within the ministry of finance dismissed the applicant’s claim. on 16 november 2004 a second-instance commission set up within the government dismissed his appeal. subsequently, the case went back and forth several times between the administrative bodies and courts at two levels of jurisdiction. the proceedings are currently pending before the higher administrative court, awaiting a decision on an appeal by the applicant of 26 january 2016 against a judgment of the administrative court. on 3 july 2014 the applicant applied to the supreme court for a ruling that the length of the restitution proceedings had been excessive, to award him compensation and set a three-month time-limit for the court dealing with his case to decide on his restitution claim. the case file, which was with the administrative bodies, was forwarded to the supreme court on 13 february 2015. on 28 april 2015 the first-instance panel of the supreme court found that the relevant period to be taken into consideration had started to run on 16 november 2004 (see paragraph 6 above). it further established that the case had not been complex and that there had been no delays attributable to the applicant. by a letter of 3 june 2015 (received on 10 august 2015), the supreme court asked the ministry of justice to provide assistance in delivering its decision because the applicant lived in serbia. between 25 august and 21 december 2015, the ministry of justice of the respondent state asked, on three occasions, that the relevant ministry in serbia serve the supreme court’s decision on the applicant. in an appeal against the supreme court’s decision of 28 april 2015, the applicant complained that it had taken too long for that court to decide on his application. he referred to section 36(4) of the courts act, which required the supreme court to decide on a length of proceedings remedy within six months (see paragraph 14 below). he also complained that the amount of compensation awarded to him had been too low. on 21 march 2016 the second-instance panel of the supreme court ruled partly in favour of the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in ossès. on 17 january 2008 he attended a rally organised by a basque agricultural trade union and by the gfam (a mutual-benefit land alliance), the “lurra”, on the occasion of a meeting of the technical committee of the land use and rural settlement corporation (safer) in the pyrénées-atlantiques département. that meeting had been aimed at producing an opinion on the use of the land comprising a farm which mr f.l. at the end of the meeting scuffles broke out between the demonstrators and the gendarmerie. the applicant was placed in police custody and brought before the bayonne criminal court under “immediate summary trial” procedure, and charged with intentional violence not entailing total unfitness for work, against gendarmes whose identity has not been established, and against a person exercising public authority, using or threatening to use a weapon, in this instance an umbrella. in its judgment, the court noted that the applicant had refused to answer questions during the investigation or to admit to any wrongdoing, and had denied that he had been carrying an umbrella. the judges noted that witnesses had nevertheless stated that he had attempted to cross the barrier by clambering over demonstrators and trying to hit the gendarmes with his umbrella. the applicant pointed out that he had refrained from appealing in order to calm the situation and in the framework of a friendly settlement of the dispute that had been the cause of the rally. on 24 december 2008, following a request from the bayonne public prosecutor’s office, the applicant was ordered by the police to give a dna sample, on the basis of articles 706-55 and 706-56 of the code of criminal procedure (cpp). he was brought before the criminal court on 19 may 2009 for refusing to give the sample. on 3 february 2011 the pau court of appeal upheld that judgment. as regards the legal aspect of the offence, it stated, in particular, that unlike the applicants in the case of s. and marper v. the united kingdom ([gc], nos. 30562/04 and 30566/04, echr 2008), the applicant had been convicted, rather than suspected, of an offence, which precluded him from arguing that the impugned judgment had entailed a disproportionate interference with his private life. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law. by judgment of 28 september 2011, the court of cassation dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law as follows:“... the court of appeal responded adequately and cogently to the main points of the pleadings submitted to it, and characterised all the substantive and purposive aspects of the offence of refusing to undergo a biological test, of which it found the defendant guilty, in full compliance with the provisions of article 8 of the convention.”
the facts, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. it became enforceable on 26 december 2008. on the latter date the insolvency proceedings were stayed (obustavljen) and the debtor continued its business activities. in his complaint of 31 august 2009, the applicant submitted that the debtor was an active company and, in that respect, provided a copy of the decision on staying of insolvency proceedings of may 2007, certified by the commercial court. after a division of property, he received 2.89% of his claim for costs. in february 2007 many employees on compulsory leave were made redundant and took part in the government’s “social programme”. in the meantime, on 22 october 2007 the applicant was made redundant. the judgment became final on 22 january 2009. after a re-trial, on 18 october 2013 the municipal court ordered the applicant’s employer to also pay her outstanding salary for 16 march to 22 october 2007 (the period during which she was on paid leave) and rsd 13,000 for her legal costs. on 5 january 2004 the privatisation agency ordered the restructuring of the debtor. the insolvency proceedings are still ongoing. on 18 april 2011 the court opened and terminated the insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor. it said that any property of the debtor had become state assets. the date of its publication in the official gazette of the republic of serbia is not available on these registers. the enforcement courts ordered enforcement of the above judgments on 20 may 2005 and 24 april 2007 respectively.
on an unknown date in may 2003 the applicants wrote a letter to the highest authorities of the bd, namely the international supervisor for bd, the president of the assembly of bd and the governor of bd, while the procedure for the appointment of a director of the bd’s multi-ethnic public radio station was still pending. soon afterwards, still in may 2003, the letter was published in three different daily newspapers. he did not know how the letter had reached the media. the letter had been sent to the authorities personally. that was why they had indicated in the letter that it concerned allegations and not established facts. the bd court of appeal quashed that judgment on 16 may 2005 and decided to hold a new hearing. at the hearing before the court of appeal m.s. relying on section 6(5) of the defamation act (see paragraph 41 below), the court held as follows:“... even if the aggrieved party is a public servant or a candidate for a post in a public body and he or she is generally perceived as having an important influence on public issues of political interest ... (a defendant) is to be held liable for defamation if he knew that a statement was false or negligently disregarded its inaccuracy.” after analysing the statements of the witnesses and the respondents, the court found that the facts reported in the letter regarding the calendar of religious services during the month of ramadan and the broadcasting of sevdalinka were untrue, since “the letter obviously did not contain what (r.s. on 5 december 2007 the court of first instance issued a writ of execution. from the submissions of the two witnesses, from whom the appellants received the information presented in the letter (concerning the part of the letter in which it was stated that m.s. ‘ made a point of removing from the wall (and tore to pieces) the calendar with the schedule of religious services during the month of ramadan and as the editor of the entertainment programme banned the broadcasting of sevdalinka arguing that that type of song had no cultural or musical value’), the court of appeal established that there was an evident inconsistency between what had been said to the appellants and what they had reported in the letter. the appellants ... failed to verify the impugned statements beforehand as was their duty. it entered into force on the latter date and contains twelve annexes. the relevant part of this annex reads as follows: “the republic of bosnia and herzegovina, the federation of bosnia and herzegovina and the republika srpska (the ‘parties’) have agreed as follows:...article v: arbitration for the brčko area 1.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in constanţa. at the time of the relevant events, she was an investigative journalist working in constanţa. more precisely, it is the v. clan, in other words the clan of the v. brothers, who are at war with the supporters of r.m. i do not even know him, i have never seen him in my life and i have never spoken to him .... i have listened for fifteen minutes to her [the applicant’s] lucubrations, in which she tries to create about constanţa the image of a demonic city, in which the mayor runs everything, is a smuggler, has clans with kalashnikovs and bodyguards ...[a.g.]: i personally asked the police to intervene and arrest the perpetrators. ... prove the contrary if you please; i have never spoken to any of them, i do not know them. but this is indeed what has been going on for several years in the city of constanţa. if he is still live ... it is necessary to know that mayors elsewhere in the world, such as giuliani or chirac, have had what are called urban policies of prevention and that they were directly involved. i am talking about a sociological perspective, an area that in which i specialise. further claimed that the defamatory statements the applicant had made against him in prime time on national television had seriously damaged his image as a public person and a locally elected official. on 11 october 2007 the constanţa district court dismissed r.m. was based essentially on the applicant’s statements, namely that the city was “torn between the underworld clans, in which the offenders retaliate against the mayor” (see paragraph 8 above), and that the same conclusion would have been drawn by anyone else who had watched the show. by claiming in bad faith that he was involved in illegal activities. such allegations, made without prior verification and lacking factual support, were of a serious nature and had severely damaged the claimant’s image. furthermore, in trying to support her allegations with extracts of articles from the press reporting on the activities of r.m.,
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. with this claim, the plaintiffs were seeking a judicial ruling declaring them to be the owners of an area of grassland. between 1988 and 2009 the first-instance court held a number of hearings, ordered expert opinions, dealt with other relevant evidence, and heard witnesses. on 27 april 2010 the constitutional court delivered a judgment, finding that the applicants’ (or their predecessors’) right to a hearing within a reasonable time had been violated by the district court. it ordered the district court to proceed without undue delay and to reimburse the complainants’ legal costs. it also observed some of the applicants’ lack of interest in those proceedings. that judgment became final on 19 july 2010. on 22 november 2011 the district court delivered a judgment on the merits of the case, which was not served on the parties to the proceedings until seven months after its delivery. on 19 march 2013 the constitutional court rejected a fresh constitutional complaint that had been lodged by the applicants (except those listed under points 30 to 32). it noted the delay of seven months which the district court had taken to serve its judgment on the parties. however, it did not consider it unconstitutional. it partly upheld the district court’s judgment and partly dismissed the claim concerning some of the contested property. it also rejected the remainder of the appeal. on 21 january 2015 the proceedings in respect of that appeal were discontinued without examination of its merits due to the appellants’ failure to pay the court fees. that decision became final on 13 february 2015.
in disputes between the applicants and the domestic pension authorities, the first‑instance courts ruled in their favour, ordering increases of their pensions based on the rise in the average wages in the country since their retirement. the defendant authorities appealed to the dnipropetrovsk administrative court of appeal (“the court of appeal”). under domestic law (see paragraph 18 below), when an appeal arrived at the court of appeal, a judge rapporteur of that court, if he or she believed that it complied with the necessary formal requirements, had to issue a ruling opening appeal proceedings (“the ruling”) and send it to the applicants together with a copy of the appeal. the government and the applicants disagree as to whether those documents were actually sent to the applicants (see paragraphs 11 to 13 below). on various dates set out in the appendix, the court of appeal quashed the judgments in the applicants’ favour, dismissing their claims for pension increases holding that the domestic law did not require the pensions to be increased in case of rise in the average wages in the country following retirement. in the fifth applicant’s case the court of appeal held a hearing in his presence (see paragraph 14 below). in the other applicants’ cases the court sat in camera without summoning the parties. the first applicant lodged an appeal on points of law with the higher administrative court. on 26 october 2012 it upheld the court of appeal’s decision, without commenting on the complaint she had presented that she had not been informed of the appeal proceedings. they therefore had no knowledge of the appeal proceedings prior to the court of appeal’s decisions in their cases. they learned of those decisions later, notably after their pensions had been reduced based on the court of appeal’s decisions. according to the government, the applicants were duly informed of the appeal proceedings. on 23 june 2012 the court of appeal sent the fifth applicant a summons to attend a hearing on 1 november 2012. the delivery slip is in his domestic case file. at the hearing, which he attended, the court examined the pension authority’s appeal in its absence and quashed the first-instance court’s judgment.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in sinj. brought a civil action against the applicant before the sinj municipal court (općinski sud u sinju), seeking that a will be declared null and void. on 8 december 2006 the sinj municipal court adopted a judgment in the applicant’s favour. the civil division of that court has over forty judges. on 27 august 2009 a panel of three judges presided over by judge d.p., sitting in a closed meeting, reversed the first-instance judgment and upheld the appeal. it held that the first-instance court had correctly established the facts but had wrongly applied the relevant law. was the father of a trainee lawyer working at the law office of v.lj. on 14 september 2011 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law as unfounded and upheld the second-instance judgment. it held in particular:“the case file shows that n.p., ’s son, did not participate in any manner in the proceedings at issue. in such doubt as to exclude his participation in the adoption of the appeal judgment.” he had been in a relationship of subordination (employer-employee) to the opposing party’s legal representative and the law office concerned had employed only a very small number of people. the applicant noted that the first-instance judgment in her favour had also later been reversed on appeal. the constitutional complaint was declared inadmissible on 3 october 2012 by the constitutional court.
the applicant was born in 1942 and lives in vilnius. on 13 august 2004 the applicant was found guilty of forgery of documents (article 300 § 1 of the criminal code) and fraud (article 182 § 1 of the criminal code). in addition, the court found that the applicant had forged the signatures of pre-trial-investigation officers on the above documents, submitted them to court officials to receive payment and thereby obtained payment. on 12 september 2007 the applicant asked the bar association to readmit her to the bar. the applicant challenged this decision before the vilnius regional court. the court noted that the applicant had been convicted of a minor intentional crime. the reference stated that the applicant performed her duties well; and that she was responsible and had a sense of initiative. the court of appeal concurred with the first-instance court’s finding that the term of the applicant’s conviction had expired and that therefore she could not be reproached under article 8 (1) of the law on the bar. nonetheless, taking into account the fact that she had committed the criminal offence in the course of her professional practice and that her professional practice had been aimed at committing crimes, of which there were more than thirty counts, it was reasonable to conclude that the applicant’s behaviour did not meet the criteria set out in article 8 (4) of the law on the bar. a person who claimed to have regained high moral character should bring clear and persuasive evidence that he or she had been following the ethical and disciplinary rules. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law. she raised a number of arguments about the bar qualification exam and professional reputation, without maintaining that the criminal conviction had placed her in a worse situation than representatives of other law-related professions. by a ruling of 23 february 2009 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law, and left the court of appeal decision unchanged. 3k-7-168/2001 of 9 january 2001, see paragraph 30 below). moreover, article 8 (4) of that law read that a person should meet the criteria of ethics applicable to advocates.
the applicant was born in 1968 and is serving a prison sentence in astrakhan. was appointed to represent him during investigation and trial. on 10 december 2004 the astrakhan regional court held a preliminary trial hearing. called the applicant “a robber and a drunkard”. on 21 february 2005 the applicant asked the court to replace counsel sh. on the same date the regional court found the applicant guilty of murder and sentenced him to fifteen years’ imprisonment. on 1 march 2005 the applicant asked the regional court to appoint legal counsel to represent him before the appeal court. according to the official documents, the applicant was not provided with legal assistance. the applicant did not attend the hearing. counsel r. was appointed to represent him. from 1 to 3 august 2007 r. studied the case-file. on 7 and 14 august 2004 he met with the applicant at the remand prison. he did not submit a statement of appeal and made oral submissions to the court. the court also dismissed as unsubstantiated the applicant’s complaint about the alleged ineffectiveness of the legal assistance provided by counsel sh. lastly, the court took into account that, prior to the jury verdict, the applicant had not complained about the quality of the defence provided by sh.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in pakruojis. he worked as an investigator at šiauliai city police headquarters. the applicant’s conviction was upheld by the court of appeal on 29 june 2001 and by the supreme court on 18 december 2001. the applicant was released from prison on 8 september 2003 after serving his sentence. he had been convicted of crimes of medium severity. on 12 january 2007 the applicant wrote to the lithuanian bar association, which regulates advocates (lawyers admitted to the bar, advokatas), requesting to be admitted as a trainee advocate. on 20 june 2007 the bar association held that by failing to inform it of the conviction, the applicant had withheld information relevant to assessing his reputation, and that therefore he had shown that his attitude towards the standing of the lithuanian bar and towards becoming a trainee advocate was not honest and respectful. on 10 july 2007 the disciplinary committee of the bar association held that the applicant had committed a disciplinary violation by withholding information about his conviction by šiauliai regional court on 3 october 2000 (see paragraph 7 above). information about the conviction had been relevant for assessing his reputation. they postponed the hearing to a later date on each occasion. a member said by the applicant to have been favourable to him (see paragraph 20 above), had not been a decisive factor because the court had been unanimous in its finding against the applicant. the manner in which those crimes had been committed and their scale did not allow for the assertion that the applicant had automatically regained the status of being of high moral character immediately after the conviction had been expunged. by a ruling of 7 april 2009 the court of appeal upheld the vilnius regional court’s arguments and dismissed the applicant’s appeal. the court of honour’s conclusion had been supported by point 12.1 of the code of ethics, which set out that the relationship between an advocate and the bar was based on mutual respect and good-will assistance, and by point 13.2, which stated that an advocate must also adhere to the traditions and customs which corresponded to the common principles of ethics and decency (see paragraph 37 below). on 10 july 2009 the supreme court found the appeal to be essentially identical to the earlier one and refused to admit it for examination.
since 1994 the first applicant company, satakunnan markkinapörssi oy collected data from the finnish tax authorities for the purpose of publishing information about natural persons’ taxable income and assets in the veropörssi newspaper. from 2006 the second applicant company also published veropörssi. according to the court, when balancing the protection of private life against freedom of expression, the decisive criterion had to be the contribution made by publishing the data to a debate of public interest. restricting the processing of personal data at this stage, that is to say before publication, could in practice mean that a prior decision is taken on what can be published. in this respect it must be decided whether a derogation is possible from the requirements relating to the processing of personal data on the basis of section 2(5) of the act, that is to say whether the impugned processing of personal data by publishing those data in the veropörssi newspaper came within the scope of the exception provided for journalistic purposes. ...it transpires from the preparatory work on the personal data act (he 96/1998 vp) that the processing of data in the background file referred to in the personal data file act must relate solely to journalistic activities and that the processed data must not be made available to any persons not engaged in journalistic activities. as stated above, with a view to reconciling the requirements of freedom of expression with the protection of privacy, the collection of data before publication has been made permissible under section 2(5) of the personal data act without any requirement of compliance with general conditions set out in section 8 of the act. open public-interest debate, the monitoring of the exercise of power in society and the freedom to criticise, which are necessary in a democratic society, do not require the disclosure of the personal data of specific individuals in the manner and to the extent described above. ...having regard to sections 2(5) and 32 of the personal data act and article 9 of the data protection directive, as interpreted by the court of justice of the european communities in its preliminary ruling, the collection of personal data prior to its publication in the veropörssi newspaper and its processing in the background file of satakunnan markkinapörssi oy cannot as such be regarded as contrary to the regulations concerning the protection of personal data, provided that, inter alia, the data have been protected properly. in his reply the data protection ombudsman stated, with reference to the decision of the data protection board of 26 november 2009, that “when data on taxable income were collected in a database and published in large catalogues almost as it stood, the personal data act was applicable...”. by letter dated 9 february 2010 the applicant companies appealed against the decision of the data protection board to the helsinki administrative court, which transferred the case to the turku administrative court. on 18 june 2012 the supreme administrative court upheld the judgment of the turku administrative court, reiterating that the case concerned neither the right to publish taxation information as such, nor preventive censorship. the newspaper continued publishing taxation data in autumn 2009 when its content was only one fifth of the previous content. since then the newspaper has not appeared. the requested tax information would then be delivered to the customer by phone call, text message or e-mail.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in martin. 10 c 60/2012), seeking payment of his wages plus interest in connection with the termination of his employment. on 17 february 2012 the district court issued a payment order in summary proceedings. as the defendant challenged the order, the matter fell to be determined by the court in ordinary proceedings. on 28 april 2015 the constitutional court rejected his complaint (file no. the constitutional court referred to the court’s previous case-law in ištván and ištvánová v. slovakia (no. the constitutional court further stated that only in cases where the length of proceedings was prima facie excessive at the time of lodging a constitutional complaint was it not necessary to lodge a complaint with the president of a court, and therefore the applicant should have lodged a complaint with the president of the district court. in the meantime, the district court had appointed an expert in economics, accountancy and tax, and had ordered the applicant to pay fees in advance for the expert evidence. that order was challenged by the applicant before the žilina regional court, but to no avail. the appointed expert then prepared her opinion between june and september 2015. subsequently, the district court scheduled a hearing for 16 march 2016. on that date the district court delivered a judgment by which it granted the applicant’s claim in part and dismissed the remainder of the claim. a written judgment was delivered to the applicant two months later. however, in their submissions to the court the parties failed to specify the exact date when the judgment was served on the applicant, and they did not provide appropriate evidence to confirm this. they also did not inform the court about any possible further development in the proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1968 and is currently detained in vratsa prison. in 2007 the applicant was treated on the psychiatric ward of lovech prison hospital. the social worker carried out an enquiry over the following days at the request of the prison governor and obtained statements from eight other inmates, confirming the events. the government said the delay was because the applicant’s symptoms had not suggested that he had a medical condition that required urgent attention and because it took time to organise a medical examination outside the prison. he also noted that the applicant had some redness on his eardrums. he recommended that the applicant have physiotherapy for that joint. the consultation and the x-ray were paid for by the prison administration. he was examined and given an x-ray of the skull. he was generally given pain medication and further on request external medical consultations were discussed. it referred the case back with instructions to the lower prosecutor’s offices to check whether mr k.i. the delegation heard a number of complaints from prisoners at both plovdiv and varna prisons concerning delayed or difficult access to a doctor, inadequate quality of care (in particular dental care), problematic access to outside specialists and delays in transfer to outside hospitals. ... in its ensuing report (cpt/inf (2012) 32), the cpt noted the following (footnotes omitted):“19. such a capacity to intervene will of course depend, inter alia, on an adequate staff/prisoner ratio and on providing all staff members with appropriate initial and advanced training. the doctor from the nearby prison hostel ‘razdelna’ had been ensuring medical cover when the feldsher was absent. in the light of the above, the cpt reiterates its recommendation that steps be taken to ensure that prison health-care services perform a thorough screening of newly-arrived prisoners for injuries.
the applicants’ dates of birth and places of residence are given in the appendix. on 12 january, 26 january and 10 march 2013 demonstrations were planned to be held in baku. according to the applicants, the demonstrations were intended to be peaceful and were conducted in a peaceful manner. all three applicants were arrested during the dispersal operations and were taken to police stations. the applicants were questioned at the police stations they had been taken to. according to a statement (ərizə) written by the second applicant at the police station on the day of her arrest, she refused the services of a lawyer. made any oral or written submissions on behalf of the first applicant. the police officers testified that the applicant had staged an unauthorised demonstration. the applicants also complained that their arrests had been unlawful and that the hearings before the first-instance courts had not been fair. they asked the baku court of appeal to quash the first-instance courts’ decisions in their cases. the applicants were not represented before the baku court of appeal by a lawyer. on the same day he was detained pending trial. the files relating to the present cases, which, it appears, included copies of all the documents and correspondence between the court and the parties, were also seized in their entirety. it held that the searches had been conducted in accordance with the relevant law. the investigator’s relevant decision specified that “since it [had] been established that among the documents seized on 8 and 9 august 2014 there [had been] files concerning applications by a number of individuals and organisations lodged with the european court of human rights, which ha[d] no relation to the substance of the criminal proceedings [against mr intigam aliyev], [those files] ha[d] been delivered to [mr aliyev’s lawyer,] mr javad javadov”.
the first applicant was born in 1983 and lives in ludbreg. before the military action, the vast majority of the population of krajina fled croatia. most of them went to bosnia and herzegovina, and also to serbia. on 25 january 2002 the police interviewed m.m., on 25 february 2002 the police interviewed the second applicant. the son said that on the morning of 8 august 1995 some members of the croatian army had come to their house and asked for the keys of a golf vehicle parked in the courtyard but that his grandmother had shouted at them. and she had not been registered as a member of any army. he had informed some of the croatian soldiers about it. on 9 november 2012 the karlovac police asked the ministry of defence about the croatian army units which had been in veljun between 7 and 12 august 1995, the identity of their commanders and all their members. that request was repeated on 11 december 2012. domobranska pukovnija ogulin), under the command of captain (satnik) n.n. the commander of the second battalion of the 143rd domobran regiment, said that they had entered veljun on the morning of 8 august 1995. he said that owing to the passage of time he could not remember the places they had been during operation storm. he had no knowledge about the killing of civilians in veljun. none of the soldiers in his platoon had searched for civilians in houses and he had no knowledge about the killing of g.o.
the applicant company, service benz com s.r.l., is a commerciale company founded in 1993 under romanian law and based in adunaţii copăceni. on 11 may 2010 the applicant company, whose main activity is the retail distribution of fuel in specialised outlets, entered into a contract with company “n.” sarl for the carriage of “automobile lubricants and other goods”. the contract stipulated that it was incumbent on the company n. to “complete the transport documents with the requisite, correct and accurate information”. on the same day, two fuel tankers belonging to the company s.c. were loaded in bulgaria, in the presence of a tax office representative. after the tankers had been loaded the representative sealed them. before the two fuel tankers could reach their destination, they were stopped for inspection by representatives of the romanian fraud squad. after laboratory analyses, the romanian authorities found that the liquid transported did not have the same specifications as those indicated in the transport documents. the applicant company challenged the part of that official report relating to the confiscation of its two fuel tankers. before the slobozia court of first instance it argued that:– it had only carried its customer’s goods and accordingly held no responsibility for their compliance with the law;– article 220 § 1 (k) cpf had not been applicable to it since, according to the transport documents in its possession, it had not been transporting goods subject to excise duty. the tax authorities appealed against that judgment. on 28 february 2011 the ialomiţa county court allowed the tax authorities’ appeal: it quashed the judgment and, ruling on the merits, dismissed the applicant company’s challenge as being ill-founded. 2/2001 of 12 july 2001 governing administrative offences provided for the eventuality of the confiscated property belonging to someone other than the administrative offender. the ground of appeal based on negligence on the part of the transporter, who was directly responsible for the safety and lawfulness of the goods transported, is also well-founded.”
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in poznań. after their conversation he informed her that he had recorded the call and that he intended to use the transcript for an article. on 6 december 2006 the applicant published an interview with a.r. the interview, entitled “payment for sex, the choice is yours” (“płaca ze seks, wybór należy do pani”) concerned the “sex scandal” story which had broken in poland earlier in 2006. public figures, including samoobrona activists, had offered and accepted sexual favours in the course of exercising public functions. on the same page, to the right of the article, the newspaper quoted three prominent samoobrona activists referred to in the interview, namely k.z., but had never recommended her for any work. a member of the european parliament, lodged a private bill of indictment against the applicant. he demanded that the applicant be charged with defamation. according to the indictment the defamation consisted of the publication of the interview with a.r. had accused him of nepotism by saying that he had employed his own daughter. concerning nepotism (see paragraph 23 below). it did not accept the applicant’s argument that he had acted with due diligence because before publication he had sent the text of the interview to a.r. ’s lawyer appealed against the first‑instance judgment. on 18 june 2010 the warsaw regional court upheld the challenged judgment, repeating in essence the same reasoning as the district court.
the applicants were born in 1981, 1982, 1986, 1974 and 1971 respectively. mr gražvydas dūda lives in kupiškis and mr darius antonovas is detained in alytus correctional facility. the first applicant was detained in lukiškės remand prison from 23 june 2011 to 30 september 2011. in 2012 the applicant instituted proceedings for damages. the applicant appealed but on 4 december 2012 the supreme administrative court upheld the first-instance decision. from 22 october 2008 to 10 november 2010 the second applicant was detained in lukiškės remand prison, except for the following periods when he was moved to švenčionys police station:-  from 3 december 2008 to 10 december 2008;-  from 23 september 2009 to 29 september 2009;-  from 23 december 2009 to 29 december 2009;-  from 3 february 2010 to 16 february 2010. they had also been damp and his health had deteriorated. the applicant and lukiškės remand prison appealed. he complained about his conditions of detention from 20 july 2009 to 16 june 2010. on 23 october 2012 the vilnius regional administrative court held that until 10 april 2010 the statutory norm for personal space per prisoner per cell had been five square metres and that since 14 may 2010 it had been 3.6 square metres. the applicant’s complaints about his health and baldness were dismissed as unsubstantiated as the applicant had not provided any evidence that he had ever complained to doctors or the prison authorities about those issues. he argued that the conditions in which he had been held in lukiškės remand prison had been degrading: the cells had been overcrowded; he had been held together with prisoners who smoked; the toilets had not been separated from the rest of the cell; and his health had deteriorated. on 2 january 2012 the vilnius regional administrative court held that the applicant’s personal space had not corresponded to the statutory norms and awarded him ltl 1,000 (approximately eur 290) in compensation for non-pecuniary damage on account of overcrowding. on 11 june 2012 the applicant instituted proceedings for damages for the period from 29 november 2007 until 9 march 2010 when he was in lukiškės remand prison. the court held that the applicant had failed to substantiate his other complaints with evidence.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in novosibirsk. on 10 april 2007 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of robbery as part of an organised group and of abuse of position. on 11 april 2007 the zheleznodorozhnyy district court of novosibirsk remanded him in custody. he remained in detention pending the completion of the investigation and trial. referring to the seriousness of the charges, the courts extended his detention on the grounds that he might threaten witnesses, abscond, interfere with the investigation, reoffend or destroy evidence. on 13 april 2009 the oktyabrskiy district court of novosibirsk found the applicant guilty and sentenced him to nine years’ imprisonment. on 18 january 2010 the novosibirsk regional court quashed the judgment on appeal and remitted the case for fresh examination. the court decided to place the applicant in pre-trial detention. his detention was subsequently extended on the same grounds as described above. on 14 april 2011 the district court convicted the applicant as charged and sentenced him to nine years’ imprisonment. on 5 september 2011 the novosibirsk regional court upheld the judgment on appeal. on 16 january 2015 the government submitted a unilateral declaration. they acknowledged that the applicant had been detained “without well-founded justification on the basis of decisions rendered by the courts”, which did not “comply with the requirements of article 5 § 3 of the convention”. on 10 march 2015 the applicant rejected the government’s offer. he expressed the view that the amount of money offered by the government was insufficient.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in hafnarfjörður. the ruv broadcasts news programmes on television every evening at 7 p.m. that last for about 40 minutes. the news items were introduced by a news anchor and then a film clip was played, showing pictures related to the subject of the news item while the applicant narrated. on the evening news on 24 may 2010 the news anchor introduced the news items, stating that the authorities were investigating whether the isk 3,000,000,000 had made its way back to iceland and that there was a suspicion that b, the owner of company y, had returned the money to his business partners. after the news broadcast, a issued a press release. the online news article was updated to include the press release. before the domestic courts, the applicant maintained that he had based the news item on information from sources, both verbal and written, that he deemed highly trustworthy. the special prosecutor also stated that this had been confirmed in the media in july 2011. by judgment of 3 november 2011 the district court found for the applicant. the media have covered these events since the crisis began and the individuals involved have also been the subject of news coverage, including [a]. in determining whether the content of the news item is a part of the social debate and therefore of public interest, it should be kept in mind that [a] himself, as well as the companies he has represented, has been in the media and public debate for many years. [ a] has also been very prominent in business, both here and abroad, and in both a negative and positive light. [ company z], led by [a], was a large shareholder in [f] ..., and held an active share in g...bank. news about [a] has therefore more often than not been about his role in the banking collapse, and after the collapse of the icelandic banks in the autumn of 2008 the media was full of news on the banking collapse and crisis, the reasons behind them and related matters. the applicant] has also not demonstrated that he sought information from [a] on the content while preparing the news report.
the applicant company has its registered office in valongo, portugal. it also sought the payment of the interest accrued until the date of repayment of the debt in full. he accepted this appointment on 13 october 2005. these proceedings were joined to the enforcement proceedings on 15 december 2005. between 15 december 2005 and 3 march 2016 information was exchanged between the valongo court and the judicial enforcement officer about the date on which m.c. had been summoned and the documents in that connection. on 16 december 2011 a hearing in the proceedings for opposition to enforcement was scheduled for 30 may 2012. on an unknown date the hearing was postponed to 6 march 2013, the date on which it took place. for unknown reasons, on 23 december 2011 the chamber of judicial officers (câmara dos solicitadores) informed the valongo court that a new judicial enforcement officer was to be appointed. on an unknown date before the 16 january 2012 another lawyer started representing the applicant company. between 9 april and 1 october 2013 correspondence took place between the new judicial enforcement officer and the court regarding the applicant company’s representation by a lawyer (whether it was represented in the case and by whom). on 29 april 2013 the valongo court adopted a decision against the applicant company in the proceedings for opposition to enforcement. on an unknown date before or during february 2014 the applicant company appealed against that decision to the oporto court of appeal. the oporto court of appeal upheld the first-instance decision by a judgment adopted on 20 may 2014. following that decision, the enforcement proceedings were terminated.
the facts of the cases, as submitted by the applicants, may be summarised as follows. on various dates between 2004 and 2008 the applicants were criminally prosecuted for and convicted of various offences under the russian legislation then in force. all of the applicants appealed, but their cases were examined by the appeal courts in the absence of their respective counsel. the appeal courts upheld their convictions. in the case of mr chernenko (application no. 51264/07) the first‑instance court ordered him to pay the legal fees incurred in respect of his representation in the criminal proceedings against him. on 6 november 2012 the supreme court of the russian federation quashed the order of the first-instance court and waived the legal fees that mr chernenko had been ordered to reimburse. following the communication of the applications, the prosecutor lodged requests for supervisory review of the criminal cases of ms ichetovkina and mr dubrovskiy (applications nos. following the communication of the other four applications (nos. 45075/05, 11343/06, 51264/07 and 59378/08), the prosecutor lodged a request for supervisory review of the judgment of the appeal courts. the domestic courts examined his request and expressly acknowledged that these four applicants’ right to legal assistance in the appeal proceedings in respect of their cases had been breached. the applicants’ cases were remitted for re-examination by the same appeal courts. the court requested additional observations from the government in respect of these four cases regarding the conformity of the second set of appeal proceedings with the requirements of article 6 §§ 1 and 3 (c) of the convention. when the applicants’ cases were heard and re-examined by the appeal courts, they were represented by lawyers, and they participated in the respective proceedings via video link. the details of the applicants’ cases are set out in the appendix.
during 1991 and 1992 serbian paramilitary forces gained control of about one third of the territory of croatia and proclaimed the so-called “serbian autonomous region of krajina” (srpska autonomna oblast krajina, hereinafter the “krajina”). milan zdjelar, the applicants’ father, was on the list and next to his name was a note that he had been shot in the head and a leg on 8 august 1995 by members of the croatian army’s “tigers” brigade. she had hidden in the grass and had seen her father shot twice, in the chest and the leg. when she returned from the woods she had reported the matter to the croatian army and had been given food by some soldiers, who had also buried her father. on 24 march 2004 the gvozd police interviewed anđelija zdjelar, who had no relevant information to give them about the circumstances in which her husband had been killed. each time the police replied that there had been no progress. on several occasions between september 2007 and july 2008 the state attorney’s office asked the police about the progress of the investigation. on 9 october 2008 the state attorney’s office issued an instruction for implementation of the criminal code and the code of criminal procedure to the county state attorney’s offices, in which they indicated that an inspection of the work of these offices had highlighted two main problems: the possible partiality of persons involved in the pending proceedings as a result of the ethnicity of the victims or the perpetrators; and the problem of trials in absentia. on 12 may 2009 the police informed the sisak state attorney’s office that they had asked the ministry of defence for information regarding the members of brigade 153 of the croatian army who had arrived in crni potok after operation storm and the killing of milan zdjelar. most of the villages they had passed through had had no name signs. had been a soldier in the unit under the command of i.p., on 22 november 2012 the police interviewed ž.l. after some time they had heard firing on a hilltop above them. they both repeated their earlier statements. he also alleged that he had been denied his rights in connection with his medical treatment.
the applicant was born in 1972 and currently lives in ukraine. according to the government, during the arrest the applicant tried to escape. later that day the kotovsk town court found the applicant guilty of the abovementioned administrative offence and ordered his administrative detention for twelve days. the applicant stated that had he not done so, the police officers would have killed him as they had killed a certain m., whom the police had suspected of being the applicant’s accomplice, during his questioning in the same police station on 18 march 2004. the applicant stated that two people had witnessed him being ill-treated by the police. he did not provide any details of how he had been injured. as a result, the applicant decided to stop making complaints to that prosecutor. no further details were given in that regard. those decisions contained no further details in that connection. no appeal against those decisions could be lodged. the accomplice had been with the applicant when the murder had been committed, but had not seen how it had happened. during questioning at later stages of the investigation and at the trial, the applicant, with his lawyer present, repeatedly changed his version of the events pertaining to the charges against him. on 22 october 2004 the investigation was completed and the applicant was given the case file to study. as regards the charge of murder, the court relied principally on the statements of one of the applicant’s accomplices and the applicant’s self‑incriminating statements made at the pre-trial stage, in particular during his interview on 15 june 2004 and during subsequent questioning, having noted that the applicant had been assisted by a lawyer when he had made those statements (see paragraphs 36 and 38 above). the applicant’s complaints of ill-treatment were considered to be unsubstantiated.
the applicant was born in 1956 and is currently detained in the centre for persons in preventive detention on the premises of schwalmstadt prison. it sentenced the applicant, who had acted with full criminal responsibility, to thirteen years’ imprisonment. furthermore, the regional court found that the applicant suffered from a mental disorder for the purposes of section 1 § 1 of the therapy detention act (see paragraph 24 below). it further had regard to the report dated 27 december 2004, submitted in previous proceedings by psychiatric expert b., who had already diagnosed the applicant with a dissocial personality disorder with schizoid and psychopathic elements. on 13 june 2013 the federal constitutional court refused to grant the applicant legal aid and declined to consider the applicant’s constitutional complaint (file no. on 23 january 2013 the marburg regional court, having heard the applicant in person, his counsel, the prosecution and a representative of schwalmstadt prison and having regard to the report of psychiatric expert j. dated 15 september 2011, again ordered the extension of the applicant’s preventive detention. the regional court endorsed the reasons given by the frankfurt am main court of appeal and by itself in the previous set of proceedings. however, he still had not completed a necessary therapy aimed at preventing him from reoffending. in particular, the applicant kept refusing a necessary therapy. at the outset of the execution of the preventive detention order, the applicant was detained in a separate department for persons in preventive detention in schwalmstadt prison. in the government’s submission, which was not contested by the applicant, both in schwalmstadt prison and in weiterstadt prison, measures were taken in the interim period between september 2011 and the entry into force of the new legislation on preventive detention on 1 june 2013 (in particular the act on establishment, at federal level, of a difference between the provisions on preventive detention and those on prison sentences, see paragraph 24 below) by which the conditions of detention for persons in preventive detention and the offers of therapy were gradually improved. the applicant refused any specific therapy addressing his offences throughout his preventive detention. in the period at issue, he participated in a weekly discussion group for persons in preventive detention. he worked in detention and was regularly granted leave from prison under escort. on 18 november 2013 the marburg regional court again extended the applicant’s preventive detention.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in sisak. on 2 september 1991 the sisak police lodged a criminal complaint with the sisak county state attorney’s office in connection with the killing of n.t. and disappearance of the applicant’s sons were part of these overall enquiries. before 5 november 1997, when croatia ratified the convention, the police interviewed the applicant as well as potential witnesses d.f.t., none of them had any concrete knowledge about the potential perpetrators. on 9 january 2003 an investigating judge of the sisak county court heard evidence from the applicant. on 21 november 2005 the applicant’s sons were declared dead by the sisak municipal court as of 25 august 1991. on 9 october 2008 the state attorney’s office issued an instruction to the county state attorney’s offices concerning implementation of the criminal code and the code of criminal procedure, in which it indicated that an inspection of their work had indicated two main problems: possible partiality on the part of the individuals involved in the pending proceedings as regards the ethnicity of the victims or the perpetrators; and the problem of trials in absentia. also knew one of the individuals implicated but was afraid to talk about it. said that she did not know any of the individuals who had arrested the victims. on 26 january 2009 the sisak police sent a report on the interviews to the sisak county state attorney’s office. who both repeated their respective prior statements. on 20 june 2011 the sisak county police lodged a criminal complaint against đ.b., on charges of war crimes against the civilian population. and increased his sentence to ten years’ imprisonment.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in jonava. in 1994 the applicant bought an apartment in jonava. in 1998 he lost his regular job and was no longer able to pay for utilities. in 2003 the judgment was transferred to a bailiff for enforcement. the bailiff decided to direct enforcement against the applicant’s apartment. on 6 october 2004 he organised a public auction at which the apartment was sold to a third party for ltl 3,390 (approximately eur 982). since that date, the applicant has not had a permanent home. he submitted that he had been living in temporary accommodation, at times in unsuitable conditions, and often in exchange for manual work. between 2006 and 2008 the apartment was resold and gifted to different individuals on several occasions. in view of the alleged unlawfulness of the sale, the applicant claimed damages jointly from the bailiff and the bailiff’s professional liability insurer. they also argued that the applicant’s debt (ltl 2,861) and the enforcement expenses (ltl 540), taken together, had exceeded ltl 3,000, and thus the sale of his apartment had been in accordance with the domestic law. however, the court considered that this breach had not been such as to warrant the annulment of the sale. the bailiff’s professional liability insurer appealed against the kaunas regional court’s judgment. however, the court considered that, in line with “the nature of the obligation and the principles of equity, reasonableness and good faith” (pagal prievolės esmę, atsižvelgiant į teisingumo, protingumo ir sąžiningumo kriterijus), the amount of damages in the applicant’s case had to be assessed at the moment of the unlawful act, that is, the sale of the apartment. according to the state enterprise centre of registers, the market price of the applicant’s apartment at the time of its sale had been ltl 12,100 (approximately eur 3,504).
the applicant was born in 1986 and lives in sumy. the applicant had relations with v., a female student born in 1989. on 29 august 2008 the applicant and v. registered their marriage. while working abroad, v. transferred funds to the applicant to support the family. on 28 september 2011 the applicant asked the police to establish the whereabouts of the child. on 2 december 2011 a forensic medical expert examined the child and reported a red spot on the chin, measuring 1.5 cm by 0.8 , which – in the expert’s opinion – was “a sign of an earlier abrasion”. v. was given access to the child only in the presence of the applicant or other persons that he trusted. f. could not be interviewed as he had moved abroad. on 8 may 2013 the applicant, relying on the new code of criminal procedure of 2012, requested that an investigation be opened against v. and f. in respect of the alleged child sexual abuse. the investigator ordered that measures be undertaken to establish the whereabouts of f. during the investigation v. denied the allegations and submitted that she had been a victim of domestic violence, that she had been threatened and beaten by the applicant, and that this had prompted her to run away with the child on 20 september 2011; she also submitted that she had moved to the village of bezdryk, where her grandfather lived, and that she had had no sexual relations with f., her uncle. the experts found that the child had not been suffering from any mental illness at the time of the events or at the time of the examination; that she had not shown any tendency to fantasise; and that she was able to remember the circumstances of the events at issue and to give truthful statements in that regard. on 27 december 2014 the sumy district police decided once again to close the criminal proceedings. the child had been accompanied to and from the centre by her mother. the court dismissed as unsubstantiated the applicant’s allegation that the mother was negligent with the child and that she might have exercised physical violence against the child: in contrast to the results of the medical examination of 2 december 2011 documenting the injuries on the child’s body (see paragraph 15 above), the staff of the bezdryk child-minding centre had signed a certificate stating that on 1 december 2011 the child had had no injuries; furthermore, the police had refused to institute criminal investigation in respect of the child’s injuries (see paragraph 19 above). overall, the findings of the first-instance court had been lawful and reasonable.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in osijek. the applicant’s detention was ordered because g.d. had retracted his previous statement that he had been buying illegal drugs from him. furthermore, the applicant had submitted documents showing that he had his own candle-making business. the applicant was released that same day. on 31 may 2011 the investigating judge confirmed his previous decision. had been buying illegal drugs from the applicant, and the evidence showed that the applicant had had frequent telephone contact with g.d. fourthly, he was unemployed and had no lawful means of subsistence. on 10 june 2011 a three-judge panel of the osijek county court, composed of judges d.k., held a closed session in the parties’ absence. on 17 june he lodged an appeal with the supreme court against the decision of 10 june 2011. this decision was upheld on 1 july 2011 by a three-judge panel of the same court, composed of judges r.š., on 15 april 2013 the applicant submitted a request for settlement with the ministry of justice in connection with his wrongful detention. kv-138/2011-3 of 26 may 2011 (pages 16 and 17 of the case file) shows that the claimant had already been finally convicted by the donji miholjac municipal court of the criminal offence of abuse of illegal drugs under article 173 § 1 of the criminal code, that is to say for an offence of the same type but in its basic form. therefore, since the defendant has not proved that the claimant caused his arrest by some unlawful act such as absconding or concealing evidence, this court considers that there was no contribution on his part to the ordering of his detention.”
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in matosinhos. she repeated that she had been unaware of the unlawfulness of her acts and sought an acknowledgment of her lack of criminal responsibility owing to the psychiatric disorders from which she claimed to suffer. consequently, she asked for a fresh assessment of the facts and the opportunity to state her case at a hearing. on 12 december 2007 the court of appeal held a hearing attended by the public prosecutor and counsel for the applicant. however, no examination of the applicant herself took place. the applicant paid the fine in several instalments. as before the court of first instance, the applicant raised, in particular, the question whether her criminal responsibility should have been deemed diminished, which might have had a major impact on the determination of the sentence. the court takes the view that that question could not have been settled by the court of appeal without a direct assessment of the applicant’s personal testimony, particularly since the judgment of the matosinhos district court had departed slightly from the conclusions of the psychiatric report without setting out the reasons for such a departure, as required under domestic law ... the court of appeal’s re-examination of that question should therefore have comprised a full rehearing of the applicant ... 35. those factors are sufficient for the court to conclude that in the instant case a public hearing should have been held before the appellate court. 46221/99, § 210, echr 2005-iv, and panasenko v. portugal, no. on the other hand, it considers it appropriate to award the applicant eur 2,400 in respect of non-pecuniary damage.” the procedure for supervising the execution of the judgment of 5 july 2011 was still pending before the committee of ministers. in a judgment of 21 march 2012 the supreme court refused to grant a review. under domestic law, where the accused is legally required to appear in court, his or her absence entails an irremediable nullity (article 119 (c) of the code of criminal procedure). in short, the conviction is not incompatible with the european court’s binding decision, and no serious doubts arise as to its validity.
in february 2011, after holding a firearms licence and a hunting permit for about ten years, the applicant asked the s. police department (hereinafter: “the police”) to renew his firearms licence for hunting purposes. he did not live in croatia but went hunting when he spent holidays there. when submitting his request the applicant relied on a certificate of the ministry of health (ministartsvo zdravstva republike hrvatske) attesting that he was healthy and thus capable of carrying firearms. following the applicant’s request the police carried out a background check. a report of 22 february 2011, available in the file, contains a finding of the police that the applicant had often been under the influence of alcohol when visiting croatia. on 18 august 2011 the applicant was summoned by the police to give a statement concerning the intention of a weapons commission not to renew his firearms licence. in a further written statement dated 19 august 2011 the applicant contended that hunting was his hobby and that his membership of a hunting association was related to his social status. he denied any allegations of alcohol abuse and argued that there were no justified reasons for a refusal to renew his firearms licence. on 23 august 2011 the applicant made the same objections through a lawyer. he also stressed that hunting allowed him to see his friends, and that those who had made the allegations against him did not really know him. on 26 april 2012 the administrative court held a hearing at which it heard the parties’ arguments. he also considered that it was not clear on which grounds the police had dismissed the applicant’s request. he did not seek examination of further evidence. the relevant part of the administrative court’s decision reads:“by examining the classified file of the defendant the court ... established that the police officer’s conduct, while searching for and collecting information from citizens, ... was in accordance with the by-law on the conduct of the police in the procedure for issuing a licence for the procurement of weapons to a natural person ... and, based on data and information collected from interviewed citizens, found that the plaintiff is prone to common and excessive alcohol abuse, which indicates a possibility of weapons abuse. he also submitted a medical certificate indicating that he had no problem of alcohol abuse.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in dison. the applicant stated that she was a muslim and had decided, on her own initiative, to wear the niqab – a veil covering the face except for the eyes – in accordance with her religious beliefs. she said that she had taken the decision to wear the full-face veil when she was sixteen years old. she explained that her choice had been accepted by her family and friends and by her husband. she also stated that she had always agreed to remove her veil for identification purposes as required by the authorities, such as when issuing her identity card. the president of the police district invited the verviers public prosecutor to express an opinion on that proposal. on 18 march 2008 the public prosecutor replied that he did not have any observations to make. the municipal councils of the three municipalities belonging to the police district – the municipal council of pepinster on 23 june 2008, dison on 26 june 2008 and verviers on 30 june 2008 – enacted the following provisions of the consolidated by-laws of the vesdre police district, which differed, moreover, from the original proposal. save where authorised by the mayor (bourgmestre) of the municipality, wearing a mask or using any strategem whatsoever for the purposes of concealing personal identity shall be forbidden at all times, at any public meeting and in all public places and in public thoroughfares. the wearing of clothing concealing the face shall be forbidden at all times and in all public places. she contended that the interference did not pursue a legitimate aim as the principle of secularism was not a constitutional principle and there could therefore be no blanket ban on wearing the veil. in their memorial in reply of 18 april 2011, the three municipalities submitted that the impugned provision sought to guarantee public safety and not to regulate or restrict the exercise of any form of worship. the auditeur at the conseil d’état delivered a detailed 26-page report in which he concluded that in his opinion the applicant’s above-mentioned submission was well founded because public safety could not serve as a basis for a ban on wearing the full-face veil in all places generally open to the public, as no specific public disorder was associated with it as such. 213.849 of 15 june 2011, the conseil d’état, refusing to follow the opinion of the auditeur, dismissed the application for annulment of the provision ... . that judgment was served on the applicant on 23 june 2011.
on 3 may 2007 the applicant lodged a criminal complaint with the police alleging that in the past two years she had been a victim of multiple acts of domestic violence by her husband, b.b. the police also forwarded the applicant’s medical records showing that in april 2007 she had sustained a contusion on her back after being pushed from a chair by b.b. in the course of the investigation, the investigating judge heard the applicant and b.b. the latter denied the allegations of domestic violence. who confirmed that the applicant had often complained of emotional and physical harassment by her husband and had twice sustained injuries as a result of the alleged harassment. on the basis of the results of the investigation, on 29 january 2008 the state attorney’s office indicted b.b. he raised his hand [threatening] to hit her, punched her in the face and body, and ordered her to go to the corner of the room. in december 2004 he grabbed her head and banged it against the bathroom wall and on 27 april 2007 he pushed her from a chair, as a result of which she fell to the ground. to a position of helplessness and debasement ...” 11. guilty as charged and sentenced him to seven months’ imprisonment, suspended for two years. on 2 march 2010, following an appeal lodged by b.b., the s. county court quashed the first-instance judgment and remitted the case to the municipal court on the grounds that all the relevant facts of the case had not been established. challenged that judgment before the s. county court. the state attorney’s office did not challenge that decision but the applicant lodged an appeal with the s. county court. on 28 february 2013 the s. county court declared the applicant’s appeal inadmissible on the grounds that she did not have legal standing to challenge the decision on the discontinuation of the criminal proceedings.
the first and second applicants were born in 1981 and 1971 respectively and live in jurbarkas. the government contested this and submitted that the applicants had been informed that an autopsy had been necessary but refused it nonetheless. had not been properly qualified to provide obstetric services. the state inspectorate for medical inquiries issued its report on 26 august 2009, in which it identified several shortcomings in the work of doctors who had provided care to the first applicant, and concluded that the medical services had been inadequate. in july and august 2009 the applicants were interviewed and granted victim status in the investigation. the applicants also submitted questions and their questions were forwarded to the specialists. on 10 february 2011 three other court-appointed doctors provided answers to the applicants’ questions. on 4 march 2011 the prosecutor discontinued the pre‑trial investigation on the grounds that no causal link between the actions of the doctors at jurbarkas hospital and the baby’s death had been established. however, the court’s order was only forwarded to the forensic expert on 5 february 2013. was not present and her lawyer informed the court that she had been admitted to hospital, although no medical certificate was submitted. would not be well enough by 13 may, and that on the later dates he would be unable to represent her. the court adjourned the case until 14 july 2014 in order to give the accused enough time to acquaint herself with the case file. on 14 july 2014 the jurbarkas district court terminated the case on the basis that it was time-barred. they revised their claim in december 2011 and august 2013. relying on the available inquiry reports, as well as the specialist opinions and results of the forensic examinations delivered in the criminal proceedings (see paragraphs 9, 10, 11, 17, 21 and 23 above), the court held that the doctors at jurbarkas hospital had breached their duty of care and that their actions “had contributed” (turėjo įtakos) to the death of the applicants’ daughter, so there were grounds for the hospital incurring civil liability.
the applicants’ dates of birth and places of residence are given in the appendix. that tendency continued into the following years. demonstrations were held, inter alia, on 2 april and 17 april 2011 and 20 october 2012. the second applicant attended the demonstration of 2 april 2011. the organisers nevertheless decided to hold the demonstrations as planned. according to the applicants, the demonstrations were intended to be peaceful and were conducted in a peaceful manner. according to the fourth applicant, the rally was intended to be peaceful. as mentioned above, the demonstration of 2 april 2011 was attended by the second applicant; the demonstration of 17 april 2011 was attended by the first and third applicants. the circumstances related to the dispersal of the demonstrations of 2 april and 17 april 2011, the first, second and third applicants’ arrests and custody, and subsequent administrative proceedings against them are similar to those in gafgaz mammadov v. azerbaijan (no. 60259/11, 15 october 2015) (see also appendix). in a photograph, submitted to the court by the first applicant and allegedly taken after his police custody, he is shown with a bruise on his forehead. namely, in their appeals against the first-instance court’s decisions the applicants complained that they had been ill-treated during their police custody, and requested the baku court of appeal to order a forensic examination of their injuries, to question particular witnesses and to obtain the review of the medical records drawn up at their check-in to a detention facility where they had served their sentence. the appellate court disregarded the applicants’ ill-treatment complaints and their requests related to those complaints. adopted decisions refusing to open criminal proceedings into allegations of ill-treatment in respect of the third and first applicants respectively. the applicants did not lodge a complaint with a supervising court against those decisions.
the applicants’ dates of birth and places of residence are given in the appendix. the applicants were opposition-oriented activists. at the material time the first applicant was a member of one of the opposition parties, the popular front party of azerbaijan. he participated in a number of peaceful demonstrations organised by the opposition and on several occasions was arrested and convicted for that. on 12 october 2013 an opposition group i̇ctimai palata held a demonstration, authorised by the relevant authority, the baku city executive authority (“the bcea”). the demonstration was held in the mahsul stadium, a place proposed by the bcea. it was intended to be peaceful and was conducted in a peaceful manner. the participants were protesting against alleged irregularities and fraud during the presidential elections of 9 october 2013. all three applicants participated in that demonstration. after the end of the demonstration of 12 october 2013 the applicants were arrested at the entrance to a nearby metro station, inshaatchilar. the circumstances of the applicants’ arrests, their custody and subsequent administrative proceedings against them are similar to those in huseynli and others v. azerbaijan (nos. 67360/11 and 2 others, 11 february 2016) and huseynov and others v. azerbaijan ([committee] nos. 34262/14 and 5 others, 24 november 2016) (see also appendix).
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in sofia. in 1993 the applicant, acting as a sole trader, concluded a contract with a municipally-owned company under which she undertook to set up a shop in the city shopping centre. this contract was extended numerous times. the applicant brought judicial review proceedings challenging the refusal to sell the property to her. on 24 september 2001 the mayor issued another order for the applicant’s eviction. before it entered into force, representatives of the municipal council broke into the shop and took possession of it. on 9 november 2001 the district prosecutor refused to intervene or to open criminal proceedings. subsequently the regional and appellate prosecutors upheld that refusal. on 11 april 2005 the applicant requested the municipal council to open a privatisation procedure so that she could buy the first floor of the shopping centre, in accordance with the final decision of the supreme administrative court of 18 february 2005 (see paragraph 8 above). on 3 july 2006 the district prosecutor refused to open criminal proceedings, observing in particular that, given that the decision had been taken by a collective body, no individual criminal responsibility could be attached to any of its members. during the proceedings the relevant authorities considered that the shopping centre had not been divided into separate property units and that such a division would have to be carried out before some of those could be sold to the applicant. the court found that the municipality’s failure to sell to her the entirety of the property, as decided in the final judgment of 18 february 2005 in the applicant’s favour (see paragraph 8 above), did not constitute a new refusal to initiate a privatisation procedure; rather, it represented a failure on the part of the authorities in question to comply with the said final judgment ordering the start of that privatisation procedure. this ruling was upheld by the supreme administrative court on 22 january 2010. her claim concerned the period between the date of the final judgment of 18 february 2005 and the date of her lodging the claim for damages – 18 december 2007. however, the suffering was more intense during the several months immediately following the municipal council’s initial refusal to sell the premises to the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in riga. seven customs officials, including the applicant, were charged with exceeding their official powers or failing to fulfil their duties. this charge was brought in connection with the processing of documentation for a used semi-trailer. with respect to the applicant, the court established that on 31 march 1999 at a customs control point he had acted contrary to the applicable regulations in the processing of documentation for the importation of the used semi-trailer. further, the court referred to the pre-trial statement of witness e.a. the vendor’s representative had turned first to a customs representative and then to a customs officer who processed the documentation. the semi-trailer had not been at the customs warehouse and it could not have been inspected by the customs officer. after the statements were read out, the applicant’s defence asked the court to explain on what grounds a certified copy of the statements of e.a. was included in the case-file and where was its original. the request was upheld and the prosecutor provided a reply. the court relied on a set of documentary evidence attesting to the fact that the documentation for the semi-trailer in question had been processed by the applicant and that the semi-trailer had not entered the customs territory. the appellate court decided that this request be granted and e.a. was summoned to the hearings of september 2007 and february 2008. anymore ... the evidence [previously] given by the expert [was sufficient]. furthermore, the appeal court held that the applicant had inadequately verified the payment documents.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in portoheli. the applicant, who had been in pre-trial detention since 7 april 2006, was represented by a lawyer in the proceedings. following the delivery of the judgment, the applicant expressed his wish to lodge an appeal against the decision of the first-instance court and was escorted, handcuffed, by policemen to the registry of the court in order to do so. in the registry there were pre-printed forms for lodging an appeal, which included the following wording:“in nafplio, in the nafplio court of appeal today on ... day... and time ... came to me, the registrar of nafplio court of appeal .... (name), the ... (name) of ... (father’s name) and of ... (mother’s name) who was born on ... in ..., whose profession is ... and resides in ..., street ... no. ... of the nafplio three‑member court of appeal by which he was convicted of ... to a total sentence of ... requesting that the decision under appeal be set aside and that he be acquitted from the charge for the reasons he will cite before the appeal court.” under the above paragraph there was an empty space and then followed the phrases:“he appoints as his representative the lawyer practising in nafplio ...(name). this report was read and confirmed and is signed by the person lodging the appeal and the registrar”. he then signed the report and the applicant was momentarily released from handcuffs in order to sign it as well. on 7 may 2009 the applicant’s appeal was heard by the nafplio five‑member court of appeal (“the appeal court”). the appeal court by a majority dismissed the legal remedy as inadmissible on the grounds that no reasons had been included in the report, as required by law (decision no. in the instant case, the nafplio court of appeal had printed a form in which the first part of the phrase was omitted and the applicant was not to blame for this omission. he was only given the form to sign and was handcuffed at the time, making it even more difficult for him to read the report thoroughly. the court of cassation dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law as unfounded on the grounds that the content of the appeal was the applicant’s responsibility, as distinct from the formalities which were the responsibility of the registrar (decision no. the decision was finalised on 28 april 2010. the applicant served his sentence in patras prison until 23 july 2015 when he was given a conditional release.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in pazardzhik. in may 2007 the applicant was charged by an investigator with having acquired those bills and with their possession, offences under article 244 §§ 1 and 2 of the criminal code (see paragraph 16 below). the applicant had bought dollars with that money, usd 1,000, of which he had been keeping usd 500 “for hard times”. he stated that he did not know that the notes were counterfeit. the applicant’s brother testified as well. he confirmed that in 2002 he had sold his flat and had given the applicant money to buy dollars. he admitted that he was uncertain whether the counterfeit notes found in the applicant’s home by the police had been the ones the applicant had acquired in 2002. in a judgment of 25 january 2008 the regional court convicted the applicant. when summarising the facts of the case as it had established them, the regional court repeated what the applicant had said, namely that in 2002 his brother had given him money to buy dollars. it also referred to the applicant’s brother’s explanation that after 2002 the two men had regularly exchanged their bulgarian levs for dollars. it did not comment any further on the question of when the applicant had acquired the counterfeit notes. in addition, it found him guilty of another offence and gave him a suspended sentence of two years’ imprisonment. in an appeal on points of law lodged with the supreme court of cassation, the applicant stated in particular the following:“the two lower instances established unconditionally that [the applicant] had bought the five counterfeit dollar bank notes in the spring of 2002 with money given to him by his brother. ... but where is the proof that those notes in particular were acquired after that date? there can only be guesses ... and a conviction cannot be based on guesses.”
the applicants, all georgian nationals, were born in 1946, 1947 and 1957 respectively. the plant was constructed in 1911 and reconstructed at a later date. the plant provided the adjacent residential areas with electricity and heat. 613 was issued, stating that the plant was to be privatised and sold directly to a private company. the privatisation agreement between the government and the company was concluded on 6 april 2000. (b)  action for damages and the friendly settlement 16. they relied on privately commissioned independent expert opinions in support of their complaints. on 7 march and 23 september 2002 the tbilisi regional court granted a request by the claimants and ordered the ministry of justice, the ministry of labour, health and social affairs and the ministry of the environment to arrange a number of expert examinations. an expert examination dated 28 october 2002 and carried out by the expertise and special research centre at the ministry of justice concluded as follows:“as the “tboelectrocentrali” plant does not have a [buffer] zone and is immediately adjacent to a residential building, the plant’s chimneys must be equipped with appropriate filters and other equipment to protect the population from the hazardous gases.” the expert opinion disclosed that the plant’s technical compliance document was defective as it did not reveal all the chemical substances known to be emitted into the atmosphere in the course of natural gas burning. the expert opinion produced by the ministry of labour, health and social affairs on 17 january 2003 disclosed that, in some instances, the intensity of the electromagnetic fields in the vicinity of the building exceeded the permissible levels. the third applicant and another claimant were not included, without any reasons being given for their exclusion. on 21 april 2005 the supreme court delivered a final judgment in the case. the supreme court rejected the complaint concerning the electromagnetic pollution as unsubstantiated. moreover, they had failed, in the court’s opinion, to show what specific pecuniary damage, if any, had been sustained as a result of the air pollution in the previous years.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in kalinkovichi. after having checked the applicant’s documents, the officer informed the applicant that, having failed to declare his opel car when entering russia, he had infringed the russian customs regulations. on 8 august 2008 the town court examined the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of 11 june 2008. in the operative part of the judgment, the court advised the applicant of his right to appeal against the judgment adopted by the town court. on an unspecified date the applicant lodged an appeal with the bryansk regional court. on 13 november 2008 the regional court sent a letter to the applicant informing him that his appeal was dismissed. on 20 august 2009 the acting head of the novozybkov customs post of the bryansk customs office discontinued the enforcement proceedings in respect of the decision of 11 june 2008. according to the documents submitted by the government, the court decided to hear the case in the applicant’s absence given that he had been duly notified of the hearing and chose not to attend. on 2 june 2010 the judgment of 12 november 2009 was enforced. approximately 1,500 people were expected to attend. the events were organised to promote the right to peaceful assembly as set forth in article 31 of the constitution of the russian federation and the freedom of parliamentary elections in russia. according to the authorities, there was archeological and construction work going on in triumfalnaya square and the march, according to the indicated route, would “disrupt the normal functioning of the city’s infrastructure and traffic [and] infringe the rights and interests of people who would not take part [in the rally and the march]”. on 31 march 2012 the rally was held as planned by its organisers at triumfalnaya square. on 17 april 2012 the justice of the peace of precinct no. on 21 may 2012 the tverskoy district court of moscow upheld the decision of 17 april 2012 on appeal.
the applicants are all russian nationals living in different regions of russia. their personal details are set out in the appendix below. on various dates the applicants obtained binding judicial decisions ordering the state authorities to provide them with housing or perform other obligations in kind. according to the latest information available to the court, judgments became final as specified in the table below and either were enforced with a delay or have remained unenforced. the relevant details in respect of the judgments are listed in the appendix. the applicants on several occasions applied to different russian authorities seeking to accelerate the enforcement of the judicial awards in their favour. 73303/11 challenged lawfulness of his dismissal from military service alleging, in particular, that the judicial award in his favour of 28 may 2007 had not been complied with. by the final judgment of 12 may 2011 the moscow garrison military court rejected his action and established, inter alia, that the judgment of 28 may 2007 had been enforced in full on 25 march 2010.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in sesto fiorentino, italy. since the removal of the children the applicant has travelled to russia on over fifty occasions, trying to bring them back to italy and maintain contact with them, however, m. g. has prevented him from doing so. it further confirmed that the applicant should have sole care of the eldest son, and that the eldest son should reside with him. the applicant applied to the st petersburg city court (“the city court”) for recognition and enforcement of the florence district court’s decision of 6 december 2010. on 25 january 2013 the city court rejected the applicant’s application. however, the judgment [of 18 september 2012] indicates that the [italian court] did not take these circumstances into consideration, thereby violating the children’s fundamental rights under article 12 of the united nations convention on the rights of the child ...the court also takes into account that the enforcement of the florence court judgment might be incompatible with russian law. further, referring to decisions by the supreme court (see paragraphs 74-75 below), the applicant argued that the city court had not indicated what basic principles of the economic, social and legal organisation of russian society had been infringed by the judgment of 18 september 2012. on 12 march 2013 the appellate panel of the city court held an appeal hearing. had caused the children to fear their father. moreover, she had prevented him and his relatives from seeing the children or supporting them financially. the court also took into consideration the fact that the school principal firmly objected to having the meetings between the applicant and the children take place on the school premises. it further found it established that, despite the applicant’s wish to take care of the children and support them financially, he was being prevented from doing so by m.g. on 10 december 2013 the city court ordered that an expert examination should be carried out so as to determine which parent the children would be most comfortable living with from an emotional perspective, with regard to the individual psychological features of the children and the parents, the relationships between them and the existing circumstances. ’s conscientious attitude towards her parental obligations; and the children, questioned by both the court and the childcare authority, had expressed their wish to live with their mother. as of 28 december 2013 article 333 § 3 of the code of civil procedure explicitly provides that the examination of a private complaint against a first-instance court decision concerning the recognition and enforcement of a foreign court judgment is carried out with the participants in the proceedings being notified about the time and place of the appeal hearing.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lived in novosibirsk before his arrest. on 12 november 2010 the kalininskiy district court of novosibirsk convicted the applicant of aggravated theft and armed robbery and sentenced him to nine years’ imprisonment. the applicant was represented by a lawyer in these proceedings. on 24 january 2011 an appeal brought by the applicant himself was examined by the novosibirsk regional court in the absence of counsel. the appeal court upheld the applicant’s conviction. dormitory surface area in square metres  number of sleeping places number of inmates assigned to the dormitory number of washbasins and lavatories 10-15 february 2011 quarantine section 50.2246-242 and 2 15 february – 30 may 2011 17219109100-1088 and 10 30 may 2011 – february 20137 11. the units were equipped with ten to fifteen kettles to boil water and tanks containing potable water. all the lavatories had individual cabins with doors that were one and a half metres high, opening to the outside. they submitted photographs of the washbasins and lavatories. the applicant acknowledged that he had an individual sleeping place. however, he underlined that the conditions he had to live in were cramped. he further submitted that the units had no access to natural light or had poor artificial lighting, that the ventilation did not work and that the air was damp. furthermore, inmates with tuberculosis lived in the same dormitory. there were only three lavatories (in units 17 and 7), they had no doors and the applicant had no privacy when using them. they were clogged up most of the time owing to the number of people using them.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in vyshneve, the kyiv region. ’s subsequent death (see paragraph 36 below), the domestic authorities tried to establish what had happened to him between the two above-mentioned events. had been discharged on 22 august 2003 in good health. recovered consciousness, but hardly responded to any attempts of contact. furthermore, none of the nurses questioned in the course of the criminal proceedings against p. (see paragraphs 63-73 below) was able to say what medication the hospital had had at its disposal to administer to patients free of charge. to be too ill to be moved and, secondly, that it had been impossible to overcome all the administrative formalities needed to obtain the required vehicle, for which he blamed his superiors. on 4 september 2003 a forensic medical expert, g.s., on the same date the prosecutor general’s office (“the pgo”) opened a criminal case in respect of the suspected murder of v.k., as regards his injuries, they were insignificant and might have resulted from his falling on a hard surface. given that removing the shoelaces of detainees was a well-known police practice, the applicant suspected that her son had been detained and asked the authorities to investigate that possibility. on 19 september 2013 the vasylkiv town court remitted the case for additional investigation. was transferred to the regional hospital for a computer brain tomography, which had seriously undermined the effectiveness of his treatment. without commenting on that document, the applicant submitted that as of 1 august 2016 she had not received any payment from fastiv hospital. at the same time, the case file material referred to in the judgment included the testimony of two witnesses who stated that k.m. later, in the presence of the police, he had hit her again and she had fallen to the ground.
the applicants were all employed at a state-owned limited liability company. their employment was terminated as of 3 july 2012. a certain part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of 3,557,737 hungarian forints (huf) (approximately 11,900 euros (eur)). part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of huf 3,675,702 (approximately eur 12,200). the second applicant withdrew his application on 25 february 2016. part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of huf 5,696,384 (approximately eur 19,000). due to subsequent amendments of the relevant legislation, the tax rates applicable to the fifth applicant’s severance payment changed retroactively. accordingly, the national tax authority found that part of the applicant’s severance payment had been subject to a flat-rate public charge of 20% in the amount of huf 746,808 and another part of his severance payment had been subject to a flat-rate public charge of 75%, amounting to huf 1,558,949. therefore, the applicant was reimbursed huf 3,390,627 by the national tax authority. the overall tax burden imposed on the applicant’s severance payment was 30.7 %. part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of huf 3,119,393 (approximately eur 10,400). part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of huf 2,886,807 (approximately eur 9,600). the eighth applicant withdrew his application on 14 january 2015. the tenth applicant, s.s was born in 1965 and lives in monor. part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of huf 3,345,040 (eur 11,100).
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in surgut, khanty‑mansiyskiy region, russia. the applicant was the leader of a trade union in a private company. his co-workers expressed a wish to hold a public assembly on constitution day on 12 december 2009 and the applicant, in his capacity as trade union leader, decided to help them. according to him, such help was “an indirect expression of his own opinion”. the applicant distributed banners and explained that it would be more practicable to stage solo demonstrations. to avoid prosecution for holding a public assembly without notifying the authorities in advance, the applicant suggested that his co-workers position themselves at some distance from each other, for instance on different streets. at the time, there was no federal or regional statutory requirement concerning the minimum distance between simultaneous solo demonstrations (see “relevant domestic law”). the applicant was then arrested and taken to the police station, where he was held for three hours. on 18 december 2009 a justice of the peace found him guilty under article 20.2 § 1 of the code of administrative offences (“the cao”) and fined him 1,500 russian roubles (rub) (35 euros at the time). the court considered that the applicant and his co-workers had met in one place; the applicant had given instructions to the others and had distributed banners; he had taken them to the place of the demonstration. in the court’s view, the above circumstances disclosed the presence of a group event in the form of a static demonstration (a “picket”), and confirmed the applicant’s role as its organiser. thus, it was incumbent on the applicant to lodge a prior notification about this event to the competent authority as required by section 7 of the public events act (“the pea”). the applicant appealed noting that the pea defined a “picket” as a form of public expression of opinion where one or more citizens with placards, banners and other means of visual expression stationed themselves near the target object of the “picket”. however, there had been a separate “target object” for each solo demonstrator; the demonstrators had been positioned at a considerable distance from each other (for instance, thirty metres for two of them); thus, he could not be lawfully considered as an organiser of a group event. on 22 january 2010 the surgut town court upheld the judgment.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in budapest. at 4.07 p.m. on 7 october 2009 the applicant notified the police that he planned to organise a demonstration from 2 to 7 p.m. on 10 october 2009 in front of the venyige street prison in budapest, to protest against the “political persecution of national radicalism”. venyige street is a broad cul-de-sac with a service lane. a police officer from the police station that had received the notification repeatedly attempted to contact the applicant by phone, in line with the relevant decree issued by the minister of the interior on police tasks related to securing public order at major events, in order to arrange for a meeting. despite making several attempts and leaving messages, however, he could not reach him. on 9 october 2009 the head of the budapest police department banned the demonstration on the grounds that traffic could not be diverted to alternative routes (section 8(1) of the assembly act). in the decision, he referred to article 21 of the international covenant on civil and political rights, article 11 of the convention and decision no. the applicant sought a judicial review of the decision within the statutory three-day time-limit. on 15 october 2009 the budapest regional court dismissed the applicant’s case. it noted that in assessing whether or not traffic could be diverted to other routes, the authority had reckoned on the participation of some 200 demonstrators, as per the applicant’s notification, and that it had established that lawful parking and traffic circulation in the neighbourhood would become impossible should the event take place. the court agreed with the police’s decision in that although the right to assembly was a constitutional fundamental right, it was not absolute and must not give rise to a violation of the fundamental rights of others, and could therefore be restricted. the court was satisfied that the decision had been lawful as the police had adequately established the facts, complied with the procedural rules and applied clear assessment criteria, and the assessment of the evidence had been logical.
the applicants were born in 1981 and 2006 respectively and live in moscow. and g.f resided there under the social housing agreement with the city. applied for the privatisation of the flat. and the housing department signed a privatisation agreement. the first applicant inherited the flat after her death. according to the official documents, v.f. did not move out and also continued to reside in the flat. lodged a complaint with law enforcement authorities. and that he had not received any money from her. he had continued to live in the flat and had let the first applicant move into the flat temporarily in view of the problems the latter had been having with his wife. on 5 july 2011 the prosecutor, acting in the interests of v.f., on 15 november 2012 the kuzminskiy district court of moscow granted the claims in full. suffered from organic personality syndrome and vascular dementia which had developed long before he had applied for privatisation of the flat on 22 august 2002 and sale of the flat on 14 may 2004. [ on 12 november 2013 the moscow city court upheld the judgments of 15 november 2012 and 29 april 2013 on appeal. on 30 january 2014 the applicants were evicted.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in podgorica. on 23 june 2008 the aforementioned court ruled in favour of the applicant and ordered the debtors to pay him, jointly, 45,000 euros (eur) plus statutory interest on account of the non-pecuniary damage suffered. on 21 june 2010, 5 july 2010 and 7 july 2010 the enforcement court ordered the debtors to disclose their immovable property. it appeared that no immovable assets had been registered in the debtors’ names. on 19 july 2010 the enforcement court requested information from the ministry of interior as to whether the debtors owned any motor vehicles. the record showed that the first debtor had had two motor vehicles. on 9 january 2013 a decision to auction the debtors’ specified movable assets was issued, and the applicant was ordered to deposit eur 200 for the auction costs. on 12 april 2013 a new inventory of his moveable assets was carried out. on 15 april 2013 the applicant lodged a criminal complaint against the bailiff. on 6 august 2013 the applicant informed the enforcement court that the second debtor had paid him eur 31,000 and that he considered the enforcement proceedings in respect of this debtor as final. on 18 october 2013 the enforcement proceedings in respect of the second debtor were formally terminated. as regards the first debtor, the enforcement proceedings continued. he was again invited to take possession of the assets in november 2013 and, once more, in july 2015. the court of first instance rejected the applicant’s requests for review on 30 june 2011 and 15 february 2012, respectively. the applicant unsuccessfully appealed to the high court, which upheld the first instance court’s decisions.
the applicant, who was born in 1963, is a member of the turkish parliament and lives in ankara. at the time of the events giving rise to the present application he was the president of the diyarbakır bar association. 4422, the diyarbakır assize court had granted the mi̇t permission to monitor and examine all electronic communications in order to identify and arrest terrorist suspects with international connections as well as to collect evidence and to prevent crime by having early intelligence of it. relying on a number of newspaper and online articles, the applicant alleged that s.t. had decided that the records of all domestic and international electronic communications between 8 april and 30 may 2005 should be given to the mi̇t by the telecommunications companies. the judge had made that decision in complete disregard of the legislation then in force and without carrying out any research or requiring proof. the impugned decision had been of a very general nature since it had not included the names of any suspects or indicated the date, location or address of people whose communications would be intercepted. as a consequence, any person, including himself, who had used a landline or mobile telephone to communicate between the above-mentioned dates, had been a victim of the impugned decision. 4422, required the punishment of those responsible. on 20 june 2005 the diyarbakır principal public prosecutor decided to disjoin the case concerning the mi̇t officials and to register it separately because the prosecution of mi̇t officials required the prime minister’s permission. he decided that the mi̇t officials had merely implemented the court’s decision when intercepting and examining communications and that the implementation of court decisions was required by law and did not constitute a crime. on 25 october 2005 the applicant filed an objection with the siverek assize court against the above decision, alleging that the diyarbakır public prosecutor had failed to carry out an investigation into his complaints concerning an alleged violation of his rights guaranteed by articles 8 and 13 of the convention. on 6 april 2006 the ministry of justice decided not to take an action against the public prosecutor and the judge as it found that their acts fell within judicial discretion. on an unspecified date the applicant filed an objection against this decision. on 31 october 2007 the third division of ankara administrative court dismissed the objection.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in budapest. the entitlement was based on a final decision of the supreme court. at the material time the medical board rated her state of health at 46 per cent. the methodology for disability assessment changed as of 1 january 2008. cxci of 2011 on the benefits granted to persons with reduced work capacity was enacted on 29 december 2011 and entered into force as of 1 january 2012. the applicant lodged a fresh application for disability allowance under the new law. she was categorised as a person suitable for rehabilitation on the basis of that assessment. however, owing to the applicant’s other circumstances, her rehabilitation was not recommended. in application of the relevant rules, the applicant’s rehabilitation allowance was established at 45 per cent of the minimum wage, that is, in the amount of huf 41,850 (approximately eur 140), by a decision of the budapest governmental office (directorate of pension insurance) given on 19 september 2012 and effective as of 1 december 2012. it was reaffirmed that her rehabilitation was not recommended. on 23 february 2016 the budapest administrative and labour court dismissed her action. having obtained fresh medical assessments and the opinion of the national forensic body, the court was satisfied that the applicant’s state of health was at 54 per cent (her locomotor, digestive and endocrinological conditions were calculated cumulatively as per the method prescribed in annex 1 to decree no. the court upheld the administrative decisions. it pointed out that such an improvement did not necessarily correspond to actual healing from a condition, but could also result from a change in, or stricter application of, the relevant rules of medical assessment. the applicant submitted that, as of august 2015, she no longer received any benefits.
the applicant, who was born in 1992, was detained at the gaziantep prison at the time when the application was lodged. on 29 december 2011 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of being a member of a terrorist organisation and making its propaganda. on the same day the applicant’s police statement was taken at the anti-terror branch of the mersin security directorate, in the presence of his lawyer. he was mainly questioned about several records of telephone conversations as well as allegations about the burning of vehicles and throwing molotov cocktails. he was questioned at length about the telephone conversations that had been intercepted. he was further asked questions about the incriminating statements of one of his co-accused. the applicant used his right to remain silent. on 16 march 2012 the applicant’s representative lodged an objection against the decision on the applicant’s detention, and requested his release. she also asked the court to lift the restriction of access to the investigation file. on 19 march 2012 the mersin magistrates’ court dismissed the objection, without holding a hearing. the applicant’s representative filed a further objection against that decision. on 10 september 2012 the adana public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment against the applicant, accusing him mainly of being a member of a terrorist organisation, making propaganda in its favour, illegal possession of explosives, causing damage to property and having participated in an illegal armed demonstration. on 1 october 2012 the adana assize court accepted the indictment. on the same date the restriction on the investigation file was lifted. according to the latest information in the case file, the proceedings against the applicant are still pending before assize court.
the applicant was born in 1964 and is detained in krems. using the same gun as he had used for the previous murder. he was found to be criminally responsible for his acts and was sentenced to twenty years’ imprisonment. his potential for aggression was increased and he was emotionally unstable and could easily become aggressive. moreover, there were clear signs of an identity disorder. the applicant claimed that his lawyer had offered him a job and a small apartment if he were released. it referred to an expert opinion of 25 january 2009 by dr l., who had stated that the applicant’s condition had stabilised and that the danger emanating from him had considerably abated in respect of the closed and protected living environment of the prison. the applicant waived his right to appeal against that decision. he was actively seeking a dialogue with them. however, dr l. also found that no protection and support would be provided for the applicant after his release. the regional court also referred to the expert opinion of dr h. of 31 october 2006 and the forensic expert opinion by the vienna-mittersteig prison of january 2007, as well as the most recent expert opinion by dr b. (the resident psychologist of stein prison, where the applicant was held at that time) of 3 march 2010. on 7 december 2010 the regional court, ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention in an institution for mentally ill offenders, referring to the most recent expert opinion by dr b. of 3 march 2010 (see paragraph 17 above). that decision was upheld by the court of appeal on 30 july 2012. on 26 march 2013 the applicant applied for release from the institution for mentally ill offenders. it appears that the regional court did not hold an oral hearing prior to that decision.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in yerevan. according to the applicant, his father is an opposition activist. conducted after he had lodged the application, had revealed bodily injuries of a minor degree. it appears that, during the investigation of the case, the head of vardashen prison gave a statement confirming that r.k. and made a corresponding entry in the medical register. on the same day the investigator, m., applied to the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan seeking to detain the applicant on remand. on 14 february 2008 the applicant lodged an appeal against the decision of the district court. in particular, he sought to be released on bail, taking into account his good character, the fact that he had no previous convictions and had a child who was a minor. on 28 february 2008 the court of appeal dismissed the appeal, finding that it was not competent to decide on the question of replacing detention with bail, since that question had not been raised before the district court. on 28 march 2008 investigator m. applied again to the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan, seeking an extension of the applicant’s detention. in substantiating the application, the investigator referred to the nature and gravity of the imputed offence and said that there were sufficient grounds to assume that, if released, the applicant could abscond or obstruct the examination of the case. on 4 april 2008 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan granted the application and extended the applicant’s detention to 7 july 2008. on 17 april 2008 the court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal. and, as a preventive measure, they made an undertaking not to leave their places of residence. on 30 may 2008 the investigation was officially concluded and the case was sent to the criminal court of yerevan.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in metsamor. on 25 july 2011 the applicant was charged with the same crime. on the same date the investigator filed a motion with the armavir regional court seeking to have the applicant detained for a period of two months. on the same date the regional court examined and granted the investigator’s application, ordering the applicant’s detention for a period of two months, namely until 23 september 2011. on 9 september 2011 the investigation into the applicant’s case was concluded and the case was transferred to the regional court for trial. on 13 september 2011 the applicant’s criminal case was set down for trial. by the same decision the trial court decided that the applicant’s detention on remand was “to remain unchanged”. on an unspecified date the applicant filed a motion with the regional court seeking to be released. on 19 december 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal against this decision. on 28 december 2011 the criminal court of appeal left the appeal unexamined. the applicant lodged an appeal against this decision. he argued, inter alia, that the collection of evidence against him had been finalised and that there were not sufficient reasons to keep him under detention. on 4 june 2012 the regional court dismissed the applicant’s motion having regard to the dangerousness and nature of the alleged offence and the fact that the applicant might abscond and obstruct the investigation. on 19 june 2012 the criminal court of appeal left the applicant’s appeal unexamined on the same grounds as indicated in its decision of 28 december 2011. on 17 august 2012 the court of cassation declared the applicant’s appeal inadmissible for lack of merit.
the applicants’ dates of birth and places of residence are given in the appendix. the first applicant attended the demonstrations of 20 october and 17 november 2012. on 4 march 2011 the first applicant was arrested and brought to police station no. the applicant contested the official version of his arrest. he stated that he had been arrested in an internet café by three persons in plain clothes who had failed to present themselves or give reasons for the arrest. he was also not given access to a lawyer after his arrest or while he was in police custody. according to the applicant, he was not given an opportunity to appoint a lawyer of his own choosing. only the police officers who, according to the official records, had arrested the applicant and the police officer who issued the administrative‑offence report in respect of him were questioned as witnesses. only on 7 march 2011 was a lawyer hired by his family able to meet the applicant and to learn the details of his arrest, detention and the court proceedings against him. according to the applicants, they were never served with a copy of the administrative-offence reports or with other documents from their case files. members of the public were not allowed inside the courtroom, even though the court had not taken a formal decision to close the hearings to the public. according to a statement (“ərizə”) signed by the first applicant, he refused the assistance of the state-funded lawyer at the hearing of 20 october 2012 and decided to defend himself in person. during the hearings of 20 october 2012 and 17 november 2012 the court did not question any witnesses. in each case the sabail district court found that the applicants had failed to stop participating in an unauthorised demonstration. the second applicant was assisted by a lawyer of his own choosing during the appellate-court proceedings related to his participation in the demonstration of 20 october 2012, but he was not represented by a lawyer during the appellate-court proceedings related to his participation in the demonstration of 11 march 2011.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in pula. in 1985 the applicant was employed by the t. company of pula. on 22 august 1992 he sustained a work-related injury. he continued working for the t. company in another post. on 6 february 2004 the applicant was made redundant following organisational changes within the company. the following day he concluded an agreement with the t. company shortening the notice period for the termination of his employment. on 19 february 2004 the applicant was given his redundancy notice and his employment was terminated on 23 february 2004. on 9 april 2004 the applicant was granted a disability pension with effect from 24 february 2004 on the grounds of his inability to work. he alleged that he would have received more income if he had not sustained the work-related injury in 1992. on 20 february 2008 the pula municipal court dismissed his claim as unfounded. the applicant appealed against the first-instance judgment, challenging all the factual and legal aspects of the case. the relevant part of the judgment reads as follows:“... this appellate court finds that although the first-instance court failed to take into account all the facts emerging from the first-instance proceedings which meant [the plaintiff’s] claim had to be dismissed, the decision on dismissing the claim as unfounded is in any event correct, therefore the first-instance judgment is upheld by application of section 373a of the civil procedure act. on 5 december 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law with the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske), challenging the lower courts’ judgments. he made no allegations of any violation of his rights in respect of the proceedings before the first-instance court or the appellate court. on 16 october 2013 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint as manifestly ill-founded.
the applicants’ dates of birth and places of residence are given in the appendix. at the material time the second applicant was a member of an opposition group nida. the third applicant was a member of an opposition group i̇ctimai palata; he was also one of the organisers of several demonstrations held in baku. the first and the second applicants participated in a demonstration organised by the opposition on 20 october 2012. prior to that assembly, on 15 october 2012, the organisers gave notice to the relevant authority, the baku city executive authority (“the bcea”). nevertheless, the organisers decided to hold the demonstration as planned. the second applicant also participated in demonstrations held on 12 january and 26 january 2013. the organisers of those demonstrations gave no proper prior notice to the bcea. information about the demonstrations was disseminated on the internet or in the press. according to the applicants, the demonstrations were intended to be peaceful and were conducted in a peaceful manner. the participants of the demonstration of 20 october 2012 were demanding democratic reforms in the country and free and fair elections, and protesting against impediments on freedom of assembly. the participants of the demonstration of 30 april 2013 were commemorating the victims of a terrorist attack which had been committed in 2009 at the azerbaijan state oil academy. the police began to disperse the demonstrations of 20 october 2012, 12 january, 26 january and 30 april 2013 as soon as the protesters began to gather. the circumstances related to the dispersal of the demonstration of 20 october 2012, the first and second applicants’ arrests and custody, and subsequent administrative proceedings against them are similar to those in gafgaz mammadov v. azerbaijan (no. 60259/11, 15 october 2015) (see also appendix).
the applicant was born in 1966 and lived before his arrest in the arkhangelsk region. he is currently detained in the town of severodvinsk. on an unspecified date the applicant, while being on the wanted list after having breached his undertaking not to leave the place of his residence, was arrested on the charges of violent acts against a public official (article 318 § 1 of the criminal code of the russian federation). on 18 may 2010 the severodvinsk town court of the arkhangelsk region authorised his detention. on 2 september 2010 the applicant asked the town court to apply a non-custodial restraint measure to him. the applicant and his lawyer attended the hearing and made oral submissions. the town court dismissed the motion for release, having referred, in particular, to the applicant’s criminal record, which included two convictions for having mounted threats of violence against a judge, an offence under article 296 of the criminal code, and for contempt of court, punishable under article 297 of the criminal code. in the meantime, on 20 september 2010 the applicant was convicted as charged. on 12 october 2010 the arkhangelsk regional court upheld the decision of the town court of 2 september 2010. with reference to its discretional powers under article 379 of the code of criminal procedure of the russian federation the appeal court rejected the applicant’s leave to appear, and held the hearing in his absence.
the three applicants were born in 1980, 1981 and 1983 respectively and are in detention in moscow. the facts of the cases, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the applicant was arrested on 8 march 2015 on suspicion of murder. on 8 march 2015 a court ordered his pre-trial detention, which was further extended on several occasions, in particular on 24 august and 25 november 2015. 77/1 in moscow (hereinafter “iz-77/6” and “iz-77/1”). the applicant has not been provided with bedding and can have no more than one ten-minute shower a week. on 25 november 2015 the applicant was transported between iz‑77/6 and the basmanny district court of moscow in a prison van. m of personal space and had no access to natural light, fresh air, the toilet or drinking water. appeals filed by the applicants were dismissed on 8 april, 21 april and 28 june 2016 respectively. by a letter of 26 october 2016 the government asked the court to strike application no. the lawyer’s statements were published, in particular, on the websites of the vedomosti and kommersant newspapers and on the website of the ria novosti news agency. on 14 december 2016 the applicant accepted the government’s declaration. by letters of 12 december 2016 the applicants in applications nos. the information note in the russian language attached to the letters included, inter alia, information on the strictly confidential nature of all friendly-settlement negotiations. on 30 january 2017 the applicants’ lawyer informed several media outlets that the court “had found for the applicants and awarded 6,500 euros to each [applicant]”.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in houten. ...... two additional conditions apply: 1. shall take place within the confines of the offices of the investigating judge or in the presence of the trial court in a closed hearing. i therefore propose that you do not place this information, after i have classified it, in the case file and to request the regional court to deal with those questions at a closed hearing. ...the second condition, which is that the suspect should not be allowed to disclose the identities of aivd members or human sources, appears clear enough to me. ...as regards the third and fourth conditions, i am of the view that these too are sufficiently clear: [the applicant] is released from his duty of secrecy vis-à-vis his counsel dr b. böhler and mr m. pestman in so far as consultation between the suspect and his counsel [dr] böhler and mr pestman relates to the crimes with which he is charged. it appears that on 9 june 2005 the investigating judge decided to refuse to hear the sixteen witnesses requested by the defence for lack of available time (agendatechnische redenen). the regional court remitted the case to the investigating judge for the hearing of the witnesses authorised to be heard, in so far as they had not already been heard, and requested the prosecutor to add documents to the file including a description – to be prepared by the aivd – of the documents found in the applicant’s desk. the trial hearing was resumed on 6 and 7 october 2005. the applicant lodged an appeal with the court of appeal (gerechtshof) of the hague. the defence protested that this expert lacked independence precisely for that reason. in addition to state secrets within the meaning of article 98 of the criminal code there are other matters that (in the view of the aivd) fall under the duty of secrecy of section 85 of the 2002 intelligence and security services act. and“the advocate general has given the undertaking, at the court of appeal’s hearing of 2 september 2006, that [the applicant] shall not be prosecuted if a violation of the duty of secrecy by [the applicant] is justified by reliance on article 6 of the convention, with due regard to the demands of proportionality and subsidiarity inherent pertaining to a legal defence (strafuitsluitingsgrond). the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law (cassatie) with the supreme court (hoge raad). it held, however, that the appeal was unfounded.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in bobadela. she started treatment, which included drainages (drenagens). after each drainage the bartholin gland would swell, causing the applicant considerable pain. she would thus require a second drainage and painkillers. she was offered surgery for the condition during a consultation at the beginning of 1995. she also suffered from urinary incontinence, had difficulty sitting and walking, and could not have sexual relations. on an unknown date the applicant was informed after being examined at a private clinic that the left pudendal nerve (nervo pudenda do lado esquerdo) had been injured during the operation. on 4 october 2013 the lisbon administrative court ruled partly in favour of the applicant. as a consequence, she had difficulty walking, sitting and having sexual relations, which, all together, made her feel diminished as a woman. it should be noted, however, that the plaintiff has been suffering from the gynaecological condition for a long time (at least since 1993) and that she had already undergone various kinds of treatment without any acceptable result and that it was that lack of results and the impossibility of curing the condition otherwise that was the motivation for surgery. she had already had unbearable pain and symptoms of depression before [surgery]. on 29 october 2014 the attorney general’s office attached to the supreme administrative court applied to the supreme administrative court to have the judgment of 9 october 2014 declared null and void (nulidade do acórdão) in the part concerning the amount awarded for non-pecuniary damage. ...during that surgical procedure the left pudendal nerve was partly damaged. that is because, according to the judgment, they would have disappeared once the bartholin glands had been removed and the plaintiff’s condition cured by surgery. v – the reasoning in the judgment leads logically to a different decision.
the applicant was born in 1979 and is currently detained in the trenčín hospital for charged and convicted persons. on 4 january 2012 the košice i district court remanded the applicant in custody pending trial to prevent him from continuing his criminal activity. an interlocutory appeal by the applicant was unsuccessful. on 11 june 2012 the district court prolonged the applicant’s detention by five months (until 1 january 2013) on the grounds that the investigation was not finished, that further charges had been brought against him since may 2012, and that the criminal charges had been reclassified as a crime of terrorism and the acquisition and possession of firearms. in addition, they referred to a witness statement that the applicant had written a will where he had expressed the alleged intention to commit a terrorist suicide attack. it examined oral and documentary evidence, including evidence from several experts. resolving that contradiction was imperative in order to establish whether or not the applicant was criminally responsible. moreover, there was no risk he would continue his criminal activity if he was under medication and being properly treated, or, alternatively, if he was committed to a psychiatric institution, as he feared for the future after the charges had been brought against him. they also supported his request that his detention be replaced by supervision by a parole officer. on 13 january 2014 the district court dismissed the applicant’s application to be released and his supplementary requests, a decision that was upheld by the regional court on 29 january 2014 after an interlocutory appeal by the applicant. they observed that he had created explosives and contemplated where to plant them over a long time and in a systematic way. regarding the nature, scope and seriousness of the alleged offences and the applicant’s character, the courts concluded that the conditions for a restriction of liberty still existed. on 10 july 2014 the district court again found the applicant guilty. it also ordered protective supervision lasting thirty-six months. the applicant appealed and those proceedings are still pending.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in staryy oskol. the applicant took part in the cleaning up operation at the chernobyl nuclear disaster site. the representative of the regional administration did not attend the hearing: in writing he had requested the town court to adjudicate the case in his absence. on 19 august 2002 the staryy oskol town court issued a writ of execution and enforcement proceedings were instituted. the administration also asked the town court to restore the ten-day time-limit for lodging the appeal. the administration claimed that it had received a copy of the judgment of 5 july 2002 by fax on 8 october 2002. the administration asked to stop the enforcement proceedings. he noted that a copy of the judgment had been forwarded to the regional administration at the end of july 2002. on 19 november 2002 the belgorod regional court examined the administration’s appeal, quashed the judgment of 5 july 2002 and remitted the case for a fresh examination to the town court. on 20 january 2003 the staryy oskol town court, in the new examination of the case, accepted the applicant’s action in part. the relevant part of the judgment read as follows:“order that the belgorod regional administration should provide ... mr babynin g.a. and his family with housing premises, which satisfy sanitary and technical requirements, in their turn according to the housing waiting list of families having persons with disabilities and individuals who had taken part in the cleaning operation at the site of the chernobyl nuclear plant. the judgment was not appealed against and became final on 31 january 2003. on 13 february 2003 a writ of execution was issued and enforcement proceedings were instituted. on 16 april 2004 the mayor of staryy oskol decided to provide the applicant with a flat measuring 55,05 m².
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in barnaul. on 1 september 2007 the applicant was released. on 4 october, 25 november and 24 december 2007, and 1 february and 15 march 2008 the prosecutor’s office refused to institute criminal proceedings against the police officers who had allegedly ill-treated the applicant for lack of the constituent elements of a crime in their actions. in particular, they submitted that when the applicant had seen them he had started to run in the opposite direction. he could not remember whether the applicant had had any injuries on 25 and 26 august 2007;-  an additional forensic medical report of 18 december 2007 which showed that the injury could have been caused on 26 august 2007 but that it could not have been caused by the applicant’s falling down;-  statements by the doctors who examined the applicant on 28 and 29 august 2007 and performed the x-ray examination and by the expert who conducted the initial forensic medical examination. (a)  forensic medical examinations conducted in the course of the investigation 25. on 13 february 2008 a witness, i., (the victim in the proceedings against the applicant on suspicion of robbery) submitted that when the alleged robbery had taken place, at about 3 p.m. on 28 august 2007, she had noticed that the applicant had an old abrasion on his face. on 11 april 2008 the proceedings were suspended for the second time. he also wanted to give the applicant’s mother the status of the applicant’s legal representative and question her, to carry out a comprehensive psychological and psychiatric examination of the applicant, to question a number of witnesses on the circumstances of the alleged ill-treatment (among them officer s.), and to join references from work on officers k., s. and ch. however, on 21 may 2008 the deputy head of the investigations department set that decision aside and held that it was necessary to question the witnesses to establish all the relevant circumstances of the alleged ill-treatment. on 14 november 2008 the investigator decided to suspend the proceedings for the sixth time. the witnesses b., d. and z., who had seen the applicant’s arrest, had stated that they had not seen the police officers use any physical force against him. the decision referred to the applicant’s arrest on 28 august 2007, his statement as to the alleged ill-treatment by the police officers s., k. and ch., proceedings were resumed on 12 july 2010. in addition, the experts had arrived at the conclusion that the injury could have been caused anytime between 26 august and 28 august 2007.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in pyatigorsk. the applicant took part in the cleaning-up operation at the chernobyl nuclear disaster site. he was subsequently registered disabled by ukrainian authorities, becoming entitled to various social benefits. in september 1999 the applicant settled in russia. the welfare authorities rejected re-establishing the applicant’s disability status. the applicant challenged the rejection before the courts. on 30 august 2005 the pyatigorsk town court granted the applicant’s claim and ordered the administration of labour and social security of the population of pyatigorsk to issue a certificate of benefits. on 20 september 2009 the judgment became final. on 18 october 2005 the applicant was issued with the certificate of benefits. on 1 november 2006 the presidium of stavropol regional court allowed the defendant authority’s application for supervisory review and quashed the judgment of 30 august 2005, considering that the lower courts misapplied the material law. the case was remitted for fresh consideration. on 13 december 2006 the the pyatigorsk town court discontinued the proceedings since the parties failed to appear.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in st petersburg. with reference to the medical report of 15 july 2010 (see paragraph 41 below) the court noted that the state of health of the accused was compatible with further detention on remand. the court endorsed the reasoning of the decision of 12 august 2010 and noted that there were still certain investigative actions to be taken. the court extended the applicant’s detention until 28 february 2011, repeating its earlier reasoning. on 30 november 2010 the applicant appealed against both the extension order and the court’s decision regarding the impartiality of the judge. the case was remitted to the district court. on 24 february 2011 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 5 april 2011, and dismissed a prior application for early release on medical grounds. the court made a detailed list of the investigative steps taken since the most recent detention order, and declared reasonable the length of the investigation. on 7 april 2011 the defence appealed against the extension. on 1 and 8 june 2011 his lawyer submitted supplements to the statement of appeal. on the latter date the supreme court upheld the detention order. there is no information about further developments in the criminal proceedings. as a result his blood sugar level increased significantly. how did the absence of ‘dynamic medical supervision by an endocrinologist’ between 5 april 2010 and 30 november 2011 affect [the applicant’s] health? ...” developed vascular disease (vascular angiopathy of the lower extremities) and encephalopathy, an irreversible brain damage ... were signs of his worsening health.
the first applicant was born in 1959 and the second applicant was born in 1981. on 10 april 2007 mr and mrs g. initiated civil proceedings against the applicants before the monção court (domestic proceedings no. on 14 may 2007 the applicants were summonsed. on the same day the court was informed of the death of mr g. and the proceedings were consequently suspended. the proceedings restarted on 19 june 2007. on an unknown date in september 2007 the applicants lodged their submissions in reply (contestação) and a counterclaim (pedido reconvencional). after having realised that the applicants had not communicated their submissions in reply to the claimants, on 26 october 2007 the court ordered the applicants to do so. on 24 april 2008 the court realised that the applicants had also not complied with the legal requirement to register the counterclaim with the land registry office. the court ordered them to do so within forty days. the applicants requested that the deadline be extended by thirty days. on an unknown date the applicants lodged an application for evidence to be immediately obtained from a witness who was residing in the united kingdom. on an unknown date a hearing was scheduled for an unknown day in april 2010. twelve other hearings took place, the last of which was on 12 december 2011. on 24 april 2013 the supreme court of justice dismissed the appeal and upheld the previous judgment. the applicants’ lawyer was notified of the supreme court of justice judgment on 7 may 2013.
on 10 october 2003 a deputy prosecutor in tashkent, uzbekistan, added the applicant’s name to the list of fugitives from justice and issued an arrest warrant on suspicion of human trafficking with the purpose of sexual exploitation. on 26 february 2009 the applicant was arrested in russia. on 28 february 2009 the pechorskiy district court in the pskov region ordered the applicant’s detention pending extradition, referring to articles 108 and 466 of the code of criminal procedure but without setting a time-limit. on 16 march 2009 the russian prosecutor general’s office received a request for the applicant’s extradition from his counterpart in uzbekistan. on 15 may 2009 the deputy russian prosecutor general ordered the applicant’s extradition to uzbekistan. the applicant challenged the extradition order before the pskov regional court. on 26 june 2009 the regional court found that the extradition order was lawful. on 17 august 2009 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the decision on appeal. on 17 october 2009 the applicant was extradited to uzbekistan.
the applicants were born in 1973 and 1996 respectively and live in blagoveshchensk, amurskaya region. at the material time the applicants lived in blagoveshchensk. in the beginning of 2002 they moved to moscow and decided to purchase a flat there. a certain b. proposed to help them in finding a flat. in october 2002 the first applicant bought a flat in kaluga region with the intention of exchanging it for a flat in moscow. on 29 october 2002 the committee for exchange of housing authorised the exchange of flats between k. and the first applicant. later in november 2002 the applicants were registered as living in that flat. the applicants paid a sum of money to b. 13. in 2004 criminal proceedings were instituted against b. on suspicion of fraud. the first applicant had been informed of those proceedings. the court established that b. had falsified a court judgment authorising the assignment of the flat at 32‑70-69, prospekt vernadskogo, moscow to k. under the social tenancy agreement and then fraudulently arranged for the exchange of flats between k. and the first applicant against the payment by the latter of 1,177,773.40 russian roubles (rub). therefore, b.’s actions had to be reclassified as attempted fraud. the court declares the transactions null and void in accordance with article 168 of the [civil code] since they are incompatible with the requirements of articles 50, 51, 53, 54, 67-74 of the housing code. on 6 may 2010 the city court upheld the judgment of 6 october 2009 on appeal. on 21 april 2015 the applicants received the writ of execution.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in nizhyn in the chernihiv region. it ordered that the applicant remain in detention pending appeal. in response, on 14 april 2014 the ukrainian government, who consider those armed groups to be terrorist organisations, authorised the use of force against them in the legal form of an “anti-terrorist operation”. however, numerous violations of the ceasefire have continued to occur ever since. on 3 march 2015 the applicant lodged a similar complaint with the office of the parliamentary commissioner for human rights. on 27 march 2015 the court of appeal informed the applicant that his criminal case file was in luhansk, which was not under the government’s control, and that this prevented the court from examining his case. in order to resolve the problem, amendments would have to be made to the relevant legislation. in response to another complaint from the applicant, on 19 may 2015 the court of appeal informed him that it was unable to apprise him of the state of proceedings in his case because his criminal case file was in the court archives in luhansk, to which there was no access. that is why ukraine has had to change the territorial jurisdiction of the courts and investigative jurisdiction in respect of criminal offences in conditions where the life of the nation is threatened. on 5 june 2015 the permanent representation of ukraine to the council of europe transmitted to the secretary general of the council of europe a note verbale containing the text of the above declaration and its translation. on 22 october 2015 the court of appeal again informed the applicant that examination of his case required amendments to the legislation. on five occasions between may 2015 and february 2016 the applicant applied for release, arguing that his detention was unlawful because his conviction was not final and “would never become final”. on 18 march 2016 the lysychansk court released the applicant. the work was ongoing concerning two other defendants. at the date of last information made available to the court (19 january 2017), the applicant’s appeal against his conviction remained pending before the court of appeal.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in perm. on 21 october 2006 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of extortion, kidnapping and fraud. two days later the leninskiy district court of perm authorised his detention. the district court dismissed the request, assigned lawyer n. to represent the applicant, proceeded with the hearing and extended the applicant’s detention. the applicant and his counsel appealed, complaining, in particular, about a breach of the applicant’s right to defend himself through legal assistance of his own choosing. on 18 january 2007 the perm regional court upheld the detention order of 21 december 2006, having also noted that the legal aid lawyer n. had been appointed because the detention matter “had to be examined immediately”. on 19 january 2007 the district court once again extended the applicant’s detention. on 8 february 2007 the regional court held the appeal hearing without informing the applicant in advance about the hearing date. the regional court dismissed the appeal and upheld the detention order of 19 january 2007. the applicant’s detention was further extended on several occasions. in particular, on 16 march 2007 the measure of restraint was prolonged until 4 april 2007. five days later, on 26 march 2007, the trial court scheduled a preliminary hearing for 3 april 2007 and ruled that, in the meantime, the measure of restraint in respect of the applicant should remain unchanged until the preliminary hearing. the decision was delivered in a written procedure (without the parties being present). at the preliminary hearing on 3 april 2007 the trial court extended the applicant’s detention until 21 september 2007. on 1 june 2007 the applicant was convicted.
on 22 december 1998 the first applicant lodged a compensation claim with the sarajevo municipal court, seeking damages against the federation of bosnia and herzegovina (“the federation”) for goods seized during the 1992-95 war. it ordered that the interest should be calculated from february 1996. on 4 march 2009 the sarajevo municipal court issued an enforcement order. the enforcement was to be carried out at the debtor’s expense. on 16 march 2010 the debtor’s bank informed the enforcement court that the applicant had received bam 24,244.78 in respect of legal costs. on 17 august 2010 the first applicant lodged an appeal with the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina (“the constitutional court”), complaining about the non-enforcement of the final judgment of 10 may 2007. thus, there was no legal basis for the payment of default interest to the first applicant. on 12 june 2013 the constitutional court held that there had been a violation of article 1 of protocol no. 1 to the convention on account of the excessive length of the enforcement proceedings. moreover, they were not suspended for any of the reasons prescribed by the enforcement procedure act of 2003 ... under the enforcement procedure act of 2003, the enforcement court’s duty does not end once an enforcement order has been issued and delivered to the competent authority for enforcement. on 14 november 2007 the second applicant lodged a request for the enforcement of the judgment of 28 may 2007 with the orašje municipal court. on 13 february 2008 the court dismissed the debtor’s objection and upheld the enforcement order of 14 december 2007. on 4 november 2011 the federal ministry of finance informed the second applicant that, in accordance with the amendments to the domestic debt act of 2004 (see paragraph 42 below), he would receive payment in cash for the nominal value of those of his government bonds with which he had not traded on the stock exchange market, reduced by the amount paid in respect of the interest earned on bonds. it ordered the federation to enforce the final judgments in question without further delay. on 16 january 2013 the constitutional court concluded that its decision of 8 june 2011 had been enforced.
the applicants either owned businesses at voronezh municipal market and rented the market pitches for their businesses, or worked as vendors for these businesses. the court held as follows:“[the defendant] violated the procedure for organising and managing a gathering (собрание); he disobeyed a lawful order issued by police officers in relation to their duties to ensure public order and safety, he also obstructed their exercise of the above duties ...[the defendant’s] guilt is confirmed by the following documents: the record of the administrative offence, a complaint and written statements issued by the market director, written reports by police officers, and statements from witnesses ...” 13. mr khripunov argued that the trial court had not made a proper assessment of the testimonies of eyewitnesses. the same thing had happened on 7 august 2009. approaching one of the most active participants, mr finskiy, they had ordered him to stop. despite the police’s order to stop what they were doing, the entrepreneurs refused; thereafter the police approached [the defendant], who appeared particularly active, and again ordered him to stop what he was doing, but he did not respond to this order. thereafter, learning in late september 2009 that the court decisions in respect of certain other participants in the same events had been quashed on appeal in september 2009 (see paragraph 27 below), on 8 october 2009 mr finskiy, mr khavantsev and mr khripunov lodged applications under article 30.12 of the cao for review of the final judgments in respect of them. it was established by the justice of the peace that the impugned event was a ‘gathering’ ...” 26. in early october 2009 they lodged an application for review of those court decisions. however, on 8 september 2009 the district court heard appeals from them and set aside the judgments against them. she maintained this assertion following communication of the case to the government; the latter did not comment on this matter. then she had seen mr annenkov ask officer ku. “ was also heard and he confirmed officer ku. thereafter, a criminal case was opened under article 286 of the criminal code. mr annenkov also had a formal confrontation procedure with an unspecified witness who had allegedly seen the applicant stumble and fall to the ground by himself on 7 august 2009.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in zákopčie. during those proceedings he made an incomplete submission on 21 april 2011, which he supplemented the month after alleging that he had been waiting for a response from the centre for legal aid in respect of his request for a legal aid lawyer. he also lodged two complaints with the president of the district court about the excessive length of proceedings, namely on 9 february 2012 and 29 february 2012, which were unsuccessful. having been dissatisfied with their outcome, he turned to the appellate court for review of his complaints to no avail. the district court, on the other hand, took the following steps. it asked several public authorities, such as for example social security authority and the job centre, to provide it with information relevant to the case. such an appointment was eventually revoked in september 2014 on the grounds that the centre for legal aid had appointed a lawyer for the applicant in june 2014. the district court also joined the present case file to another set of proceedings for several months. in january 2014, the district court judge responsible for hearing the applicant’s case changed. the district court further scheduled several hearings, which were either adjourned or cancelled. it concluded that the district court proceeded with the matter actively and properly, apart from a few minor exceptions, such as the joining of a case file to another set of proceedings, changing of the judge and a procedural error made during one of the hearings. subsequently, the district court took several steps as follows. it asked for further information from inter alia the applicant’s employer. it also scheduled a hearing for 12 august 2015, which was adjourned to 31 august 2015. it then postponed the latter hearing to an unspecified date, since it had to deal with a procedural request from the plaintiff, which was also challenged on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1965 in the altay region. according to the applicant, the unit did not employ the necessary medical specialists and did not have the equipment needed to treat his condition. he was seen by a neurologist, who diagnosed myelopathy, a neurological problem related to the spinal cord, accompanied with a mild dysfunction of the legs. the treatment regimen was amended, but his condition did not change. he was discharged from the hospital on 2 april 2007. in the meantime, the applicant was sent back and forth between the medical unit and the prison hospital, mainly receiving medication for his symptoms. after collecting enough money, the applicant had an mri on 10 december 2009. the applicant was prescribed conservative treatment. on 27 september 2010 their request was dismissed owing to the absence of a fresh mri. on 6 december 2010 the applicant complained to the prosecutor of novosibirsk region about the failure of the medical authorities to duly apply for his transfer to the prison hospital. by a letter of 28 december 2010 the prosecutor supported the applicant’s allegations, noting that a prison official had already been disciplined for the failure to submit the applicant’s complete medical file to gaaza prison hospital. the prosecutor ordered the detention authorities to apply for the applicant’s admission to the prison hospital. on 1 march 2011 the hospital’s medical board asked the regional authorities to allocate a surgery quota to the applicant. no positive effect on his spine condition was recorded. the applicant was released on parole on 19 july 2013.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in kyiv. on 7 may 2015 the applicant stood trial before the kyiv obolonsky district court, charged with unlawful purchase and possession of large quantities of narcotic drugs, an offence under article 309 § 2 of the criminal code. it appears from the trial court judgment that when questioned in the course of the trial, the applicant stated that he had been feeling unwell so had been taking tramadol to relieve the pain. he admitted that on 22 january 2015 he had bought ten blisters of tramadol, a narcotic-like pain reliever, from a stranger in the street for the equivalent of about eur 53 and had been arrested shortly afterwards. he expressed remorse and asked for leniency in sentencing. in view of those admissions the trial court, relying on article 349 § 3 of the code of criminal procedure (“ccp”) (see paragraph 13 below), ruled it unnecessary to examine the evidence related to the “circumstances”, which were “not contested by any party”. on the same day the trial court convicted the applicant of illegal purchase and possession of drugs, an offence under article 309 § 2 of the criminal code, and sentenced him to two years and six months’ imprisonment. the applicant appealed, arguing that his admissions before the trial court had related only to the facts and not to the legal classification of the offence, which he maintained was erroneous. he argued that mere possession of tramadol was not unlawful as such, except where it was in breach of the applicable regulations. for this reason, his acts should have been classified not under article 309 of the criminal code as drug possession but rather under article 320 of the criminal code, namely breach of the rules related to the purchase and circulation of drugs and analogous products. on 1 july 2015 the kyiv city court of appeal, sitting as a single‑judge formation, denied the applicant leave to appeal. the court stated that the applicant had admitted the circumstances of the offence and the trial court had then proceeded under article 349 § 3 of the ccp. however, in his appeal the applicant was contesting his conviction under article 309 of the criminal code and the legal classification of his actions. the court held that, because of the applicant’s admission and the procedure used at the trial under article 394 § 2 of the ccp (see paragraph 14 below), the decision was not amenable to appeal on the grounds invoked by the applicant. on 3 august 2015 the higher specialised civil and criminal court dismissed an appeal on points of law lodged by the applicant, holding that the court of appeal’s decision had complied with the rules of criminal procedure.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in torres novas. before the court of torres novas (domestic proceedings no. lodged his submissions in reply (contestação) and on 6 may 2004 the claimant lodged new submissions (réplica). on 7 november 2006 the court suspended the proceedings and on 9 november 2007 it declared the proceedings’ interruption as the claimant had not taken the initiative of continuing the proceedings against the defendant’s heirs. applied for leave to continue the proceedings with her and the other claimant’s heir as parties. on 22 january 2010 the court was informed of the death of one of the defendant’s heirs. applied for leave to continue the proceedings against the heirs of the deceased party. on 4 may 2010 she provided information on those heirs and in july she provided their birth certificates. provided the heirs’ addresses, following which they were summoned. on 14 january 2013 the claimant’s heirs requested an inspection to the house, which took place on 3 april 2013. on 29 may 2013 the hearing that had been scheduled for that day was postponed as the parties’ lawyers were not present. subsequently, hearings were held on 18 september, 29 october and 17 december 2013. on an unknown date the applicant appealed against that decision. as the applicant had not complied with the 13 march 2014 decision (see paragraph 21 above), on 19 january 2015 the claimant instituted enforcement proceedings against her before the santarém court. according to the latest information received by the court on 23 november 2015, on that date the enforcement proceedings were still pending at first instance.
on 18 january 2007 the moscow city authorities, the ministry of the defence of the russian federation and a private construction company signed an investment contract for the construction of a number of residential buildings in moscow. pursuant to the contract, a title to 3,823 flats was to be transferred to the ministry of the defence. the rest of the flats were to remain the city’s property. in 2008 the city authorities commissioned, as part of the said investment contract, several residential buildings. 8 and 26-1 at ulitsa marshala savitskogo, moscow, registered by the state authorities. in 2010 the ministry of the defence assigned five of those flats to private individuals and entered into social housing agreements with them. subsequently those people successfully applied to the zyuzinskiy district court of moscow seeking recognition of their title to the flats by way of privatisation. the relevant transactions and transfer of the title to the property were duly registered by the authorities. the applicants moved into the flats and resided there. the government did not inform of its outcome. the authorities claimed that the flats owned by the applicants were the city’s property. the court also found that the applicants had acquired the flats in good faith. the applicants’ appeals were to no avail. according to the government, the judgments ordering the applicants’ eviction were not enforced. the details pertaining to each case are summed up in appendix ii below.
ms fatma nuray uncuoğlu (“the first applicant”) was born in 1945 and lives in istanbul. ms nurcihan uncuoğlu (“the second applicant”) was born in 1940 and also lives in istanbul. the applicants each owned a share in respective plots of land in the area of firuzköy, in the district of avcılar, istanbul. under the new plan, the plots of land were designated as “university area”. subsequently, in 1988, 1989, 1990 and 1991, annotations (şerhler) were made in the land registry records indicating that the applicants’ land would be expropriated by istanbul university (hereinafter “the university”). on 26 march 1998 the applicants both asked the university to either expropriate the disputed land or to remove the annotations from the land registry records. in its respective judgments, the first-instance court held in particular that the land at issue had been under the effective control of the university and that access to the land was restricted due to the fences that had been built around the land. on 24 september 2004 both applicants requested the rectification of the respective decisions dated 22 june 2004. in their petitions, they drew the attention of the fifth civil division of the court of cassation to its previous decisions, dated 28 september 1999 and 31 march 2003, in which it had held that neighbouring plots of land in the same area had been de facto expropriated by the university because the latter had built fences around the land and because of the annotations made in the land registry records. on 12 april 2005 the fifth civil division of the court of cassation rejected the applicants’ requests for rectification of the decisions of 22 june 2004. however, it did not express any reason as to why it had reached a different conclusion from its previous decisions dated 28 september 1999 and 31 march 2003. on 6 october 2005 the küçükçekmece civil court of first instance complied with the decisions of the court of cassation and dismissed the cases. on 27 march 2006 and 4 april 2006 respectively, the fifth civil division of the court of cassation dismissed the appeals. in its decisions, it gave no reply to the applicants’ arguments regarding the fact that it had given contradictory judgments in respect of similar cases. on an unknown date the university paid compensation to the second applicant for her plot of land.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in bucharest. on 3 july 2007 the bucharest office received and circulated among all its employees an information notice that had been drawn up and sent by the cluj head office on 26 june 2007. come to work to deal with company and professional matters, and not your own personal problems! your misconduct will be carefully monitored and punished! it also appears from the documents submitted by the government, including the employer’s attendance register, that the applicant acquainted himself with the notice and signed it between 3 and 13 july 2007. in the relevant notice he was informed that his yahoo messenger communications had been monitored and that there was evidence that he had used the internet for personal purposes, in breach of the internal regulations. at that stage, he was not informed whether the monitoring of his communications had also concerned their content. on the same day, the applicant informed the employer in writing that he had used yahoo messenger for work-related purposes only. the transcript also included five messages that the applicant had exchanged with his fiancée using his personal yahoo messenger account; these messages did not contain any intimate information. 62617/00, §§ 43-44, echr 2007‑i), he argued that an employee’s telephone and email communications from the workplace were covered by the notions of “private life” and “correspondence” and were therefore protected by article 8 of the convention. in the present case, since the employee maintained during the disciplinary investigation that he had not used yahoo messenger for personal purposes but in order to advise customers on the products being sold by his employer, the court takes the view that an inspection of the content of the [applicant’s] conversations was the only way in which the employer could ascertain the validity of his arguments. the aforementioned acts are deemed by the internal regulations to constitute serious misconduct, the penalty for which, in accordance with article 73 of the same internal regulations, [is] termination of the contract of employment on disciplinary grounds. the applicant appealed to the bucharest court of appeal (“the court of appeal”). - principle of necessity: monitoring must be necessary to achieve a certain aim. - principle of transparency: the employer must provide employees with full information about monitoring operations.
the applicant is a privately owned company which was established in 1989 and registered in belgrade. to secure the payment of obligations under this agreement, the applicant and beranka ad concluded annex no. 6 – storehouse (magacin); (b) property no. 29 – power plant (energana); (c) property no. 9 – laboratory (laboratorija); and (e) property pm2 – paper machines (papir mašine). on 31 october 2003 the fiduciary transfer of beranka ad’s property to the applicant was registered by the real estate office in berane (direkcija za nekretnine, područna jedinica berane). on 17 september 2004 the commercial court refused to recognise this claim. on 1 june 2005 the real estate department in berane re-registered the fiduciary transfer on properties nos. on 22 november 2005 the real estate department in podgorica upheld this decision. the applicant appealed to the administrative court. following the commercial court’s decision of 17 september 2004 (see paragraph 10 above), the applicant lodged an objection. the hearings concerning the objection were held on 11 august 2004, 31 may 2005 and 17 april 2006. on 8 july 2008, upon an appeal by the applicant, the administrative court quashed the decision of the ministry and remitted the case to the real estate department in berane for reconsideration. on 9 april 2009 the ministry of finance quashed the decision of 2 october 2008 and remitted case to the first instance. the same authority confirmed that decision on 2 november 2011.
the applicants were born in 1961 and 1960 respectively and live in charleroi and antwerp. prison officer r., who had accompanied michael tekin since his return to prison, was instructed to inform him of those special security measures in his capacity as head of section acting as a prison assistant. in view of michael tekin’s reaction and his previous history, r. decided to place him in an isolation cell. michael tekin had allegedly then complained that he could not get any air and was suffocating. some of them helped with keeping michael tekin under control while others remained passive. on arrival at the door to the isolation cell, the officers placed michael tekin face down on the floor owing to the narrowness of the door, and dragged him inside. the “service 100” paramedics arrived at 12.15 p.m. however, they noted that the smur had not been contacted, and decided to request its emergency intervention. at his first hearing on 8 august 2009, r. stated the following, as regards the prison officers’ intervention:“michael tekin arrived in prison yesterday in a state of high nervous tension. i was present during this interview in the office used for that purpose. in the end i was no longer holding him around the neck but exerting pressure on his head. we lifted him to his feet in order to take him to the isolation cell. michael tekin was no longer protesting, relaxing to the extent that the officers had to carry him. the reconstruction of the events led dr b., who had carried out the autopsy, to the conclusion that the cervical manoeuvres had been caused by the armlock applied by r., while the weight applied by l. on michael tekin’s thorax had had a negative effect on the latter’s respiratory mechanism and been conducive to asphyxia, his respiration being further hindered by the manner in which he had been transported to the isolation cell. subsequently, the continuation of the armlock had been equally justified and proportional in view of the fact that michael tekin had continued to struggle. on 1 august 2014 the applicants further filed an action for damages before the brussels court of first instance seeking a finding that the belgian state had been responsible for michael tekin’s death and for the suffering which he had sustained owing to his placement in an ordinary cell instead of in the psychiatric wing of the jamioulx prison.
on 25 april 2008 the applicant arrived in turkey legally on a visa valid for one month. on 24 april 2010 the applicant, who had been living in turkey since april 2008, was taken into police custody while he was at istanbul atatürk airport. he made a statement to the airport police on the same day. according to the document containing his statement, the applicant was informed that he was suspected of lacking a valid identity document and of illegal entry into turkey. he was kept in detention at the airport police station for the following three days. on 27 april 2010 the applicant was sent to istanbul kumkapı removal centre. the building was infested with insects and the quality and quantity of the food was also fairly poor. moreover, there was no provision for outdoor exercise. on 2 june 2010 the applicant applied for release to the istanbul magistrates’ court. the court decided on the same day that it did not have jurisdiction as the applicant had not been detained within the scope of a criminal investigation. the court therefore ruled that any request had to be brought before the administrative courts. on an unspecified date the applicant made an asylum claim to the ministry of the interior and lodged an application for refugee status with the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr). on 25 june 2010 the applicant was granted a temporary residence permit in the province of bilecik as an asylum-seeker and was released from kumkapı removal centre on the same day. according to information provided by his representative on 4 january 2017, a deportation order was issued in respect of the applicant on an unspecified date in 2016. he has been detained at i̇zmir işıkkent removal centre since 20 september 2016 with a view to his expulsion.
the applicant was born in 1972 and is currently serving a life sentence in antalya. on an unspecified date the applicant went to the mersin security directorate headquarters to complete certain procedures regarding the sale of his car and found out that a warrant for his arrest had been issued by the antalya security directorate. which had taken place in 1992, and identified s.k., according to the record drafted by police officers and signed by the applicant, the latter described in detail what steps he had taken before the shooting, how he had shot k.g. according to the statement drawn up during the questioning by the public prosecutor, the applicant had been advised of his rights again. during the hearings before the izmir state security court the applicant was represented by a lawyer. with a view to verifying the defence submissions of the applicant and his co-accused, a.y. ’s lawyer submitted a medical report issued by the elazığ psychiatric hospital, dated 3 september 2002, which stated that m.n.a. the trial court did not respond to that request. he repeated that he was now telling them the correct version of the events. the applicant objected to the statement, referring to the inconsistency of m.n.a. and requested that his statement be considered as unreliable. on 17 february 2005 the eighth hearing was held, and the trial court again reiterated its orders concerning b.ç. at the crime scene and that they had not been involved in his shooting. 5237), were more favourable for the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in diyarbakır. on 17 january 2003 the applicant was arrested and taken into police custody on suspicion of membership of an illegal organisation. on 18 january 2003 his statements were taken by the police in the absence of a lawyer. the applicant confessed to being a member of an illegal organisation. he gave a detailed account of its structure and his acts within the illegal organisation. on the same day the applicant was heard by a public prosecutor and an investigating judge respectively. in these statements to the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, he denied his police statements and argued that they had been taken under duress. following his questioning, the investigating judge ordered that the applicant be held on remand. on 28 january 2003 a public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court filed an indictment with that court, charging the applicant under article 146 of the former criminal code. state security courts were later abolished by law no. 5190 of 16 june 2004, and the case was transferred to the istanbul assize court. on 10 june 2008 the istanbul assize court found that, inter alia, on the basis of the applicant’s statements to the police, the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, the applicant had committed the offence under article 314 of the criminal code and sentenced him to two years and one month’s imprisonment. on 27 may 2009 the applicant’s lawyer appealed against the judgment, arguing that the applicant had been convicted on the basis of statements taken under duress. on 3 march 2010 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the first-instance court.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in podgorica. the applicant was an employee of an export trading company with its seat in ljubljana, slovenia. on 5 october 1991 the applicant founded a trading company with its seat in his former employer’s offices. on 3 october 1997 the applicant received this certificate from the ministry of commerce of the republic of montenegro. on 10 march 1999 the court of first instance ruled that it lacked competence to deal with the case and rejected the claim. this decision was quashed by the high court on 17 september 1999 and was remitted to the court of first instance. the high court in podgorica overturned this decision on 24 january 2008 and rejected the applicant’s claim. on 4 march 2010 the supreme court upheld this decision. on 5 february 2004 the court of first instance in podgorica rejected the applicant’s claim. on 16 may 2006 the court of first instance again rejected the applicant’s claim. on 27 may 2008 the high court quashed the above judgment partly. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law in respect of the part of the judgment of 16 may 2006 upheld by the high court. on 18 january 2011 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s appeal on points of law. on an unspecified day in 2011, the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal. this decision was served on the applicant on 28 may 2013.
the applicant was born in 1975 and is detained in kahramanmaraş. the questioning took place between 8.10 p.m. and 11.50 p.m. the same day and 10 a.m. and 3.45 p.m. the following day. he was thus questioned in the absence of a lawyer. in particular, he gave detailed information about, inter alia, an armed attack on a prison vehicle in adana. on 23 november 2003 he was brought before the dörtyol public prosecutor, where he partly confirmed and partly denied the content of his statements to the police made in the absence of a lawyer. prior to this he had been told his rights, including the right to benefit from the assistance of a lawyer. on the same day, an investigating judge of the adana state security court took statements from the applicant. who was a co-accused, had claimed during questioning that he had organised the armed attack, acting with someone whose code name was “hüseyin”. later, at the first court hearing, he retracted his statements to the police, alleging that they had been extracted under duress. state security courts were abolished on 16 june 2004 pursuant to law no. had stated in his witness statements dated 16 october 2003 that he had seen the perpetrators of the attack. on 28 december 2005 the applicant’s lawyer appealed against that judgment and alleged, inter alia, that the applicant’s statements had been taken without notifying him of his rights and as a result of coercion and death threats by the police. the applicant’s lawyer gave detailed accounts of such treatment and asked the court of cassation not to rely on these statements which had been obtained by impairing the applicant’s will. made during questioning, which were later repeated before the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, and the record of the reconstruction of events. it also took into account the weapons, bullets and explosives seized by the judicial authorities and the organisational documents as well as the incident report, hotel records, an autopsy and expert reports, photographs, witness statements and investigation reports.
at the time of lodging his application, he was detained in berlin tegel prison. he had stopped short of stabbing his victim to death. he regularly attended weekly therapy sessions with so. just like the regional court, it based its decision on a medical expert opinion drawn up previously by psychotherapy expert b. and psychologist s. expert b. had examined the applicant on four occasions between february and september 2005. both experts had issued their common written medical report on 15 september 2005 and had supplemented it with a further medical statement answering the questions of counsel representing the applicant on 20 april 2006. situations similar to those in which the applicant had previously committed offences, especially against the physical and sexual integrity of his female partners, at the end of relationships, were likely to arise and to escalate again just as in the past. the court heard the prison authorities which, in their written statement of 6 march 2009, submitted that the applicant was not willing to work on his problems and refused any therapeutic treatment in the detention centre. 2 bvr 1512/02) and of the constitutional court of berlin (see decision of 4 march 2009, file no. which he had not been authorised to pursue since his renewed preventive detention. on 24 march 2010, upon the applicant’s appeal, the berlin court of appeal, in a separate decision, quashed the prison authorities’ and the regional court’s decision refusing the applicant short-term leave to continue his psychotherapy treatment with so. the applicant resumed external psychotherapy in september 2012. on 22 may 2012 the berlin regional court issued its decision in the fresh periodic review proceedings. the court, endorsing the findings in a new external psychiatric expert opinion issued by p., held that although the probability that the applicant would reoffend at liberty was still high, it would be possible to release the applicant on probation after a preliminary period of about one year if the pre-operational phase was mastered by the applicant without further problems. on 12 october 2012 the court of appeal upheld that decision on appeal. it found that the applicant’s immediate release was not to be ordered owing to the danger he represented.
the applicant, born in 1987, is the mother of two children, who are half-brothers. however, the ability to cooperate was necessary for those wanting to be foster parents and there had been some conflict between the applicant’s mother and the authorities. in these circumstances, it would not be in x’s best interest to be placed with his maternal grandmother and her husband – the applicant’s mother and stepfather. her mother’s alleged inability to cooperate had in fact merely been a question of disagreement. it decided that x should remain in the home in which he had already been placed as an emergency measure. this means that there is a risk of the boy having the same type of difficulties. the child welfare service in [the municipality] has also reported difficulties regarding cooperation. the board nonetheless finds reason to conclude that there have been some difficulties regarding cooperation. the grandmother and her husband are relatively old to be foster parents to such young children. [ the applicant]’s mother was born in 1962 and her husband in 1955. although age alone is not decisive in relation to the choice of foster home, it is a factor in the assessment. on the basis of the above, the board arrived at the conclusion that x should not be placed with his grandmother and her husband. on 27 january 2013 x was transferred from the emergency home to a foster home. what has been important to the undersigned’s assessment of this question, however, is, first of all, that [the applicant] has very different emotional ties to her two sons ..., in the sense that she seems to have renounced her role as mother of the [older son], while she must still be expected to make an effort to have as much contact as possible with [x]. the city court shared the expert’s concerns.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in sofia. and a third person], who staged a revolt at the time against the working methods i introduced. the applicant then explained that the prosecutor at issue was known as “prosecutor rushvetchiyski” (прокурора рушветчийски), meaning someone who takes bribes, derived from the colloquial word for bribe, rushvet (рушвет). i am knowledgeable about corruption patterns. questioned about a finding by the commission that a “bad psychological atmosphere” existed at the sofia district public prosecutor’s office while it was headed by him, the applicant stated further:“the inspection might be right, if by ‘bad psychological atmosphere’ they mean my intolerance towards those prosecutors ..., who performed their duties in a sloppy manner, or attended meetings with the lawyers of criminals to decide on the outcome of cases. ’s] circle, comprising the unhealthiest elements in the prosecution service, is well known. me being checked by prosecutor rushvetchiyski! during the previous year the prosecutors in it had drawn up 782 acts of indictment. on the contrary, i thought we could have improved even further. ...” and to reduce the possibilities for corruption deals made in private ... but i do not want to talk any further. in fact, what [he] is doing now in [his office] is what i tried to do at the time at the [sofia district prosecutor’s office] – to sweep all the trash out of the house. that article has not been submitted by the parties. in a judgment of 5 december 2007, the plovdiv district court acquitted the applicant and dismissed the civil claims against him. it is also a fact that the expressions were uttered in an interview, which was published and disseminated through the mass media – the trud newspaper ..., in its issue of 12 october 2006. it is a fact that the complainants ... were named in their capacity as public officials – being prosecutors at the sofia district public prosecutor’s office – and in relation to their official duties.” ...
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in aachen. the following day, the aachen district court issued a warrant for the arrest of the applicant on the ground that he was strongly suspected (dringend verdächtig) of commercial trafficking of a substantial amount of drugs and that there was a risk of his absconding. on 6 august 2010 the aachen district court decided to open the trial against the applicant. that same day, the applicant lodged an appeal against the decision ordering his continued detention and asked for the detention order to be set aside or its execution to be stayed. he argued that there was no incentive for him to abscond. the strength of his ties to germany rendered his absconding to turkey unlikely. he had lived in germany for twenty years, had been married for the past thirteen years, and had two children, aged eight and one. his parents and his brother also lived in germany. his only tie to turkey, by contrast, was his parents’ holiday home. on 1 october 2010 the aachen district court decided not to grant the applicant’s appeal against the continued detention order and to refer the matter to the aachen regional court. this risk could not be adequately remedied by reporting requirements or payment of security. after the regional court decided not to grant the applicant’s further appeal and to refer the matter to the cologne court of appeal, that court informed the applicant’s counsel, in a letter dated 22 november 2010, that it was considering staying the execution of the detention order. the lawful origin of those means had to be credibly demonstrated. he added that, if the applicant had to assume that the security would be forfeited in any event, that is to say, even if he did not abscond, because the repayment claim would be attached for payment against other claims, the security could not effectively remedy a risk of his absconding. it stated that it would nonetheless consider staying the execution of the detention order if security were furnished.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in graz. he was the managing director and 80% shareholder of ritz baugesellschaft m.b.h. on 12 october 1998 the graz civil regional court (landesgericht für zivilrechtssachen) opened insolvency proceedings (konkursverfahren) in respect of ritz baugesellschaft m.b.h. ( these proceedings were discontinued on 14 june 2013 for lack of funds to cover the cost (beschluss auf aufhebung des konkurses mangels kostendeckung). on 5 june 2002 he filed a further claim in his own name (case no. on 25 march 2003 the supreme court rejected the extraordinary appeal lodged by the financial procurator’s office. on 17 september 2003 the regional court held a new hearing regarding the company’s claim, in which the parties agreed to suspend the proceedings, pending the outcome of other proceedings, apparently including the claim lodged in the applicant’s name. on 20 january 2004 the applicant asked for the proceedings lodged in the company’s name to be resumed and submitted a list of witnesses to be questioned by the regional court. on 7 april 2004 the regional court held a further hearing during which a building expert and a bookkeeping expert as sub-expert were appointed, the sub-expert to be consulted for any further advice. on 15 march and 19 may 2006 the experts submitted their reports. on 29 june 2006 the regional court held another hearing to discuss the expert reports; eventually the court decided to submit the file to the public prosecutor to examine whether criminal investigations should be instituted against unknown offenders ex-officio and the proceedings stayed until such proceedings were terminated. on 21 february 2007 the applicant requested that the proceedings be resumed after the graz public prosecutor’s office (staatsanwaltschaft graz) had discontinued the criminal investigations. on 28 june 2007 the regional court held another hearing and on 12 july 2007 gave its judgment: it partly dismissed and partly granted the claim. on 16 december 2008 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s appeal. on 31 may 2010 the regional court partly dismissed and partly rejected the applicant’s extended claim as inadmissible after holding hearings on 7 july and on 18 november 2009.
the applicant was born in 1939 and lives in vienna. on 28 november 1996 the couple was divorced due to the sole fault of t.g. on 23 february 1992 the district court appointed an expert to assess t.g. on 9 november 1992 and on 18 january 1993 hearings were held. on 13 june and 15 september 1994, 23 october 1995, 5 and 26 february 1996 further hearings took place. on 7 may 1999 the applicant requested a fresh interim order for provisional maintenance and an interim order to prohibit the pay-out of money from t.g. requested a reduction of his provisional maintenance payment because of his retirement. the expert submitted his report on 1 april 2003. the liquidator refused to acknowledge that claim. requested a reduction of the provisional maintenance payments because of the private insolvency proceedings pending against him. on 9 january 2006 the district court held a hearing. on 11 september 2006 the applicant asked to address further letters of request to the zürich district court regarding more witnesses. on 21 march 2007 the applicant filed a second request for the acceleration of the proceedings. on 15 september 2007 the zürich district court submitted a large number of documents containing t.g. on 29 june 2011 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s extraordinary appeal on points of law (außerordentlicher revisionsrekurs), thus the partial judgment entered into force.
the applicant, mr piotr budnik, is a polish national who was born in 1980 and lives in leszno. the facts of the case were not in dispute and may be summarised as follows. the applicant submitted that throughout his detention in łowicz prison he had been held in overcrowded cells in which the space per person had been below the polish statutory minimum standard of 3 sq. the domestic courts established, without giving any further details, that the applicant had been detained in overcrowded cells during various unspecified periods from 27 january 2007 to 19 april 2009. the overcrowding led to many quarrels between the prisoners as the tables did not have enough space for everybody. the applicant was placed in a solitary confinement cell for fourteen days as part of a disciplinary measure, where the toilet was not separated from the living space. in reply, the government submitted that the applicant had been held in solitary confinement owing to a need to monitor his behaviour. the number of stools and beds in all cells matched the number of inmates. all the cells were equipped with ventilation and heating systems. the applicant was entitled to one hot shower per week and one hour of outdoor exercise per day. the applicant argued that he had been detained in overcrowded cells with space that was below the statutory minimum. he claimed 100,000 polish zlotys (pln) (approximately 25,000 euros (eur)) in compensation. on 20 july 2012 the łódź regional court (sąd okregowy) granted the applicant pln 3,000 (eur 750) in compensation and dismissed the remainder of his claim. the domestic court found that the applicant had been detained in overcrowded cells from 27 january 2007 to 19 april 2009. moreover, he had been detained in a solitary confinement cell as a disciplinary punishment for fourteen days.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in düren. earlier that day he had been stopped with 15.8 grams of heroin, which he had allegedly intended to sell. the arrest warrant was based on the risk of him absconding as he could expect a considerable sentence for the offences in question, had no social ties, being unemployed and a drug addict, and had an unstable character. on the same day, in a separate decision, the district court ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention. on 8 december 2010 the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision. in substance he mainly referred to his previous submissions. in substance, again, he referred to his previous submissions. on 28 january 2011 the düsseldorf chief public prosecutor’s office (generalstaatsanwaltschaft – “the prosecution authorities”) submitted written observations to the court of appeal, requesting the dismissal of the applicant’s appeal of 5 january 2011. the applicant’s counsel received the observations from the prosecution authorities on 3 february 2011 and submitted a reply to the court of appeal on 10 february 2011. on an unspecified date the prosecution authorities submitted written observations in relation to the applicant’s request for a subsequent hearing. prior to the decision of 25 february 2011, the observations of the prosecution authorities relating to the request for a subsequent hearing had not been served on the applicant, who had thus had no opportunity to reply to them. on 7 april 2011 the applicant lodged a complaint with the federal constitutional court. he alleged, in particular, that his right to be heard, as guaranteed by article 103 § 1 of the basic law (grundgesetz), had been violated, because the court of appeal had taken its decisions of 3 and 25 february 2011 without giving him the opportunity to reply to the observations of the prosecution authorities. on 28 july 2011 the federal constitutional court declined to accept the applicant’s constitutional complaint without providing reasons (2 bvr 805/11). its decision was served on him on 10 august 2011.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in novigrad. by a contract concluded in 1971 between a company, g.p. ( these plots of land were registered in the land register as being publicly owned. in one of the land register correction proceedings the novigrad municipality objected to the claimant’s application for a correction and therefore on 2 october 2000 the land registry department of the buje municipal court instructed the parties to initiate civil proceedings. on 6 october 2000 the claimant brought a civil action before the buje municipal court (općinski sud u bujama) against the novigrad municipality (hereinafter “the defendant”), seeking that the data concerning the size of certain plots of land be corrected in the land register of that court. at the hearing held on 14 june 2001 the buje municipal court established that the claimant had raised the value of the claim to hrk 105,000 in its submissions of 4 june 2001. furthermore, the first-instance court adopted a decision allowing the applicant to join the claimant in the proceedings as an intervener because it held that she had a legal interest. on 25 february 2005 the buje municipal court allowed the claim. it ordered the claimant to bear these costs. the court administrator (sudski savjetnik). she proposed that evidence be heard from j.g., as well as the parties to the proceedings and their legal counsel. the applicant further complained of the assessment of the amount of the litigation costs. she was of the opinion that the value of the claim was the one indicated in the civil action, namely hrk 5,000, which should have been taken into account by the first-instance court when calculating the costs. on 29 march 2012 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint as manifestly ill-founded.
the applicant was born in 1971 and was at the material time serving a prison sentence in rustavi prison no. the applicant was identified by the victims. he subsequently had chemotherapy on a sporadic basis. he had lost weight and the chronic hcv had worsened. on 16 december 2006 he was moved from the prison hospital to rustavi prison no. the lawyer asked the court of appeal to order an expert report to reassess his client’s state of health, determine whether the prison hospital was able to provide him with the necessary treatment and whether the conditions of his detention could have a negative impact on his health. on 24 april 2007 his doctor concluded that the applicant required a transfer to the nco for more chemotherapy. according to his medical records, he suffered constant pain and regularly received strong painkillers. the doctor in charge noted on a regular basis in the medical record that the applicant needed to be transferred to the nco urgently. on 7 september 2007 he was transferred back to the prison hospital with a recommendation for regular quarterly medical tests. on 22 september 2007 he was sent to rustavi prison no. on 28 march 2008 the court, acting under rule 39 of the rules of court, indicated to the government that the applicant should be placed in the prison hospital, where he could be provided with adequate medical treatment for his cancer and chronic hcv. on 7 and 8 july 2008 the applicant asked the court, under rule 39, to indicate to the government to transfer him to the nco for chemotherapy. on 14 july 2008 the applicant was transferred to the nco, where he had a tomography scan, which showed that there had been no progression of his retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy in the abdominal cavity and that tumour markers were within normal limits. as a result his diagnosis was defined as follows: cancer of the right testicle at the first stage in clinical group iii in a post‑chemotherapy and post-resection period.
the applicants were born in 1984, 2002, 2005, 1935, 1948, 1973, 1983, 1973, 1969 and 1976 respectively and live in tunceli. the hozat public prosecutor prepared his report on his visit to the area on 28 september 2007. at dawn the following day they had continued their search and found eight to ten spent cartridges discharged from kalashnikov rifles. he added that when they were taking the motorbike back to their station on the trailer (see paragraph 8 above) they had encountered four persons on the road who asked them to stop. he added that he knew that bülent karataş’s brother was a farmer in the area and did not think that he and the three others had been waiting on the road specifically for them; in his opinion the brother had asked them to stop because he had recognised bülent karataş’s motorbike on the trailer. as he was a nature-lover, he had taken his camera with him. the prosecutor also stated that a list of the items which the tenth applicant had been supplying to the terrorist organisation had been included in the indictment. it referred to the report drawn up by the hozat public prosecutor on 28 september 2007 in which it was stated that the food supplies and other materials referred to in the malatya public prosecutor’s indictment had indeed been found in the two pits, but noted that there was no evidence in the prosecutor’s indictment showing that the tenth applicant had had anything to do with those items. the applicants also criticised the decision to classify the investigation file as confidential, arguing that it had had a negative effect on their rights and had also prevented the public from exercising its right to obtain information. who had been a member of an outlawed organisation but had given himself up on 17 july 2008. the military prosecutor’s decision recorded that another statement had apparently been taken from the tenth applicant in his capacity as a “suspect”, by the prosecutor on 9 november 2007 before he was brought before the hozat magistrates’ court (see paragraphs 26-27 above) in which he had apparently told the prosecutor that he and bülent karataş had gone to the area on the evening of 26 september 2007 and not on the morning of 27 september 2007. after they had come back their identity cards had been checked once again and they had been ordered to take their clothes off. the bullet had entered on a downward trajectory. furthermore, the bullet entry points on the bodies of the two men showed that the soldiers had not opened fire on them with the intention of killing them and bülent karataş had died as a result of the blood-loss sustained whilst hiding. the military court stated in its decision that a jumper and a cardigan belonging to the tenth applicant and bülent karataş had been placed in the sidecar of the motorbike and at the time of the events they had been wearing only their vests, which despite all efforts had never been found.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in tallinn. in april 2009 a metastasis was removed from his brain, and he received radiation therapy. according to the applicant, o. was told that the scan had not revealed any problems with his health. the applicant pointed out that the medical council’s decision had not been signed by o. 11. on 9 october 2009 a tracheotomy was performed on o. 14. on 12 october 2009 o. stopped breathing and mechanical ventilation was applied. on 13 october 2009 characteristics corresponding to brain death were ascertained. on 16 october 2009 an autopsy was performed at the nemc. on 8 march 2010 the health board informed the applicant that the case had been transmitted to the expert committee. according to the report of the expert committee’s meeting of 25 march 2010 at which the applicant was also present, the expert committee gave oral answers to the applicant’s questions regarding the possible radiation of o. during his previous treatment; the decision not to offer chemotherapy to o.; and the alleged late detection of pneumonia. criminal proceedings under article 123 of the penal code (placing or leaving another person in a situation which is life-threatening or likely to cause serious damage to the person’s health) were initiated on 1 april 2010. requests for documentary evidence (the expert committee’s opinion, o.’s medical file as well as the autopsy report) were submitted and documents were received; a forensic medical examination was ordered from the estonian forensic science institute. the prosecutor posed ten questions to the forensic medical experts addressing, inter alia, o.’s diagnoses; the adequacy of the treatment with respect to his state of health (including the tracheotomy); the restraining of o. to the bed; the administration of medicine on 12 october 2009 and whether this could have caused o.’s breathing to stop; the decision to cease the administration of medicine and food on 13 october 2009; the assertion that o. was brain-dead; and the decision to stop mechanical ventilation. they considered that the restraining of o. to the bed could have been justified in the instant case. on 28 january 2013 the tallinn court of appeal dismissed a further appeal lodged by the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in torre del greco. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, can be summarised as follows. in january 1990, a few years after she had applied to the interior ministry for a disability pension, ms t.g., the applicant’s mother, was granted an entitlement to the monthly payment of the pension together with a special allowance on account of her partial blindness. on 27 march 1998, after the hearing had been adjourned three times, the district court dismissed the application as out of time. on 10 march 1999, the applicant, lodged an appeal against that decision, on her own behalf and in her capacity as heir, in naples district court. on 10 december 2002 that court acknowledged the applicant’s right to the recalculated sum and interest for a total of eur 12,240.26. the decision became final on 25 january 2004. on 25 january 2005 she obtained a garnishee order (pignoramento presso terzi) from the naples enforcement judge in respect of her whole claim. on 25 may 2005 the applicant lodged an appeal with the “pinto” division of the rome court of appeal, complaining about the excessive length of the proceedings. with regard to the admissibility of her appeal, she argued that, under section 4 of law no. 89/2001 (the “pinto act”), the “final domestic decision” to be taken into account was that of the enforcement judge of 25 january 2005. in consequence, she argued, the six-month deadline for lodging the claim for just satisfaction ought to run from that date. on 18 may 2006 the court of appeal declared the appeal inadmissible as out of time, taking the view that the final domestic decision to be taken into consideration was that delivered by the naples district court in the proceedings on the merits, a decision which had become final on 25 january 2004. the court of cassation upheld that decision on 25 september 2008 and dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law.
the applicant was born in 1987 and was serving a prison sentence in nubarashen penal facility (see paragraph 27 below) at the time when he lodged his application with the court. on 29 april 2006 the dead body of a fellow serviceman, a.h., “pursuant to your oral enquiry, we inform you that ... [the applicant] was admitted to the detention facility of the military police department on 3 may 2006 and stayed there until 12 may 2006 after which he was transferred to military unit no. on the same day the applicant was taken to the arabkir and kanaker-zeytun district court of yerevan. thereafter, he was taken to the disciplinary isolation facility of the military police department, where he was held until 20 may 2006. no legal representative was allocated to him at that time. on 21 june 2006, while in the nubarashen detention facility, the applicant lodged a complaint with, inter alia, the general prosecutor’s office, stating as follows:“... on 1 may this year military police officers came to the military outpost and took me [and two other soldiers] to the [military police] department. every day they would take me to a room and try, by beatings and threats, to force me to give evidence in the way they wanted. i was kept in [the military police headquarters] and isolation cell not for 10 days but for 18 days. according to the applicant, that decision was not served on him and he learned about it only after the closure of the investigation, when consulting the criminal case file. on 25 july 2008 the court of cassation granted the appeal. on 12 november 2008 the criminal court of appeal examined the case anew and changed the applicant’s offence in connection with a.h. he claimed, inter alia, that the applicant had been beaten and tortured by military police officers and that when he and r.h. had been forced to make confession statements. ... as it appears from the decision of 23 september 2006 ..., no criminal proceedings were instituted ... on account of the ill-treatment of [the applicant] and [r.h.]
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 5 june 1995 the applicant’s mother claimed asylum on undisclosed grounds. the secretary of state for the home department refused the asylum claim on 15 april 1998. following a reconsideration of the case in august 1999, the secretary of state again refused the asylum claim but granted the family four years’ exceptional leave to remain in the united kingdom. his mother and siblings have since become british citizens. on 30 june 2006 he decided not to pursue such proceedings owing to the length of his residence in the united kingdom. he was released on licence on 3 march 2011. finally, she had regard to the seriousness of his criminal record, the sixteen adjudications he had received while in detention, and the fact that he had been warned about the risk of reoffending in 2006. in addition, it found that he had also established a private life in the united kingdom; that he had no experience of living in nigeria, save for a short period as a baby and a two week holiday in 2004; that he had no close relatives in, and no ties to, nigeria; that he had indicated his remorse and given assurances that he would not offend again; and that his working and studying whilst in detention supported those assurances. on 31 october 2011 the upper tribunal (iac) found there to have been a material error of law in the decision of the first-tier tribunal. the tribunal further noted that he had no girlfriend or children in the united kingdom, he was in good health, and he would not face any language difficulties as there was a universal use of english in nigeria. it noted that the applicant’s most recent conviction was for a serious offence which had attracted a sentence of seven years’ detention; that following the amendment of the immigration rules, “exceptional circumstances” would be required to prevent deportation; and that those “exceptional circumstances” were inextricably bound up with the applicant’s article 8 rights. on 23 october 2013 the upper tribunal refused the application for permission to appeal. following the refusal of the application for permission to apply for judicial review, the applicant had no right to renew the application at an oral hearing in the administrative court. on 4 august 2015 the secretary of state advised the applicant that an application to the nigerian authorities for a travel document, required to effect his deportation from the united kingdom, was pending.
the applicants are the next-of-kin of several roma who died or disappeared in the circumstances described below. a few hours later the boat sank owing to the large number of passengers. the eleventh applicant was questioned on 10 september 1999. on 24 september 2003 the court decided to recommence the trial hearing due to the passage of time. during the hearings that did take place, the court read out the indictment again, questioned four defendants and sixteen witnesses, including the eleventh applicant, and read out the earlier statements made by the witnesses; the fifth defendant chose to remain silent. she also confirmed that she was illiterate. it also ordered that the remaining three defendants be brought before the court. on 25 february 2006 the high state prosecutor urged the investigating judge to finish the investigation. the other two were based in serbia and bosnia and herzegovina respectively. by 28 september 2009 the high court had decided that the two defendants at large, one of whom was based in bosnia and herzegovina, would be tried in their absence. in the course of 2012 seven hearings were scheduled, two of which were adjourned because one defendant, a defence lawyer, some of the witnesses, including the seventh applicant, and/or the interpreter did not attend court. the lawyers were fined 500 euros (eur) for their unjustified absence. on 7 december 2009 the ombudsman issued a report in this regard noting, in substance, that the investigation had lasted for more than seven years and that ten years after the impugned event the criminal proceedings had not yet been terminated, which was unjustified. on 19 august 1999 the only surviving passenger was found guilty of boarding the boat on 16 august 1999 with the intention of illegally crossing the border to italy and was fined by the misdemeanour court (sud za prekršaje) in kotor. some of them claimed that their next-of-kins were alive but had been trafficked.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in prague. during the year 2006 the applicant was appointed deputy to the first vice-minister of defence (zástupce prvního náměstka ministra obrany), while continuing to carry out his duties as director of the department of administration of the ministry’s property. it started an investigation in order to verify the information received. in the course of that investigation the intelligence service provided the authority with other information, dated 21 march 2006, classified “restricted” and annexed to the security file (bezpečnostní spis) under number 77. on the basis of that information the authority revoked the security clearance on 5 september 2006. he was removed from office on the same day under article 65 § 2 of the labour code (see paragraph 26 below). on 20 october 2006 he signed an agreement, under article 43 of the labour code, terminating his contract by mutual consent with effect from 31 january 2007. he and his lawyer were permitted to consult the file, but the parts classified as confidential were excluded. at the public hearing the applicant was given the opportunity to make his submissions and to state what he thought were the reasons for revoking his security clearance. it considered that the classified documents in question had shown beyond any doubt that the applicant did not satisfy the statutory conditions to be entrusted with secret information. it observed that the risk in his regard concerned his conduct, which affected his credibility and his ability to keep information secret. it went on to observe that, owing to the special nature of proceedings where classified information was concerned, not all the applicant’s procedural rights could be guaranteed but that the non-disclosure of the exact reasons underlying the decision to revoke security clearance was counterbalanced by the guarantee that the administrative courts had unlimited access to the classified documents. 77, contained specific, comprehensive and detailed information concerning the conduct and lifestyle of the applicant on the basis of which the court was satisfied in the present case as to its relevance for determining whether the applicant posed a national security risk. on 25 october 2010 the applicant lodged a complaint with the constitutional court (ústavní soud), complaining of the unfairness of the proceedings. in a judgment of 18 november 2010 the court dismissed his complaint as manifestly ill-founded.
the first applicant company, axel springer se, is a publishing house operated in the legal form of a societas europea registered in berlin. on 14 june 2010 the defendant, s., then aged 28, was arrested. several german newspapers reported on the case. some published pictures of s., which mostly showed him at a much younger age. the expert concluded that s. was suffering from a schizoid personality disorder at the time when he had committed the offence. the trial against s. began on 11 january 2011 at the potsdam regional court. the applicant companies submitted a copy of an email of a journalist who attended the hearing confirming the alleged statement of the presiding judge. the government submitted that according to the presiding judge no such statement had been made. s. repeated his confession on the first day of the hearing. on 17 january 2011 the presiding judge supplemented his order and provided his reasons in writing. the presiding judge stated in his reasons that he had to balance the public interest in being informed and the personality rights of s. he acknowledged that the crime at issue was very different from “usual crimes” and that permitting only pictures that disguised s. impaired the public’s ability to be informed. no nationwide television channel besides the second applicant had shown any interest in reporting on it. on 18 january 2011 the presiding judge sent the supplemented written order to a number of journalists, including some who worked for the applicant companies. on 4 february 2011 the presiding judge upheld the order. further hearings took place on 20 and 27 january 2011 and on 8 february 2011.
the applicant was born in 1992 and lives in tbilisi. was stabbed several times in a secondary school playground. according to the official version of the events based on t.t. on 9 january 2007 a forensic expert report of the ministry of the interior (“the first mi report”) confirmed that multiple wounds had been inflicted upon the victim with “a sharp object, possibly a knife”. a forensic chemical examination report no. between 16 and 20 february 2007 the same forensic expert carried out an additional examination and issued report no. 998/31 (“the second nfb report”) at the applicant’s request. the expert testified during the proceedings before the first-instance court that the discrepancy between the first and the second nfb reports concerning the number of wounds inflicted on the victim had been caused by the poor quality of the photocopied material relied on during the first nfb expert examination. during the trial at the tbilisi court of appeal, in accordance with article 364 § 1 of the code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 40 below), the defence adduced in evidence two alternative forensic reports, both issued on 2 november 2007, and argued that their results supported the applicant’s version of the events, including the use of two knives, and conclusively excluded the applicant’s guilt. the first report, of a comprehensive alternative forensic expert examination, was prepared by a panel of experts at a private forensic science centre. based on the [existing evidence and the victim’s statements] ... was the victim capable of showing resistance to g. kuparadze or otherwise defending himself ...? in the conditions described by the latter. on 10 january 2007 the minister of justice issued an order for the creation of a separate section for juvenile female offenders within prison no. she was alone in a cell for five months and subsequently shared the cell with two other juveniles. on 23 september 2009 the tbilisi court of appeal rejected the appeal as manifestly ill-founded in a final decision.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in rochefort, france. on 16 march 2010 the rochefort investigating judge issued an arrest warrant against c.b. on 23 december 2008 the vienna district court (“the district court) granted a request by c.b. with the austrian criminal authorities for suspected child abduction. on 18 november 2009 the applicant filed a request with the district court for enforcement of the return order. in submissions to the district court of 24 november 2009, c.b. contrary to the outcome of the main proceedings under the brussels iia regulation and the hague convention, the regional court therefore considered the obligation under article 11 (4) of the brussels iia regulation to be applicable in that the district court would have to ask the french authorities to use safeguards to ensure that the return of the children was in their best interests, such as not to return them to the applicant in person while the suspicion of abuse against him remained. ’s representative had informed the court that her current address was her mother’s in vienna, where for the purposes of enforcement of the return order c.b. against the decisions of 2 april 2010 and 26 july 2010 concerning her requests for non-enforcement of the return order. on 20 october 2010 the supreme court rejected an extraordinary appeal on points of law by c.b. inform her of all the proceedings then pending in france. on 7 may 2013 the regional court dismissed an appeal by the applicant against the district court’s decision of 13 august 2012 (see  paragraph 53 and 54 above), upholding its reasoning and adding that, due to the arrest warrant against c.b., ’s behaviour concerning the removal of the children from france in itself, but also with regard to her delaying tactics in the present proceedings, was unacceptable. on 12 august 2011 the fca submitted a judgment given by the children’s judge of the la rochelle tribunal de grande instance on 27 july 2011, which stated that no measures of educational support for the applicant had to be taken at that time. during that time they would be cared for by their father or by the youth welfare office.
the applicants were born in 1975 and 1976 respectively and live in grozny. m. was the owner of a three-roomed flat at at 35-122, ulitsa starosunzhenskaya, grozny, chechen republic. on 26 march 1996 m.’s husband sold the flat to a. the transaction and a.’s title to the flat were duly registered by the state authorities. on 22 december 2000 m. received the compensation. on 24 march 2010 a. sold the flat to the second applicant. the transaction and the second applicant’s title to the flat were duly registered by the state authorities. the applicants moved into the flat and resided there. on an unspecified date the housing department of grozny lodged a civil action against a. and the first applicant seeking the invalidation of the purchase of the flat by a. and claiming the title to the flat. on 1 february 2011 the supreme court of the chechen republic upheld the judgment of 7 december 2010 on appeal. on 30 april 2013 the district court re-opened the case in view of newly discovered circumstances concerning a third party’s right to the reside in the flat. she claimed that in 1999 the municipal authorities had assigned the flat to her under the social housing agreement. on 28 june 2011 the district court rejected mur. it also invalidated the assignment of the flat to mur. on 26 may 2014 the district court considered the claims lodged by the second applicant and mur. the court also invalidated the flat purchase agreements between (1) m.’s husband and a. and (2) the second applicant and a., recognised that the flat was the property of the town of grozniy and ordered the applicants’ eviction.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in ufa. on 26 december 2006 a new block of flats was commissioned by the ufa town administration. on 30 september 2010 the ordzhonikidzevskiy district court of ufa recognised t.’s title to the flat at 66/2-54, ulitsa kommunarov, ufa. on 28 october 2010 t. sold the flat to m. the transaction and m.’s title to the flat were registered by the state registration authorities. on 13 january 2011 m. sold the flat to the applicant. the transaction and the applicant’s title to the flat were registered by the state registration authorities. on an unspecified date the housing foundation of the republic of bashkortostan brought a civil claim seeking, inter alia, the invalidation of the applicant’s title to the flat and eviction. on 23 july 2013 the district court granted the claims in full. the court established that the judgment of 30 september 2010 had been forged and that t. had died in 2008 and could not have been a party to the relevant proceedings. the court refused to recognise that the applicant had purchased the flat in good faith for her failure to check the authenticity of the judgment of 30 september 2010. it further took into account that m. had sold the flat to the applicant for 180,000 russian roubles (rub) while she had bought it for rub 190,000. on 17 november 2013 the supreme court of the republic of bashkortostan upheld the judgment of 23 july 2013 on appeal. on 4 april 2014 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s cassation appeal. on 9 july 2014 the supreme court of the russian federation rejected the applicant’s second cassation appeal. according to the government, the eviction order was not enforced and the applicant continues to reside in the flat.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in beloljin, republic of serbia. in 1997 the maribor unit of the surveying and mapping authority (hereinafter the “maribor unit”) issued several decisions concerning the delimitation of real estate belonging to the applicant and to company d., and ordering changes in respect of the use of land. the applicant appealed against some of those decisions. on 28 september 2000 the ministry for the environment and spatial planning (hereinafter the “ministry”) granted the applicant’s appeal in part and annulled a decision issued on 12 february 1997 while it dismissed the appeal concerning two decisions issued on 31 january 1997. on 23 november 2000 the applicant challenged the aforementioned decision of the ministry in the part dismissing his appeal by instituting proceedings before the administrative court. on 6 november 2003 the administrative court granted the applicant’s appeal, annulled the challenged part of the decision of 28 september 2000 (see paragraph 6 above) and referred the case back to the ministry who, in turn, referred it to the maribor unit. on 24 may 2006 the supreme court dismissed the appeal and upheld the administrative court’s judgment. this decision was served on the applicant on 4 july 2006. the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint. on 19 december 2007 the constitutional court dismissed the constitutional complaint. the decision was served on the applicant on 10 january 2008. on 10 july 2015, referring to section 25 of the 2006 act, which regulates the domestic settlement proceedings in cases where an application to an international court had been lodged before the 2006 act entered into force (see paragraph 14 below), the state attorney’s office sent the applicant a settlement offer. in the offer they emphasised that the proceedings before the constitutional court could not have given rise to a violation of the “reasonable time” requirement. in respect of redress they offered to provide the applicant with a written statement in which they would acknowledge that his right to a trial within a reasonable time had been violated in the proceedings before the administrative court and the supreme court. the offer was served on the applicant on 24 july 2015.
the applicants were born in 1976 and 1978 respectively and are detained in vilnius correctional facility and kybartai correctional facility. the first applicant was detained in šiauliai remand prison from 11 january 2011 to 3 november 2011. the documents submitted to the court show that he was held in four different remand prison cells: nos. in 2012 the applicant instituted proceedings for damages. 104, although renovated, lacked sufficient ventilation and was cold, and there was almost no natural light; cell no. the applicant also submitted a document from the šiauliai health care centre from 19 april 2012, which noted violations of hygiene norms in the remand prison’s cells. on 21 december 2012 the šiauliai regional administrative court held that the applicant’s right to adequate conditions of detention had been breached but dismissed his claim for compensation. moreover, it was up to the applicant to prove that he had sustained damage. the applicant appealed but on 17 july 2013 the supreme administrative court upheld the first-instance decision. he argued that the conditions in which he had been held in šiauliai remand prison had been degrading: the cells were damp and dirty, there was insufficient light and ventilation, and the walls had not been painted. as a result, his health had deteriorated: his sight had worsened and he had pain in his joints and his back. 101 on 7 january 2011, while the applicant had been detained there from 5 january 2011 to 3 february 2011 and from 14 february 2011 to 28 april 2011. the cell had been dirty, the toilet doors broken, and there was mould on the walls and ceiling. however, the court noted that the applicant had not proven the existence of unsanitary conditions in the other cells. the court also noted that during the hearing the applicant had claimed that all the cells had been overcrowded but he had failed to mention this in his written complaint.
the applicant was born in 1992 and lives in baku. a demonstration was planned to be held on 12 march 2011 in baku. according to the applicant, the demonstration was intended to be peaceful and was conducted in a peaceful manner. on the day of the applicant’s arrest, an administrative-offence report (inzibati xəta haqqında protokol) was drawn up in respect of him by police officer e.g. the report stated that at around 2.55 p.m., at fountains square in baku, the applicant had attempted to hold an unlawful demonstration and had disobeyed a lawful order of a police officer. he was also not given access to a lawyer after the arrest or while he was in police custody. which, according to the applicant, showed his arrest and custody in the police stations. in order to establish whether his name had been added to it by one of those two police officers. on 12 april 2011 the sabail district court re-examined the case. according to the applicant, he was not given an opportunity to appoint a lawyer of his own choosing. on an unspecified date the applicant appealed. the applicant asked the appellate court to hear at least three individuals listed along with him in the report prepared by police officers m.a. the applicant was not represented before the baku court of appeal by a lawyer. the file relating to the present case, which, it appears, included copies of all the documents and correspondence between the court and the parties, was also seized in its entirety. on an unspecified date mr aliyev lodged a complaint with the nasimi district court, claiming that the search had been unlawful. it held that the searches had been conducted in accordance with the relevant law.
the applicant was born in 1986 and lives in ufa. on 26 december 2006 a new block of flats was commissioned by the town of ufa at 66/2, ulitsa kommunarov, ufa. according to the documents submitted by u. to state registration authorities, on 19 july 2010 the ordzhonikidzevskiy district court of ufa recognised his title to the flat at 66/2-39, ulitsa kommunarov, ufa. the state registration authorities registered u.’s title. z. and the applicant submitted the documents for the registration of the transaction and the transfer of the title to the flat to the applicant. according to the applicant, she paid the amount due under the contract to z. and moved into the flat while her application for the registration of the transfer of the title to the flat to her was still pending. on an unspecified date a third party brought a civil action challenging u.’s sale of the flat to m. and the latter’s title to the flat. on 24 december 2012 the supreme court of the republic of bashkortostan dismissed the third party’s claims in respect of the flat in full. on an unspecified date the housing foundation of the republic of bashkortostan brought a civil claim seeking, inter alia, the invalidation of m.’s title to the flat and the applicant’s eviction. on 23 august 2013 the district court granted the claims in full. the court considered that the applicant had not acquired the title to the flat and had no legal basis for moving into the flat and residing there. on 12 may 2014 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s cassation appeal. she submitted that the flat had been her only place of residence and that, in view of her financial situation, she was unable to buy or rent another flat. on 24 march 2014 the district court stayed the eviction proceedings for three months. on 24 february 2015 the applicant was evicted.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in tolyatti. the applicant is the widow of mr vitaliy sergeyevich postnov. the amount was to be paid from the federal budget funds allocated for housing of the military servicemen. the district court further awarded mr postnov rub 810, the cost of the expert examination. on 15 december 2000 the decision of the district court came into force. in january 2001 mr postnov obtained two writs of execution and forwarded them to the bailiffs’ service in ulyanovsk. they argued that as the administration of the ulyanovsk region had no authority to administer the federal budget funds, the judgment could not be enforced as prescribed in its operative part. on 25 november 2003 the district court refused the application for changing the method of execution. on 22 december 2004 the writ of execution in respect of rub 228,000 was returned to the applicant from the bailiffs’ service without enforcement. on 13 november 2003, 13 july 2004, and 20 may 2005 the district court index-linked the amount due to the applicant under the judgment of 5 december 2000, and awarded her rub 169,846.46, rub 17,401.28, and rub 36,517.69 respectively. these amounts were to be paid from the federal budget funds allocated for housing of the military servicemen. in june 2005 the applicant obtained the writs of execution in respect of the three above decisions, and a new writ of execution in respect of the judgment of 5 december 2000 due to the change of the creditor in the enforcement proceedings (see paragraphs 10 and 11 above). on 2 june 2006 the bailiffs initiated the execution proceedings. on 6 june 2006 the proceedings were terminated. the writs of execution were returned to the applicant as the compulsory enforcement of the judicial decisions in question was impossible.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in hadžići. on 22 november 2011 the applicant was arrested and detained on suspicion of having committed war crimes against the civilian population and against prisoners of war during the 1992-95 war. on 23 november 2011 the state court of bosnia and herzegovina (“the state court”) reviewed and extended his detention based on the risk of his obstructing the course of justice by exerting pressure on witnesses and co-accused or by destroying evidence. on 1 december 2011 that decision was upheld by the appeals chamber of the state court. on 29 december 2011 the state prosecutor issued an indictment against the applicant and seven other co-suspects, which was confirmed by the state court on 10 january 2012. thereafter, the applicant’s detention was regularly examined and extended every two months by the state court. in addition to those automatic reviews, the applicant repeatedly challenged his detention before the appeals chamber of the state court. on 23 february 2012 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal, relying on article ii § 3.(d) of the constitution (see paragraph 16 below) and article 5 of the convention. he alleged, in particular, that his detention had been arbitrary and excessive, and that it had not been based on relevant and sufficient reasons. the court’s reasoning included all the views expressed at the session on the issues raised in the case. pursuant to article vi § 4 of the constitution (see paragraph 16 below) that decision was final. on 1 november 2012 the state court held that the grounds for the applicant’s continued detention had ceased to apply and released the applicant. by the same decision, the court imposed preventive measures on the applicant which included the following: a prohibition on leaving his place of residence without the prior approval of the state court save for the purpose of appearing before that court; the duty to report once a week to the hadžići police; a prohibition on associating with other co-accused and on associating or having contact with the witnesses. furthermore, the applicant’s passport was seized. the preventive measures were reviewed and extended every two months.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in murmansk. on 24 september 2004 the applicant was arrested on charges of robbery. on 21 february 2005 the town court, presided by judge d., convicted the applicant of robbery and forgery, sentenced him to seven years and four months of imprisonment and ordered his detention pending the appeal proceedings. on 3 may 2005 the murmansk regional court, under the presidency of judge k., quashed the judgment on appeal and remitted the case to the town court for a fresh examination, ordering that the applicant should remain in custody. the applicant’s detention was once again extended by the town court, presided by judge d., on 16 august 2005. the applicant also raised that point in his statement of appeal against the detention order. on 6 september 2005 the regional court, presided by judge k., found no grounds for judge d. to step down. on 18 november 2005 the town court further extended the applicant’s detention. the parties disagreed as to whether the applicant had been served with a copy of that detention order. while the applicant argued that he had never received it, the government stated that the detention order had been served on him on 5 december 2005. they supported their claim with a copy of the town court’s letter of 29 november 2005 by which the detention order had been forwarded to the applicant and a copy of the detention order from his personal file kept in a remand prison, bearing the applicant’s signature and the date of receipt. in particular, on 30 november 2005 the hearing was re-scheduled for 15 december 2005 because the applicant and his co-defendant asked to summon several defence witnesses. in the same decision the court, of its own motion, extended the applicant’s detention. the applicant appealed, complaining, in particular, that the detention order of 15 december 2005 was delivered in his counsel’s absence. the regional court upheld the conviction on 5 september 2006, but reduced the sentence.
the first applicant was born in 1971 and lives in leverkusen, germany. she is the daughter of the second and third applicants who were born in 1943 and 1942 respectively and lived in tambov, russia. the second applicant ms galina zabelina died in 2013. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. he was accused of embezzling the assets of the companies under his management. the wronged companies filed a claim for compensation in respect of pecuniary damage. on 12 may 2007 a senior operational officer from the federal security service sent a letter to the investigator in charge of p.z. on 22 may 2007 the investigator asked the basmannyy district court in moscow to authorise attachment of the applicants’ property, including three flats owned by the first applicant, a flat owned by the second applicant, and a car owned by the third applicant. on 24 may 2007 the district court issued the requested writs of attachment. the district court explained that the application for writs was to be granted because “it [had been] lodged in the framework of a criminal case by the competent official and with the prosecutor’s approval, it [was] well-reasoned and [complied] with the requirements of the code of criminal procedure”. they produced evidence showing that they had paid for the impugned property out of their pocket and that the link to p.z. was the investigator’s conjecture without basis in fact. they were not defendants in any criminal proceedings or respondents in any civil claim and there were no legal grounds for attaching their property. on 13 august 2007 the moscow city court rejected their appeals, stating that the district court had “carefully reviewed the materials enclosed with the investigator’s request and reached the justified conclusion that there were sufficient grounds for seizing” the listed property. the attachment of the applicants’ property has remained in place to date.
the applicant company, an editorial and publishing house registered in moscow, edits and publishes a national newspaper with a circulation of 500,000, the novaya gazeta (“the newspaper”). on 4 january 2003 his complaint was dismissed. on 29 june 2004 the appeal tribunal of the military court of the moscow garrison upheld the judgment on appeal. between 2000 and 2005 the applicant company published in the newspaper a number of articles written by the second applicant covering the kursk catastrophe and the investigation into it. the note had been discovered in october 2000. according to the first article, the note refuted the official version that all crew members had died as a result of the explosions. in particular, the first article read as follows:“r.k., перспективы европейского суда по ‘делу “курска”‘ взволновали прокуратуру. the second article described state officials’ reaction to r.k. that his counsel had lodged the application exclusively for the purposes of self-promotion. there was no other prospect of success for the kursk case in russia, owing to the position adopted by v.u., the chief military prosecutor of russia, and the chief military prosecutor’s office of russia as a legal entity lodged civil actions for defamation against the applicants with the basmannyy district court of moscow (“the district court”). the abuse of public office ... was perpetrated not only by investigators of the chief military prosecutor’s office, but also by experts ...”“there was no other prospect of success for the kursk case in russia, owing to the position adopted by v.u., before the european court ... does not contain statements alleging that the claimants committed an abuse of public office. the applicants appealed, arguing in particular that the information contained in the impugned articles amounted to value judgments, and that the articles had reflected the opinions of r.k.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in nizhniy novgorod. as long as they remain in the kremlin, blood will continue to flow in chechnya and in russia. an example of this is the treacherous and cowardly terrorist attack by russia’s special services in the state of qatar, which prematurely took the life of my predecessor, zelimkhan yandarbiyev, and was carried out with the use of diplomatic channels. the chechen resistance will inevitably accomplish it! he added that he had intended to convey to the readers the position of the leaders of one of the parties to the military conflict in the chechen republic as he had considered that, in the light of the continuing tragedy in the northern caucasus and terrorist threat, citizens should be entitled to have an idea of that position first hand rather than having the situation presented to them by russia’s mass media, which only reflected the point of view of the authorities of russia. following that conclusion, the authorities decided to conduct a further investigation under article 282 § 2 of the criminal code (incitement to hatred (ненависть) or enmity (вражда) and the humiliation of human dignity). in a witness interview on 25 april 2005 the applicant stated, inter alia, that he had published the two articles as he had considered the material to be of great public significance and had intended to apprise readers in the nizhniy novgorod region of them. it went on to say that there was evidence of a crime under article 282 § 1 of the criminal code in the actions of those who had published the documents online; however, since they remained unidentified the investigation had to be suspended. t. also considered it necessary to note that the article contained a number of statements with contemptuous, angry stylistic connotations expressing a distinctly negative assessment of the actions of russia’s servicemen and governance of the military and political authorities of russia, such as “this criminal madness by the [bloody] kremlin regime”, “russia’s invaders and their accomplices, who have been committing excesses in the territory of the cri for the past five years”, “the kremlin is today the centre of international terrorism” and “the putin regime”. he confirmed that he supported the ideas expressed in the articles. the applicant also insisted that ms t. had exceeded her competence as she had given a legal qualification to his actions. both experts were also cross-examined during the trial. it appears from the recording that, in reply to the applicant’s questions, ms t. refused to give definitions of the notions of “race”, “ethnic origin” and “social group”, stating that it fell outside of her field of expertise. on 9 february 2006 the applicant applied to the district court to have the trial record amended. by a letter of 21 february 2006, judge b. returned the applicant’s supplementary pleadings, stating that, in substance, they reflected his remarks in respect of the trial record, which had already been examined and rejected on 13 february 2006.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lived in st petersburg until her arrest. she remained in detention throughout the ensuing investigation and trial. on 28 march 2013 the krasnogvardeiyskiy district court of st petersburg found her guilty and sentenced her to one year in prison. regard being had to her previous convictions for similar offences, the applicant was ordered to spend four years and one month in a correctional colony. at the time of her arrest the applicant suffered from hiv and chronic hepatitis c. 11. she underwent a routine medical examination by a general practitioner on admission to her remand prison. she was examined by various doctors, including a gynaecologist. she consulted the latter on 6 and 22 may 2013 on account of a vaginal infection. a gynaecologist tested her for sexually transmitted diseases and prescribed treatment with hormones and painkillers. on 22 september 2015 the custodial authorities asked a gynaecological cancer specialist to examine the applicant. at a hearing on 25 november 2015 before the smolninskiy district court of st petersburg, the applicant’s doctor supported the application, stating that she was very ill, was in constant, severe pain, and that the prison hospital had no drugs to treat her. a representative of the detention authorities left the issue to the court’s discretion, only making positive comments about the applicant’s work while in detention and about her character. the court dismissed the application, finding that the treatment she would receive in the prison hospital was similar to what she would get in a civilian one. the applicant’s condition deteriorated rapidly. she complained of constant pain and asked to consult a psychiatrist.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in bor. the applicant was employed by the bank called borska banka ad, (“the debtor”). it would appear that at the relevant time the debtor was predominantly comprised of socially-owned capital. on 13 february 2004 the zaječar commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor. on 8 february 2005, upon a submission to that effect, the zaječar commercial court recognised the applicant’s claims concerning salary arrears. on an unspecified date the applicant was paid 8,533 serbian dinars (rsd) on account of the debt in question. the remainder of the debt has not been paid until the present day. the insolvency proceedings are still pending. on 14 december 2006 the applicant applied to the zaječar commercial court for enforcement of the court’s decision of 8 february 2005, by which the applicant’s claims were recognised. the zaječar commercial court, however, declined its jurisdiction ratione materiae and transferred the case file to the bor municipal court. on 7 may 2007 the bor municipal court dismissed the applicant’s enforcement request. in its reasoning, the court stated that the commercial court’s decision of 8 february 2005 was not suitable for execution. on 23 november 2007 the zaječar district court upheld the first instance court’s decision, stating that the debtor had been subject to the pending insolvency proceedings. on 18 march 2008 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal against the zaječar district court’s decision. it found that the applicant had failed to properly seize the constitutional court, having lodged her appeal against “the wrong” decision.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in bucharest. the judgment of the court of first instance was upheld by a final judgment of the bucharest court of appeal of 25 november 2011, which was finalised on 25 may 2012. in a judgment of 27 march 2012, the bucharest court of first instance dismissed his first application on the grounds that a stay of execution of sentence provided for by article 453 § 1 b) of the ccp for convicted mothers up to their child’s first birthday had to be interpreted strictly and that the applicant could not seek application of that provision by analogy. on appeal by the applicant, the bucharest county court upheld the judgment of the court of first instance in a judgment of 7 may 2012. cm, which had two rows of bars across it and therefore did not let natural light in. lastly, he stated that running water was available only two hours per day. m and had only one window, measuring 1 x 1.20 sq. m, with bars and a grille and thus no natural light. with regard to mărgineni prison, he stated that he had been detained there with twenty-four other detainees in a 2 x 6. m. cell and that there had been no running water. they added that the cells were equipped with toilets, a kitchenette and ventilation and had natural light. at giurgiu prison the applicant had been detained successively in four cells, varying from 20.35 sq. m in size and containing space for six detainees. they contained individual beds, a table allowing the inmates to eat their meals together, three bedside tables, a small bench, a television socket and a shoe cupboard. they stated, lastly, that the cells and the laundry provided to inmates were in good condition.
the applicant was born in 2001 and lives in bucharest. on 7 october 2008 the child protection authority certified that since 2004 it had included the applicant in a psychological counselling programme. on 5 march, 16 april, 7 may and 30 june 2004 c.i. lodged a new complaint with the police concerning the alleged abuse. in a decision of 9 june 2008 the court acquitted d.d. on 14 december 2009 the county court held a private hearing and interviewed the applicant. used to hit him, lock him in a small room without lights, throw water on him while he was sleeping and call him names. would be punished for what he had done to him. upon an appeal on points of law lodged by d.d., based on the evidence before it, notably the expert evaluations, psychologist’s testimony, witness statements, as well as the parents’ and the applicant’s statements, the county court considered it established that d.d. was convicted of ill-treatment inflicted on a minor. the court took into account the undue length of the criminal proceedings and that there had been significant periods of inactivity by the authorities involved, in particular by the investigators and the forensic medicine institute. had physically and verbally abused his child; his sentence was recalculated based on the same criteria, including the reduction as a remedy for the length of the trial. the additional penalty of restricting d.d. the court of appeal rendered its final decision on 1 november 2012 and rectified the text of the operative part on 22 november 2012.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in minneapolis, minnesota, usa. on 28 august 2009 their son, m., was born there. in june 2011 the family arrived in ukraine for a holiday and to visit s.’s relatives. in july 2012 the applicant spent a holiday in ukraine with s. and m. 14. during the hearings the applicant stated that he was prepared to cover travel expenses for both the child and the mother if the latter were to be ordered to accompany the child to the usa. s. objected and submitted that it was the applicant who had asked her to stay in ukraine with the child beyond 16 august 2011. no exceptions under the hague convention applied. on 14 august 2013 the chernihiv regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) quashed the decisions of 19 june and 2 july 2013 (see paragraphs 20 and 21 above) and dismissed the applicant’s claim as unsubstantiated. in that regard the court of appeal stated that m. was completely settled in his new environment, as he had been living in ukraine since june 2011. m. had always lived with the mother and there were close ties between them. in february 2014 s. submitted a request to the supreme court for review of the case on the grounds that the hague convention had been applied divergently in the cassation proceedings, resulting in inconsistent judicial practice. it set out the principles which had to be followed when interpreting and applying those provisions. the case was remitted to the court of appeal. as regards the period commencing on 20 june 2012, the court of appeal considered that the applicant had continued to consent to the child’s retention in ukraine as there was no express objection on that point before the request was made under the hague convention. the court of appeal examined the evidence relating to the child’s place of residence in ukraine, and the social and medical care provided to him in ukraine, and found that m. was assured of all the conditions necessary for his proper development.
the first applicant was born in 1944 and lives in oliveira de azeméis. the second applicant was born in 1970 and lives in vila real. the first applicant was born out of wedlock. to be his father and from an early age he has been in touch with t.s. ’s family, who have always treated him as a relative. on 26 march 2012 the first applicant instituted an action for recognition of paternity before the vale de cambra court. challenged the judge’s decision of 26 june 2012 ‒ in the part in which it considered article 1817 § 1 to be incompatible with constitutional provisions ‒ before the porto court of appeal. in the light of that result the vale de cambra court asked the parties about the usefulness of continuing the proceedings. did not acknowledge paternity and requested the vale de cambra court to continue the proceedings. on 9 april 2013 the porto court of appeal dismissed t.s. his mother always considered a.m. to be his father. he argued that the time-limit established under article 1817 § 1 of the civil code for the institution of paternity proceedings was not compatible with the constitution and that the right to one’s identity should prevail over the rights of the alleged parent. on 28 january 2014 the second applicant challenged the decision of the porto court of appeal before the supreme court of justice and asked it to rule that the referred time-limit was unconstitutional. 401/2011, the provision was constitutional and ordered that the judgment of the supreme court be modified accordingly. on 28 october 2014 the conference upheld the previous decision.
in a dispute between the applicant and the domestic pension authorities, on 18 february 2011 the kryviy rih dovgyntsivskyy district court ruled in his favour, ordering an increase of his pension based on the rise in the average wages in the country since his retirement. on 3 november 2011 the first-instance court amended the judgment at the applicant’s request, indicating that it was enforceable immediately. in doing so, the court referred to the provision of the code of administrative justice governing abridged procedure (see paragraph 11 below). the defendant pension authority appealed to the dnipropetrovsk administrative court of appeal (“the court of appeal”). on 23 november 2011 the first-instance court informed the applicant that an appeal had been lodged in his case. on 29 february 2012 he wrote to the court of appeal, requesting to be informed about the date of the hearing of his case. according to him, he received no response and no further information about the proceedings until 22 february 2013 when he received the court of appeal’s final decision, dated 26 june 2012, quashing the first-instance court’s judgment. it can be seen from the material before the court that the applicant’s domestic case file contains copies of the ruling of the court of appeal’s judge (date illegible) opening appeal proceedings in his case and a notification letter dated february 2012 from the court clerk informing him of the upcoming examination of his case in camera on 26 june 2012 and stating that the judge’s ruling and a copy of the appeal were enclosed with the letter. the government alleged that the above documents had been sent to the applicant, while the applicant alleged that they had not. the file does not contain any postal documents or registers of sent correspondence showing that the above documents had been sent or delivered to the applicant. on 26 june 2012 the court of appeal, in a final decision not amenable to appeal, quashed the first-instance court’s judgment, dismissing the applicant’s claim for a pension increase and holding that the domestic law did not require the pensions to be increased in case of rise in the average wages in the country following retirement.
the applicants lived in a dormitory in lipetsk, russia. the dormitory was mainly inhabited by the students and the staff of the lipetsk metallurgy college (“the college”). the applicants brought a case against the company seeking to obtain a title to the rooms they lived in. they argued in particular that the privatisation of the dormitory had taken place in violation of the legislation and that the company could not be declared as a sole owner of the property. the lipetsk metallurgy college was also involved into the case as a third party. on 19 april 2010 the oktyabrskiy district court of lipetsk found for the applicants and granted their claims. the district court found that the dormitory was transferred to the company in breach of domestic law. on 2 june 2010 the appeal court upheld the judgment and it became final. in august 2010 the applicants registered their title to the dormitory rooms and subsequently sold them to third parties. on 12 april 2011 the company lodged a request with the oktyabrskiy district court of lipetsk seeking to reopen the proceedings on the grounds of newly discovered circumstances. it relied on the order of the college’s director and a lease agreement concluded in 2008 between the company and the college in respect of the dormitory. the company further argued that it had not been aware of those documents since they were possessed by the college. on 12 may 2011 the oktyabrskiy district court of lipetsk quashed the judgment of 19 april 2010. the court found in particular that the documents presented by the company might have had significant impact on the outcome of the case and thus they constituted “newly discovered circumstances”. on 31 august 2011 as a result of the fresh consideration of the case the oktyabrskiy district court of lipetsk rejected the applicants’ claims and ordered reversal of execution of the judgment of 19 april 2010.
the applicant was born in 1992 and lived, prior to his arrest, in voronezh. on 10 october 2011 the police located the applicant. on 18 november 2011 the investigator in charge of the applicant’s case reported the applicant’s injuries to the regional investigative committee. he based his conclusions on the findings as follows:“on 11 october 2011 from 7:45 to 8:30 a.m. ... investigator f. questioned [the applicant] as a witness [in the murder case]. according to [the applicant], he did not remember where he had sustained the injuries documented by the expert. the latter demonstrated strange behaviour; he hit his head against the wall, rolled around on the floor, fell down trying to hurt himself. in the morning on 11 october 2011 he took [the applicant] to the [investigator’s office] ... . they did not use any physical force or put psychological pressure on [the applicant]. nor did the latter allege such treatment. according to them, [the applicant] behaved in a strange way and tried to cause himself injuries. according to the medical documentation obtained from municipal hospital no. according to the statement made by neurosurgeon mor., the applicant] did not have any injuries. according to the police officer present, [the applicant] behaved in a strange way and they had to take him to hospital. [ 4925.11 dated 24 november 2011, regard being had to the placement and nature of the bodily injuries documented during the forensic examination [the applicant] underwent, it is possible that [applicant] sustained the injuries when he hit himself against the solid protruding objects in the circumstances described by [the police officers] ... . [
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in budapest. on 14 april 2010 the applicant notified the police that he planned to organise a demonstration from 2 to 7 p.m. on 17 april 2010 in front of the venyige street prison in budapest, in order to draw attention to the “situation of political prisoners”. venyige street is a broad cul-de-sac with a service lane. on 16 april 2010 the head of the budapest police department banned the demonstration on the grounds that traffic could not be diverted to alternative routes (section 8(1) of the assembly act). in the decision, he referred to article 21 of the international covenant on civil and political rights, article 11 of the convention and decision no. on 19 april 2010, within the statutory time-limit, the applicant sought a judicial review of the decision. on 22 april 2010 the budapest regional court dismissed the applicant’s case. it noted that in assessing whether or not traffic could be diverted to other routes, the authority had reckoned on the participation of some 200 demonstrators, as per the applicant’s notification, and that – after having obtained the opinion of a traffic expert – it had established that lawful parking and traffic circulation in the neighbourhood would become impossible should the event take place. the court agreed with the police’s decision in that although the right to assembly was a constitutional fundamental right, it was not absolute and must not give rise to a violation of the fundamental rights of others, and could therefore be restricted. the court was satisfied that the decision had been lawful as the police had adequately established the facts, complied with the procedural rules and applied clear assessment criteria, and the assessment of the evidence had been logical.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in donji kraljevec. on 15 october 2001 the applicant brought a civil action against a private person in the čakovec municipal court (općinski sud u čakovcu) seeking that a contract for lifelong maintenance (ugovor o doživotnom uzdržavanju) be declared null and void, that certain entries in the land register be altered, and that certain property be included in his deceased father’s estate. at the first hearing of the trial, the applicant indicated the value of the claim at 101,000 croatian kunas (hrk). on 4 february 2005 the čakovec municipal court declared the applicant’s action inadmissible. the applicant lodged an appeal against the first-instance decision. on 12 may 2005 the čakovec county court (županijski sud u čakovcu) dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the first-instance decision. the applicant then lodged an appeal on points of law (revizija) with the supreme court. on 19 april 2006 the supreme court accepted the applicant’s appeal on points of law, examined it on the merits and quashed the decisions of the lower courts and ordered a fresh consideration of the case. on 17 february 2009, in the fresh proceedings, the first-instance court gave judgment in the applicant’s favour. lodged an appeal and on 10 june 2010 the čakovec county court reversed the first-instance judgment. the applicant then lodged an appeal on points of law. on 21 september 2011 the supreme court declared the applicant’s appeal on points of law inadmissible ratione valoris because it fell below the threshold of 100,000 croatian kunas, given that the applicant’s civil action had included three separate claims lodged on different factual and legal bases – therefore, the amount of the claim had to be divided into three. the supreme court did not provide any reasoning as to why it had accepted as admissible the applicant’s previous appeal on points of law and decided on the merits. a constitutional complaint subsequently lodged by the applicant was declared inadmissible by the constitutional court on 12 january 2012.
the applicant company was a ukrainian joint-stock company registered in kyiv. at the relevant time it operated a commercial air carrier business (see east west alliance limited v. ukraine, no. the claim was based on a delay on the defendant’s part in issuing a safety certificate, which the department had been required to issue in 2001 by a court judgment. on 16 august 2005 the kyiv city commercial court allowed the claim in part. on 18 october 2005 the kyiv commercial court of appeal quashed the first-instance court’s judgment and rejected the claim, mainly on the grounds that the applicant company had failed to prove the loss of profit it had claimed. it considered the estimates of the loss profit speculative. on 21 february 2006 the higher commercial court reversed the ruling of the court of appeal and upheld the judgment of the first instance court. the higher court held that because the defendant’s inaction prevented the applicant company from operating its business as from 2001, the first instance court was correct in accepting the information about the applicant company’s gross income for 1999 and 2000. it held, in particular, that the applicant company had failed to prove that it had realised a profit, rather than gross income, prior to 2001, or that its income for the preceding years came from operations which required a safety certificate. the government requested that the court strike out the application in accordance with article 37 § 1 of the convention. on 7 november 2014 the applicant company objected to the striking out of its application, wishing to have its merits determined with a view to obtaining appropriate redress. it argued, in particular, that under domestic law the unilateral declaration, unlike a court’s judgment finding a violation, would not provide grounds for reexamination of its case by the supreme court. the government were invited to comment and on 10 july 2015 informed the court of the relevant domestic legislation (see paragraphs 15 and 16 below). accordingly, east/west requested that any just satisfaction award due to the applicant company be paid to east/west. asked to comment, the government responded on 18 january 2016 that they “do not object against the applicant’s request as to the payment to its sole shareholder the awarded compensation and, thus, leave this question on the court’s discretion”.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in warsaw. he submitted that the applicant’s detention was necessary in order to prevent him from absconding and interfering with the investigation, given that the applicant was a foreign national, did not have a permanent place of residence in ukraine and was suspected of a serious offence. it held that the arguments submitted by the investigator were sufficiently strong to allow the conclusion that the applicant should be detained. only a prosecutor was present at the former hearing, whereas the latter hearing was attended by the prosecutor, the applicant and his lawyer. the court of appeal rejected both appeals and upheld the district court’s decision on both occasions. on 9 september 2010 the court of appeal held a hearing in the presence of the prosecutor and the applicant’s lawyer, granted the investigative authority’s request, and extended the applicant’s detention until 14 november 2010. the court noted that the charges against the applicant were serious, that there were no reasons to release him and that the investigative authority needed more time to complete the investigation. on 12 november 2010 the court of appeal extended the applicant’s detention until 14 december 2010. on 14 december 2010 the applicant’s case was sent to the district court for trial. on 27 april 2011 the district court committed the applicant for trial, rejected the applicant’s request for release and ordered his continuing detention pending trial. the court stated that the applicant was charged with a serious offence, was a foreign national and had no permanent place of residence in ukraine. it gave reasons similar to those given in its decision of 27 april 2011. on 19 march 2012 the district court convicted the applicant as charged, sentencing him to four years’ imprisonment. it ordered the applicant’s continuing detention without giving reasons. on 15 january 2013 the district court set bail for the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1993 and is detained in jēkabpils. on 26 may 2010 the applicant’s mother visited him in riga central prison. the applicant had shown him his injuries. on 2 june 2010 the prosecution service sent the complaint to the riga regional division of the state police. the internal security office stated that the file did not indicate that the escort officers had committed a criminal offence. it was also necessary to find out whether between 20 and 25 may 2010 or earlier the applicant or his co-accused had been involved in any kind of conflict in the prison as a result of which they could have sustained the injuries. it was also necessary to question further the escort officers. he had shown him marks left by the beatings. between 19 and 30 january 2012 the internal security office questioned the escort officers, who stated that they had not assaulted the applicant or his co-accused. on 31 january 2012, for the third time, the internal security office refused to institute criminal proceedings, stating that the information gathered during the additional inquiry did not indicate that the officers had committed any offence under section 317(2) of the criminal law. had thought that they had been beaten in the prison. the applicant’s co-accused, stated that on the second trial day the escort officers had made them perform push-ups and a “duck walk”. while they had been performing the exercises the escort officers had beaten them. had heard that the applicant had also been beaten in the prison. the higher prosecutor indicated that the applicant’s mother did not have the right to complain about the decision to terminate the criminal proceedings and that it had been wrong for the lower prosecutor to examine her complaint on the merits.
