5.  the applicant was born in 1983 and is detained in sztum.6.  at the time of the events in question, the applicant was serving a prison sentence in the barczewo prison.7.  on 8 january 2011 the applicant’s grandmother died.on 10 january 2011 the applicant lodged a request with the director of prison and the penitentiary judge for leave to attend her funeral which was to take place on 12 january 2011. together with his application he submitted a statement from his sister e.k.who confirmed that she would personally collect the applicant from prison and bring him back after the funeral.8.  on 11 january 2011 the penitentiary judge of the olsztyn regional court (sędzia penitencjarny sądu okręgowego w olsztynie) allowed the applicant to attend the funeral under prison officers’ escort.the reasoning of the decision read as follows: “in view of [the applicant’s] multiple convictions and his long term of imprisonment there is no guarantee that he will return to prison” 9.  the applicant refused to attend the funeral, since he believed his appearance under escort of uniformed officers would create a disturbance during the ceremony.10.  on the same day the applicant lodged an appeal with the olsztyn regional court (sąd okręgowy) complaining that the compassionate leave was granted under escort and also that he was only allowed to participate in the funeral (not the preceding church service).11.  on 3 february 2011 the olsztyn regional court upheld the penitentiary judge’s decision and dismissed the appeal.the court stressed that the applicant had been allowed to participate in the funeral under prison officers’ escort.it further noted that the applicant was a habitual offender sentenced to a long term of imprisonment therefore there was no positive criminological prognosis and no guarantee that he would have returned to prison after the ceremony.
6.  in 2002 the prosecutor’s office initiated a criminal investigation against the applicant on charges of murder and a detention warrant in respect of him was issued by the buiucani district court on 14 february 2002. since the applicant had left the country, an international search order was issued.7.  in december 2010 the applicant was arrested in the russian federation and extradited to moldova, where he was placed in detention on 29 december 2010 on the basis of the detention warrant of 14 february 2002. the applicant lodged a habeas corpus request in which he complained, inter alia, that he had not been informed about the detention warrant of 14 february 2002 within seventy-two hours, as provided by law, and that there were no relevant and sufficient reasons to deprive him of his liberty.the last decision in the proceedings concerning his remand in custody dates from 27 may 2011 and it was issued by the buiucani district court.13 in chişinău between 29 december 2010 and 22 march 2012 and after 10 january 2013. the applicant alleges that the cells were overcrowded and dirty; there was no ventilation system; there was no sufficient natural light because the windows were very small; the daily walks lasted for only one hour and the food served was of a very poor quality.the toilets were separated from the rest of the cells by a wall which was seventy centimetres high or by a curtain and were located at a distance of some 1.5 metres from the table where the inmates served their meals.10.  the relevant parts of the report of the united nations special rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment compiled following his visit to moldova from 4 to 11 july 2008 (the united nations human rights council, document a/hrc/10/44/add.3, 12 february 2009) read: “b.whereas the special rapporteur notes that the minimum norms regarding nutrition of detainees (government decision n. 609 of 29 may 2006) are checked on a daily basis and that, according to the financial plan of the penitentiary department, the food budget for 2008 had almost doubled in comparison to 2004 and is set to rise further, he also received consistent allegations regarding the poor quality and quantity of food....” 11.  in its report for 2009 (page 117, “conditions of detention”), the centre for human rights in moldova (“the human rights centre”, which also acts as the moldovan ombudsman) found, inter alia, that: “regarding personal hygiene, clothing and bedding, despite [the fact that] government decision no.609 (29 may 2006) concerning minimum daily food requirements and the issuing of items of personal hygiene provides for the issuing of soap to detainees for bathing and other sanitary-hygienic needs, this has remained unfulfilled during 2009.” 12.  in its report for 2010 (page 142 et seq.“conditions of detention”) the human rights centre found, inter alia, that: “failure to adhere to the statutory cell size (4 square metres per person) in the living blocks of the institution has become an unpleasant problem which now affects the prison system across the entire country.overcrowding comes directly within the ombudsman’s remit as part of the national mechanism for the prevention of torture, which on many occasions has recognised overcrowding in the country’s prisons.at the same time, the authority stated that, owing to the difficult financial situation, during 2010 the detainees in rezina prison no.in this connection, the minister of justice provided information to the ombudsman about the expenditure on prisoners’ food in 2010. the cost amounted to mdl 24.05 million, whereas the budgetary need for the same year was, according to the ministry of finance’s draft budget, mdl 29.05 million.the daily cost of feeding a detainee in 2010 was mdl 10.24, whilst the daily budgetary need was mdl 12.35. this statistic was often cited by prison authorities to justify why they were unable to provide detainees with meat and fish.... as regards sanitary conditions, lighting and ventilation problems continue to exist in the majority of living blocks in moldovan prisons, with the exception of taraclia prisons no.
having obtained from the mobile phone operator the call logs in respect of the victim’s phone, the investigators established that at 9.50 pm on 6 march 2004 a phone call had been made to a number belonging to ms a. from e.’s phone using the applicant’s sim card.in order to test the phone, he had inserted his sim card and made a call to his then girlfriend, ms a. he also claimed that on the same day he had played slot machines and won rub 2,500. then the officers questioning him showed him a call log from ms e.’s phone, informed him of the killing and suggested that he confess to mitigate his sentence.eventually the applicant gave in and agreed to write down a “statement of surrender and confession” (явка с повинной), as dictated by the officers, admitting to the robbery and murder of ms e. 11.  an investigator of the town prosecutor’s office, mr a., questioned the applicant as a suspect and later went to the applicant’s flat to seize a few items including the mobile phone contract for the applicant’s sim card.16.  a handwritten statement signed by the applicant and dated 19 march 2004 affirmed that the applicant’s rights had been explained to him; that he did not require legal assistance; that the “bodily injuries visible at [that] moment on [his] face and body [had been] inflicted on 11 march 2004 by [his] roommate dima”; and that police officers had not used force against him.according to the government, during the visit the applicant confirmed his statement made in the presence of the lawyer in the course of the second interview of 19 march 2004. he also selected a knife similar to that used to stab ms e. from a selection of four knives available at a local shop.the applicant complained to the judge about his ill-treatment; she refused to take note of the allegations, however, stating that they could be examined in the course of the trial against the applicant.26.  according to the government, the applicant raised the ill-treatment complaint on 17 june 2004. the town prosecutor’s office carried out a pre‑investigation inquiry on the basis of the complaint.he observed that upon arrival at the ivs the applicant had had a bruise under his right eye and yet had made no complaints about his state of health, and noted that, according to the ivs logbook, an ambulance had been called for the applicant on account of an epileptic fit.30.  the applicant complained about the town prosecutor’s office’s refusal of 18 june 2004 to the russian prosecutor general’s office, which forwarded it for examination by the prosecutor’s office of the moscow region.34.  on 20 october 2004 the regional court ordered an expert medical examination of the x-ray of 30 march 2004. it can be seen from the trial record of that date that n. informed the judge that he was not an expert in interpreting x‑rays and asked for a period of two weeks to consult a colleague; the judge acceded to the request.the court referred to the applicant’s pre-trial confession, the record of his questioning by the investigator, his statements at the investigative re‑enactment and other physical evidence.37.  the trial judge also examined in detail the evidence presented by the parties in relation to the allegation of ill‑treatment, including the decision of 18 june 2004 and the expert medical report ordered in respect of the x-ray.instead, the judge examined a letter from the deputy director of the ivs, according to which on his arrival there the applicant only had had a black eye which he had explained as having received before the arrest.the judge dismissed the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment and declared the relevant evidence (the confession statement, the interview record and the investigative re-enactment record) admissible.40.  on the same date the applicant (through his counsel) lodged an appeal in which he insisted that the statement of surrender and confession had not been genuine as he had been forcibly brought to the police station and detained there for twelve hours with no access to a lawyer.
the court, noting the child’s young age, dismissed the first applicant’s defence (that she had not been consulted and notified about the centre’s order of 31 may 2007; that the child had not been developing properly at the time; and that the father had not shown any interest for the child) and sentenced her to six months’ imprisonment, suspended for one year.such an attitude infringes the right of the minor s. therefore, given [the second applicant’s] age, the need for an emotional bond to be created between the minor child and the non-cohabitant parent, the need to protect her rights, as well (the need) to eliminate any possibility for manipulation that would prevent the expert team to supervise the enforcement of the contact arrangements between the minor child and the father, (the centre) decided the father’s visiting rights in respect of the minor s.s...”.13.  the first applicant failed to appear at three scheduled meetings in november and december 2007. on two occasions in january and march 2008, the father did not see his daughter because she was ill. 14.  on 29 april 2008, after the centre had obtained the views of the first applicant and the father and had examined the file, it partially accepted the father’s request for longer and more frequent meetings and issued an order (no.12-07/33), specifying that his meetings with the second applicant were to take place in the centre every monday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. the order further stated that: “... the expert team (notes that) the minor s. is still breast-fed, but (since) it is necessary to further strengthen the [child’s] emotional bond with the non-cohabitant parent and to protect the right of [the second applicant] to have contact with the father, it considers that the visiting rights should remain once a week, but longer, which would enable that (the child) stays overnight after she would no longer be breast-fed.” 15.  the centre further set two dates on which the father could meet the second applicant, to replace the meetings missed in january and march 2008 (see paragraph 13 above)....the expert team considers that the forceful enforcement (of the order of 29 april 2008) as specified in (this decision) is in the absolute interest of the minor [second applicant] ...” 17.  the first applicant was ordered to take the second applicant to the centre on 2 june 2008 or risk being prosecuted for child abduction under article 198 of the criminal code.she was accused of failing to allow the meeting scheduled for 2 june 2008 to take place, as required by the centre’s orders of 29 april and 28 may 2008. in submissions of 30 june 2008, the first applicant denied the charge, arguing that she had never been served with the centre’s order of 29 april 2008. in this connection, she maintained that she had received another order from the centre dated 30 april 2008. she also expressed concerns about the fairness of the upcoming trial, given her bulgarian nationality.21.  the first applicant decided not to testify at the hearing held on 10 july 2008. the first-instance court heard the father, who stated that for reasons unknown to him he had not seen his daughter at any of the scheduled meetings since 29 april 2008. a representative of the centre stated that the first applicant had not complied with its orders of 29 april and 28 may 2008, notwithstanding the fact that she had been informed of the consequences of non-compliance.in doing so, it relied on the oral and documentary evidence admitted at the trial, including the centre’s orders of 29 april and 28 may 2008, which had provided explicitly for the need of the child to “strengthen the emotional bond with the [father] and to protect [her] right to have contact with [him]” as being “in [the child’s] absolute interest”.lastly, it stated that: “in assessing the severity of the sentence, the court took into consideration all relevant circumstances (aggravating and mitigating factors) ... in particular, the gravity of the charges and concrete consequences, the manner in which the crime had been committed, the fact that [the first applicant] had already been convicted of the same offence on 2 july [judgment k.br.133/07] and 17 december 2007 [judgment k.br.229/07] and [sentenced to an alternative penalty-suspended prison term].26.  on 30 july 2009, the date when the first applicant started serving the sentence, the centre gave the father, of its own motion and on the basis of section 87(6) of the family act (see paragraph 54 below), temporary custody of the second applicant pending the conclusion of custody proceedings which he had initiated in august 2008 (see paragraph 33 below).they ... have reached an agreement regarding their right to have contact with the child, which reduces the need for the competent body to determine those relationships ... in this connection, there is always the possibility that the parents reach their own agreement, at any given time, regarding custody of the child, as befits her interests.” 36.  lastly, the court concluded that the first applicant’s nationality was of no relevance to the case.referring to the first applicant’s non-compliance with the centre’s orders of 31 may and 21 november 2007, the fact that she had been convicted on three occasions, as well as to the centre’s expert opinion, as “the competent and responsible body” (надлежен и меродавен орган), the court held that there were grounds to amend the first-instance court’s order of 10 may 2007 regarding custody of the child.relying on sections 8, 45, 47, 76 and 80 of the family act (see paragraphs 45-52 below) the supreme court stated, inter alia: “this court considers that after [the first-instance court’s] judgment of 10 may 2007, which granted [the first applicant] custody of [the second applicant], the child was deprived of the fundamental right to receive parental care from both parents because of the first applicant alone.his past behaviour has shown that he is a constructive and cooperative parent whose main concern is the interests of the minor, s. this court further considers that the reason why the lower courts dismissed the appellant’s claim to have custody of [the second applicant], namely that she was three years and eight months old and that at that age she needed to stay with the mother, with whom she was biologically connected, cannot be regarded as the only relevant legal ground (единствено правно решавачка причина).a court order determining which of the parents of a minor child should be given custody is dependent on other factors, such as the parents’ personalities; their views regarding their rights and duties in respect of their child; the rights and interests of the child, including, certainly, [the child’s] right to both parents; and the need for the child to have the best environment for [his or her] healthy mental and physical development.
the applicant alleges that her assailants were mr and mrs k., her daughter’s former parents-in-law, whereas the domestic authorities found that it was only mrs k. who had assaulted the applicant.8.  on 14 february 2007 the oleksandrivka district police department (“the oleksandrivka police”) refused to institute criminal proceedings in connection with the incident.the expert found that in addition to the previously noted haematomas, the applicant had also suffered concussion and a displaced rib fracture.10.  on 20 march 2007 the oleksandrivka prosecutor overruled the decision of 14 february 2007 as premature and on 21 march 2007 instituted criminal proceedings in connection with the infliction of bodily harm of medium severity on the applicant.13.  on 6 october 2007 the investigator questioned mr and mrs k. 14.  on 1 december 2007 the investigator again suspended the investigation for failure to identify the perpetrator.15.  on 10 december 2007 the oleksandrivka prosecutor’s office, in response to the applicant’s complaint about the progress of the investigation, asked the kirovograd regional police department to have the police officers in charge of the investigation disciplined.17.  on 7 april 2008 the investigator decided to ask a forensic medical expert to determine the degree of gravity of the applicant’s injuries.18.  on 15 may 2008 the kirovograd regional police department informed the applicant that the police officers in charge of the case had been disciplined for omissions in the investigation.on 24 february 2009 the kirovograd regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) quashed that judgment, finding no evidence that mrs k.’s mother was dependent on her.20.  on 1 july 2009 the investigator refused to institute criminal proceedings against mr k. 21.  on 7 july 2009 the novomyrgorod prosecutor issued a bill of indictment against mrs k. 22.  on 24 july 2009 the oleksandrivka court remitted the case against mrs k. for further investigation, holding that the applicant had not been informed about the completion of the investigation until 3 july 2009 and had therefore not been given enough time to study the case file.23.  on 13 november 2009 the novomyrgorod prosecutor quashed the decision of 1 july 2009 not to institute criminal proceedings against mr k. subsequently the investigator again refused to institute criminal proceedings against mr k. 24.  on 21 december 2009 the new round of pre-trial investigation in the case against mrs k. was completed and another bill of indictment was issued by the novomyrgorod prosecutor.25.  on 29 march 2010 the oleksandrivka court remitted the case against mrs k. for further investigation, holding in particular that the decision not to institute criminal proceedings against mr k. had been premature, since his role in the incident had not been sufficiently clarified.26.  on 13 july 2010 the novomyrgorod prosecutor quashed the decision not to institute criminal proceedings against mr k. on 26 may 2011 the investigator again refused to institute criminal proceedings against mr k. 27.  on 20 december 2011 the znamyanka court convicted mrs k. of inflicting bodily harm of medium severity on the applicant, sentencing her to restriction of liberty for two years, suspended for a one-year probationary period.the court found that the decision not to institute criminal proceedings against mr k. in connection with the same incident had been correct.28.  on 6 march 2012 the court of appeal quashed the judgment and discontinued the criminal proceedings against mrs k. as time-barred.
6.  at the material time the applicants were members of the main opposition parties or groups in the country: the popular front party of azerbaijan (“the pfpa”), the musavat party and ictimai palata, respectively.in particular, on 12 and 30 april 2010 and 12 march 2011 the second applicant was arrested and convicted of breaching the rules on the organisation and holding of assemblies and failure to obey a lawful order of a police officer.10.  prior notice of the demonstration of 2 april 2011 had been given to the relevant authority, the baku city executive authority (“the bcea”), on 18 march 2011. on 31 march 2011 the bcea refused to allow the demonstration to be held at the place indicated by the organisers, and proposed that it be held at another place on the outskirts of baku.the report stated that the applicant had committed an administrative offence under article 310.1 (failure to comply with a lawful order of a police officer) of the code of administrative offences (“the cao”).14.  the applicant signed the part of the administrative-offence report acknowledging that he had been familiarised with the report, but left without signature the part with a pre-printed text which stated that “the rights and obligations under articles 371, 372, 374, 377, 379 and 410.4 of the cao of the republic of azerbaijan were explained”.18.  the applicant stated before the court that he had been stopped by the police and had been requested to follow them to a police station, that he had complied with that request, and that he was not guilty of disobeying a police officer.20.  according to the record of the hearing, the state-funded lawyer stated that the applicant was not guilty and asked the court to terminate the administrative proceedings against him.22.  the applicant lodged an appeal before the baku court of appeal, presenting his version of the facts surrounding the arrest, and arguing that he had been arrested in connection with the demonstration scheduled for 2 april 2011. he also complained that his arrest had been unlawful and that the hearing before the first-instance court had not been fair.stated the following in a report submitted to a superior police officer: “... at around 12.30 p.m. on 31 march 2011 on the territory of the 9th micro-district of sumgait, i noticed a person who was making noise ... but although i invited him to respect the discipline, he continued his cursing and improper behaviour ... therefore i brought him to police station no.34.  the applicant stated before the court that he had been taken to a police station from his apartment, that it had been his father who had let the police officers in, that at the police station he had been questioned about his political activity, and that he was not guilty of disobeying a police officer or of swearing at the location indicated by the police.37.  the applicant lodged an appeal before the sumgait court of appeal, presenting his version of the facts surrounding the arrest, and arguing that his arrest had been unlawful, that the hearing before the first-instance court had not been fair and that his right to respect for home had been violated by the police.the applicant, who did not clearly explain the purpose of that visit, alleged that when he had been outside the police office and no longer accompanied by his lawyer, police officers had arrested him without explaining the reasons for doing so, and had taken him to police station no.48.  according to the applicant, he was not given an opportunity to hire a lawyer of his own choice to represent him at the hearing, which began at 4 p.m. he asked the judge to postpone the examination of the case for one hour so that his lawyer could arrive at the court.50.  the applicant stated before the court that he was not guilty of breaching public order by swearing at the location indicated by the police, and that he believed that the motive for his arrest had been his participation in the demonstration of 12 march 2011.53.  the applicant lodged an appeal before the sumgait court of appeal, presenting his version of the facts surrounding the arrest, and arguing that his arrest had been unlawful and that the hearing before the first-instance court had not been fair.
11.  at 9.30 a.m. on 10 april 2010 k. was admitted to kyiv city emergency hospital, where he was diagnosed with a closed abdominal injury, rupture of the spleen, retroperitoneal haematoma, a closed chest injury, laceration (tissue rupture) of the right lung, left-sided pneumonia, post-traumatic anaemia, and fourth-degree haemorrhagic shock (the most serious on a scale of one to four, entailing critical blood loss of over 40%).17.  on 8 june 2010 the newspaper “segodnya”, issued in the kyiv region, published an article under the headline “a bad [police] station” («нехороший участок») about the alleged ill-treatment of the applicant’s son in the shevchenkivskyy police station in spring 2010. the author relied, in particular, on the statements of one of k.’s cell-mates.he further stated that the investigator dealing with his case had also hit him in the stomach once in march 2010. according to k., these two beatings had necessitated his urgent medical treatment on 10 april 2010. k. said that he did not understand why his mother had stated that he had been subjected to ill-treatment on 8 april 2010 (see paragraph 13 above).following his hospitalisation on 10 april 2010, k. had mentioned to a doctor that he had been physically assaulted some three days earlier, and the doctor had then stated to the investigator that k.’s injuries had been sustained no more than two days before his admission to hospital.22.  on 3 august 2010 an official of the kyiv city prosecutor’s office (“the kyiv prosecutor’s office”), to which the investigation had been transferred meanwhile for an unknown reason, also questioned k. this time, he stated that he had only been ill-treated on 26 december 2009, but never thereafter.they said that he had felt unwell on the night of 9 to 10 april 2010, and that an ambulance had been called for him on the morning of 10 april 2010. they also submitted that nobody had been violent towards him or had put him under any psychological pressure.24.  on 9 september 2010 the sizo’s medical assistant (фельдшер), who had been on duty at the time of the events, was questioned as part of the investigation.28.  on 29 december 2010 the applicant’s son signed a form of authority, authorising mr zarutskyy (the lawyer who represented the applicant before the court – see paragraph 2 above) to represent him in proceedings before the court.k. maintained his earlier version of events, namely that his ill-treatment had consisted of the following two episodes: shevchenkivskyy police officers physically assaulting him following his arrest on 26 december 2009, and the investigator in charge hitting him once in the stomach at the end of march 2010.35.  on 30 september 2011 the sizo administration sent to the investigator the list of the staff members who had been on duty during the night of 9 to 10 april 2010. as regards the list of k.’s cell-mates at the time, the administration informed the investigator that no records were kept in that regard.she was represented by the same lawyer who had earlier represented k. 38.  on 9 december 2011 the chief of the shevchenkivskyy police department informed the applicant’s lawyer that the investigation, which had been initiated on 10 march 2011 (see paragraph 30 above), was ongoing.47.  on 8 june 2011 the sizo deputy governor and the chief of the medical unit replied that, following a planned x-ray that day, k. had been diagnosed with infiltrative tuberculosis of the right lung and had been transferred to the sizo’s medical unit for treatment.49.  as indicated in the letter sent by the sizo management on 28 november 2011 in reply to the applicant’s lawyer’s inquiry of 13 october 2011, k. had an x-ray which revealed that the treatment of his tuberculosis was evolving positively.52.  in a letter of 28 november 2011 to the applicant’s lawyer the sizo management noted that they had previously asked the kyiv city court of appeal, which was dealing with the criminal case against k., to either accelerate the examination of that case or release k. on health grounds.54.  on the same date, the applicant asked the police to transfer the body to a mortuary, with a view to establishing the cause of death.
according to the applicants, as soon as they noticed the police approaching they attempted to run away and leave the place of the demonstration but police officers followed and caught them.the reports stated that at 5.30 p.m. on 22 may 2011, by deliberately failing to comply with the lawful order of the police, the applicants had committed an administrative offence under article 310 of the code of administrative offences (“the cao”).12.  all three applicants refused to sign the respective administrative-offence reports, which contained pre-printed texts declaring that “[the arrested person] was familiarised with the report” and “the rights and obligations under articles 371, 372, 374, 377, 379 and 410.4 of the cao of the republic of azerbaijan were explained”.14.  according to those administrative-arrest reports, copies of which were submitted to the court by the government, the first and second applicants had been subjected to administrative arrest at 7 p.m. on 22 may 2011. the reports also stated that the applicants had been released on the same date, without specifying the time of the alleged releases, and contained signatures of the first and second applicants.17.  according to the applicant, the hearing, which began at 12.40 p.m., was very brief and members of the public, including human rights defenders and journalists, were not allowed to attend, even though the court had not taken a formal decision to close the hearing to the public.22.  the applicant lodged an appeal before the baku court of appeal, arguing that his conviction was in violation of his rights because the demonstration in which he had participated had been peaceful.24.  on 31 may 2011 the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of the first-instance court, stating that its findings had been correct.25.  the court of appeal also noted that at the first-instance court hearing the applicant had refused the assistance of a state-funded lawyer and had decided to defend himself in person.27.  according to the applicant, the hearing, which began at 12.30 p.m., was very brief and members of the public were not allowed to attend, even though the court had not taken a formal decision to close the hearing to the public.29.  the applicant stated before the court that he was not guilty of disobeying a lawful order of a police officer and that he had participated in the demonstration as an observer.32.  the applicant lodged an appeal before the baku court of appeal, arguing that his conviction was in violation of his rights because the demonstration in which he had participated had been peaceful.34.  on 31 may 2011 the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of the first-instance court, stating that its findings had been correct.36.  according to the applicant, the hearing, which began at 12.30 p.m., was very brief and members of the public were not allowed to attend, even though the court had not taken a formal decision to close the hearing to the public.41.  the applicant lodged an appeal before the baku court of appeal, arguing that his conviction was in violation of his rights because the demonstration in which he had participated had been peaceful.43.  on 31 may 2011 the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of the first-instance court, stating that its findings had been correct.
10.  t. and his colleague, s., who was also in the office, intimidated the applicant with a view to making her confess to the investigated theft.when she told the officers she needed to use the toilet, s. hit her in the stomach and the head.she was then taken to the office of the head of the search unit, who stated that she was the main suspect in the theft case and that all her colleagues had indicated her as the likely thief.the applicant was forced to write a statement that she had no complaints about the way the police had treated her.19.  on 9 november 2008 the hospital authorities informed the ordzhonikidze police department about the applicant’s injuries allegedly inflicted on her by police officers.20.  on 10 november 2008 the applicant complained to the kharkiv ordzhonikidze district prosecutor’s office (“the ordzhonikidze prosecutor’s office”) about her ill-treatment.24.  on 15 january 2009 the investigator seized the trousers which the applicant had been wearing on 8 november 2008. a forensic immunological examination discovered traces of her urine on them.the expert considered it established that, at the time of her hospitalisation, the applicant had had bruises to both arms that had been inflicted by blunt objects a day to three days previously.as regards the soft tissue contusions, the expert did not find it necessary to take that diagnosis into account as being based merely on a personal opinion of the doctor who had examined the applicant.26.  on 9 february 2009 a forensic expert evaluation was carried out of the applicant’s handwritten statement on the official report on the questioning of 8 november 2008. the expert concluded that she had been “in an unusual state” when writing that note.27.  on the same date officer t. challenged the decision of 12 december 2008 before the ordzhonikidze district court (“the ordzhonikidze court”).29.  on 19 march 2009, however, the kharkiv regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) quashed that decision and remitted the case to the first-instance court for fresh examination.31.  on 22 april 2009 the ordzhonikidze court quashed the prosecutor’s decision of 12 december 2008. this ruling was quashed by the court of appeal on 7 may 2009.32.  on 5 june 2009 the ordzhonikidze court once again quashed the prosecutor’s decision of 12 december 2008. on 25 june 2009 this ruling too was quashed by the court of appeal.36.  on 15 november 2010 the court of appeal quashed the ruling of the first-instance court and remitted the case to it for fresh examination.
it relied on the applicant’s attempted escape while being transported outside the prison and on the serious nature of the offence he had been charged with.subsequently, the commission extended the application of the dangerous detainee regime to the applicant on numerous occasions.the applicant submitted copies of the decisions of the commission dated: 6 may 2008, 19 march 2009, 12 august and 23 december 2010, 23 march, 23 june and 14 july 2011 and 15 march 2012. all these decisions were issued on a special form containing space for reasoning.it first noted that it was capable of examining whether the commission had remained within the limits of reasonableness and the limits of free assessment of circumstances of the case.it further held that the decision had been issued in accordance with the law and that it had been justified taking into account the applicant’s aggressive and vulgar behaviour in the remand centre, his refusing meals and his unrepentent attitude towards the offences of which he had been convicted by the first-instance court.16.  on 31 august 2010 he complained about the conditions of his detention and the further extension of his classification as a dangerous detainee to the regional inspector of the prison service.he also referred to the applicant’s self-mutilation on 17 june 2010 and found that on 18 june 2010 he had been examined by a psychologist who had not found any obstacles to placing the applicant in solitary confinement as a disciplinary penalty.18.  the applicant appealed against the decisions of 23 december 2010 and 23 march 2011. in his appeal against the former decision the applicant claimed, in particular, that the commission had arbitrarily classified him as “dangerous”, that he had no access to the opinions and the prison authorities’ request leading to this classification, and he had been debased and humiliated by “[being] consciously kept ... in inhuman conditions”.19.  on 28 february 2011 the lublin regional court dismissed the appeal, finding that the applicant’s classification had been justified in view of the fact that on 14 august 2007 he had unlawfully tried to escape while being transported.the court further referred to the fact that the applicant had been charged with murder and held that this alone would be sufficient to justify the dangerous detainee classification even without the attempted escape.the court further held: “further circumstances such as personal conditions, the applicant’s behaviour in detention and the extent of his lack of moral character are subject to assessment and the decision in this respect cannot be examined from the viewpoint of lawfulness.it could be examined as regards its equity; this however would go beyond the limits of examination laid down by article 7 § 1 of the code of execution of criminal sentences.” as regards the applicant’s further complaints the court held that they did not have any influence on the commission’s decision and as such “did not even merit examination.” 20.  on 11 may 2011 the lublin regional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal against the decision of 23 march 2011 holding that it had been based on “the applicant’s attitude and negative behaviour and the assessment of his rehabilitation progress”.he was subjected to a strip search every time he left and entered the cell, which in practice meant that he had to strip naked in front of prison officers and was required to bend over in order to enable the examination of his anus.29.  the cell window was covered with a plastic blind which, according to the applicant, limited access to fresh air and natural light in the cell.on 17 december 2009 the lublin regional court convicted him of attempting to escape while being transported to a psychiatric examination on 14 august 2007. this conviction was upheld by the lublin court of appeal on 10 november 2010. on 10 february 2012 the applicant was convicted by the lublin regional court of having assaulted a public servant on 4 august 2009.
6.  on 24 may 1961 the applicant’s husband was granted a specially protected tenancy in respect of a flat in zagreb by the yugoslav people’s army (the “ypa”).7.  on 3 june 1991 parliament enacted the protected tenancies (sale to occupier) act (zakon o prodaji stanova na kojima postoji stanarsko pravo – hereinafter “the sale to occupier act”), which regulated the sale of socially-owned flats previously let under a specially protected tenancy (see paragraph 19 below).9.  in 1995 the act amending the sale to occupier act (zakon o izmjenama i dopunama zakona o prodaji stanova na kojima postoji stanarsko pravo – hereinafter “the aptso”) allowed the sale of state-owned flats as well (see paragraph 22 below).10.  on 29 january 1997 the constitutional court abrogated some of the provisions of the aptso, including the one stipulating the time-limit for lodging a purchase request (see paragraph 23 below) 11.  the applicant’s husband died on 15 april 2006.she relied on several decisions of the constitutional court ruling that there was no time-limit in respect of a holder of a specially protected tenancy lodging a request to purchase the respective state-owned flat (see paragraphs 24-26 below).14.  in its judgment of 24 june 2008 the zagreb municipal court held that there was no dispute between the parties that the applicant, as a former holder of a specially protected tenancy of the flat that she occupied, had the right to purchase that flat under favourable conditions.the only issue to be resolved was whether there was a time-limit that the applicant had to observe when lodging her request to purchase that flat – and if so, whether she had complied with it.the municipal court dismissed the applicant’s claim on the ground that the applicant had lodged her purchase request outside the accepted time-limit, which had been 31 december 1995.15.  the applicant lodged an appeal, arguing that the time-limit under the aptso for lodging a request to purchase a state-owned flat had been abrogated by the constitutional court and that no new time-limit had been fixed.she also relied on the opinion of the constitutional court that the very purpose of the sale to occupier act was to enable holders of specially protected tenancies in respect of socially and state-owned flats to purchase such flats (see paragraph 22 below).16.  the first-instance judgment was upheld by the zagreb county court on 12 october 2010. the relevant part of the second-instance judgment reads: “as regards the decisions of the constitutional court relied on in the [plaintiff’s] action, it is to be noted that these decisions exceptionally recognised the right of certain parties to purchase flats [they occupied] in particular circumstances (such as their having had no clearly regulated status of holder of a specially protected tenancy before that date – for example in decision no.the constitutional court in all decisions recognising the right to purchase flats [they occupied] of persons who had not lodged a request in that respect before 31 december 1995 has accepted that there were objective circumstances preventing those persons from taking all relevant steps within the prescribed time-limits.in the case at issue the plaintiff did not even argue [that there were any] such circumstances, but insisted that she could bring an action for the purchase of the flat [that she occupies] at any time and that there were no time-limits in that respect.the view of this court is that the holders of specially protected tenancies of state-owned flats were obliged to lodge a request for purchasing these flats before 31 december 1995 (with the exception that in certain circumstances it was possible to claim that a party was prevented from lodging such a request within that time-limit on objective grounds).” 17.  the applicant’s subsequent constitutional complaint was dismissed on 20 february 2013. the relevant part of that decision reads: “the constitutional court notes that the competent courts dismissed the applicant’s civil action on the grounds that she had not proved that any objective circumstances had prevented her from lodging a request to purchase the flat in issue within the prescribed time-limit.the constitutional court considers that the impugned decisions contain reasons acceptable from the standpoint of the constitutional law and that therefore they cannot be seen as arbitrary or unreasonable.”
the second applicant ended his letter by stating that he could guarantee one thing: that the doctors’ professional representative body would make use of all legal and political means available to stop such a disastrous development from going ahead, to prevent that the quality of medical treatment being determined by “managers and controllers” and to ensure, inter alia, that existing medical practices were protected from the competition from “international locust funds” (“internationale heuschreckenfonds”).the court found that there was a competitive relationship between the f. company and the applicants, and found the statements made by the applicants to be defamatory under article 1330 of the civil code and unethical under the unfair competition act (bundesgesetz gegen den unlauteren wettbewerb).according to the court of appeal, the letter in issue pursued the interests of the chamber’s members, outside the chamber’s official sphere of activity.as a result of that balancing exercise, the court of appeal found that the “locust” statement had to be considered a lawful criticism in the context of a public debate, and that the f. company could therefore not base its claim on article 1330 of the civil code.11.  however, as regards the further statement, namely that provision of certain services by the f. company was a “disastrous development”, the court of appeal found that, read in context, the statement indicated a general assessment and did not refer to a particular service of the f. company.13.  on 7 july 2008 the commercial court gave its judgment in the substantive proceedings and ordered the applicants to refrain from: repeating the statement that the f. company was ruthless towards third parties, in particular medical practitioners and patients; and stating that the f. company was a “locust company”, a “locust fund” or a “locust”.it further ordered the applicants to publish and display the operative part of the judgment on the first applicant organisation’s website for thirty days, and to publish it in the first applicant organisation’s print newsletter.examining the statements in relation to the provisions of the unfair competition act, the commercial court found that the letter had been written by the chamber of medical doctors in a commercial and not a political context.with reference to the court’s case-law allowing for a wider margin of appreciation under article 10 of the convention with regard to commercial language, the commercial court observed that a competitor was required to be more diligent in the context of commercial communication among competitors.it referred to the extensive reasoning given in the interim injunction proceedings and added that, according to the case-law of the supreme court, the test used to verify whether a statement was covered by the right to freedom of expression required the assessment of whether a factual basis for such a statement existed; if a competitor participated in a public debate of general interest, freedom of expression had more weight with regard to the assessment of the statement than in the context of purely commercial communication.the greater the public interest in being properly informed and the less the statement related to commercial interests, the more the statement would be protected by article 10 of the convention.in the present case, there was no doubt that there was an ongoing public debate; however, the commercial interests of the applicants had very much been in the foreground of the communicated statement itself.17.  the applicants lodged an extraordinary appeal on points of law against that judgment, which was rejected by the supreme court on 14 july 2009. the supreme court found that the applicants had not only called the f. company a “locust”, but had also reproached this company for negative conduct, such as dominating doctors, dismissing doctors who did not act in accordance with company wishes, and focusing on economic factors rather than the welfare of patients (“herrschaft über den ärztlichen berufstand, kündigung nicht “spurender” ärzte, orientierung an ökonomischen erwägungen und damit nicht am wohl der patienten”).therefore, the expression used had turned into a statement of fact, giving the reader the impression that the f. company had already demonstrated unethical conduct which threatened the interests of doctors and patients.furthermore, the issuing of warnings concerning the potential risks of the provision of medical services by companies was not, as such, prohibited by the decisions of the austrian courts; the applicants had only been required to refrain from making untrue statements of fact in respect of their competitors.
7.  on 14 october 2011, the lublin remand centre penitentiary commission (“the commission”) imposed a special regime for detainees deemed to be dangerous (“the dangerous detainee regime”) on the applicant.the commission referred to the fact that the applicant had organised a collective protest in opole lubelskie prison, namely, a hunger strike by prisoners, and that he had planned an attack on a prison employee.it also found that the applicant had received disciplinary punishments on many occasions, in particular for the attempted smuggling of psychoactive substances into prison.8.  the applicant did not appeal against the decision to impose the regime on him.9.  the decision was reviewed and upheld by the commission every three months.10.  on 12 january 2012 the commission again reviewed the situation and upheld its decision, considering that the applicant posed a serious danger to the security of the prison.11.  on 11 april 2012 the commission reviewed and upheld its decision, relying on the same grounds as previously.12.  on 16 may 2012 the commission examined the applicant’s appeal and upheld its earlier decision.it also referred to the applicant’s highly deficient moral character (wysoki stopień demoralizacji), and the fact that he had been the leader of a collective protest in opole lubelskie prison (the prisoners’ hunger strike) and had planned an attack on a prison employee.the applicant lodged a court appeal against the commission’s decision.13.  on 13 june 2012 the lublin regional court dismissed the appeal, holding that the decision had been lawful.14.  on 14 july 2012 the lublin remand centre penitentiary commission lifted the dangerous detainee regime in respect of the applicant.it based its decision on the applicant’s good behaviour and the fact that he no longer posed a danger to the prison.the applicant was subjected to a body search every time he left and entered the cell, which in practice meant that he had to strip naked in front of prison officers and was required to bend over to allow his anus to be examined.whenever he was outside his cell, including at court hearings, the applicant had to wear joined shackles (kajdanki zespolone) on his hands and feet.
taking into account information in their possession concerning the presumed criminal activity of mr apti dalakov and his refusal to obey law-enforcement agents’ orders, the fsb officer took the decision to open fire, shooting to kill in order to eliminate the threat to his own life and health and that of the other people present at the time in the street.of the internal investigations department of the ingushetia ministry of the interior, conducted an internal inquiry in connection with “collaboration between police officers from the ingushetia ministry of the interior and officers of the ingushetia federal security service” concerning the circumstances of mr apti dalakov’s killing.had reported the incident to the duty unit of the karabulak town police department, and had remained at his post ... a group of police officers dispatched to the crime scene from the town police station and a group of ingushetia omon which had arrived there after hearing shots from automatic weapons ... found a dead man and a disorderly group of about 100 people, some in camouflage uniforms and others in civilian clothing, who were shouting ... and yelling about why the police were not arresting armed bandits who had killed an unarmed man who had not offered any resistance.the law-enforcement officers of karabulak had taken those men for terrorists and/or active members of illegal armed groups ... under these circumstances, to prevent the presumed law-enforcement officers from being lynched by the enraged crowd, the head of the karabulak town police department, lieutenant-colonel [a.m.], had tried to separate the armed men who had killed [the man on the ground] and the civilians from the local residents.after that the armed men were taken to the karabulak town police department and the premises of the omon unit (the entire perimeter of the town police station had been surrounded by civilians expressing their indignation at the actions of the unidentified persons who had made several “insurance” shots to the head of the unarmed wounded young man who had fallen to the ground next to the nursery school and who, according to the nearby residents, then had placed an armed grenade under his body to make it look like the young man had offered resistance).the ingushetia minister of the interior and the head of the ingushetia fsb had arrived at the scene and taken the decision to immediately release the arrested persons to avoid making their identities known to the public ... the unidentified persons ... had offered resistance to the omon officers ... as a result [of the scuffle], the police officers [m.o.]], required medical assistance... all the arrested persons who were law-enforcement officers were released without logging their names in the detention log upon confirmation of their identities by the head of the ingushetia fsb; their guns were returned to them ... therefore, the above misunderstanding took place due to lack of proper coordination between the law-enforcement agencies who were carrying out a special task in the republic of ingushetia ...” 16.  the documents submitted indicate that on various dates in september 2007 the investigators questioned several witnesses who lived near the crime scene.the copy of the decision enclosed with the letter indicated that the decision had been taken on the basis of the explanation given by officer a.k., which was identical to the statement given by him on 5 march 2008 to the investigators in criminal case no.the officer stated that on 2 september 2007, as a member of a special combat group, upon the order of the head of the ingushetia fsb, he had arrived in karabulak to carry out a special operation aimed at arresting active members of “the karabulak illegal armed group” mr apti dalakov and mr i.d., who were suspected of involvement in terrorist acts in ingushetia.41.  on 14 august 2008 the applicant complained to the karabulak district court under article 125 of the code of criminal procedure about the failure of the investigating department to open a criminal case in connection with mr apti dalakov’s killing and failure to take basic steps to establish the circumstances of the incident.the karabulak town prosecutor overruled this decision ... i lodged another complaint with the karabulak investigating department in which i requested that a criminal case be opened in order to investigate the killing of mr apti dalakov; witnesses to the incident, in addition to the police officers from the karabulak town police department and the ingushetia omon who had participated in the detention of the fsb officers who had shot mr apti dalakov, be identified and questioned ... and victim status in the criminal case be granted to me.the failure of the investigating authorities to act violates article 2 of the european convention of human rights... i request, on the basis of article 125 of the russian criminal procedure code that the court ... 1.  declare unlawful the failure of the investigating authorities to initiate a criminal investigation in respect of my complaint, to identify and question witnesses to the killing ... and grant me victim status in the proceedings; 2.  oblige the karabulak investigating committee (1)  to remedy the above breaches; (2)  to open a criminal case in connection with mr apti dalakov’s killing (3)  to grant me victim status in the criminal case (4)  to identify and question witnesses to mr apti dalakov’s killing (5)  to question officers of the karabulak town police department and the ingushetia omon who arrested those involved in mr apti dalakov’s killing ...” according to the government, the applicant lodged this complaint on 18 august 2008. the incoming mail registration stamp on the copy of the document indicates that this complaint was received on 14 august 2008.the court reasoned as follows: “... [the applicant] m. k. dalakov ... requested that his complaint be allowed and the refusal to initiate a criminal investigation into his nephew’s killing be declared unlawful ... that the police officers ... who had been present at the crime scene be questioned as witnesses, and that more witnesses to the crime, in addition to the fsb officers who had shot mr a. dalakov dead, be identified and questioned.having been duly informed of the date and place of the hearing, and in the absence of requests for the examination of the case in their absence, both parties failed to appear at the hearing; this does not preclude the court from examining the complaint on its merits.on the basis of the above, under paragraph 5 of article 125 of the russian criminal procedure code, the court finds that the complaint of mr magomed dalakov under article 125 of the russian criminal procedure code concerning alleged failure of the karabulak investigating committee to act should be rejected ...” 44.  according to the government’s submission, both parties were present during the examination on 18 and 23 september 2008. the applicant, who was represented at the hearing by his lawyer, was provided with a copy of the decision by letter from the court, sent to his address on the same date.
4.  at the material time all the applicants were detained in russian penal facilities.where relevant, the dates of their detention are listed in annex i.5.  while in detention, the applicants mr yevdokimov, mr rezanov, and mr morozov lodged defamation claims against private third parties; the applicants mr makhov, mr resin, mr anikanov, mr lebetskiy, mr gromovoy, mr gordeyev and mr vinokhodov brought claims seeking compensation for the allegedly inhuman conditions of their detention; and the applicant mr martirosyan lodged a civil claim for compensation, alleging that the criminal proceedings had been instituted unlawfully.6.  none of the applicants were able to attend the hearings at which their claims were examined.the domestic courts refused them the possibility to be present at the hearing, on the ground that there was no domestic legal provision for bringing detainees to courts.in particular, they quoted article 77.1 of the code on the execution of sentences (see paragraph 11 below) and the relevant provisions of the code of civil procedure.in the other cases, the issue of the applicants’ presence in court was not addressed.7.  the applicants appealed, raising the question of their appearance in court in the appeal statement.some submitted a separate request seeking leave to appear before the appeal court.the appeal courts either dismissed the applicants’ arguments or concluded that their absence from the court was in line with the legislation and did not contravene the principle of fairness.8.  the applicants’ claims were refused at two levels of jurisdiction.the dates of the final judgments are set out in annex i.
under that resolution the commission was set up with the following aims: “(1) to investigate the circumstances surrounding the attempted extortion by lew rywin of material and political gains in exchange for his assistance in preventing an amendment of the broadcasting act that would be unfavourable to private media and in guaranteeing that the broadcasting media council would decide in favour of such media; and to determine the identity of any persons that may have taken steps to this effect, as revealed by the gazeta wyborcza newspaper and other media.... bribery is so harmful and blameworthy that the fact of representing it using a toilet bowl as a symbol is no exaggeration ... the picture where the complainant’s head is seen emerging from the toilet bowl – a symbol of corruption – only means that he may be implicated in the affair and that its elucidation may lead to establishing the identities of others involved ...” 15.  in the meantime, the criminal investigation and the work of the commission were ongoing.20.  on 8 august 2003 the warsaw court of appeal ordered the case to be sent to warsaw regional court on the ground of its exceptional nature and its importance (sprawa szczególnej wagi), having regard to the positions held by the individuals implicated in the case, the media and public interest and the work of the commission.noting that the commission had been privy to the whole of the investigation case file concerning the applicant, the court pointed out that if the material in the file were used in the proceedings before the commission it would have to be careful not to cause any prejudice to the persons concerned by that investigation, such as the witnesses and the applicant.noting that some of those comments could be regarded as an attempt to influence the court’s work, the president emphasised the following points: that throughout the trial the judges had acted pursuant only to the provisions of criminal law; that the purpose of the trial was different from that of the parliamentary commission of inquiry; and that as professional judges the members of the bench had been able to resist any pressure that might result from the media statements made in connection with the case by various journalists and politicians, or even by certain members of the commission.pointing out that a statement such as his in the present case was unusual, in view of the judiciary’s duty of discretion, the president explained that he could not refrain from mentioning the remarks made by the author of the article entitled “before the judgment”, which had been published in the period when the case was under deliberation and which could be regarded, in his view, as an attempt on the part of the journalist to influence the outcome; such statements were, in his view, inadmissible and blameworthy, even in connection with a case which, like the present one and rightly so, had attracted significant media interest.31.  on 23 august 2004 the applicant and the public prosecutor’s office each appealed against the judgment of 26 april 2004. in his statement of appeal the applicant alleged, among other things, that on account of the influence of the commission’s work on the judges, exacerbated by the press coverage of the two sets of proceedings, his trial had been devoid of the requisite fairness under article 6 of the european convention on human rights.in view of doubts as to the weight of the vote of 28 may, the sejm endorsed the report by the mp zbigniew ziobro by its final vote of 24 september 2004. the position taken in that report was as follows: “leszek miller, prime minister, aleksandra jakubowska, junior minister in the ministry of culture, lech nikolski, the prime minister’s chief of staff, robert kwiatkowski, chair of the board of directors of the company tvp s.a., and wlodzimierz czarzasty, member of the broadcasting media council, committed, by deliberate and concerted action in july 2002, the offence of bribery, within the meaning of article 228 § 5 of the criminal code taken together with article 13 § 1 thereof; in that they, [while] influencing the content of the broadcasting act being amended and the parliamentary proceedings related thereto, in july 2002, through the intermediary of lew rywin, acting as agent of the ‘power-holding group’, made a corrupt proposal to the representatives of agora s.a, namely on 15 july 2002 to wanda rapaczyńska and piotr niemczycki and on 22 july 2002 to adam michnik, consisting in demanding a financial reward of 17.5 million us dollars (usd), the appointment of lew rywin as chairman of the channel polsat and an undertaking from the company agora that the newspaper gazeta wyborcza would refrain from publishing any criticism of the prime minister or government.37.  in a judgment of 10 december 2004 the court of appeal found mr rywin guilty of aiding and abetting influence peddling (pomocnictwo do płatnej protekcji), an offence under article 18 § 3 of the criminal code taken together with articles 230 and 12 of that code, and sentenced him to two years’ imprisonment and a fine of pln 100,000. in its reasoning, the court of appeal found that the applicant had facilitated the perpetration by other individuals – whose identity had not been established – of the offence of bribery.in this connection it found it established that, on 15 and 22 july 2002, the applicant had presented to wanda rapaczyńska and adam michnik an offer devised by the above-mentioned individuals who, on the strength of their positions at the level of the state, had proposed their assistance as intermediaries to amend the broadcasting act in a manner favourable to agora, thereby enabling it to purchase the television channel polsat, in exchange for usd 17.5 million, a sum that was to be paid to the social democrat party (sld) via the bank account of a company belonging to the applicant.38.  in response to the applicant’s complaint that the proceedings of the commission and their media coverage had undermined the fairness of his trial, the court of appeal found that this complaint was not substantiated by any tangible evidence; the applicant had not explained concretely how the media reports on the commission’s work had influenced the reasoning of the judges in their deliberations or the outcome of the criminal proceedings, or how the commission’s proceedings and report might have had any impact on the impartiality of the judges or on the reliability of the testimony given before the trial court.39.  as to the applicant’s complaint that the testimony used in support of his conviction had been vitiated by the fact that the witnesses had been heard by the regional court after being questioned on the same circumstances by the commission, in public sittings that had received significant media attention, the court of appeal regarded it as ill-founded; testimony was always assessed by judges in accordance with the rules in article 7 of the code of criminal procedure and in the light of all the evidence.2. on the proposal of the president of the republic, or at least 115 members of parliament, a resolution to hold a cabinet member to account before the tribunal of state shall be passed by the sejm by a majority of three-fifths of the number of members of parliament provided for by the constitution.” article 175 “the administration of justice in the republic of poland shall be implemented by the supreme court, the ordinary courts, the administrative courts the and military courts.for violations of the constitution or of a statute committed by them in office, the following persons shall be constitutionally accountable before the tribunal of state: the president of the republic, the prime minister and members of the cabinet, the president of the national bank of poland, the president of the supreme chamber of audit, members of the national council of radio and television broadcasting, persons whom the prime minister has appointed to head a ministry and the commander-in-chief of the armed forces.3. the principal public prosecutor’s office shall carry out the acts referred to in paragraph 1 in accordance with the provisions of the code of criminal procedure and the law of 20 june 1985 on the public prosecutor’s office ...” 84.  the relevant provisions of the code of criminal procedure read as follows: article 5 “§ 1. the defendant shall be presumed innocent until proven guilty in a final judgment.
the verdict of the regional court was based mainly on the conclusions of a psychiatric expert opinion but also took into account the applicant’s previous conviction for indecent assault in 1990. it also observed that the applicant had tried to subjugate several prostitutes whom he had been seeing in recent years.12.  on 21 november 2005 the applicant was examined by an external psychological expert who criticised in detail the diagnosis of sexual sadism during the trial, in particular the lack of information about the applicant’s inner experiences during the onset of the disorder, its further development, and the failure to evaluate his previous offences.although it mentioned the presumptive diagnosis of sexual sadism, it found that this presumption was not tenable in view of the history and the personality structure of the applicant.all the expert opinions concluded that there were no indications for the diagnosis of sexual sadism apart from the facts contained in the verdict of the trial court.17.  on 30 september 2008 the frankfurt am main court of appeal allowed the re-opening of the criminal proceedings which had been terminated by the judgment of the darmstadt regional court dated 14 january 2002.the expert concluded that the applicant was suffering from sexual sadism, subject to the reservation that he had not examined the applicant in person but had based his evaluation on the medical files only.20.  on 15 march 2011 the haina clinic for forensic psychiatry, where the applicant was detained, delivered an expert opinion on the necessity of the applicant’s further detention in hospital.24.  on 28 july 2011 the regional court declined to terminate the applicant’s placement in hospital and refused to release him on probation as the requirements of article 67 d §§ 2 and 6 of the criminal code were not met (see paragraph 32, below).it explained that detention in a psychiatric hospital could be terminated on the grounds of an erroneous treatment order only if it was established with certainty that the applicant was not suffering from a mental illness warranting his detention under article 63 of the criminal code owing to a diminished criminal responsibility from the very beginning.in this context the regional court observed that neither the statement by the psychological expert at the hearing nor the current and prior expert opinions had excluded the possibility that the applicant was suffering from sexual sadism, although this diagnosis had been found to be rather unlikely (see paragraphs 10 to 14, above).lastly, the regional court noted, but explicitly without basing its decision on this fact, that the expert opinion which had been delivered in the course of the re-opening proceedings of the criminal trial had confirmed the diagnosis of sadism.the applicant himself had to bear the consequences of his refusal to participate in any therapy as the hospital offered therapy in order to reappraise the causes of crime even for patients who had been placed in hospital erroneously.28.  on 23 april 2014 the darmstadt regional court decided not to suspend the order for the applicant’s placement in a psychiatric hospital and not to grant probation after obtaining an external expert opinion dated 22 february 2014 and having heard the expert and the applicant’s counsel.the expert, who had not examined the applicant in person due to his refusal to permit such examination, found that the applicant was suffering from a disturbance of his sexual preference in the form of sadism and that the commission of further crimes was to be expected.29.  on 19 january 2015 the darmstadt regional court again decided not to suspend the order for the applicant’s placement in a psychiatric hospital and not to grant probation after obtaining a written opinion from the haina forensic-psychiatric clinic in which the applicant has been detained and after hearing the applicant.
it heard evidence from the parties, their counsel and twelve witnesses in person in hearings on 31 may, 28 june and 6 september 2007. it further took note of the written submissions of the parties and of numerous documents as well as of the case files in several related proceedings.17.  having regard to the evidence before it, the regional court considered that f.h.’s submissions regarding the question of who had been the owner of the shares in dispute had been more credible than that of the applicant.18.  following a hearing, on 27 may 2010 the court of appeal, endorsing the findings of the regional court, dismissed the applicant’s appeal dated 3 february 2010. it considered that the regional court had taken all evidence necessary for its decision.19.  in a judgment and decision dated 13 january 2011 the supreme court dismissed an appeal on points of law lodged by the applicant on 7 september 2010. it found that the lower courts had not made an error of law in the legal classification of the facts they had established, that they had not failed to take necessary evidence and that they had sufficiently reasoned their judgments.the court reserved its decision on the costs arguing that the duty to bear the costs depended on the outcome of the main proceedings.25.  the applicant argued, in particular, that all of the five challenged judges had taken arbitrary decisions to his disadvantage and in breach of his convention rights in relation to the previous injunction and other proceedings brought by him, and that the court, which was influenced by the executive, discriminated against foreign nationals such as the applicant.31.  by a decision of 15 may 2012, the constitutional court, with the five judges whom the applicant had challenged for bias comprising the bench, dismissed the applicant’s complaints of bias.32.  the constitutional court stated that, in accordance with the principle that, if possible, a complaint of bias should not be decided upon by the challenged judge, the challenged judges, respectively, had not participated in the deliberations and the decision on the respective complaint alleging bias against them, which had been decided upon by the four remaining judges.33.  the constitutional court considered that the fact alone that several of the challenged judges had already taken part in prior decisions finding against the applicant did not suffice to substantiate that there were objectively justified doubts as to their impartiality for the purposes of article 6 of the convention.the applicant further had not substantiated that the executive had influenced the judges of the constitutional court in the present proceedings in any way.it granted the applicant’s constitutional complaint in part, finding that the applicant’s rights under article 6 § 1 of the convention and under the liechtenstein constitution to a decision within a reasonable time had been breached in the proceedings at issue.35.  the constitutional court found that the total duration of the proceedings alone, which lasted almost seven years after the action of 10 june 2005 had been brought, did not justify the finding of a breach of the right to a decision within a reasonable time.there had only been a delay of two years and three months between the last hearing before the court of first instance on 6 september 2007 and the delivery of the judgment on 28 december 2009. such a period of inactivity could no longer be considered as reasonable despite the complexity of the proceedings.in the constitutional court’s view, it was therefore necessary to impose the costs of the proceedings (court costs and lawyers’ fees) upon the state in order to compensate for and redress the breach of the fundamental right at issue.it considered that the applicant’s property rights had not been infringed in the proceedings at issue in which the opposing parties had both claimed to be the owner of the shares in question.
10.  the applicant sought permission to apply for judicial review of the board’s decisions of 7 december 1999 and 30 october 2000 on the grounds, inter alia, that the decisions were contrary to articles 5 § 4 and 6 of the convention because the proceedings before the board had not been “fair” and its function was “administrative rather than quasi-judicial”.the panel’s role was first, to establish whether, at the date of recall, there had been a significant risk of the applicant committing serious harm; and secondly, to consider whether the risk currently posed by the applicant was capable of being managed safely in the community, and, if not, whether there were steps that might be taken with a view to reducing the current risk to a level that could, in the future, be safely managed in the community.29.  the smith panel dealt with the applicant’s submissions on the unfairness of the proceedings by noting that: “... [counsel for the applicant’s] approach to the issue of [the complainant] being subpoenaed was a perfectly legitimate tactical manoeuvre by which he sought, on the one hand, to characterise the failure to subpoena [the complainant] as unfair, while on the other hand, he sought to avoid being instrumental in securing her attendance at the hearing and giving evidence with the consequent danger of the case against [the applicant] being strengthened.finally, in respect of the question of delay, the court found that the smith panel had not been in breach of its article 5 § 4 obligations as the applicant’s side “was very largely responsible for the long periods in progressing the matter to the point of a hearing”.32.  on 4 july 2006 the applicant filed a notice of appeal against the judgment of the high court in which he argued that the smith panel had misdirected itself as to the standard of proof required to establish the allegations against him; that the procedure before the smith panel had been unfair and in breach of articles 5 § 4 and 6 of the convention, most notably because the applicant’s nieces should have been required to give evidence; and finally, that there had not been a “speedy determination” of the lawfulness of his detention.37.  on 5 december 2007, after hearing oral submissions, the court decided not to consider the applicant’s submissions on article 5 § 1. it noted that this issue had not been raised in the course of the appeal proceedings and, although it had been included in the initial order 53 statement (a statement lodged with the judicial review application setting out the name and description of the applicant, the relief sought and the grounds on which it was sought), it had not been directly in issue before the high court and the judge had therefore made no findings on it.39.  before the decision of the court of appeal the secretary of state had made a second referral of the applicant’s case to the lsrc as two years had passed since the decision of 3 august 2005. a second panel had been convened to conduct the referral (“the garrett panel”).40.  the first rodgers panel first convened for a hearing on 4 january 2008. it had to consider the same two main issues as the smith panel: whether there had been a significant risk of the applicant committing serious harm at the date of recall; and whether the risk presently posed by the applicant was capable of being safely managed in the community.following the hearing the applicant’s solicitors wrote to the northern ireland prison service, asserting that on the basis of the evidence of these two witnesses the risk posed by the applicant could be managed safely in the community.he sought an order of mandamus requiring it to come to a decision on the question of his licence; a declaration that his detention since 12 march 2008 had been in breach of article 5 § 1 of the convention; and a declaration that the handling of the referral by the rodgers panel on 12 march 2008 was unlawful and in breach of article 5 § 4 of the convention.48.  on 11 june 2008 the house of lords allowed the lsrc’s appeal, finding that the smith panel had not failed to adopt and apply the correct standard of proof, and restored its decision of 3 august 2005. at the same time the house of lords dismissed the applicant’s cross-appeal (see paragraph 38 above).i therefore would not favour making any declaration of breach of article 5(4) of the convention.” 51.  following the judgment of the house of lords, the decision of the smith panel of 3 august 2005 was reinstated and the first rodgers panel became functus officio.insofar as the applicant had relied on article 5 § 1 of the convention, the court found that the first rodgers panel had been entitled to refuse to reach a conclusion on risk until they had heard the further evidence as to the basis of the recall.there had therefore remained a causal connection between the original conviction and the risk of harm to the community which justified the detention of the applicant in march 2008. in respect of his article 5 § 4 arguments, the court found that there had been no absence of consideration or periodic review of the applicant’s detention.on the article 5 § 4 issue – namely, whether the evidence of risk before the first rodgers panel in march 2008 must inevitably have led it to the conclusion that the applicant’s detention was no longer necessary for the protection of the public –, the court noted that the evidence of the witnesses with regard to the risk the applicant posed had not been uniform and the panel had therefore been entitled to reach the decision that it did.
among other conditions, x undertook to “actively provide the investigation with information” about “mr ofitserov and mr navalnyy’s involvement in the misappropriation [of assets], their roles in the commission of the crime, the specific steps taken to implement the criminal plan, including at the stages of preparation and conclusion of the sales contract and demonstration of its feasibility and utility.” on 17 october 2012 the criminal case-file against x was disjoined from the applicants’ case.the judgment indicated that x had conspired with two others, “n.” and “o.” and contained, in particular, the following findings: “... at the end of december 2008 [to the] beginning of january 2009...the governor of the kirov region ... met the directors of the big state enterprises, including [x] ... and introduced his volunteer consultants including n., who was officially appointed to this role ... on 21 may 2009.to implement n.’s criminal plan, o., acting in agreement with him, created in march 2009 ... the limited liability company “ooo vlk” ... thus facilitating the commission of the crime ... ... later, [x] ... acting deliberately and in agreement with n. and o., signed a sales contract with vlk ... in full realisation of the damaging consequences ... because of [vlk’s ]lack of adequate collateral ... ... in doing so, [x], n. and o. had sound knowledge that ooo vlk would pay for the goods under the terms of the contract and its annexes at a price known to be lower than that kirovles could have received without an intermediary ... ... in the period 15 april 2009 to 13 july 2009 ... [x] and o., in conspiracy with n., who had organised the crime and ordered its implementation, signed [thirty-six] annexes to the contract ... which stipulated ... a price which was deliberately reduced by all [of the] partners in crime without any economic need compared to the price kirovles could have sold its products for if it supplied the vlk customers of directly.in the period 15 april 2009 to 30 september 2009 in kirov, [x], acting in abuse of his official position, and o., in conspiracy with and on the instructions of n., deliberately implemented the terms of the sales contract ... and its annexes ... ... [x], acting in premeditated conspiracy with n. and o., out of acquisitive motives therefore abused his official position, ... unlawfully dissipated the assets he was in charge of ... for the benefit of third parties – partners in crime and ooo vlk under their control, thus causing significant damage to the assets of their owner, kirovles.the deputy prosecutor general ... proposed [using] accelerated proceedings for the judicial hearing and issuing the judgment ... in respect of [x] ... the accused [x] has pleaded guilty to the entirety of charges, accepted the indictment and the proposal ... of accelerated proceedings on the basis of the concluded plea-bargaining agreement.the court therefore concludes that [x] has complied with the obligations set out in the plea-bargaining agreement, and that judgment may therefore be given in respect of the accused without an examination of evidence, in accordance with the procedure set out in article 316 of the code of criminal procedure as required by article 317.7 ...” 43.  on 3 january 2013 the first applicant lodged an appeal against the judgment given in x’s case.he challenged, in particular, the use of accelerated proceedings in that case, the fact that it had been disjoined from the case against him and the second applicant and alleged that the judgment had been prejudicial to the outcome of their case.57.  on 18 june and 2 july 2013 the court rejected the applicants’ requests to have several people called and examined as witnesses, including mr a., chief of the kirov regional forestry department, mr k., deputy chief of the kirov regional forestry department, and the seven vlk managers who had been questioned during the investigation, as well as three expert witnesses.58.  on 2 and 3 july 2013 the court rejected the applicants’ request for the following evidence: documents relating to kirovles’ insolvency proceedings, kirovles’ financial reports, an approved list of standard minimum prices for timber, complete records of intercepted telephone calls between the applicants, material relating to the criminal proceedings against x instituted on 12 january 2011 and the criminal case file relating to x’s conviction in the kirovles case.as regards the judgment in respect of x, the court said: “it follows from the judgment of the leninskiy district court of kirov given on 24 december 2012 that [x] was found guilty of dissipation [and] embezzlement, that is stealing kirovles’ assets entrusted to [x], on an especially large scale, committed by abuse of his official position in conspiracy with n. and o.it explained the discrepancies between the testimony and pre-trial witness statements by the passage of time that had elapsed since the events in question and held that, in any event, the witnesses at the trial had confirmed the validity of their previous statements.however, it stressed that the first applicant had not been accused, or convicted, of any abuse of his official position at the governor’s office: “mr navalnyy [is not suspected of] committing a crime by abuse of his official position; consequently, the defence’s arguments that the governor’s volunteer consultant had no powers to give binding instructions to the companies’ management do not refute the accusation [or] prove that it was impossible for mr navalnyy to commit the crime and order its execution.” 65.  as regards the legal classification of the applicants’ offences, the court held: “the court finds that the arguments put forward by the defence about the absence of unlawfulness, a necessary element of theft, because a regular civil‑law transaction has been concluded by persons with legal capacity, are unfounded.the court has established that contrary to the said provisions of the certificate of incorporation, the employment contract and the law, [x], acting on behalf of the company directed by him, has entered into a sales contract ... with ooo vlk represented by mr ofitserov to exclusively facilitate stealing kirovles’ property and transferring [it] for the benefit of ooo vlk ... the conclusion of this sales contract has resulted in material damage [being caused] to kirovles.[x’s] acts were classified by the court as falling under article 160 § 4 of the criminal code.” 66.  the court estimated that the damage caused to kirovles amounted to rub 16,165,826. it concluded that the first applicant was guilty of organising the theft of kirovles’ assets by x (article 33 § 3 in conjunction with article 160 § 4 of the criminal code), and the second applicant of facilitating that theft (article 33 § 4 in conjunction with article 160 § 4 of the criminal code).68.  on the same day the prosecutor’s office of the kirov region asked the court to release the applicants pending appeal, particularly since the first applicant was a registered candidate in the moscow mayoral elections.
the court considered that, whereas the statements of a co-accused were the key evidence against the applicant, they were corroborated by the other evidence gathered in the case.in the court’s view the risk that the applicant might obstruct the proceedings resulted from the fact that he had been charged with membership in an organised criminal group.it also stressed the severity of the anticipated sentence which might encourage the accused to interfere with the conduct of the proceedings.the regional court also agreed with the district court that the circumstances of the case justified the suspicion that a severe penalty might be imposed on the applicant.10.  the applicant’s pre‑trial detention was subsequently extended by the warsaw regional court on 2 july, 28 september and 7 december 2009 and on 18 january 2010. the court relied on the same grounds as previously.it also stressed that a possible severe penalty which might be imposed on the applicant might incite him to interfere with the conduct of the proceedings, especially that not all members of the organised group in question had been arrested at that time.12.  on 29 march 2010 the warsaw regional court extended the applicant’s detention until 31 july 2010. the court relied on the reasonable suspicion that the applicant had committed the offences, the severity of the anticipated penalty and the need to secure the proper conduct of the proceedings due to the organised character of the criminal activities in question.the court considered that the length of proceedings resulted from reasons unrelated to the defendants (sickness of a judge) and that they should not suffer “negative consequences” of the fact that the proceedings could not be concluded in time.the court also referred to the fact, relied on by the court which had imposed the detention on the applicant (see paragraph 8 above), that one of the charges against him concerned witness tampering by means of violence.it relied on the severity of the anticipated penalty and the need to secure the proper conduct of the proceedings in finding that keeping the applicant in custody was necessary.the court also referred to the severity of the anticipated penalty and the need to secure the proper conduct of the proceedings.34.  the applicant’s pre-trial detention was subsequently extended by the decisions of the warsaw regional court of 11 september and 11 december 2012 and of 21 february 2013, and of the warsaw court of appeal of 18 june and 22 august 2013. the courts continually justified their decisions by the existence of a reasonable suspicion that the applicant had committed the offences in question.36.  meanwhile, on 28 june 2013 the investigation concerning the charge of membership in an organised criminal group was discontinued as it concerned substantially the same matter as the other set of criminal proceedings against the applicant, at that time pending before the warsaw regional court (see above).39.  the applicant’s detention pending trial was extended by the warsaw regional court on 17 september and 17 december 2013 and on 20 january 2014. the court repeatedly relied on the reasonable suspicion against the applicant, the severity of anticipated penalty and the risk that the applicant might obstruct the proceedings due to the organised character of the offences in question.41.  on 25 june 2014 the warsaw regional court ordered that the applicant’s detention on remand be lifted on condition that he paid the bail in the sum of 80,000 polish zlotys.
9.  the moldovan government submitted that despite all their efforts they had been unable to verify most of the facts of the present case owing to a lack of cooperation on the part of the authorities of the self-proclaimed “moldavian republic of transdniestria” (the “mrt”).it ordered the confiscation of the money in his and his girlfriend’s bank accounts and of his personal car, which totalled the equivalent of approximately usd 16,000, and additionally ordered him to pay the two companies the equivalent of approximately usd 26,400. it also released him subject to an undertaking not to leave the city.26.  following a request from the applicant’s lawyer of 12 october 2012, on 22 january 2013 the supreme court of justice of the republic of moldova quashed the judgment of the “tiraspol people’s court” of 1 july 2010. with reference to articles 114 and 115 of the constitution and section 1 of the law on the status of judges (see paragraphs 69-70 below), the court found that the courts established in the “mrt” had not been created in accordance with the moldovan legislation and could not therefore lawfully convict the applicant.it ordered the materials in the criminal file to be forwarded to the prosecutor’s office with a view to prosecuting the persons responsible for the applicant’s detention and also to determining whether the applicant had breached the rights of other persons.his continued detention in the conditions of [pre-trial detention centres] appears problematic owing to the absence of laboratory equipment and specially qualified medical staff at [the centre] for the purposes of carrying out the required treatment and its monitoring.” 38.  despite the panel’s findings, the applicant was transferred on the same day to the ivs in hlinaia, which, as stated by the applicant and not contradicted by the respondent governments, was less well equipped than the centre.41.  in a letter to the applicant’s lawyer of 11 june 2010, the centre’s director stated that, in addition to the applicant’s main diagnosis of asthma, he was also found to have terminal respiratory insufficiency, symptoms of a head injury with localised areas of brain damage, the first signs of hypertonic disease, an allergy in his lungs making treatment and the ability to stop his asthma attacks more difficult, post-traumatic encephalopathy, arterial hypertension, toxoplasmosis, giardiasis (a parasite), chronic gastroduodenitis, pancreatitis and pyelonephritis.48.  on 3 november 2009 the moldovan prosecutor general’s office informed the applicant’s parents that it could not intervene owing to the political situation in the transdniestrian region since 1992. it also referred to moldova’s reservations in respect of its ability to ensure observance of the convention in the eastern regions of moldova.51.  after notice of the present application had been given to the respondent governments, the moldovan deputy prime minister wrote on 9 march 2010 to the russian, ukrainian and us ambassadors to moldova, as well as to the council of europe, the european union and the organization for security and co-operation in europe (osce), asking them to assist in securing the applicant’s rights.56.  in a news report dated 23 november 2006, the regnum news agency reported a statement by the “mrt president” to the effect that each “mrt ministry” was working on harmonising the legislation of the “mrt” with that of russia, and that a group of representatives of “mrt ministries” was to travel to moscow within the next few days to discuss the matter.“... the de facto authorities in transnistria have ... pledged unilaterally to respect some of the key international treaties, including the two un covenants on human rights, the european convention on human rights and the convention on the rights of the child.” (p. 4) “the changes of the role of the prosecutor and the creation of the investigation committee would have an impact on the functioning of the judiciary as well.19‑23) 63.  in the report on its visit to moldova between 21 and 27 july 2010 (cpt/inf (2011) 8) the cpt stated that, following the refusal of the “mrt” authorities to allow members of the committee to meet in private with detainees, the cpt had decided to call off its visit because a limitation of this kind ran counter to the fundamental characteristics of the prevention mechanism enshrined in its mandate.in this context, the authorities will find useful guidance in the principles and measures set out in recommendation no r (99) 22 of the committee of ministers of the council of europe, concerning prison overcrowding and prison population inflation ... ... 48.  the cpt recognises that in periods of economic difficulties, sacrifices may have to be made, including in penitentiary establishments.the osce has not been allowed to verify these claims.” in its annual report for 2006 the osce reported as follows: “... the 17 september ‘independence’ referendum and the 10 december ‘presidential’ elections in transnistria – neither one recognized nor monitored by the osce – shaped the political environment of this work ... to spur on the settlement talks, the mission drafted in early 2006 documents that suggested: a possible delimitation of competencies between central and regional authorities; a mechanism for monitoring factories in the transnistrian military‑industrial complex; a plan for the exchange of military data; and an assessment mission to evaluate conditions and make recommendations for democratic elections in transnistria....” the annual report for 2007 stated: “the mediators in the transnistrian settlement process, the russian federation, ukraine and the osce, and the observers, the european union and the united states, met four times.67.  in paragraph 18 of resolution 1896 (2012) on the honouring of obligations and commitments by the russian federation, the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe noted as follows: “the opening of polling stations in abkhazia (georgia), south ossetia (georgia) and transnistria (republic of moldova) without the explicit consent of the de jure authorities in tbilisi and chişinău, as well as the prior ‘passportisation’ of populations in these territories, violated the territorial integrity of these states, as recognised by the international community, including the parliamentary assembly.” 68.  on 10 may 2010 the international committee of the red cross (icrc) replied to a letter from the permanent mission of the republic of moldova concerning the applicant’s case, stating that an icrc delegate and a doctor had seen the applicant on 29 april 2010. during their visit, they had met with the applicant in private and had been told that he had regular contact with his family and could receive parcels from them.
6.  in february 1993 the kaunas region municipality (kauno rajono savivaldybė) assigned a plot of land measuring 0.15 hectares in the settlement of noreikiškės to the applicant for the construction of a house (hereinafter “the land”).7.  on 10 may 2002 the constitutional court found that government regulations which allowed land in noreikiškės to be sold to private individuals were contrary to the constitution of the republic of lithuania and the restitution law (see padalevičius v. lithuania, no.8.  in december 2003 the kaunas county administration (hereinafter “the kca”) brought a claim before the kaunas district court (kauno rajono apylinkės teismas) seeking the annulment of the administrative decisions and the purchase agreements on the basis of which plots of land had been sold to the applicant and to several other individuals.the court annulled the administrative decision of 1993 assigning the land to the applicant and the land purchase agreement of 1995, and ordered the kaunas region municipality to return 29.70 “single-use investment vouchers” to the applicant.thus, in accordance with the civil code, the applicant should have received the monetary equivalent of what she had paid in 1995. the court remitted that part of the case for re-examination in order to assess the monetary equivalent.11.  the remitted part of the case was subsequently re-examined by the kaunas regional court sitting as the court of first instance.the applicant claimed that she, as a bona fide purchaser, was therefore entitled to receive compensation for the full market value as it was at the time of expropriation, in accordance with article 6.147 § 2 of the civil code (see paragraph 16 below).12.  on 6 march 2008 the kaunas regional court dismissed the applicant’s request for compensation equating to the full market value of the land.the court found that the authorities could not be held solely responsible for the unlawful sale because the applicant had also had a duty to verify whether she had been buying the land lawfully.thus, the court held that, for the purposes of article 6.147 § 2 of the civil code, the applicant could not be considered a bona fide purchaser and was not entitled to compensation for the full market value.the court also noted that if the applicant considered that she had suffered pecuniary damage, she had the right to institute separate proceedings against the state for damages.it reiterated that the applicant could not be considered a bona fide purchaser merely because she had bought the land from the state – she had also had a duty to verify the lawfulness of the sale.however, the court of appeal found that the lower court had incorrectly assessed the nominal value of the land in 1995. referring to the text of the purchase agreement (see paragraph 6 above), the court awarded the applicant ltl 2,976 (eur 862).14.  on 27 january 2009 the supreme court upheld the judgment of the court of appeal; however, it partially amended the reasoning.the supreme court stated that the nominal value of the land had been indicated in the purchase agreement, so it had not been necessary to apply article 6.147 of the civil code and assess the monetary equivalent.
7.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, are similar to those in association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos.they can be summarised as follows: 8.  on 17 december 1989, following demonstrations against the government and on the orders of president nicolae ceauşescu, military operations were conducted in timișoara and, over the following days, in other towns, including bucharest, reșița and braşov.according to a document of 5 june 2008, issued by the military prosecutor’s office at the high court of cassation and justice, “more than 1,200 people died, more than 5,000 people were injured and several thousand people were unlawfully deprived of their liberty and subjected to ill treatment”, in bucharest, timişoara, reşiţa, buzău, constanţa, craiova, brăila, oradea, cluj, braşov, târgu mureş, sibiu and other towns in romania.during the period of 17 to 30 december 1989 they used considerable quantities of ammunition against the demonstrators.9.  the applicants are people whose relatives were shot and killed in the events which took place between 17 and 30 december in bucharest, except for the applicant in application no.45779/14, whose husband was killed in reșița and the applicant in application no.10.  in 1990, military prosecutors in bucharest, timişoara, oradea, constanţa, craiova, bacău, târgu mureş and cluj opened investigations into the use of force and the unlawful deprivation of liberty of the participants in demonstrations in the final days of december 1989. to date, the main criminal investigation into the use of violence, particularly against civilian demonstrators, both prior to and following the overthrow of nicolae ceauşescu, has been contained in file no.97/p/1990 (current number 11/p/2014).11.  on 18 october 2010 the military prosecutor’s office at the high court of cassation and justice decided not to institute criminal proceedings with regard to the acts committed by the military, finding that the applicants’ complaints were partly statute-barred and partly ill-founded.the investigation into crimes committed by civilians, members of the patriotic guards, militia members and prison staff was severed from the case file and jurisdiction was relinquished in favour of the prosecuting authorities at the high court of cassation and justice.12.  on 15 april 2011 the chief prosecutor at the military prosecutor’s office set aside the decision of 18 october 2010 on the grounds that the investigation had not yet been finalised and that not all the victims and perpetrators had been identified.13.  on 18 april 2011 the military prosecutor’s office relinquished jurisdiction in favour of the prosecutor’s office at the high court of cassation and justice on the grounds that the investigation concerned both civilians and military personnel.14.  on 9 march 2012 – after classified material in the criminal investigation file had been opened to the public in 2010 – the case was re-registered with a view to an investigation in the light of the newly available information.15.  in february 2014, after the entry into force of the new code of criminal procedure, jurisdiction was again relinquished in favour of the military prosecuting authorities and the file was registered under the domestic case file no.16.  by an ordinance of 14 october 2015, the prosecuting authorities at the high court of cassation and justice discontinued the proceedings in relation to case file no.
12.  on the same day the director of the music academy sent a letter to the applicant stating the following: “as we have explained on several occasions to your mother, your father and yourself, since you have failed to provide a report from a fully equipped public hospital (tam teşekküllü devlet hastanesi[2]) confirming that you can study at the music academy ... we have been unable to enrol you ... we look forward to receiving your report from a public hospital mentioning your admission to the music academy as a student as soon as possible ...” 13.  on 20 september 2004 the applicant’s father wrote to the director of the music academy to inform him that the medical report had been forwarded to the music academy that same day, as requested.the director of the music academy asked the chief medical officer to prepare a fresh medical report taking account of the fact that no section of the music academy could be considered as not necessitating eyesight, and accordingly to specify whether or not the applicant was capable of being educated in the music academy.quoting the criteria for admission to the music academy, that is to say being under the age of fifteen, holding a certificate of primary education, having the requisite physical abilities for playing the chosen instrument in respect of which enrolment has been requested, not having a physical disability such as to prevent her from receiving an education in the chosen section, and passing the talent and technical standard competition.moreover, they argued that the respondent administration’s argument that the medical report had not been submitted in time was fallacious, as that report had been submitted to the music academy on monday 20 september 2004, that is to say on the first working day after receipt of the letter from the academy requesting the report.that decision mentioned that the findings of the report had been amended at the request of the administration of the music academy and that there had been no wrongdoing or abuse of office.the relevant sections of the court’s reasoning read as follows: “... the principles governing entrance competitions and enrolments at the turkish national music academy attached to istanbul university were adopted by the university senate ... at the request of the section assembly, after having been debated in the music academy assembly and deemed lawful by the university’s educational board.it transpires from the defence of the respondent administration that in the 1970s, when the music academy was set up, it had enrolled a number of blind students on a trial basis, but, in the absence of teaching staff conversant with the braille alphabet and having regard to the various difficulties encountered, that experiment was discontinued.it has been established that the administration wrote to the chief medical officer of bakɪrköy hospital requesting information on the interpretation of the medical report which it had issued and that the conclusions of that report had subsequently been amended.the applicant’s allegations to the contrary are ill-founded ...” 28.  the administrative court adopted that decision on a majority vote, contrary to the recommendation of the president of the court, who adopted a dissenting opinion stating, with reference to article 42 of the constitution and act no.2. however, the hospital administration’s failure to defend the initial report and its decision to make the requested amendments, on the instructions of the administration of the music academy ... cannot be considered as an appropriate attitude.... having regard to the relevant international agreements and legislative provisions, the course of action expected of the administration was not to force through amendments to a report drawn up by a hospital, thus impeding a blind citizen’s right to education ... in conclusion, the chief medical officer amended the form of the report, [but] its content remained the same, such that he cannot be accused of negligence.the available administrative and judicial remedies should be used to aasert the right in question ...” 30.  on 18 april 2006 the applicant’s parents, acting in her name and on her behalf, lodged an appeal on points of law with the council of state against the 14 october 2005 decision of the administrative court (see paragraph 27 above).32.  by judgment of 19 february 2008, served on counsel for the applicant on 28 april 2008, the council of state dismissed the appeal on points of law and upheld the impugned decision, having found that the latter had fallen within the jurisdiction of the administrative court, had not been unlawful and had complied with the procedural rules.in the circumstances of the present case, he considered that the decision not to enrol the applicant – who had passed the entrance examination for the music academy and met all the legal conditions – flouted the relevant constitutional and legislative provisions and should therefore be set aside.33.  according to information transmitted to the court by the applicant, after the rejection of her application to the music academy, she continued her education in an ordinary school before joining the music department of the arts faculty of marmara university.
e. shackled the applicant’s hands behind his back, told him “to sit on the floor with his legs crossed in front of him”, tied his legs with a rope, “threw the rope across the neck to the back”, “hung it on a chair and pulled it”.11.  then e. tied the applicant’s hands and legs behind his back, passed a metal bar under the rope and hung him on the bar, the ends of which were put on the table and the back of a chair.it was stated in the record, which was signed by police officer e., the two attesting witnesses and the applicant, that the applicant, a “violator”, had been informed of the rights and obligations of a person against whom administrative proceedings were initiated.(a)  explanations received by the investigating authority 23.  on 18 february 2005 lawyer s. stated that on 15 february 2005, some time after 7.20 p.m. [the head of the police department] p. had asked him to be present at an investigative measure as counsel for the defence of the applicant, who was suspected of having committed a crime.e. had provided the applicant with first aid, had drawn up the record of his being conveyed to the police station, and had transferred him to operative officer k. some twenty minutes later k. had brought the applicant back, as the applicant was complaining of feeling unwell.25.  on 22 february 2005 the head of the police department p. stated that at 7-7.30 p.m. on 15 february 2005 he had been informed that the applicant had been brought to the police station on suspicion of having committed a theft.stated that on 15 february 2005 at the sovetskiy district police station he had taken the applicant to the experts’ room, where the applicant had been fingerprinted and photographed, and then to the exit.(b)  forensic medical expert’s opinion 33.  on 14 march 2005 investigator b. ordered a forensic medical examination of the applicant, which was carried out by expert b. on 17 march 2005. the expert was requested to determine the degree of harm to the health of the applicant, who had allegedly been beaten up by police officers on 15 february 2005. the applicant complained of recurring headaches.892 the expert concluded that the applicant’s injuries, notably the concussion, the wound over the left eyebrow and the bruises on the scalp, had been inflicted by hard blunt objects shortly before he was hospitalised.(c)  decision of 17 march 2005 34.  on 17 march 2005 investigator b. ordered that by virtue of article 24 § 1 (2) of the code of criminal procedure (“ccrp”) no criminal proceedings were to be instituted in respect of the applicant’s complaint, in view of the absence of constituent elements of a crime under article 286 of the criminal code (abuse of power) in the acts of police officers sh.(e)  decision of 24 march 2005 42.  on 24 march 2005, on the basis of the results of the inquiry, investigator b. again refused to open a criminal case under article 24 § 1 (2) of the ccrp, on the grounds that the constituent elements of a crime in the acts of police officers sh., p., k., e. and four others were absent.as before, the investigator referred to a crime under article 286 of the criminal code (abuse of power), as well as article 301 of the criminal code (unlawful arrest or detention) in relation to sh., and article 302 of the criminal code (coercion to obtain statements) in relation to p., k. and e.. the investigator found that the applicant had been at the sovetskiy district police department from 11 a.m. until 3.20 p.m. on 15 february 2005 for an identity parade in a criminal case concerning assault and battery, and that at about 7 p.m. on the same day police officer e. had taken him to police station no.the investigator held that the results of the inquiry had showed that the applicant’s injuries were self-inflicted, as a result of his hitting the bookcase with his head, and that the allegations of ill-treatment by police officers were devoid of any foundation.43.  the applicant’s father appealed against the investigator’s decision of 24 march 2005. he complained, in particular, that the investigator had never held an identity parade in order to identify the two unknown police officers who had delivered blows to the applicant’s head.44.  on 20 may 2005 the orsk sovetskiy district court, sitting in a single-judge formation, heard the applicant’s father, his representative and a deputy prosecutor of the sovetskiy district prosecutor’s office, and examined the evidence of the inquiry carried out by the investigator.
5.  the applicant first visited cyprus in 1991. he married a cypriot national in 1993. as a result of this marriage he obtained cypriot nationality in september 2000. two years later the applicant divorced his wife and married his second wife, a syrian national.8.  on 23 july 2007, on the basis of the report of the investigative committee, the council of ministers decided to deprive the applicant of his cypriot nationality on public interest grounds, pursuant to section 113 of the census bureau law of 2002 (see relevant domestic law and practice at paragraph 37 below).the report concluded that the applicant had been involved in cigarette trafficking and in the trafficking of illegal immigrants between syria and cyprus.9.  the applicant filed a recourse with the supreme court (revisional jurisdiction) seeking the annulment of the council of minister’s decision (recourse no.the next day, at the applicant’s request, he was transferred to a private hospital and remained under police custody until his discharge from the hospital on 21 october 2010. after that he was detained at a police station in pera chorio nisou (nicosia district) and was transferred to the hospital on various occasions, where he remained in police custody.11.  on 24 september 2010 the applicant filed a recourse with the supreme court (revisional jurisdiction) against the deportation and detention orders (recourse no.the same day, the applicant filed a request for a provisional order seeking the suspension of his deportation and an order for his release.12.  on 30 september 2010, further to a complaint by the applicant’s wife to the commissioner for administration (the ombudsman), the ombudsman asked the minister of interior to suspend the applicant’s deportation because of his poor health and until she had completed an investigation.14.  on 20 december 2010, the applicant, whilst in detention, received a letter from the civil registry and migration department requesting payment, before his deportation, of eur 30,356 for detention expenses as well as eur 1,200 for the legal costs incurred in recourse no.the eur 30,356 was broken down as follows: (i) eur 20,675 for the salaries of the police officers who guarded him when he was in hospital; eur 2,650 as expenses for his detention and maintenance at the police detention facilities for fifty-three days; and eur 5,831 representing 25% of administrative fees.in his submissions to the court, the applicant alleges that the authorities refused to allow him to leave cyprus unless he paid the sums requested.17.  on 4 february 2011, in light of the applicant’s deportation, counsel for the applicant withdrew the habeas corpus application which had been made on 31 december 2010 (see paragraph 15 above).the civil registry and migration department refused this application on 11 june 2012, stating that it considered the applicant a threat to public order for the same reasons for which he had been deprived of cypriot nationality and then deported on 29 january 2011. the applicant was asked to leave the country.the applicant lodged a recourse against this decision, which the supreme court rejected on 3 february 2015, finding that refusal of the residence permit was lawful and disclosed no breach of the convention.22.  on 24 october 2013, the civil registry and migration department commenced proceedings in the nicosia district court for payment of the detention expenses, which, as it considered, were still owed by the applicant (see paragraph 14 above).
10.  on 24 february 2012 the sisak police department dismissed the applicant’s request with a summary reasoning indicating that all the relevant requirements under the aliens act had not been met.11.  the applicant appealed against that decision to the ministry of the interior (ministarstvo unutarnjih poslova; hereinafter: the “ministry”), arguing that it could be inferred from the decision of the sisak police department that her request had been dismissed because the aliens act did not allow family reunification for same-sex couples.she relied, inter alia, on the constitution and the prohibition of discrimination act, arguing that even if she was not to be considered as d.b.’s “immediate family member”, within the meaning of the aliens act, she should in any case be considered as her “other relative” within the meaning of that act.the relevant part of the ministry’s decision reads: “concerning the family reunification, based on which the request for the regularisation of the status of an alien in croatia has been submitted in the case at issue, [it is to be noted that] the case file shows that the appellant relies on the existence of a same-sex relationship with the croatian national d.b., which has allegedly lasted for two years ... the impugned decision shows that the [first-instance body], other than citing the [relevant] provisions of the aliens act, also cited section 3 of the family act, according to which the effects of an extramarital relationship, that is to say the rights and obligations following from its existence, relate to a union between an unmarried woman and man which has lasted for at least three years, or less if a child was born of [the union]; and section 2 of the same-sex union act ... which defines a same-sex union as a union between two persons of the same sex (partners) who are not married, or in an extramarital relationship or other same-sex union, which has lasted for at least three years and which is based on the principles of equality of partners, mutual respect and assistance as well as the emotional bonds of partners.it should also be taken into account that the provisions of the aliens act concerning temporary residence for family reunification do not provide for a possibility of regularisation of the status of an alien on the grounds of [the existence of] a same-sex union, nor does such a union fall within the scope of [the term] ‘immediate family member’ incorporated in that act, which makes it clear that there is no legal ground for granting the request of the appellant.therefore, the appellant wrongly considers that the first-instance body should have applied section 56 § 4 of the aliens act in her case ... because that provision clearly provides that exceptionally to the provision defining immediate family members, ‘other relative’ could be so considered if there are specific personal or serious humanitarian reasons for a family reunification in croatia.” 13.  on 24 july 2012 the applicant lodged an administrative action with the zagreb administrative court (upravni sud u zagrebu), arguing that she had been discriminated against in comparison to different-sex couples who had a possibility to seek family reunification under the aliens act.14.  the zagreb administrative court dismissed the applicant’s action on 30 january 2013. the relevant part of the judgment provides: “the cited section 56 § 3(1) and (2) of the aliens act provides that the immediate family members are spouses or persons who live in an extramarital relationship in accordance with croatian legislation.accordingly, the granting of a request for temporary residence of an alien on the grounds of family reunification depends on the satisfaction of the requirements under sections 52 and 56 of the aliens act.in the case at issue the plaintiff is neither married nor in an extramarital relationship with the croatian national d.b., which is not in dispute between the parties.it therefore follows that the plaintiff cannot be considered an immediate family member within the meaning of section 56 § 1(1) and (2) of the [aliens] act and thus she did not justify the purpose (in the concrete case: family reunification) for which a temporary residence of an alien in croatia can be granted ... in view of the cited legal provisions, and the facts of the case, this court finds that in the concrete case it was not possible to grant the plaintiff’s request.” 15.  on 8 march 2013 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske), contending that she had been discriminated against on the basis of her sexual orientation.she relied on the convention and the relevant domestic anti-discrimination legislation, and she cited the court’s case-law on the question of discrimination related to sexual orientation.although the appellant relied in her constitutional complaint in article 35 of the constitution and the related article 8 of the convention, the constitutional court finds that these provisions are not applicable in the case at issue.8.1.  in the proceedings before it, the constitutional court did not find facts or circumstances which would suggest that in the proceedings before [the lower bodies] the appellant was discriminated against on any ground ... thus her complaint of a violation of article 14 § 1 of the constitution, the constitutional court finds unfounded.8.2.  the constitutional court also notes that the appellant, in the concrete case, did not show that she has used the legal avenue under the prohibition of discrimination act ... there has therefore been no violation of her constitutional right under article 14 §§ 1 and 2 of the constitution.9.  the case-law of the european court cited in the constitutional complaint is of no relevance for the case at issue since it relates to cases concerning health insurance and inheritance of tenancy rights by same-sex partners living in a stable (de facto) relationship.”
i request that this problem be examined at the meetings of the government and the state duma ...” “i am wiring you for the third time about the deaths of premature newborns in st petersburg ... [i] consider the existence of a waiting list for resuscitation treatment a crime ... waiting for [your] response about the action taken ...” 9.  the administration of the president of the russian federation forwarded the telegrams to the ministry of healthcare of the russian federation (“the ministry”) for examination.the ministry asked the committee for healthcare at the st petersburg city administration (“the committee”) to examine the allegations and take the necessary action.10.  the committee ordered an examination, which was carried out by a panel consisting of the chief neonatologist of the committee and the head of the paediatrics department at the advanced medical studies faculty of the st petersburg state paediatrics medical academy.the examination was carried out on the basis of the applicant’s and the twins’ medical records, which were obtained from the maternity hospital and the children’s hospital.12.  on 12 september 2003, in reply to her telegrams, the committee informed d. of the results of the experts’ examination of the twins’ medical records by briefly restating the conclusions in the report.13.  on the same day, the committee forwarded to the ministry a copy of its reply to d. and informed the ministry that, according to the conclusion of a commission formed by the maternity hospital where the twins had been born, the reasons for the applicant’s premature delivery had been her compromised obstetric‑gynaecological history – in particular, seven artificial abortions – and her urogenital mycoplasmosis infection.14.  on 3 december 2003 the applicant received a letter from the committee with similar contents to the letter of 12 september 2003 that it had sent to d., stating, in particular, that her children’s medical records had been examined by the panel of experts.it appears that a request by the applicant for a copy of the report was refused, and that that refusal was the subject of separate proceedings brought by the applicant against the committee.in the course of those proceedings, on 30 november 2004, the applicant received a copy of the report and the committee’s letter to the ministry of 5 september 2003.15.  on 25 february 2005 she brought new proceedings against the committee, seeking a declaration that its actions had been unlawful in that it had collected and examined her medical records and those of her children, and had communicated the report containing her personal information to the ministry without obtaining her consent.she stated that she had not asked the committee to examine the quality of the medical treatment she and her children had received or to establish the cause of her daughter’s death.the chief neonatologist, who was examined as a witness, stated that: he had acted within his powers; he had not been able to verify d.’s allegations without obtaining the medical records in question; he had involved medical specialists in the examination of those records; and no disclosure of the information contained in those medical records had taken place.18.  on the basis of the above considerations, the district court held that the applicant’s rights, as guaranteed by article 61 of the basic principles of public health law, had not been violated.20.  an application by the applicant for clarification of the judgment – in particular, for details as to whether her application had been dismissed on the merits or because it had been time-barred – was dismissed on 20 january 2006 by the district court, which considered that the judgment had been clearly formulated and did not allow for different interpretations.the fact that her own personal medical records had been examined in addition to those of her children had become known to her at a later date than 3 december 2003. the three‑month time‑limit for lodging her application had started running on 30 november 2004, when she had received a copy of the report.
8.  the regional court found that on 22 june 1982 the applicant, then aged seventeen, had forced a fourteen-year-old girl to follow him into a forest where he had attempted to rape her, sexually assaulted her with a stick and then attempted to kill her by strangling her to cover up his offences.9.  in the regional court’s finding, it was necessary to order the applicant’s detention in a psychiatric hospital under article 63 of the criminal code.moreover, a comprehensive assessment of the applicant’s personality revealed that, as a result of his condition and notably the sadistic tendencies which had manifested themselves in the offence of which he was found guilty, he could be expected to commit further unlawful acts and was therefore dangerous to the general public.there was stagnation in the applicant’s treatment, the representatives of the psychiatric hospital having explained that they considered substantial changes in the applicant’s personality by sex therapy no longer possible.13.  on 28 january 2011 the paderborn regional court ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention in a psychiatric hospital under articles 67d and 67e of the criminal code (see paragraphs 29-31 below).15.  in assessing the risk emanating from the applicant, the expert considered that it had to be taken into account that the applicant had already committed a number of sadistic offences against children.moreover, the seriousness of the offence of which the applicant had been convicted in 1983, and the attack on a woman at a time when he had already been detained in the psychiatric hospital in 1990, had to be taken into consideration.16.  a representative of the psychiatric hospital, in submissions to the court dated 7 december 2010, confirmed that the applicant had spoken with a psychologist on his request.furthermore, the therapist responsible for the applicant confirmed that it was impossible to make a proper assessment of the danger posed by the applicant.17.  the regional court, having heard the applicant and having regard to the evidence before it, considered that the continuation of the applicant’s detention in a psychiatric hospital had to be ordered.in support of this view, it referred to the serious offence which had led to the applicant’s placement in a psychiatric hospital, to the fact that he had relapsed during the execution of his detention order and to the potential risk, as confirmed by the expert and the psychiatric hospital staff, that the applicant would reoffend if released.the applicant was transferred to the so-called “long-stay” department of the hospital in 2006, where he was detained during the time covered by the proceedings at issue and where he did not undergo any sex therapy.the purpose of the applicant’s placement in the “long-stay” department was in fact to grant him a break from his failed attempts to complete sex therapy.24.  the applicant has been working in the factory on the premises of the psychiatric hospital.it agreed with the view expressed by the psychiatric hospital representative that sadism could not be cured and considered that there was a high risk that the applicant would again commit further serious offences against the life and sexual self-determination of others.
11.  on 20 july 2006 the mayor of yerevan lodged a claim against the applicant with the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan seeking to invalidate her ownership certificate in respect of the construction and the lease, on the basis of the decision of 19 june 2006.this power of attorney was then signed and sealed by g. 13.  the first hearing before the district court took place on 24 october 2006. the record of this hearing states, inter alia, the following: “... [the applicant] has not appeared; advocate g. has appeared on her behalf stating that he represents the defendant and asked to be given time to study the case file and produced a power of attorney signed by the applicant but not certified by a notary.the relevant parts of the district court’s decision reads as follows: “having examined ... the presented power of attorney, the court finds that the counter-claim ... must be returned, taking into account that the power of attorney has been issued in violation of article 41 § 1, 2 and 4 of the [the code of civil procedure].the relevant parts of its judgment read as follows: “...the defendant [the applicant] was duly notified about the date and the place of the court hearing but has failed to appear before the court while the court has not accepted the power of the advocate who has appeared on her behalf as her representative, on the ground that the power of attorney was not duly certified.... taking into account that the ground [the mayor’s decision of 22 july 2005], based on which the lease agreement was concluded and the title registered, no longer exists, the court finds that ... the agreement on lease of land concluded between [the applicant] and the yerevan municipality should be terminated and her certificate of ownership/use [and] the right of lease of immovable property be annulled.” 17.  on 8 november 2006 the district court sent a copy of its judgment to the applicant by post.19.  on 28 november 2006 g. lodged an appeal with the civil court of appeal against the district court’s judgment of 1 november 2006 on behalf of the applicant, together with a request to restore the missed time-limit for appeal, alleging that a copy of the judgment had been served upon the applicant outside the time-limit for lodging an appeal against it.the relevant parts of this decision state the following: “the civil chamber of the court of cassation ... having examined the appeal on points of law against the decision of 1 november 2006 ...lodged by [the applicant’s] representative [g.] ... found that it should be returned for the following reasons: according to article 230 § 1 (4.1) of the code of civil procedure of the republic of armenia, an appeal on points of law should contain one of the grounds stated in article 231.2 § 1 of the code of civil procedure.... the present appeal on points of law only mentions the elements of points 1 and 3 of article 231.2 § 1; however the appellant has not submitted proper and sufficient arguments in relation to them; therefore the requirements of article 230 § 1 (4.1) of the ... code of civil procedure have not been met.... in view of the above reasoning ... the court of cassation decides to return the appeal on points of law against the decision of ... of 1 november 2006 lodged by [the applicant’s] representative [g.]...” 21.  on 19 january 2007 the court of appeal rejected the request to restore the missed time-limits for lodging an appeal and left the appeal against the judgment of 1 november 2006 unexamined stating the following: “having examined the appeal lodged by [g.], the representative of the defendant in the present case, and the request seeking to restore the missed time-limit, [the court of appeal] found out that on 28 november 2006 an appeal was lodged against the judgment ... of 1 november 2006 by ... [the applicant’s] representative g., who had failed to respect the fifteen-day time-limit prescribed by the law.the appellant has requested ... to restore the missed time-limit for lodging an appeal in view of the fact that the district court served the copy of the given judgment on the defendant belatedly.the court finds that the request should be rejected and the appeal dismissed since the appellant has failed to submit any documentary proof which would substantiate this allegation; moreover, ... the case file contains a postal receipt ... according to which a copy of the above judgment was sent to [the applicant] on 8 november 2006 with registered mail in accordance with the procedure and within the time-limits prescribed by ... the code of civil procedure.in such circumstances, where it was the courts’ duty to serve their decisions in due time, the court of appeal should not have placed the responsibility of producing proof of belated receipt of the judgment on the party to the proceedings.in doing so, it stated, in particular, that: “the civil chamber of the court of cassation ... having examined the appeal on points of law lodged by [g.] against the decision of the civil court of appeal of 19 january 2007 to return [the applicant’s] appeal, found that it should be returned for the following reasons... the court of cassation finds that the admissibility criteria set out in article 231.2 § 1 of the code of civil procedure are absent in the appeal on points of law lodged in the present case.besides, the person who has lodged the appeal has failed to submit a power of attorney drafted in compliance with the civil legislation ... at the same time, the court of cassation does not find it appropriate to provide a time-limit to rectify the errors and resubmit the appeal on points of law.... the court of cassation decides to return the appeal on points of law lodged by [g.] against the decision of the civil court of appeal of 19 january 2007 to return [the applicant’s] appeal...”
7.  according to the applicant, on 27 june 2003 he was arrested in sumy; the reasons for his arrest were not explained to him, no record of the arrest was drawn up, and there was a delay in charging him.on the same day, the applicant was taken to the sumy regional police headquarters, where he was allegedly beaten up by police officers from the odessa regional police.8.  on 28 june 2003 the applicant was interviewed in sumy by an officer of the odessa regional police concerning the circumstances of his business trip to the odessa region from 10 to 18 june 2003. according to a written explanation signed by the applicant, he denied any involvement in the murder.9.  according to the applicant, on the same day he was transferred to the ivanivka police station, where he was allegedly subjected to beatings and psychological pressure by police officers with a view to obtaining a confession.10.  according to the arrest report drawn up by mr i.g., an investigator from the odessa regional prosecutor’s office, the applicant was arrested on 30 june 2003 as a suspect in the criminal case.according to the applicant, he was in fact questioned on 3 july 2003 and the record of his questioning was backdated to 30 june 2003. the applicant further maintained that the lawyer had left the interview in protest against the applicant’s poor state of health, but the lawyer’s signature was added to the record of the questioning afterwards.according to the applicant, the itt had initially refused to admit him because of his injuries and a medical officer arranged for him to attend the local hospital for a medical examination.subsequently, the applicant was taken back to the itt but the medical officer sent him back to the hospital for an additional examination, as not all the injuries on his body had been recorded.19.  in response to a request from the investigator i.g., on 23 october 2003 the itt informed him about the injuries observed on the applicant on 8 july 2003 and about the disagreement as to their full extent which had occurred on that day.the investigator relied on a certificate from the sizo, according to which at the time of the applicant’s admission to the sizo he had had no injuries, and on the itt records of 8 july 2003 describing the applicant’s injuries.23.  on 18 february 2004 the applicant wrote to the deputy prosecutor of the odessa region arguing that the decision of 19 december 2003 had been based on an error and asking that his case be examined impartially and carefully.the applicant alleged that the itt had originally refused to admit him because of his injuries and had agreed to admit him only after he had presented a written explanation of his injuries to the itt medical officer.the court of appeal questioned the investigator i.g., who stated that the injuries recorded at the itt could have been inflicted on the applicant in the course of arrest.in the presence of their lawyers, and on the applicant’s written confession of 2 july 2003 made in the absence of his lawyer.commenting on the applicant’s complaint of ill-treatment, the court also took into account the investigator’s decision of 19 december 2003. it thus found that there was no evidence that the applicant’s confession had been obtained under duress and rejected his complaint as unsubstantiated.
15.  the rodk experts were ordered to make the following assessment: “whether moving [the child] into her father’s care, linked with her separation from the mother, would disturb [the child’s] sense of security and would affect her emotional state in a negative way; or is it recommended, [with a view to] the adequate psycho-physical development of the child, to [put the child under the father’s care] linked with [giving] an order to surrender the child by the mother.” 16.  the experts concluded that “the child’s return to the united kingdom and her separation from the mother”, her primary caregiver, “would cause more emotional harm to the child than the lack of daily contact with her father.” in particular, the child’s sense of security and stability could be disturbed.18.  on the merits, the grudziądz district court considered that it was called to examine “the relationship between the child and [each of] the parents, her physical and psychological development and also, any [possible] physical or psychological harm [which could occur] in the event of the child’s return to her father without the mother.” 19.  the domestic court attached importance to the young age of the child (who was three years and four months old at the time of the ruling) and the fact that the mother had always been the child’s primary caregiver.20.  the applicant appealed, arguing among others the following points of fact and law: the first-instance court ruled in breach of article 13 (b) of the hague convention, firstly in that they concluded that in the circumstances of the case there was a grave risk that the child’s return to the united kingdom would expose her to intolerable psychological harm and would place her in a disadvantageous situation, and secondly in that they wrongly assumed that the child would have to be separated from the mother even though the latter had not cited any objective obstacles to her returning to the united kingdom; the first-instance court ruled in breach of article 3 of the convention on the rights of the child and its general directive that the best interest of the child be protected; the facts as established by the domestic court contradicted the evidence produced in the course of the proceedings; the court’s conclusion that the child’s return would expose her to intolerable psychological harm contradicted the findings of the expert report; and the court should not have refused to adjourn the hearing at which the applicant was not represented by a lawyer.24.  as to the remaining grounds of the applicant’s appeal, the regional court ruled in the following manner: contrary to the applicant’s impression, the rodk’s report was clear and adamant in its conclusion that the child’s best interest would be better served if she were allowed to stay in poland with her mother; in view of the fact that the applicant’s lawyer had gone on holiday and the applicant had not agreed to be represented by a substitute lawyer, granting his motion for adjournment was not justified; and the argument about the incompetence of the rodk’s experts was, firstly, belated (the applicant had not raised that issue before the first-instance court or in his appeal) and, secondly, inconsistent with the applicant’s reliance on the impugned report in support of his remaining arguments.“... article 3 the removal or the retention of a child is to be considered wrongful where - a) it is in breach of rights of custody attributed to a person, an institution or any other body, either jointly or alone, under the law of the state in which the child was habitually resident immediately before the removal or retention; and b) at the time of removal or retention those rights were actually exercised, either jointly or alone, or would have been so exercised but for the removal or retention.if the judicial or administrative authority concerned has not reached a decision within six weeks from the date of commencement of the proceedings, the applicant or the central authority of the requested state, on its own initiative or if asked by the central authority of the requesting state, shall have the right to request a statement of the reasons for the delay.article 12 where a child has been wrongfully removed or retained in terms of article 3 and, at the date of the commencement of the proceedings before the judicial or administrative authority of the contracting state where the child is, a period of less than one year has elapsed from the date of the wrongful removal or retention, the authority concerned shall order the return of the child forthwith.article 13 notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding article, the judicial or administrative authority of the requested state is not bound to order the return of the child if the person, institution or other body which opposes its return establishes that - a) the person, institution or other body having the care of the person of the child was not actually exercising the custody rights at the time of removal or retention, or had consented to or subsequently acquiesced in the removal or retention; or b) there is a grave risk that his or her return would expose the child to physical or psychological harm or otherwise place the child in an intolerable situation....” 34.  the explanatory report on the 1980 hague child abduction convention, prepared by elisa pérez-vera and published by the hague conference on private international law (hcch) in 1982 ( “the pérez‑vera report”), provides the following comments on the notion of “the best interest of the child”: “... ‘the legal standard ‘the best interest of the child’ is that at first view of such vagueness that it seems to resemble more closely a sociological paradigm than a concrete juridical standard ... the general statement of the standard does not make it clear whether ‘the interest’ of the child to be served are those of the immediate aftermath of the decision, of the adolescence of the child, of young adulthood, maturity, senescence or old age’ ...” (§21, p. 431) “... [the philosophy of the convention] can be defined as follows: the struggle against the great increase on international child abductions must always be inspired by the desire to protect children and should be based upon an interpretation of their true interests...the right not to be removed or retained in the name of more or less arguable rights concerning its person is one of the most objective examples of what constitutes the interests of the child...’the presumption generally stated is that the true victim of the ‘childnapping’ is the child himself, who suffers from the sudden upsetting of his stability, the traumatic loss of contact with the parent who has been in charge of his upbringing, the uncertainty and frustration which come with the necessity to adapt to a strange language, unfamiliar cultural conditions and unknown teachers and relatives’ ...” (§24, pp.431 and 432) “it is thus legitimate to assert that the two objects of the convention – one preventive, the other designed to secure the immediate reintegration of the child into his habitual environment – both correspond to a specific idea of what constitutes the ‘best interests of the child’ ... however ... it has to be admitted that the removal of the child can sometimes be justified by objective reasons which have to do either with its person, or with the environment with which it is most closely connected ...” (§ 25, p. 432)” 35.  as a consequence, the hague convention contains a number of clearly derived from a consideration of the interest of the child, namely that of a serious risk that a child’s return would expose him or her to “physical or psychological harm” or otherwise place the child in an “intolerable situation”.434 and 435) “... the exceptions [in articles 13 and 20] do not apply automatically, in that they do not invariably result in the child’s retention; nevertheless, the very nature of these exceptions gives judges a discretion – and does not impose upon them a duty – to refuse to return a child in certain circumstances ...” (§113 p. 460) “... with regard to article 13, the introductory past of the first paragraph highlights the fact that the burden of proving the facts stated in sub-paragraphs a and b is imposed on the person who opposes the return of the child ...” (§ 114, p. 460) “... the exceptions contained in [article 13] b deal with situations ... where the return of the child would be contrary to its interests ... each of the terms used in this provision, is the result of a fragile compromise reached during the deliberations of the special commission and has been kept unaltered.38.  the relevant provisions of the united nations convention on the rights of the child, signed in new york on 20 november 1989, read as follows: preamble “the states parties to the present convention, ... convinced that the family, as the fundamental group of society and the natural environment for the growth and well-being of all its members and particularly children, should be afforded the necessary protection and assistance so that it can fully assume its responsibilities within the community, recognizing that the child, for the full and harmonious development of his or her personality, should grow up in a family environment, in an atmosphere of happiness, love and understanding, ... have agreed as follows: ... article 3 1. in all actions concerning children, whether undertaken by public or private social welfare institutions, courts of law, administrative authorities or legislative bodies, the best interests of the child shall be a primary consideration... article 7 1. the child shall be registered immediately after birth and shall have the right from birth... to know and be cared for by his or her parents... article 9 2. states parties shall respect the rights and duties of the parents and, when applicable, legal guardians, to provide direction to the child in the exercise of his or her right in a manner consistent with the evolving capacities of the child... article 18 1. states parties shall use their best efforts to ensure recognition of the principle that both parents have common responsibilities for the upbringing and development of the child.... article 10 jurisdiction in cases of child abduction in case of wrongful removal or retention of the child, the courts of the member state where the child was habitually resident immediately before the wrongful removal or retention shall retain their jurisdiction until the child has acquired a habitual residence in another member state and: (a) each person, institution or other body having rights of custody has acquiesced in the removal or retention; or (b) the child has resided in that other member state for a period of at least one year after the person, institution or other body having rights of custody has had or should have had knowledge of the whereabouts of the child and the child is settled in his or her new environment and at least one of the following conditions is met: (i) within one year after the holder of rights of custody has had or should have had knowledge of the whereabouts of the child, no request for return has been lodged before the competent authorities of the member state where the child has been removed or is being retained; (ii) a request for return lodged by the holder of rights of custody has been withdrawn and no new request has been lodged within the time limit set in paragraph (i); (iii) a case before the court in the member state where the child was habitually resident immediately before the wrongful removal or retention has been closed pursuant to article 11(7); (iv) a judgment on custody that does not entail the return of the child has been issued by the courts of the member state where the child was habitually resident immediately before the wrongful removal or retention.article 11 return of the child 1. where a person, institution or other body having rights of custody applies to the competent authorities in a member state to deliver a judgment on the basis of the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction (hereinafter "the 1980 hague convention"), in order to obtain the return of a child that has been wrongfully removed or retained in a member state other than the member state where the child was habitually resident immediately before the wrongful removal or retention, paragraphs 2 to 8 shall apply....” 40.  the european convention of 20 may 1980 on recognition and enforcement of decisions concerning custody of children and on restoration of custody of children (known as “luxembourg convention”) reads, in so far as relevant, as follows: “... article 1 for the purposes of this convention: a child means a person of any nationality, so long as he is under 16 years of age and has not the right to decide on his own place of residence under the law of his habitual residence, the law of his nationality or the internal law of the state addressed; ... d improper removal means the removal of a child across an international frontier in breach of a decision relating to his custody which has been given in a contracting state and which is enforceable in such a state; improper removal also includes: i the failure to return a child across an international frontier at the end of a period of the exercise of the right of access to this child or at the end of any other temporary stay in a territory other than that where the custody is exercised; ... article 5 1 the central authority in the state addressed shall take or cause to be taken without delay all steps which it considers to be appropriate, if necessary by instituting proceedings before its competent authorities, in order: ... b to avoid, in particular by any necessary provisional measures, prejudice to the interests of the child or of the applicant; ... article 8 1 in the case of an improper removal, the central authority of the state addressed shall cause steps to be taken forthwith to restore the custody of the child where: a at the time of the institution of the proceedings in the state where the decision was given or at the time of the improper removal, if earlier, the child and his parents had as their sole nationality the nationality of that state and the child had his habitual residence in the territory of that state, and b a request for the restoration was made to a central authority within a period of six months from the date of the improper removal.
8.  on 13 and 21 november 2006 the applicant informed the vologda regional court that he did not wish to be represented by m. in view of the perfunctory nature of the services that she had provided.the applicant was in a special room in a detention facility from which he could participate in the appeal hearing by means of a video link.she did not submit fresh grounds for appeal and made oral submissions to the court that appeared to be based on the grounds for appeal originally filed by the applicant.11.  according to the applicant, at the beginning of the hearing he asked the court to provide him with an opportunity to meet with ye.he was then removed from the room where the video conference equipment was installed and thus was prevented from following the appeal hearing which took place in his absence.the applicant stayed in the video-conference room throughout the appeal hearing and was not prevented in any way from participating in it.the applicant appealed, stating that he was not guilty and that the trial court had erred in assessing the evidence before it.15.  on 12 april 2007 the applicant asked the supreme court (acting as the appeal court) in writing to appoint a lawyer to represent him.16.  on 18 april 2007 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the applicant’s conviction on appeal.the court acknowledged that the applicant’s right to be provided with legal counsel had been infringed, quashed the appeal judgment of 18 april 2007, and remitted the matter for fresh consideration to the appeal court.prior to the hearing before the appeal court, she studied the material in his case file.according to the transcript of the appeal hearing, the applicant agreed that his defence would be carried out by lawyer m. he further asked the court for additional time in which to meet with m. to discuss his defence.the court adjourned the hearing in order to ensure that the applicant could meet with m. 22.  on 20 may 2011 the supreme court resumed the hearing.the applicant informed the court that he had discussed the case with m. by means of a video link.m. did not submit any grounds for appeal; she only made oral submissions to the court that appeared to be based on the grounds for appeal originally filed by the applicant.
according to his statements, two senior directors from the ministry of the interior, namely the head of the ministry’s internal protection and intelligence department and the head of the anti-corruption department’s operation division within the same ministry, asked him to resolve the case quickly and to provide a favourable response.10.  on the basis of the nap officer’s testimony, the initial investigation concerning the applicant and the rector was extended to include the two senior directors from the ministry of the interior.13.  on 23 march 2009 the nap started another criminal investigation in respect of the applicant in connection with the offence of active bribery on account of the influence exercised on the nap officer in charge of the inquiry.in the order to appear issued against the applicant it was stated that the order’s objective was to ensure that the applicant was heard in his capacity as a suspect (“învinuit”) in connection with the offences of abuse of position and active bribery under articles 248 and 255 in conjunction with article 26 of the c.p.19.  according to the government’s submissions, one of the applicant’s lawyers arrived at nap headquarters at 4 p.m. and the other at about 7.45 p.m. 20.  the applicant stayed at the headquarters of the prosecuting authorities without being questioned until 10 p.m. according to his allegations, which have not been contradicted by the government, he was not free to leave.21.  the government did not contend that they had informed the applicant that he had been free to leave; on the contrary, in their written submissions to the court they maintained that the applicant had remained at their disposal for questioning between 3 p.m. and 11.30 p.m. 22.  between 10 p.m. and 10.55 p.m. the applicant was informed of the charges against him and was heard by the investigators.25.  the nap charged the rector of the university of agronomy with abuse of position with aggravated consequences, the applicant with complicity in abuse of position, and the two senior directors of the ministry of the interior with favouring the offender.by the same decision all the defendants were remanded in custody for twenty-four hours, the period of detention starting to run at 11.30 p.m. 26.  the next day, on 25 march 2009, at about 6.40 p.m., the nap asked the bucharest court of appeal to remand the applicant and the other two defendants in custody (the rector was released) for twenty-nine days, from 25 march 2009 until 22 april 2009.30.  an appeal on points of law lodged by the nap against this decision was dismissed by the high court of cassation and justice on 1 april 2009. the high court endorsed the decision of the bucharest court of appeal, noting that the applicant’s pre-trial detention appeared excessive, given that the applicant had no criminal record, had been of good standing in society, and there was no evidence in the file that he had evaded criminal proceedings.the court considered that the prohibition on leaving the country ensured the right balance between the general interest of society in the good administration of justice and the applicant’s interest.31.  by a decision delivered on 22 april 2009 the nap extended the prohibition on the applicant’s leaving the country for another thirty days, from 23 april to 22 may 2009. the reasons provided by the prosecutor for taking such a measure were that there was reasonable suspicion that the applicant had committed the offence, and that it was necessary to ensure the proper administration of justice.32.  the applicant contested the measure before the bucharest court of appeal, arguing that the prosecutor’s decision did not provide sufficient reasons for the extension of the restrictive measure, adding that he had willingly attended each time he had been summoned by the investigators.33.  in his oral submissions before the court the prosecutor added that the restriction on the freedom of movement was justified by the necessity to ensure the speediness of the proceedings.the reasoning of the decision was exactly the same as in the previous decision of 22 april 2009. the applicant challenged the measure before the bucharest court of appeal.it concluded that although the imposition of a preventive measure should be justified by the necessity to ensure the proper administration of justice and to protect society by preventing the commission of new offences, in the instant case the nap had not managed to explain why allowing the applicant to leave the country could have negative repercussions on the administration of justice.
the applicant also complained of the failure to provide blood transfusions, which he said caused the death of his son, and of the generally poor treatment received by his son in the sibiu county hospital.23.  a complaint by the applicant against the two decisions was allowed by the timişoara district court on 16 april 2008. the court decided to send the case back to the prosecutor in order to commence criminal proceedings against the two doctors.the court observed that the prosecutors’ decisions had been based only on statements by the two doctors and on the forensic report and held that the investigators in the case needed to clarify whether the patient’s state of health had required his admission to the gastroenterology unit and whether treatment in that unit could have influenced the course of the victim’s illness.in addition, the court requested the prosecutors to clarify, by way of witness statements and confrontations, what was the practice of the hospital in dealing with cases of gastrointestinal bleeding and whether the two doctors had observed that practice.the court held that, bearing in mind the seriousness of the case, which involved the death of a man, the investigation should have been more detailed and the applicant’s allegations should have been more thoroughly checked.the court also reasoned that, even if it could be accepted that rapid changes could occur in such conditions, it was hard to believe that the victim had had no previous symptoms and had not been under the supervision of medical professionals prior to 22 august 2005. in view of the above, the court further requested that the prosecutors take statements from the family doctor and gather evidence about the victim’s state of health prior to his admission to the sibiu county emergency hospital.27.  on 24 december 2010 the investigation resumed with a letter being sent to the sibiu police in which the prosecutor requested their assistance in obtaining a statement from the victim’s family doctor, as well as copies of any medical documents she might have concerning the victim’s state of health prior to his hospital admission on 21 august 2005. in january 2011 the family doctor, m.l.i., gave a statement to the police.29.  on 25 july 2011 the prosecutor’s office of the sibiu county court, considering it established that the applicant had been suffering from cirrhosis well before august 2005 and that nothing could have been done to save his life, decided not to press criminal charges against the two suspects on the grounds that they had not committed any criminal act.30.  a complaint by the applicant against the prosecutors’ decisions of 25 july and 23 august 2011 was allowed by the timisoara district court on 21 december 2011. the court considered that all the facts had still not been clarified by the investigation and again ordered the reopening of criminal proceedings.finally, the court ordered the prosecutor to conduct a speedier investigation, bearing in mind that a long time had passed since the lodging of the applicant’s complaint and that the inquiry had been totally ineffective up to that point.the prosecutor noted that according to the hospital’s practice, the patient should have been admitted to the gastroenterology unit but that this had not been possible because the unit did not have an elevator for wheeled beds.however, the prosecutor observed that all the medical reports drafted in the case had concluded that the patient’s diagnosis had been correct and that he had had the appropriate treatment.the prosecutor stated that the endoscopy performed before the patient’s death had been rendered more difficult owing to the absence in the country of the drug needed to clear blood from the patient’s stomach.the court, quoting widely from the prosecutor’s decision of 8 june 2012, held that the investigation had correctly led to the conclusion that there was no proof of fault by the two doctors.45.  an appeal by the applicant against that judgment was allowed by the braşov court of appeal on 26 february 2008. the case was sent to the braşov county court for rehearing because the lower court had not examined any evidence other than the documents in the file, which had been the sole basis for its decision.
he further alleged that x was responsible for the content of the programme since he had failed in his duty to appoint a legally responsible editor (ansvarig utgivare) for the programme and because he had been its anchor.9.  the applicant relied on chapters 5 and 6 of the constitutional law on freedom of expression (yttrandefrihetsgrundlagen, 1991:1469; hereafter “the constitutional law”), regarding freedom of expression offences and liability rules, and chapter 5 of the penal code (brottsbalken), dealing with defamation, as well as articles 6 § 2, 8 and 13 of the convention.the applicant submitted a legal opinion stating that it would be impossible, or at least not useful, to bring an action in the united kingdom in the present case since the damage flowing from the television programme at issue had not occurred in the united kingdom.10.  x disputed the claim on the grounds, inter alia, that he was not the responsible editor of the show and that he enjoyed the freedom to communicate information as provided for under chapter 10, section 2 of the constitutional law and as clarified by the supreme court (högsta domstolen) in the case nja 2005 p. 884 (see paragraphs 32 and 33 below).it referred to the supreme court judgment in an almost identical case, nja 2002 p. 314 (see paragraphs 28-31 below), and held that chapters 1-9 of the constitutional law were not applicable to the television programme since it could not be regarded as emanating from sweden.this was because the programme had first been sent by satellite link to viasat broadcasting uk ltd, the british company responsible for the programme content, and thereafter uplinked to a satellite, which had in turn transmitted the programme to viewers in sweden.as chapters 1-9 of the constitutional law were not applicable, x could not be held responsible for the programme content under chapter 6. the district court further held that the applicant’s claims under the penal code were to be determined following the main hearing in the case.x contested the arguments and submitted that it was the company viasat broadcasting uk ltd, whose seat was in the united kingdom, which was responsible for the programme service and decided on the final content of the programmes.it held that the issue for it to determine was whether the general provisions in the constitutional law were applicable to the programme in question, that is, whether or not the broadcasting of the programme could be considered to have originated from sweden within the meaning of chapter 1, section 6(2) of that law.it further stated that the burden of proof concerning the applicability of the constitutional law rested on the applicant and that he had not, in response to x’s refutation, established that the decisions concerning the programme content were taken in sweden.in addition, he requested that a question concerning the interpretation of the brussels i regulation be referred to the court of justice of the european union (ecj) for a preliminary ruling.in the present case, the harmful event had occurred in sweden and the applicant thus should have had the right to bring his action before the swedish courts.it held that, since the district court had found itself competent to examine the applicant’s claims in so far as they were based on grounds other than the constitutional law, there was no reason to request a preliminary ruling from the ecj.on 17 november 2009 the district court struck the case out of the list and ordered the applicant to pay x’s legal costs and expenses.the criminal proceedings were finalised by a supreme court decision to refuse leave to appeal on 4 october 2010. these proceedings, in particular their compliance with articles 6 and 7 of the convention, are the subject of an application lodged with the court on 4 april 2011 (no.
along with the criminal action, the applicant made a motion to be awarded compensation for pecuniary and non-pecuniary loss arising from the commission of the criminal offence in question.guilty of the criminal offence of defamation, giving him a suspended sentence of one month in prison and ordering him to pay the costs of the proceedings.in respect of the applicant’s claim for compensation, the district court held that the claim was unsubstantiated and directed the applicant to seek compensation in civil proceedings.in particular, the applicant alleged that there had been a violation of the criminal code and that the punishment imposed on a.š.he also complained about the fact that the first-instance court had not ruled on his claim for compensation, despite the fact that there had allegedly been enough material in the case file to enable it to rule on the matter.9.  on 11 march 2008 the ljubljana higher court granted the applicant’s appeal in respect of the punishment and increased it to three months of suspended sentence.however, it dismissed the complaint concerning the applicant’s unsuccessful claim for compensation, confirming the lower court’s view that it had not been substantiated.lodged with the supreme court a request for the protection of legality (an extraordinary legal remedy whereby to challenge the procedural and substantive legality of final decisions), alleging an incorrect application of the criminal procedure act.had lodged a request for the protection of legality; however, the notification did not include a copy of the said request for the protection of legality.13.  on 4 july 2008, pursuant to section 423 of the criminal procedure act, the request for the protection of legality was sent to the supreme state prosecutor for a response.16.  on 28 august 2008 the supreme court, without having informed the parties of the date of the deliberation session, deliberated in private and upheld the request for the protection of legality, dismissing the applicant’s action as having been lodged out of time.17.  not being aware that the request for the protection of legality had already been decided, on 3 september 2008 the applicant’s representative requested the relevant documentation from the ljubljana district court.18.  on 5 september 2008 the ljubljana district court informed the applicant’s representative that the case-file documents had been with the supreme court since 30 june 2008. accordingly, on the same day the applicant’s representative requested from the supreme court the documentation regarding the request for the protection of legality.citing articles 14, 22 and 23 of the constitution, the applicant claimed that he had not been afforded equality before the law and that his right to judicial protection and his right to equal protection had been violated as he had not been given the opportunity to participate in the proceedings before the supreme court.1, the latter in respect of the fact that he had been ordered to pay the opposite party’s costs of the proceedings.
they complained that the two hectares of land assigned to them in 1995 had still not been provided, that they had been unable to receive any information from the vca about the ongoing land reform in the vilnius region, and that they had not been given the opportunity to participate in the planning of the reform, unlike other residents of the region.the supreme administrative court noted that the applicant had been entitled to buy two hectares of land by the decision of 16 march 1995 and that she had been included on the list of land users in january 2002 (see paragraphs 10 and 14 above), so on these grounds the vca was obliged to allocate a specific plot of land to the applicant.21.  in june and july 2007 the applicant and her husband submitted several requests to the vca and the nls, inquiring about the enforcement of the judgment of 5 may 2007 and requesting information about the implementation of the land reform in the buivydiškės cadastral area.the following month the vca informed the applicant that the planning in the buivydiškės cadastral area had to be completed by 1 march 2008 and that the applicant would be included as a candidate of the seventh priority rank to receive land there.27.  in december 2007 the nls urged the vca to examine why the list of candidates to receive land in the buivydiškės cadastral area had not been compiled in time with a view to ensuring the enforcement of the supreme administrative court’s judgment of 5 may 2007.30.  on 30 may 2008 the supreme administrative court granted the applicant’s request and clarified its judgment of 5 may 2007. the court held that the vca was under the obligation to include the applicant on the list of candidates to be provided with land in the buivydiškės cadastral area by 30 june 2008 and to carry out the remaining administrative procedures necessary for the allocation of a specific plot of land of two hectares to the applicant within three months of the completion of the land allocation plan of the buivydiškės cadastral area.34.  in december 2008 the vca informed the applicant and her husband that the land allocation plan of the buivydiškės cadastral area was again being amended, and that the list of candidates to receive land in that territory would be compiled after the completion of the planning when the available land has been identified.however, in december 2009 the vilnius regional court annulled the first-instance decision, noting that the vca had already included the applicant on the list of candidates to receive a plot of land (see paragraph 36 below), which meant that the judgment of the supreme administrative court had been partly enforced and thus there were no grounds to order a fine.49.  in september 2015 the nls informed the applicant that she had to pay a fee of eur 157 for registering the four plots in the property register, and that that fee would be subsequently refunded to her in the price of the land.50.  in october 2015 the government informed the court that the nls had identified the remaining vacant state land in the buivydiškės cadastral area and that the applicant would be included as a candidate to receive 0.55 hectares of farmland in a future land plan.however, on 20 november 2008 the supreme administrative court quashed the first-instance judgment and ordered the vca to provide the applicant and her husband with a satisfactory response to their request of june 2007. the court also noted that the applicant and her husband had repeatedly asked the vca for information about the implementation of the land reform and about the plot assigned to them, that they had petitioned several state institutions (see paragraphs 54-57 below), and that the lengthy non-enforcement of the supreme administrative court’s judgment of 5 may 2007, as well as the vca’s evasiveness concerning their requests, had caused them inconvenience and negative feelings.54.  in april 2006 the applicant and her husband submitted a complaint to the parliamentary ombudsperson, stating that they still had not been given the land assigned to them in 1995. in june 2007 the ombudsperson concluded that the complaint was well-founded, and recommended the ministry of agriculture provide assistance to the vca in enforcing the decision of the buivydiškės district council of 16 march 1995.the applicant’s husband also complained that he and the applicant still had not been included on the list of candidates to receive land in the buivydiškės cadastral area and that the land in that territory was being distributed to candidates of lower priority ranks.56.  that same month a group of residents of buivydiškės, including the applicant’s husband, submitted a complaint to the parliamentary subcommittee on the rule of law, complaining about the actions of the vca in the implementation of the land reform.they alleged that the vca had deliberately refused to enforce the supreme administrative court’s judgment of 5 may 2007 (piktybiškai nevykdė teismo sprendimo), in violation of articles 228, 229 and 294 of the criminal code, and that the land in the buivydiškės cadastral area had been distributed to civil servants working at the vca and its subordinate institutions, contrary to approved land allocation plans.
the government submitted that in may 2013 the applicant had undergone an in-depth examination in the oncology department of the chelyabinsk regional hospital, where he was diagnosed with lymphoproliferative disorder affecting the cervical, axillary, mediastinal and retroperitoneal lymph nodes.10.  on 13 march 2014 a medical panel, comprising the deputy head of the prison tuberculosis hospital and doctors from the same hospital, examined the applicant and diagnosed him with progressive non-hodgkin lymphoma in acute iii b stage, with lesions of the cervical, axillary and abdominal lymph nodes.the panel concluded that the applicant was eligible for early release as he suffered from malignant formations of lymphatic and haematogenous tissues, a disease included in the list of serious illnesses precluding the serving of sentences in correctional institutions, as provided for by decree no.having accepted that the applicant’s illness was included in the list, and describing his condition as “stable [but] serious”, the court, nevertheless, found that the drugs necessary for his treatment were available in the prison tuberculosis hospital, and that the applicant was undergoing the necessary medical procedures.13.  according to a certificate issued by the prison tuberculosis hospital at the request of the applicant’s lawyer, the drugs necessary for the applicant’s chemotherapy were unavailable at the hospital.19.  on 16 october 2014 the court decided to indicate to the russian government, under rule 39, that it was desirable in the interests of the proper conduct of the proceedings that the applicant be immediately examined by medical experts, including an oncologist, independent from the prison system with a view to determining: (1) whether the treatment he was receiving in detention was adequate for his condition; (2) whether his current state of health was compatible with detention in the conditions of a correctional colony or prison hospital; and (3) whether his current condition required his placement in a specialised hospital or release.-  certificates issued by the acting head of the prison tuberculosis hospital, indicating that the applicant had not been provided with chemotherapy for his lymphoma as he had not consented to that treatment when it had been offered to him, in march and june 2014. according to the acting head of the hospital, the applicant had refused to make a written statement to that effect.the certificate also indicated that an oncologist had examined the applicant four times, once in march and september 2014 and twice in october 2014. at the end of october 2014 the applicant’s condition was considered to be serious: he was suffering severe pain and increasing asthenia, had coughed blood, and his lymph nodes continued to grow.in addition, in a separate certificate, the acting head of the hospital noted that the prison tuberculosis hospital where the applicant was detained employed an oncologist and had the necessary medicines for the applicant’s treatment.-  copies of the applicant’s complaints to various russian officials, including the chelyabinsk regional ombudsman, the prosecutor general’s office, the regional department for the execution of sentences and the acting head of the prison tuberculosis hospital, about the poor quality of his medical care in detention.in particular, in their answer to the first question concerning the adequacy of the applicant’s treatment, the government stressed that the applicant had regularly undergone in-patient treatment and examinations in relation to his oncological illness.22.  in their response to the second question about the compatibility of the applicant’s state of health with the conditions of the correctional colony and prison hospital, the government emphasised that the applicant’s hospital employed the necessary specialists, and had the necessary equipment and drugs to treat him.23.  in replying to the third question as to whether the applicant needed to be transferred to a specialised hospital or be released, the government observed that the applicant’s oncological illness was incurable and could lead to his death.they relied on the two reports issued by the doctors from the prison tuberculosis hospital on 13 march and 1 july 2014, according to which the applicant was suffering from a condition included in the list of serious illnesses precluding the serving of sentences in correctional institutions, as provided for by decree no.with reference to b.’s testimony, the regional court held that the district court’s findings as to the adequacy of the treatment received by the applicant in the hospital were not in accordance with the established facts.
4.  the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in izhevsk.5.  on 27 august 2008 the police arrested the applicant in the street on suspicion of being drunk.he was taken to the police station where he was held for more than two hours.the police charged the applicant with public drunkenness and told him to pay a fine.6.  further to a complaint by the applicant, on 8 december 2008 the pervomayskiy district court of izhevsk quashed the police decision, finding that the charge had not been supported by evidence.7.  the applicant brought a claim for compensation for pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage in connection with his arrest and detention.8.  by a judgment of 16 november 2009, the pervomayskiy district court dismissed his claim.noting that the claim arising out of administrative detention fell outside the exhaustive list of examples of strict liability under article 1100 of the civil code, the court held that the lawful actions of the police officers could not give rise to liability in tort.it acknowledged that the applicant must have suffered frustration and anxiety as a result of his detention, but determined that his suffering had been “of no legal consequence”.9.  on 3 march 2010 the supreme court of the udmurtiya republic upheld the district court’s decision on appeal.
according to the subsequent submissions of the applicant and the detectives to the domestic authorities, the applicant attempted to flee; in order to stop him from fleeing the detectives tripped him up, he fell on the asphalt pavement and was then handcuffed.13.  on the same day the forensic medical expert, g. (referred to as mr h. by the government), issued a report stating that the applicant had the following injuries: a bruise on his forehead and, overlapping it, four long, deep, vertical parallel scratches; bruises on the bridge of his nose, his chin, wrists and neck; nine small bruises on the fingers of his right hand; and swelling of the back of his right hand.the expert classified the injuries as minor and expressed the opinion that they could have been inflicted on 30 november 2008. according to the report, the applicant explained to the expert that he had injured his face and hands when he fell trying to run away from the police.23.  in the course of the pre-trial investigation a.s. stated that it had been the applicant who had stabbed n.  in the course of a confrontation between the applicant and a.s., the latter reaffirmed his statement.stated that on 1 december 2008 the applicant had given her a mobile phone and a silver chain which he had stolen from n. and p. 26.  on 30 july 2009 the case against the applicant and his co-defendants, a.s. and v.s., was sent for trial to the lviv regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”), sitting as a trial court.they largely reiterated the statements they had given during the pre-trial investigation concerning the applicant’s role in the crime, in particular stating that they had not stabbed n. and had seen the applicant, knife in hand and covered in blood, lead n., also covered in blood, to a safe to extract n.’s money.31.  on 11 march 2010 the applicant asked the trial court to call g., the medical expert, as a witness, on the grounds that in her report of 6 december 2008 she had failed to specify exactly when the injuries had been inflicted on the applicant.of the lviv regional police to be called as witnesses, arguing that they had ill-treated him in the course of arrest and in the course of his initial interrogation, causing the injuries recorded in the medical expert’s report of 6 december 2008. the trial court refused those requests.according to the government, the grounds for the refusal were that the trial court had in its possession the transcripts of the interviews with the police officers in question conducted during the pre-trial investigation.33.  the court found it established that the applicant and his two co-defendants, a.s. and v.s., had committed aggravated burglary of mr n. and ms p. while it was the applicant who had stabbed n. to death, all the defendants had used violence against n. to overcome his resistance and so were guilty of his murder.in reaching its finding that it had been the applicant who had stabbed n., the court referred to the testimony of his co-defendants, noting that it was consistent with p.’s testimony to the extent that all three had testified, contrary to the applicant, that it was v.s., and not the applicant, who had attacked p. the court also referred to the dna expert evidence which had found blood, possibly originating from n., on the trousers worn by the applicant on the night of the murder and seized by the police at the house where the applicant had left them.35.  on 12 july 2009 the applicant wrote to the head of the security service of ukraine in the lviv region complaining that he had been ill‑treated in the course of his arrest and afterwards by the police.the lrpo indicated that the chervonograd prosecutor’s office should undertake a number of additional measures to establish the circumstances of the incident, most notably: (i) interview ms z. whom the applicant had been going to meet when he had been arrested; (ii) identify the ambulance staff who had visited the applicant on 6 december 2008 and interview them; (iii) interview the forensic medical expert to find out whether the injuries observed by the expert on the applicant on 6 december 2008 were consistent with the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment.the decision was based on the statements of the police detectives and the expert report of 6 december 2010. the detectives had stated that they had tripped up the applicant while he had been attempting to escape.42.  on 20 june 2013 the pustomyty district court quashed the decision of 18 may 2012. the court found numerous omissions in the pre-investigation inquiry, in particular that the authorities had failed to explore under what circumstances an ambulance had been called for the applicant while he had been in the itt; they had also failed to examine the records from the facilities where the applicant had been detained.
8.  on 21 september 2004, upon a request of the prosecutor’s office of munich i, the munich district court issued a search warrant in respect of the applicant’s home (and the home of three other members of the “red aid” association who were authorised to draw on the association’s bank account) on suspicion that they had committed “copyright piracy” by selling fake goods such as watches and computer programmes.1.  proceedings before the munich district court and the munich i regional court challenging the lawfulness of the search warrant and the house search 10.  the applicant, represented by counsel, lodged a complaint against the search warrant before the criminal courts arguing that the warrant, and consequently the search, had been unlawful and had infringed his constitutional right to respect for his home under article 13 of the german constitution (“the basic law”; see paragraph 22, below).12.  on 13 november 2005 the federal constitutional court held that the complaint was manifestly well-founded, found a violation of article 13 of the basic law, declared the house search unlawful and quashed the search warrant and the decisions of the district and the regional court.in any event, however, the federal constitutional court ruled that having weighed the few indications supporting a suspicion that the applicant could have committed “copyright piracy” against the massive impact of a house search on the applicant’s constitutional right to respect for his home, the issuing of a search warrant and hence the house search had not been proportionate.15.  on 5 september 2006 the court of appeal quashed the district court’s judgment and referred the case back to the district court because it was of the view that the district court had not sufficiently examined whether the hashish belonged to the applicant.the court of appeal referred to the federal constitutional court’s case-law (see paragraph 26 below), according to which unlawfully obtained evidence could be used in criminal proceedings as long as, after a thorough balancing of the different interests at stake, the public interest in prosecution did not have to stand back against the right to respect for his home of the person concerned and as long as that person’s rights had not been violated on purpose.3.  first set of proceedings before the federal constitutional court challenging the admissibility of evidence found during the house search 16.  considering that it was legally unclear whether or not the court of appeal’s findings regarding the admissibility of the evidence found during the house search were binding on the lower courts, the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the federal constitutional court.hence, the applicant’s right to respect for his home had been infringed in such a severe way that despite the seriousness of the crime of drug possession and the substantial amount of hashish found, the public interest in prosecution could not outweigh the applicant’s interest in respect for his home.as regards the question whether the applicant had been in possession of the drugs the regional court relied on a statement of the applicant dated 13 march 2007 according to which the room in which the hashish had been found was solely used by himself.furthermore, the regional court was of the view that the court of appeal’s findings in its judgment of 5 september 2006 (see paragraph 15 above) on the admissibility of the hashish as the sole evidence were binding and that hence the hashish found in the applicant’s flat could be used as evidence against him.moreover, the court made it clear that even if the court of appeal’s findings were not binding in this respect it was itself of the view that, weighing the applicant’s interest in respect for his home against the public interest in prosecution, the latter prevailed and that the evidence was thus admissible.it took the view that, considering the seriousness of the crime of drug possession and the substantial amount of hashish found, the public interest in prosecution outweighed the applicant’s interest in respect for his home because the applicant’s rights had not been deliberately infringed, the house search had not been arbitrary and the amount of hashish found would theoretically have justified a house search.7. second stage of the proceedings before the federal constitutional court challenging the admissibility of the evidence obtained during the house search 20.  the applicant lodged a fresh constitutional complaint, arguing that the admission of the evidence infringed his right to respect for his home under article 13 of the basic law and his right to a fair trial under article 2 § 1 read in conjunction with article 20 § 3 of the basic law (see paragraph 23 below).it held that the court of appeal had balanced all the interests at stake in a way that was neither arbitrary nor unreasonable and that the conviction of the applicant, although exclusively based on the evidence found during the house search, did not infringe the applicant’s constitutional rights.following the conviction of the applicant by the criminal courts, the competent authorities formally noted that the applicant had committed a disciplinary offence and discontinued the proceedings as the offence had not been of a kind or degree demanding disciplinary measures.
6.  on 26 august 2003 the applicant published an article under the title “an inhabitant of verneşti is wanted by police across the country, having been accused of breaking into the headquarters of the local branch of the social democratic party” (“the psd”).the article, accompanied by a photograph of s.a., a suspect at the time, read as follows: “s.a, aged 35, is accused of having stolen two television sets and approximately 17,000,000 romanian lei (rol) from the local headquarters of the psd.as he has fled in order to avoid criminal investigation for the offence of aggravated theft, a general search has now been launched by the police (a fost dat în urmărire generală) and his photograph is now on the desk of the policemen of the judicial service [biroul judiciar] throughout the country.an inhabitant of verneşti is wanted by police officers throughout the country, as he is the main suspect in a case of breaking and entering at the headquarters of the psd in suceava.s.a., aged 35, is suspected of being one of the organisers of the burglary of the local headquarters of the governing party committed at the end of last year.on the morning of 24 december some of the members of this party arrived at the headquarters located in the centre of suceava ... [and] noticed that the headquarters had been ravaged.after checking inside, they realised there had been a burglary and that the thieves had stolen two televisions and approximately rol 17,000,000. while searching for valuables, the thieves vandalised the offices, breaking all the doors, and yanking the televisions from the electric sockets.in a case where there is information that the person has left the country, an international arrest warrant is issued, and the arrest of the fugitive is only a matter of time.” 7.  following the publication of the article, the father of s.a. sent a letter to the newspaper, which read as follows: “to the editor of monitorul de suceava, the undersigned a.d. found out from your newspaper that there was a national and local search order for my son, a.s., for the offence of aggravated theft.regarding the [content of the] article, i can tell you that [at the time] my son was neither in the country nor in suceava county as he was in italy.9.  on 15 september 2003 s.a. lodged with the suceava district court a criminal complaint against the applicant for the offence of defamation, as prescribed at the time by article 206 of the romanian criminal code.after explaining that at the time of the theft he was in italy and thus it was impossible for him to have participated in the alleged offence, he mentioned that once his father had found out about the article, he had written to the newspaper, asking that it be retracted.10.  in his defence the applicant submitted that the information concerning the general search for s.a., as well as the photograph of s.a., were given to him on 25 august 2003 by the suceava judicial service and thus there had been no reason for him to doubt it.12.  on 19 november 2003 the court acquitted the applicant of the charge of defamation; however it ordered the applicant to pay, jointly with the newspaper, the sum of rol 10,000,000 to s.a. the relevant excerpts from the judgment read as follows: “taking into account the fact that the applicant obtained information concerning the suspect from the judicial office within the general police inspectorate, he cannot be found to have deliberately (mens rea) defamed the plaintiff ... under the civil limb of the action, defamation concerns public communication of a distorted, negative image of a person, which is likely to cause him or her personal suffering and damage to reputation, leading to changes such as social embarrassment and injury to self-esteem.the first-instance court considers that publishing the article in the newspaper caused damage to the standing of the civil party ... moreover, it must be noted that although the civil party’s father notified the newspaper that the facts published about his son were false, the newspaper did not publish a retraction of the article written by the defendant.” 13.  by a final judgment of 23 january 2004 the suceava county court rejected an appeal by the applicant and upheld the first-instance court’s judgment.the court stated in its reasoning the following: “even though there is no mens rea as far as the offence of defamation provided for in article 206 of the criminal code is concerned, given the source of information at the date of the publishing of the article, the defendant’s obligation to pay compensation to the civil party cannot be set aside.
6.  since the debtor had failed to fulfil its obligations towards its employees, the applicants brought a civil claim seeking payment of salary arrears and various social security contributions.7.  on 23 june 2003 the belgrade second municipal court (drugi opštinski sud u beogradu) ordered the debtor to pay to the applicants certain sums in respect of salary arrears and various social security contributions.8.  on 26 september 2005 the applicants applied to the belgrade fourth municipal court (četvrti opštinski sud u beogradu) for enforcement of the judgment of 23 june 2003.9.  on 18 january 2006 the said court ordered the enforcement of the judgment and awarded the applicants the costs incurred in the enforcement proceedings.10.  the government maintained that the debtor had been sold in 2007 to a private company.11.  the applicants disagreed and claimed that it was, in fact, a different company that had been privatised in 2007.12.  the government submitted that bankruptcy proceedings had been instituted in respect of the debtor on 22 july 2010 and had been terminated on 10 june 2013.13.  the applicants disagreed and claimed that it was, in fact, a different company that went into bankruptcy in 2013.14.  in their additional observations the government submitted that bankruptcy proceedings had been instituted in respect of the debtor on 24 july 2013 and had been terminated on 8 november 2013 when the decision to institute bankruptcy proceedings had been quashed.15.  on 27 october 2010 the applicants lodged a constitutional appeal, seeking redress for the non-enforcement of the judgment in question.16.  on 27 november 2013 the constitutional court held that the applicants had suffered a breach of the “right to a trial within a reasonable time” with regard to the enforcement proceedings.the court, however, did not award them compensation for non-pecuniary damage, finding that only the period after the applicants had continued the enforcement proceedings following the death of their relatives (on 9 july 2013 and 15 may 2013, respectively) could be taken into account.17.  on 27 november 2013 the constitutional court held that the applicants had suffered a breach of the “right to a trial within a reasonable time” with regard to the enforcement proceedings.the court ordered the acceleration of the proceedings and declared that the applicants were entitled to compensation for the non-pecuniary damage suffered in the amount of eur 800 each, converted into the national currency at the rate applicable at the date of settlement.18.  the constitutional court held that since the enforcement proceedings in question had not yet been completed, the constitutional appeals were premature in so far as they concerned pecuniary damage, and dismissed the appeals in that regard.
5.  the applicant was born in 1941 and lives in murmansk.6.  the applicant sued the local office of the pension fund, claiming that her monthly pension had been miscalculated.7.  on 12 september 2003 the pervomayskiy district court of murmansk granted her claim and ordered that the pension due to the applicant be recalculated and increased.no appeal was lodged against that judgment and on 23 september 2003 it became final and enforceable.8.  on 11 august 2005 the pervomayskiy district court of murmansk quashed the judgment of 12 september 2003 and reopened the proceedings after an application by the respondent authority on the grounds that new circumstances had come to light.9.  on 23 august 2005 the same court rejected the applicant’s pension recalculation claim.
both d. and z. confirmed during the subsequent court proceedings that it was d. who had recommended z. to the applicant in march 2008. the applicant met z. and found out that his services cost 1,500 euros (eur), a sum of money which he did not possess at the time.9.  it appears from the materials of the case-file that approximately three weeks after the applicant’s first meeting with e., the latter called him to find out whether he had progressed in his search for a way of obtaining a romanian passport.the applicant informed e. that he had found a person, z., who could help in exchange for eur 1,500 and proposed to put e. in contact with z. however, e. refused to get into direct contact with z. and informed the applicant that he did not have the money at the time.in particular, he proposed to him to act as an intermediary between z. and t. and tell t. that the price was eur 2,300. the difference of eur 800 between the price asked by z. and the sum paid by t. was to be split between the applicant and e. this information was not contested by the prosecution during the proceedings.the applicant accepted e.’s proposal and agreed to arrange a meeting with t. 10.  the applicant then discussed the matter with z., who gave him a list of documents necessary for t.’s new romanian identity card.the applicant submitted during the proceedings that he had been convinced at the time that the identity card was not going to be forged and that z. would only act as a representative of t. before the romanian authorities.this information was contested by z. during proceedings, who stated that he had informed the applicant from the very beginning that t.’s romanian identity card was going to be false and that he was to avoid travelling to romania with it.he then transmitted the money and the documents to z. the identity card was later produced in the united kingdom and reached z. and then the applicant by the middle of april 2008. on 16 april 2008 the applicant met with t. and gave him the identity card in exchange for the rest of the money.13.  in the meantime, z. signed an agreement with the prosecutors acknowledging his guilt and was convicted on the basis of that agreement and given a suspended sentence of four years.the court of first instance refused to hear e. and t. and referred to the fact that the law governing undercover operations made it possible to hear undercover officers in court only if they consented to that.15.  on 17 december 2008 the balti district court found the applicant guilty of participating in the production of a false romanian identity card and of selling it to t. the court sentenced him to a criminal fine of some eur 200. the judgment did not make any mention of the applicant’s assertion concerning incitement.16.  the applicant lodged an appeal in which he submitted inter alia that the first instance court had not paid attention to the fact that the offence had been committed as a result of police incitement and that the court had refused to hear the persons who had entrapped him.18.  on 4 march 2009 the balti court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and confirmed the judgment of the first instance court.the court examined the applicant’s argument concerning entrapment and dismissed it on the sole ground that it was the applicant who had first telephoned the number indicated in the newspaper advertisement.in so far as the issue concerning the hearing of e. and t. was concerned, the court considered that that was not important as their statements had not been used against the applicant.
5.  the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in shadrinsk.6.  on 20 august 2003 the shadrinsk town court of the kurgan region convicted him of murder and sentenced him to ten years’ imprisonment.on 29 october 2003 the kurgan regional court upheld the conviction on appeal.7.  the applicant is hiv-positive and at the material time also suffered from tuberculosis and hepatitis.8.  on 25 december 2008 the applicant was transferred to the liu of‑73/3 medical facility (лечебно-исправительное учреждение) in the kurgan region and was detained in the following wards: (a)  quarantine ward 24 from 25 to 30 december 2008 and from 18 to 30 june 2009; (b)  ward 25 from 30 december 2008 to 28 may 2009 and from 30 june to 21 september 2009; and (c)  ward 26 from 21 september to 3 november 2009.9.  according to the applicant, the wards were severely overcrowded.the wards were poorly lit as the windows were covered with louvre shutters blocking access to natural light.10.  according to the government, ward 24 measured 61.49 square metres, had sixteen sleeping places and accommodated up to sixteen inmates.11.  in support of their submissions, the government provided original floor plans and ward population registers containing information about the exact number of inmates in each ward for the whole period the applicant was in the liu of-73/3 facility.12.  on 9 february 2009 the medical facility authorities issued an order introducing visiting fees for inmates and their families.the calculation table annexed to the order specified that a fee of 320 russian roubles (approximately 9 euros) per day per person would be payable, covering maintenance charges, prison staff salaries, the depreciation of visiting room equipment, bed linen and cleaning products.13.  on 14 april 2009 the director of the federal service for the execution of sentences sent a letter to the heads of russian penal facilities, reminding them that charging visitors and detainees for family visits was in breach of article 89 of the code on the execution of sentences (see paragraph 17 below) and that facility administrations must bear the costs of providing rooms for long-term visits.14.  on 22 april 2009 the applicant was authorised to see his two daughters on a long-term family visit.his daughters did visit him, but stayed only one day instead of the expected three, as they did not have enough money on them to stay any longer.16.  on 29 april 2010 the applicant received a letter from the court dated 19 march 2010 in the correspondence department of the of-73/2 correctional facility, to which he had been transferred in february 2010. it was handed over to him in an open envelope and he was told to sign a copy which had been attached to his personal file.
6.  at the time of the events in question, the applicant was a high-ranking police officer.on 26 march 2008 he was arrested on suspicion of being part of a criminal gang specialised in the smuggling of heroin through moldova to the european union.his arrest took place as a result of the seizure of a large quantity of heroin in chişinău.he was indicted with the offence of circulating large quantities of narcotics, an offence provided for in article 217/1 of the criminal code and punishable with seven to twenty years of imprisonment.7.  on 5 september 2008 the criminal investigation into the circumstances of the case was completed and the case was referred to a trial court for determination.8.  on 21 october 2009 the applicant was found guilty of having committed other offences than that for which he had been put in detention on remand and sentenced to five years and nine months’ imprisonment.the offences of which the applicant was found guilty concerned negligence, abuse of power and aiding and abetting in the commission of an offence.on 21 june 2010 the judgment was set aside by the chisinau court of appeal and the applicant was released from detention.a detention warrant was issued every month and the reasons given for prolonging his detention were the same throughout the entire period: the applicant had been accused of a serious criminal offence punishable by more than two years’ imprisonment and there was a risk he might abscond or hinder the investigation.between his arrest and 17 november 2008 he was detained in solitary confinement at the detention facility of the centre for fighting economic crime and corruption (cfecc) and between 17 november 2008 and 21 june 2010 he was held in prison no.13. according to the applicant, the conditions of detention in prison no.in the cell in which the applicant was detained, each inmate had only 2.5 square metres of available space.the food was of a very poor quality, the inmates smoked, and he was held along with detainees convicted of violent crimes who threatened him with violence on account of his status as a police officer.11.  during his detention the applicant’s state of health deteriorated and a panel of doctors diagnosed him with gastritis, duodenitis, pancreatitis, hepatitis and hypertension.the applicant was hospitalised between 7 october and 17 november 2008 in a prison hospital belonging to the ministry of justice but he refused treatment, asking instead to be treated in a military hospital accredited by the ministry of healthcare.
the government dispute that any force was used or that there was any improper behaviour on the part of the men who had entered the cell.according to the applicant, when he saw their possessions, including food brought to them by their relatives, medication and documents, scattered on the floor and in total disorder, he declared that he would return to the cell only after a prosecutor or a representative of the prison administration had made a report on the search and the disorder caused.he was then hit and thrown to the floor, kicked in the stomach, and the cell door was slammed with force while his foot was between the door and the doorpost, causing him great pain.10.  after the search the applicant complained about his swollen foot and was taken by ambulance to a hospital in chișinău at around 7 p.m. the doctor who examined him in that hospital diagnosed him with contusion of the soft tissues of the right ankle and a suspected fracture of the bone.according to the government, a further forensic examination carried out on 31 october 2007 contradicted the results of the previous ones, finding no conclusive evidence that the applicant had had a broken bone.he found that on 28 october 2006 the applicant had disobeyed lawful orders of the prison staff during the search of his cell, acted provocatively, and refused to return to his cell.20 had confirmed, in their complaints and statements made to the investigator during the criminal investigation, that the masked men who had entered the cell on 28 october 2006 had caused great disorder, had insulted the detainees, and had hit them with rubber truncheons.at the end of the search the leader of the masked men did not identify himself and did not fill in any report about the incident.), who had been taking his daily exercise during the search, confirmed seeing upon his return great disorder in the cell, with all the food and personal items broken up and thrown to the ground, and the detainees cleaning up the mess and complaining about being hit during the search.the applicant then told him that the masked men had caused the disorder and had beaten them up, and that his foot hurt as a result of that beating.and i.i., who coordinated the actions of the various groups of prison staff and the pantera special forces regiment (the masked men), declared that after the search their teams did not report having used force on anyone or having had any exceptional situation to deal with.during the event, lasting for six minutes and thirty-six seconds and registered on a compact disk, showed the detainees leaving their cell voluntarily; the presence in the cell of masked men; the applicant’s request to be allowed to take his belongings with him and the refusal of that request; it showed various objects in the cell and the presence in it of detainee v.z.the next scene showed the applicant sitting on the ground and asking for a prosecutor to be called, affirming that he would not move until the prosecutor saw what had happened to the food and belongings in the cell and a report was made about the event.29.  the prosecutor found that the video recording did not prove that violence had been used, and that the sound of the cell door being struck, heard at the end of the recording, allowed the supposition that the injury to the applicant’s foot could have been self-inflicted.32.  by a final decision of 12 august 2008 an investigating judge of the buiucani district court upheld the decision of 17 april 2008. the judge found that while the law allowed complaints about violations of fundamental rights and freedoms, the applicant’s complaint concerned the admissibility and evaluation of evidence obtained in criminal proceedings.
5.  on 2000 the applicants acted as intermediary (purchase agent) in the sale of three cars, sold to a company.1 investigating judge against the applicants and other eight suspects for fraud and forgery of documents.6.  on 16 april 2001 and 18 april 2001, respectively, the applicants were detained, charged with document forgery and informed about the rights they were entitled as detainees.they were subsequently interrogated by the guardia civil in the presence of their lawyer.7.  on 8 november 2004 the judge issued a decision (auto) ordering the initiation of oral proceedings (apertura de juicio oral) and set the complete file to the asturias audiencia provincial.8.  on 6 may 2009 the hearings before the asturias audiencia provincial took place.9.  on 5 june 2009 the asturias audiencia provincial sentenced the first applicant to a three years and six months’ imprisonment, and the second applicant to a five years’ imprisonment for fraud and document forgery.the asturias audiencia provincial refused the applicants’ request to reduce the sentence in view of the undue delay of proceedings, as prescribed in article 21 of the criminal code.the asturias audiencia provincial acknowledged that the proceedings had been “unusually” long, but this was due to the complexity of the case, namely the difficulties in gathering evidences within different jurisdictions, the great number of parties involved, the difficulty faced when trying to notify some of the defendants, as well as the applicants’ conduct, whose lawyers had lacked celerity in presenting their submissions.10.  the applicants lodged a cassation appeal before the supreme court.on 27 may 2010 the supreme court partially ruled in favour of the applicants and sentenced them both to three years and eight months’ imprisonment for fraud.however, the supreme court rejected the claims of undue delay of proceedings.the supreme court considered that even though the proceedings might have appeared excessively long, the asturias audiencia provincial had provided a sounded and detailed justification for the duration of the proceedings.11.  both applicants lodged an amparo appeal with the constitutional court complaining, inter alia, about the undue length of the proceedings.12.  by two decisions of 20 may 2011 and 12 september 2011, respectively (served on 25 may 2011 and 23 september 2011), the constitutional court declared both appeals inadmissible on the grounds that they lacked the constitutional relevance provided for in article 50 § 1 b) of the organic law on the constitutional court.
4.  the applicant is a limited liability company registered under hungarian law, with its seat in budapest.5.  on 24 november 1998 the applicant initiated a civil lawsuit against two companies requesting the court to declare invalid a real estate sale and purchase agreement concluded between these two companies.6.  the budapest regional court dismissed the applicant’s claim on 26 february 2004. on appeal, the budapest court of appeal quashed the judgment on 5 november 2004.7.  the first-instance court re-heard the case and dismissed the applicant’s claim on 13 october 2005. on appeal, the second-instance court upheld the judgment on 9 november 2006. the applicant challenged the judgment before the supreme court which quashed it on 13 september 2007.8.  in the resumed proceedings the budapest court of appeal quashed, on 20 march 2008, the first-instance court’s judgment.9.  on 18 march 2009 the budapest regional court as first‑instance court dismissed the applicant’s claim.on appeal, the budapest court of appeal upheld the judgment on 17 december 2009. the applicant challenged the judgment before the supreme court but to no avail.the supreme court upheld the final and binding judgment on 13 september 2010 (served on 27 october 2010).
10.  on 4 october 2010 the sovetskiy district court of vladivostok, dismissed a challenge by the applicant to that decision, finding in particular that the federal migration service had been required by law to reject his application for a residence permit.by a judgment of 3 september 2010, the zamoskvoretskiy district court of moscow granted a stay of enforcement of the migration service decision and ordered it to reconsider the matter in the light of the constitutional court’s decision of 12 may 2006 and the convention principles.17.  on 8 february 2011 the moscow city court dismissed ms kravchenko’s appeal against the district court’s judgment, finding that “there were no grounds to vary the judgment, because the moscow division of the federal migration service had actually complied with it”.the hospital reported the results of his test to the st petersburg division of the federal migration service, which issued a decision of 4 june 2008 on the undesirability of mr khalupa’s stay in russia because he would pose a “real threat to public health”.in a letter of 5 may 2011 addressed to the deputy director of the visas and registration department of the federal migration service, the director of the legal department acknowledged that the decision of 4 june 2008 had not taken fully into account mr khalupa’s family ties in russia.on 30 january 2012 the basmannyy district court of moscow dismissed his complaint, finding firstly that his rights and freedoms had not been interfered with, and secondly that the director of the federal migration service was not empowered to review or set aside a decision by which an individual’s presence in russia had been declared undesirable.the constitutional court reiterated that its decision of 12 may 2006 (cited in paragraph 60 below) remained valid and applicable, and that the decision pronouncing someone’s presence undesirable must take full account of humanitarian considerations and the factual circumstances of each case, including the family links and state of health of the individual concerned.by a judgment of 23 july 2012, upheld on appeal on 17 september 2012, the samara district and regional courts held that the decision to refuse her a residence permit had been lawfully given by the migration service within its jurisdiction and in compliance with the foreign nationals act and its internal regulations.the district court declared that it would not take any humanitarian considerations into account because ms ostrovskaya had missed the three-month time-limit for submitting her claim, and she had a receipt of notification as early as 16 february 2012. the undesirability decision had been issued by the federal consumer protection authority rather than by its samara division; since ms ostrovskaya had designated the latter, but not the former, as the defendant in her claim, the courts refused to review what they described as an “actually non-existent decision”.38.  on 26 july 2012 the verkh-isetskiy district court of yekaterinburg upheld the refusal, finding in particular that v.v.’s hiv status amounted to an “actual threat to the health of the russian population” and that v.v.’s living with a same-sex partner was not equivalent to having a family.40.  in the meantime, on 24 april 2012 the sverdlovsk division of the consumer protection authority forwarded a copy of v.v.’s diagnosis to the federal consumer protection authority, with a view to pronouncing his presence in russia undesirable.the regional court also examined v.v.’s personal circumstances and found that he was single, that his next of kin lived in kazakhstan, that he did not have a family relationship with any russian nationals, that he lived in a student hostel rather than in a rented flat, and that he had no resources to pay for hiv treatment.it found in particular: “the facts which, in the claimant’s view, are of legal significance but which the appeal court failed to take into account, including ... his voluntary compliance with the obligation to inform his former partners about a possible hiv infection, his being in a steady sexual relationship ... cannot be established on the basis of the claimant’s and his representative’s statements alone.a threat to public health ... could result from the fact that the claimant has a registered place of residence and actually lives in a hostel, which is a public place; this fact alone put the health of the other residents of the dormitory at risk because the claimant may use the same public facilities ...” 46.  on 1 april 2014 a judge of the supreme court refused him leave to appeal to the supreme court.the government also produced a copy of the statement signed by mr x on 1 june 2014. mr x clarified that v. had been living in a stable same-sex relationship since 2007. he refused to name v.’s partner or to say whether he was v.’s partner: in his capacity as v.’s representative he was not required to disclose any information about his own private life.
he alleges that mr g. gave him the assurance that he would be permitted for a period of five years to earn income over and above the sum of nlg 60,000, the purpose being to allow him to create cash reserves in case his health should deteriorate further.according to the report, the applicant had defrauded the social-security system by declaring only his own income as an employee of the limited liability company but not the company’s profits, which were declared as taxable income by his wife.the labour expert (arbeidsdeskundige) mr g. has stated that he discussed this extensively with gillissen, who could agree to that position and who indicated during the conversation that in the coming years more growth was to be expected and that it was his intention to make his own living in self-employment with a corresponding gradual reduction to zero (afbouw) of the wao benefits.” 10.  on 28 january 2004 uwv gave a decision reducing the applicant’s wao benefits with retroactive effect.as relevant to the case before the court, the applicant argued that as from 1999 he had kept the competent authorities informed of developments as they occurred, withholding no information, and invoked the arrangement which he had agreed with mr g. he named mr s. as a witness.it found that the applicant could reasonably have been aware that the total of his additional income – the sum of his salary and the profits of the limited liability company – was too high for him to be entitled to the full amount of his social-security benefits.the alleged arrangement to the contrary was not reflected in the case file, and in any case, whatever statements had been made (assuming that any had been made at all) had been made by a person lacking the requisite competence and could not bind uwv.as relevant to the case before the court, he complained about uwv’s failure to question mr g. and mr s., which in his submission reflected a lack of due care affecting the quality of the investigation.in addition, [uwv] answered the [applicant]’s questions about the possibilities of obtaining income from work (additional income) in a letter of 12 july 1999, which letter incidentally the [applicant] claims not to have received.its reasoning included the following: “the agreement relied on by the [applicant], which is denied by uwv, does not appear from the case file and no other credible case for its existence has been made out by the [applicant].” 18.  in response to a question by the court, the applicant acknowledged that he had made no attempt to summon mr g. and mr s. himself or bring them along to the hearing of either the regional court or the central appeals tribunal, as permitted by section 8:60(4) of the general administrative law act (algemene wet bestuursrecht; see paragraph 25 below).20.  on 20 january 2006 the single-judge chamber of the criminal division (politierechter) of the roermond regional court convicted the applicant.its reasoning included the following: “the suspect states that he drew up a common plan with mr g. of uszo in 1998 with a view to the gradual reduction to zero of the wao benefits over five years.the applicant further states that he made arrangements with that mr g. concerning the amount of additional income he would be allowed to earn in the said five-year period.prompted by the transformation of the one-man business into one or more limited liability companies the suspect sought confirmation from uwv that it would not matter for the arrangements made whether the provider of the income was the one-man business or the said limited liability companies.by the time this question was put by the suspect to uszo mr g. had been succeeded by mr m. the latter found no report in the uszo file of the arrangements mentioned by the suspect.in view of the facts outlined above, the court of appeal considers it plausible (aannemelijk) that the suspect made arrangements with mr g. of uszo in one form or another concerning the amount of permitted additional income within the framework of the gradual reduction to zero of his wao benefits.
had dragged her by force while she was playing with her girlfriends at the neighbours’ house, had taken her to an empty room in the house or into the barn and had raped her while holding her down and keeping his hand over her mouth in order to prevent her from screaming.he further stated that it was she who had come to him and had asked him to have sex with her the first time, in august or september 2008. he alleged that the applicant had told him that she had had sex before with the boys from the b. family.the judiciary police officer making the request held that, even if the perpetrators’ statements were to be accepted as truthful, the victim’s age (eleven at the time of the first sexual act) precluded the existence of legally valid consent as she could not have freely expressed her will.... she says that she did not tell anyone about the incidents sooner because she feared for her safety and the safety of her family members.” the report concluded that the applicant had difficulties in foreseeing the consequences of her actions and had insufficient discernment due to her age.stated that he had had sex with the applicant on one occasion in the autumn of 2008. the applicant had asked him to have sex with her, and when he had refused - because he had never done this before - it was she who got undressed and climbed onto him.from the statements of the perpetrators and the two sisters, the prosecutor held as proved the fact that the applicant had gone to the neighbours’ house scantily dressed and had had a sexual relationship with j.v.the prosecutor therefore concluded that from the documents in the file it was not proved beyond doubt that the applicant had not given her consent to the sexual acts.and the other perpetrators who had not been indicted by the prosecutor that the applicant had always taken the initiative for the sexual acts and she had been in the habit of provoking both j.v.as regards the content of the above-mentioned statements, the court considered “relevant” the fact that the applicant was scantily dressed and that even after she had allegedly been sexually abused she went on playing with her girlfriends.be convicted of rape and that the amount of compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damage be increased to rol 50,000. the applicant’s representative submitted that the decision of the first instance court had not been impartial since it had been based only on the statement of the accused, together with statements by the other perpetrators and two witnesses – all related to the accused.furthermore, since the minimum age of consent to a sexual act was set by law at fifteen, the applicant ‒ who was only eleven at the time of the incidents ‒ could not have expressed valid consent and the sexual abuse committed against her could therefore only be classified as rape.26.  the hunedoara county court decided to allow the applicant’s appeal, holding that: “according to the provisions of article 197 of the criminal code, the crime of rape is ‘sexual intercourse of any kind with a person ... taking advantage of the [person’s] lack of capacity to defend herself or to express her will [original emphasis]...’.the court applied a sentence below the minimum provided for by law for the crime of rape against a person under fifteen, finding mitigating circumstances due to the defendant’s good behaviour prior to the commission of the crime on trial.based on these testimonies and the fact that the victim had not told her parents about the alleged abuse, the court drew the conclusion that the instances of sexual intercourse had always been initiated by the applicant and dismissed the theory that the victim might have lacked capacity to express her will.... “the presumption of lack of capacity applies only to minors who are under fourteen and have committed a crime, but with respect to the crime provided by article 198 of the criminal code, the minor [the applicant] is the victim and not the perpetrator.”
5.  between 2005 and 2006 the applicants successfully sued the authorities for miscalculating social benefits.the judgments became final.6.  on various dates the supervisory review courts quashed the judgments delivered in the applicants’ favour after applications by the defendant authorities, considering that the lower courts had misapplied substantive or procedural law (for more details see the appendix).7.  on 3 july 1986 the applicant was sentenced to three and a half years’ imprisonment.on 25 february 1997 he was acquitted.8.  on an unspecified date the applicant lodged an application with the sovetskiy district court, claiming 3,973,578 russian roubles (rub) in compensation for pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage on the grounds of wrongful prosecution.9.  on 24 may 1999 the sovetskiy district court allowed the applicant’s claim in part, awarding him rub 43,568 in compensation for unpaid salary, the confiscation of his car, and judicial costs and expenses.the judgment was fully enforced.10.  on an unspecified date the applicant brought a similar set of proceedings against the ministry of finance, claiming compensation for wrongful prosecution in 1997.11.  on 27 july 2006 the leninskiy district court granted the applicant’s claim in full and awarded him rub 761,815 in compensation for unpaid salary; the confiscation of his car and other property; rent for his flat; travel expenses; and judicial costs and expenses.no appeal against the judgment was lodged and it became final.12.  on 1 february 2007 the presidium of the rostov regional court quashed that judgment by way of supervisory review on the grounds that the same issue had already been decided by the judgment of 24 may 1999 and that there had been no grounds to examine the complaint a second time.
the need to observe the human rights act 1998 (see paragraphs 50 to 55 below) was central to the practice direction on committal proceedings, which had applied to the proceedings before the county court (see paragraph 41 below).this emerged at the outset of the cross-examination by counsel for mrs hammerton on the second day of the hearing.” 19.  moses lj considered that once the judge had learnt that the issue of legal aid was the subject of an imminent review panel, there was no reason why the committal hearing should not have been adjourned until the issue of legal representation had been resolved.he was of the view that the judge had been obliged to ask appropriate questions and to consider, at the very outset of the hearing, whether there should be an adjournment so as to enable the defendant to be represented.in the absence of evidence of intransigence on the part of the applicant, and he noted that there was none, there was no reason why the applicant should not be represented.21.  moses lj concluded that the decision of the judge to hear both applications at the same time had placed the applicant in an impossible position, noting that there was no hint at any stage in the transcript of the proceedings of anyone advising the applicant of his rights in respect of the committal proceedings, nor of the judge reminding himself of the different burden and standard of proof in the two applications.quite apart from the question of the appropriate sentence, there was material relevant to the facts of the breaches to which the judge’s attention ought to have been drawn.there are, of course, many cases in the books in which this court has upheld committal orders even although they have been made in proceedings which were procedurally flawed ... provided the contemnor has had a fair trial and the order has been made on valid grounds, the existence of a defect in the committal application or in the order served will not result in it being set aside except in so far as the interests of justice require that to be done ... 36. the instant case, however, is plainly not in that category, and i am in complete agreement with moses lj that the defects in the process in the instant case are so serious that the interests of justice plainly require both the committal order and the consequential sentence of imprisonment to be set aside.” 25.  specifically on the question of access to legal advice, he added: “52.no magistrates’ court would impose a custodial sentence on an unrepresented defendant, and in my judgment, no family court should send a litigant in person to prison for contempt without first making arrangements for that litigant to be legally represented.” 26.  on 20 march 2008 the applicant commenced proceedings for damages under common law for the tort of wrongful imprisonment and under the human rights act 1998 (see paragraphs 50-55 below), relying on articles 5 and 6 of the convention.28.  blake j noted at the outset that the court of appeal had identified three main errors in the applicant’s case: the failure to inquire into why he was not represented and to consider whether to adjourn the committal proceedings to enable him to obtain representation; the joinder of the committal proceedings and the contact order application, which undermined the burden of proof and the applicant’s right not to give evidence in the committal proceedings; and the fact that he was not given the opportunity to mitigate before sentence was passed.blake j considered it plain from the judgment of the court of appeal that although it had granted no formal declaration that the committal hearing had breached the applicant’s human rights, it had been of the view that it had and that had been the tenor of its findings.29.  as to the false imprisonment claim, blake j referred to the long‑standing recognition in the case-law that there was immunity from suit for a claim based on alleged errors of a circuit judge of competent jurisdiction that resulted in detention, in the absence of malice.30.  he considered equally hopeless the applicant’s claim that any violation of an article 6 § 1 right gave rise to a right to damages under the human rights act 1998. he found that section 9(3) of the act, which precludes damages in respect of a judicial act done in good faith, with the exception of damages required by article 5 § 5 of the convention (see paragraph 55 below), was inconsistent with the applicant’s claim.31.  as to the claim under article 5 of the convention, blake j referred to this court’s judgments in the cases of benham v. the united kingdom [gc], 10 june 1996, reports of judgments and decisions 1996‑iii, perks and others v. the united kingdom, nos.again i reject this reworking of the submission for similar reasons to those already given, but more particularly for the principles spelt out in the trio of community charge cases.” 32.  blake j concluded that the applicant’s detention pursuant to the order of judge collins was not so gross or obvious an irregularity, within the meaning of § 115 of the court’s judgment in lloyd and others, cited above, as to be not in accordance with the law.in reaching this conclusion, he noted, inter alia, that the county court was a court of competent jurisdiction; that proper notice of the hearing and of the committal application had been given; that the record of proceedings did not appear to reveal any application by the applicant for an adjournment to seek legal representation; that there was no failure to follow a statutory prerequisite because the general requirement to observe article 6 imposed by the human rights act 1998 was not the same as a precise rule prohibiting committal unless a condition was complied with; that, similarly, the practice direction (see paragraph 41 below), which set out the need to observe the human rights act, was in general terms and did not amount to a condition precedent; that the court of appeal, at the time of the county court’s decision, had not made an unambiguous finding that a lack of representation at a committal hearing would always violate article 6, although its finding in the present case meant that article 6 might be considered a condition precedent in future cases; and that there was no hint of malice or bad faith by the judge.
the investigating team also included the investigator of the gugark garrison military prosecutor’s office of armenia, s.t., the investigator of the martakert garrison military prosecutor’s office of nagorno karabakh, a.k., the deputy chief of the yerevan military police department, v.k., and the chief of the stepanakert military police department of nagorno karabakh, a.b.it appears that it was disclosed during this interview that the envelope in question was linked to the second applicant and had been included in a parcel sent to him by his parents at the end of december 2003. it further appears that this fact was confirmed during the questioning of the second applicant’s younger brother, which took place on 21 april 2004 from 11 a.m. to 1.10 p.m. 15.  the applicants alleged that on 19 april 2004 they were taken, in turns, to the office of their military unit’s commander, m.a., for questioning in connection with the murders.in the section of the isolation notices entitled “doctor’s conclusion” the note “practically healthy” appeared, followed by the signature of doctor s. the sections of the isolation notices which were to include the signature of the chief of the disciplinary isolation cell and his notes regarding the time and date of the applicants’ admission to and release from the disciplinary isolation cell were left blank.from 2.35 p.m. to 7.40 p.m., and the third applicant was questioned by investigator a.h. from 2.05 p.m. to 7.20 p.m. the second applicant admitted during questioning that he and the other two applicants had eaten the food contained in the parcel received from his parents outside the military unit next to the canal on 24 december 2003. the first applicant was asked during questioning to provide an account of what he had done on 24 december 2003. he was then asked whether he was familiar with servicemen r.y.20.  later that day at an unspecified hour the applicants were taken to the stepanakert military police department of nagorno karabakh where from 10.35 p.m. to 00.10 a.m. the second applicant was questioned as a witness by investigator a.h. the interview was videotaped by the cameraman of the media department of the nagorno karabakh defence army, a.g. 21.  the applicants were kept at the stepanakert military police department until 23 april 2004. on that date the military prosecutor of armenia issued a letter addressed to the defence minister of nagorno karabakh, with a copy to the chief of military police of armenia, the chief of the stepanakert military police department and the commander of military unit no.she also complained that from 23 april 2004 to the present the applicants, in violation of the law, had been kept at a military police arrest facility, despite their pre-trial detention having been ordered by the court decision of 27 april 2004. thus, they were deprived of the protection offered by the justice system and were kept under the authority of the military police who were, moreover, working in close cooperation with the military prosecutor’s office.64.  on 26 july 2004 the deputy ombudsman was informed by the general prosecutor’s office that the accused had been kept at the military police arrest facility on the basis of annex 14 to the regulations for the garrison and sentry services and had been transferred to nubarashen pre‑trial detention facility following the entry into force of the amendments to those regulations adopted by the parliament on 28 april 2004 and ratified by the president on 22 may 2004.77.  by a letter of 15 october 2004 the chief of nubarashen pre-trial detention facility informed the first applicant that his detention period had been suspended in accordance with, inter alia, article 138 of the ccp by the letter of the military prosecutor’s office of 5 august 2004. the chief of the detention facility further stated that, according to the military prosecutor’s letter of 22 september 2004, as of that date the detention period had been accounted for by the syunik regional court.since inpatient treatment is no longer necessary, the detainee is being discharged to remain under further medical supervision by the medical staff of the detention facility.” 88.  on 4 november 2004 judge m. of the syunik regional court decided to set the case down for trial and to fix the date of the first court hearing, which was to take place on an unspecified day in november 2004. the judge stated in his decision that the first applicant’s detention was to remain unchanged.first, the applicants had not raised any such complaints during their questioning as witnesses on 21 april 2004, during their questioning as suspects and as accused and the two confrontations which were held on 24 and 26 april 2004 in the presence of their lawyers, or during the reconstruction of the crime on 29 april 2004. second, the second applicant had not raised such allegations even during his additional questioning on 18 may 2004 and did so only in his motion of 10 june 2004, which was followed by similar motions filed by the first and third applicants on 16 june 2004, all of which were dismissed by the military prosecutor as unsubstantiated.109.  by a letter of 26 december 2005 the general prosecutor’s office informed the applicants that, during the court examination of the criminal case against them, the syunik regional court, guided by article 17 § 4 of the ccp, had taken the necessary measures to verify the statements alleging that they had been subjected by the investigators to coercion during the investigation, and found them to be unsubstantiated in its judgment of 18 may 2005.the district court stated, in particular, that complaints alleging a violation of lawfulness in the course of criminal proceedings, pursuant to article 17 § 4 of the ccp, were to be thoroughly examined by the authority dealing with the merits of the case, while statements about a crime made during a court hearing, pursuant to article 177 of the ccp, were to be entered into the record of the court hearing.the applicants’ argument that the regional court and the court of appeal were not competent to conduct proceedings in respect of persons who had not been involved as accused was incorrect, since the courts, in adopting their judgments, were obliged under the criminal procedure law to verify and assess whether the evidence obtained was admissible and relevant and whether or not it had been obtained through violence, threats and other unlawful actions of the police officers as alleged in the applicants’ appeal.the court of cassation found that the investigating authority had failed to take all the necessary measures for an objective evaluation of the circumstances of the case and had failed to verify duly the statements of the defence concerning the applicants’ innocence and the existence of exonerating evidence, as well as their allegations of a violation of lawfulness in the course of the proceedings.124.  as regards the question of the applicants’ deprivation of liberty and their allegations of ill-treatment, the court of cassation stated: “it follows from the materials of the case that [the applicants] were detained on 24 april 2004. it was indicated in the appeals on points of law that for five days in a row [the applicants], having the status of a witness, had been subjected to violence, torture and inhuman treatment, as a result of which a confession statement was extorted from [the second applicant].
10.  on 11 may 1995 the fier commission recognised the applicant’s and other heirs’ inherited property rights over a plot of land measuring 55,200 sq.on 29 january 1999 the fier district court amended the commission decision of 11 may 1995 and restored the applicant and other heirs a plot measuring 9,107 sq.the third parties lodged a counter-action requesting the annulment of the commission decision of 11 may 1995. on 27 september 2001 the supreme court finally amended the commission decision in respect of the applicant’s share of property, which corresponded to a plot measuring 930 sq.m. since the plot of land was occupied, the supreme court decided that the applicant would be compensated in one of the ways provided by law.12.  on 11 april 2011 the fier district court granted the applicant’s and other heirs’ leave to appeal out of time against the commission decision of 11 may 1995 in respect of the remaining plot of land measuring 47,014 sq.m. 14.  on 19 january 2000 the tirana commission recognised, amongst others, the applicants’ inherited property rights over a plot of land measuring 10,600 sq.m. since the plot of land was occupied, the applicants would be compensated in one of the ways provided by law.16.  to date, no compensation has been paid in respect of the plot of land measuring 10,600 sq.m. since the plots of land were occupied, the applicant would be compensated in one of the ways provided by law.the original document, no copy of which was submitted to the court, appears to have been issued by a notary of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.20.  on 25 october 1995 the gjirokastër commission recognised the applicants’ inherited property rights over a plot of land measuring 4,527 sq.22.  on 23 september 1996 the tirana commission recognised, amongst others, the applicants’ inherited property rights over a plot of land measuring 208,696 sq.24.  on 22 october 1994 the tirana commission recognised the applicants’ inherited property rights over a plot of land measuring 1,730 sq.m. since the plot of land was occupied, the applicants would be compensated in one of the ways provided by law.m. 26.  on 24 october 1995 the saranda commission recognised the applicants’ inherited property rights over a plot of land measuring 69,186 sq.
9.  on 30 october 2001 the chervonodzerzhynskiy district court (“the district court”) granted the prosecutor’s request to put the applicant, a former police officer, on remand as a suspect in the criminal proceedings concerning the robbery on the kharkiv-dnipropetrovsk-simferopol road.on the same day, he drafted a “statement of voluntary surrender” (явка з повинною) in which he confessed to committing, as part of a criminal group, a number of armed robberies on the kharkiv-dnipropetrovsk-simferopol road, as well as one in the town of yevpatoriya.the applicant also provided more details in writing about the above crimes and his acquaintance with his accomplices and informed the police about two other armed robberies which he and his accomplices had committed in the town of dzerzhynsk, as well as about other crimes of which he was aware.12.  on 13 november 2001, in the absence of a lawyer, the applicant was questioned in the context of the robbery proceedings.on the same day, in the absence of a lawyer, the applicant was questioned as a suspect in the murder proceedings.19.  on 7 march 2002 the kharkiv regional court of appeal, having heard the investigator and the prosecutor, and referring to “the applicant’s personality”, albeit without assessing it, the seriousness of the charges against him, and the need for additional time to conduct the necessary investigative measures, extended the applicant’s detention to six months.22.  on 8 april 2002 the kharkiv regional court of appeal, having heard the investigator and the prosecutor, extended the applicant’s detention to nine months on the same grounds as those in its ruling of 7 march 2002. the decision was not amenable to appeal.the court based its findings to a large extent on the testimonies of the applicant and his co-defendants given during the pre-trial investigation, having found them to be corroborated by a number of other pieces of evidence.in the part of the judgment which concerns the murder charges, the court referred, in particular, to the “testimonies given by the applicant as a suspect and an accused, including in the presence of a lawyer”.in this context, when finding the applicant guilty of armed robberies, the court held that, having been informed of his procedural rights, the applicant had voluntarily waived his right to legal representation and that such a waiver had been lawfully accepted by the investigative authorities as robbery charges could not lead to a life sentence.36.  in addition, the court of appeal gave a separate ruling by which it declared inadmissible a number of pieces of evidence related to different charges against the applicant and his co-defendants, as the evidence had been obtained in violation of the defendants’ rights of defence.in particular, as far as the applicant was concerned, apart from the evidence which had been found inadmissible on 17 december 2003, the court further excluded from the body of evidence some of the testimonies given by the applicant on 8 and 9 january 2002. it held that, even though the applicant had allegedly confessed to murdering five people shortly after his arrest, he had nevertheless been questioned as a witness, in the absence of a lawyer.37.  the applicant appealed in cassation against the judgment of 6 october 2005. he stated in particular that there had been insufficient evidence to prove his guilt; he had been ill-treated by the police; on a number of occasions during the pre-trial investigation he had been questioned in the absence of a lawyer and that evidence obtained in violation of his rights of defence had nevertheless been used to secure his conviction.38.  on 19 october 2006 the supreme court of ukraine held a hearing in the presence of the prosecutor, the applicant and his sister – who acted as his representative.on the same day, it upheld the applicant’s conviction of 6 october 2005. it dismissed as unsubstantiated his complaints that his rights of defence had been violated at the pre-trial stage of the proceedings, holding that those complaints had been duly examined and dismissed by the court of appeal.
6.  at about 6 a.m. on 11 july 2007 several police officers visited the applicant’s home with a summons for him to report to the police station in the neighbouring town of pomorie “as a witness” in relation to an investigation.the applicant alleged that he was not at home at the time and that he was alerted by phone by his wife.on the summons, on the other hand, it is noted that he refused to accept receipt.7.  at about 7 a.m. the applicant arrived at the pomorie police station.he was notified that he was being detained under section 63(1)(1) of the ministry of internal affairs act (“the miaa”, see paragraph 15 below).the detention order stated that he was being detained on the basis of section 63(1)(1) “in connection with an offence under article 195 of the criminal code”, which refers to theft.8.  during his detention, the applicant was transported to a police station in burgas and then back to the police station in pomorie, where his fingerprints were taken.9.  at about 12 a.m. the applicant was allowed to meet with a lawyer retained by his wife, who insisted that the police release him.in the framework of the ensuing proceedings the police presented an order dated 10 july 2007 and signed by a police investigator in pomorie.the order stated that a theft had been committed by an unknown person in a hotel in pomorie and instructed the police to take the appropriate measures to search for the perpetrator.11.  the burgas administrative court heard the case on 28 november 2007. it accepted the order mentioned in the preceding paragraph as evidence.12.  in a judgment of 21 december 2007 it upheld the detention order, holding that the applicant’s detention had been in accordance with the law.it found, in particular, that for the lawful application of section 63(1)(1) of the miaa it was not necessary that the police should hold evidence showing “in an unqualified manner” that the detainee had committed an offence; data “justifying a suspicion that there was a probability that the person had committed an offence” was sufficient.the domestic court noted further that the police had operational freedom as to the application of section 63(1)(1) of the miaa.13.  on appeal by the applicant, on 17 november 2008 the supreme administrative court upheld the judgment of the burgas administrative court, reiterating its reasoning.
in particular, it was noted that since june 2010 the applicant, as co-founder and chairman of human rights club, an “organisation lacking state registration”, and as a project manager in an ngo named international cooperation of volunteers, had received a number of grants from the united states of america’s national endowment for democracy (ned), various branches of the open society institute assistance foundation (osiaf), norway’s stiftelsen fritt ord and other donor organisations, pursuant to relevant grant agreements.he was accused of acquiring profit, “by paying money to himself and other people involved in the projects in the guise of salaries and service fees” in the amount of 147,900.85 azerbaijani new manats (azn), having acquired that money through, “illegal entrepreneurial activity in respect of grants which, as an official, he had failed to register with the relevant executive authority, even though he had a professional obligation to do so”.17.  on the same day, 2 august 2014, the nasimi district court, relying on the official charges brought against the applicant and the prosecutor’s application for the preventive measure of remand in custody, ordered the applicant’s detention for a period of three months.the court justified the decision as follows: “taking into account the gravity of the criminal offences of which the applicant is accused and the possibility of him disrupting the normal course of the investigation by unlawfully influencing people involved in the proceedings or absconding from the investigation if he remains at liberty, the court considers that the preventive measure of remanding him in custody must be applied in his case.” 18.  on 4 august 2014 the prosecutor general’s office made a public statement which noted that the applicant had been charged under articles 192.2.2, 213.1 and 308.2 of the criminal code because there was a suspicion that he had committed the criminal offences set out in the above‑mentioned articles.among other things, the applicant highlighted the factual circumstances which supported his argument for less restrictive measures, including the fact that he had returned to the country from kyiv knowing that he was under investigation and had complied with all orders to produce documents and appear for questioning, and that he, as a human rights defender, was a respected public figure with strong ties to the community.the description of the allegations against him was slightly expanded, but essentially remained the same as that given on 2 august 2014 (see paragraph 16 above), with additional information alleging that the applicant had falsified various pieces of paperwork and minor contracts for services provided by a number of individuals (presumably in connection with various grant projects) and had not paid them in full as stipulated in the contracts.31.  the applicant’s criminal trial began in january 2015. on 16 april 2015 the baku court of serious crimes convicted him of all charges and sentenced him to six and a half years’ imprisonment and deprivation of the right to hold official positions in state and local authorities and the right to engage in entrepreneurial activity for a period of three years.33.  all of those statements, addressed “to whom it might concern”, provided details of the relevant grants and donations awarded to the applicant or human rights club, noted that the applicant had regularly provided the relevant donor with necessary accounting information concerning the expenditure of the funds, and specified that the donor organisations and embassies had every confidence that the funds had been used properly for the relevant projects and initiatives for which they had been awarded.36. in january 2012 yeni azerbaijan, the official newspaper of the ruling party, ran a piece entitled “new target of national traitors: eurovision 2012”, which attacked the sing for democracy campaign coordinated by the applicant as a campaign against the interests of the country and stated the following: “the blackmail and slander campaign of the alliance to protect political freedoms, institute for peace and democracy, institute for reporters’ freedom and safety, and human rights club is based on ugly intentions which are evident from the names of these organisations.the remote control of those who would do anything for money, who easily betray their country and state by launching a black smear campaign in exchange for foreign donations (donations obviously granted for meeting certain interests) is in the hands of those who give the money.” 37.  around the time of the applicant’s arrest and thereafter, the same newspaper and online news portals affiliated with the authorities published a number of pejorative articles calling the applicant an “american agent”, with headlines such as “american agent rasul jafarov detained for three months”, “the rights of rasul jafarov, another agent, limited”, and “search of the flat of american agent rasul jafarov”.these people, some of whom are traitors and some weak-minded, will finally answer before the law.” 39.  on 15 august 2014 a.h., the head of the department of social and political issues of the presidential administration, stated the following in an interview with trend news agency: “the most deplorable thing is that such ngos and individuals and some journalists, relying on foreign circles funding them, placed themselves above the national law, evaded registering their grant projects, filing financial statements, paying taxes and the government’s other legal requirements.” 40.  in an interview published on 2 september 2014 y.m., a member of parliament from the ruling party, who was also the director of the institute of history at the academy of sciences, stated the following in respect of the recently arrested ngo activists and human rights defenders: “people who betray their motherland cannot be forgiven.42.  according to the applicant, in various speeches given in 2014 the president of the state had stated that foreign criticism of the human rights situation in azerbaijan had nothing to do with human rights, but was politically motivated, and that within the country there were “national traitors who had sold their conscience to foreign anti-azerbaijani circles”.following the meeting, the collegium of the aba held that mr bagirov had breached the ethical rules of conduct for advocates because at the court hearing he had made the following remark about the judicial system, “like state, like court ... if there were justice in azerbaijan, judge [r.h.] would not deliver unfair and partial judgments, nor would an individual like him be a judge” (“belə dövlətin belə də məhkəməsi olacaq ... azərbaycanda ədalət olsaydı, hakim [r.h.] ədalətsiz və qərəzli hökm çıxarmaz, nə də onun kimisi hakim işləməzdi”).69981/14) attachment: copies of letters from the european court and the azerbaijani government concerning these individuals.” 48.  a copy of the letter was also sent to the head of the serious crimes department of the prosecutor general’s office.29 of 10 december 2014 of the bar association of the republic of azerbaijan and you have been disbarred, and [as a result of the fact that] as of that date you can no longer practise as an advocate in court and investigation proceedings, it is impossible to grant you access to the penal establishments as counsel.”
the ministry ordered the plovdiv regional health inspectorate to carry out an inquiry and, based on its findings, on 23 january 2004 informed the applicant that in view of the inconclusive results of the medical imaging tests, the operating team had chosen to make a wide opening in the thorax, enabling them to inspect the left side of the thoracic wall from the fourth to the ninth ribs.she alleged that he had (a) erroneously removed parts of two healthy ribs, the fourth and the fifth on the left, without having obtained her consent; (b) inspected her lungs, which had been unnecessary and unjustified; (c) fractured her sixth left rib; and (d) failed to remove the metastasis, which had been the very purpose of the operation.at the request of the applicant, the court ordered an expert report, to be drawn up by an oncologist, nominated by the applicant, a thoracic surgeon, nominated by dr k.m., and a radiologist, nominated by the court, on a number of points raised by counsel for the applicant.21.  the report drawn up by the three experts described the different methods for detecting bone metastases, including bone scintigraphy, emphasising that their results had to be assessed cumulatively; said that when operating on cancer patients it was mandatory to inspect adjoining organs by palpation; described the extent, in their view limited, to which the removal of parts of the fourth and fifth left ribs had affected the applicant’s body movements; said that rib fractures were almost inevitable and very frequent in thoracotomies; said that the main principle when operating on cancer patients was that all decisions were to be made by the entire team; and opined that it would be possible to operate on the applicant again, should the need arise.26.  in his report the new expert, a thoracic surgeon from sofia, said that the operating team had not breached good medical practice by removing parts of the applicant’s fourth and fifth left ribs based on their visual and tactile inspection in the course of the operation, bearing in mind that histological testing of bone tissue required time and therefore no histological conclusion could be obtained during the operation; that they had correctly inspected the applicant’s lungs by palpation; that rib fractures in the course of such operations were almost inevitable; that the removal of the rib fragments had not unduly affected the applicant because they had later partly regenerated; and that it could not be categorically said that the applicant had a metastasis in her sixth rib, especially bearing in mind that no further metastases had been detected for many years after the operation.30.  on 10 april 2006, at the request of counsel for the applicant, the court instructed the replacement thoracic surgeon who had acted as expert in the proceedings before the lower court (see paragraph 26 above) to draw up a supplementary report in which to address several points raised in the appeal.31.  the thoracic surgeon’s supplementary report said that the applicant had correctly been subjected to surgery; that the operating team had not erred by acting on the basis of the visual and tactile findings made in the course of the operation, especially bearing in mind the uncertain results of the prior medical imaging tests; that there was no universally reliable method to establish the presence of bone metastases; that it had been impossible to mark the precise spot of the suspected metastasis before the operation; and that dr k.m.the other two experts expressed the same views as those set out in the thoracic surgeon’s supplementary report (see paragraph 31 above), and came to the conclusion that the operation had been required and that the operating team had not acted out of line with good medical practice.the court came to the same conclusions as the lower court with respect to the inspection of the applicant’s lungs by palpation, the alleged fracture of her sixth rib, and the question whether it had been proved that she had cancer after the operation (see paragraph 28 above).on remittal, the lower court had to re-visit these points by taking into account the history of the applicant’s medical condition, and inquire into the need for the operation, the presence of metastases in her ribs, and the alleged worsening of her health after the operation.39.  the report said that it had been imperative to carry out the operation; that the fracture of the sixth rib had been there before the operation and had been due to the rib’s heightened fragility resulting from previous anti-cancer treatment; that the removal of parts of the fourth and fifth ribs had not been an error in view of the inconclusive prior medical imaging data, which had its limitations, and the visual observation of tissue that could at the time have been suspected to be cancerous; that there was no categorical medical data proving the presence of a metastasis in the sixth rib before or after the operation – the bone scintigraphies had only showed an increased uptake of radioactive tracer there – in spite of the medical treatment undergone by the applicant after the operation; that the applicant could be operated upon again, should the need arise; and that the applicant’s medical condition would have been much worse had she indeed had an untreated metastasis in her sixth, eighth or ninth rib for years after the operation.it held, by reference to the reports of the three experts that it had appointed, the three experts appointed in the proceedings before the lower court, and three of the experts appointed in the first appeal proceedings (see paragraphs 21, 31, 33 and 39 above), that the operation had been required.on this point (see paragraph 33 above) because, even though the question whether it had been advisable to operate in such circumstances could be debated theoretically, the medical team treating the applicant had been faced with an exigently practical situation: the medical imaging tests had showed the presence of a suspected isolated tumour whose exact location was uncertain, and there had been for this reason only one course of action: localise the tumour using the methods of surgical diagnostics and immediately remove it.the court agreed with the experts’ conclusions that the operating team had not erred by removing parts of the applicant’s fourth and fifth ribs on the basis of their suspicion that they contained cancerous tissue, even though that had turned out not to be the case.again by reference to the experts’ conclusions, the court fully agreed with the lower court’s findings with respect to the inspection of the applicant’s lungs by palpation, and held that it had not been proved that her sixth rib had been fractured in the course of the operation, or that a metastasis in that rib had erroneously not been removed.
6.  the applicant was born in 1949 in the khabarovsk region.10.  when the applicant arrived at the colony the resident doctor noted that he had a first-degree disability: he was totally blind as a result of mature cataracts in both eyes.as is apparent from the documents and photographs submitted by the government, the premises were not adapted for visually impaired or blind persons.the inmate did not receive any remuneration for the assistance he provided to the applicant.he helped the applicant to move around the dormitory and to take showers, and guided him in the dining room.the applicant had no prison work; he remained in the unit throughout the day.13.  according to the applicant, he faced particular difficulties in orientating himself in the correctional colony.the applicant allegedly refused, but did not agree to make a written note to that effect in the medical record.15.  in september 2014 the inmate who had been assisting the applicant was released from detention and the applicant was left to fend for himself.18.  relying on the conclusion of the medical commission, the applicant lodged an application with the kochubeevskoe district court, stavropol region, for release on health grounds.21 of the supreme court of russia dated 20 december 2011 (see paragraph 26 below), the court noted that the fact that the applicant’s illness was included in the list provided for by government decree no.the court cited the gravity of the crimes committed by the applicant and the length of the prison term he had yet to serve.taking those two factors into account, the court concluded that the applicant should remain in the correctional colony.19.  on 10 july 2014 the supreme court of russia rejected a cassation appeal lodged by the applicant without examining it on the merits.it found that the applicant had failed to lodge the appeal within the statutory time‑limit.
10.  in the course of the talk show, during a quiz, the guests were asked to answer the following question, which was identified as the most important by f.c.: “who is the best portuguese female tv host?” the possible answers to the question included the name of three female television hosts and the applicant’s; the latter being the “correct” one.she was the one telling me not to say it, that it could be bad.” 11.  on an unspecified date of 2010 the applicant lodged a criminal complaint for defamation and “insult” (injúria) with the lisbon criminal department for investigation and prosecution against the state-owned television company rtp, the production company, the television presenter f.c.he complained that they had damaged his reputation and dignity by including his name in the list of possible answers to the question asked during the programme.12.  on 2 march 2011 a public prosecutor of the lisbon criminal department discontinued the proceedings by adopting a decision which stated that the defendants had not intended to offend the applicant.13.  on an unspecified date the applicant sought to intervene in the proceedings as an assistant to the public prosecutor (assistente) and lodged private prosecution submissions (acusação particular) with the lisbon criminal investigation court (tribunal de instrução criminal) against the defendants.in relation to the individual defendants, the judge decided that there was insufficient evidence of any defamation and insults by them, thus the case was unable to be brought to trial.the relevant part of the decision reads: “given the defendants’ statements, it is clear that they did not intend to attack the [assistente’s] honour.the [assistente] is a public figure and so must be used to having his characteristics captured by comedians in order to promote humour; it being public knowledge that [the applicant’s characteristics] reflect behaviour that is attributed to the female gender, such as his way of expressing himself, his colourful [feminine] clothes, and the fact that he has always lived in a world of women (see, for example, the programmes he has always presented on television).the [assistente] has recently made his homosexuality public, and the defendants never intended to criticise his sexual orientation ...” with regard to the two defendant companies, the proceedings were discontinued pursuant to article 11 of the criminal code, which excludes “legal persons” from liability for defamation and insult.15.  the applicant appealed against the decision not to indict the natural defendants before the lisbon court of appeal (tribunal da relação de lisboa).in its decision, the court cited the above quotation from the investigating judge’s decision of 24 june 2011 and further stated: “it should not be considered offensive to one’s honour anything that the complainant considers as such, but what in the opinion of the majority of reasonable people should be considered an offence to the social and individual values of respect (judgment of the coimbra court of appeal of 16 march 1993).... and as the impugned decision noted, having balanced in a very sensible way the conflict of interests at hand and the context in which it unfolded: ‘it should be taken into account that we have before us a comedy show, and that the moment at which the defendant asked her guest a question, referring to [assistente] manuel luís goucha as ‘one of the best female portuguese hosts’, was considered to be one of the many jokes said throughout the show, typical of such shows.the [assistente] is a public figure and so must be used to having his characteristics captured by comedians in order to promote humour; it being public knowledge that [the applicant’s characteristics] reflect behaviour that is attributed to the female gender, such as his way of expressing himself, his colourful [feminine] clothes, and the fact that he has always lived in a world of women (see, for example, the programmes he has always presented on television)....” it further considered that: “... the expression used in a playful and irreverent context and in the normal style previously adopted by the television show under consideration, even though one may consider it as being in bad taste, does not reach the threshold required by law for the protection of honour and consideration.”
13.  according to the applicant, in 2005 and in 2006 he complained to the prison doctor about various health problems, including stomach pain, but his complaints remained unnoticed by the authorities.15.  on 19 july and 13 and 16 august 2007 the trial court adjourned its hearings in the applicant’s case as he did not feel well and had complained of severe stomach pain.on 21 august 2007, at a court’s request, a deputy head of the prison medical ward examined the applicant and observed that he was receiving treatment for an acute duodenal ulcer.18.  in march 2009 the applicant was transported to the prison hospital for the second time.this time the doctors prescribed him medication for his myopia and neurological symptoms resulting from the trauma in 1999. the medical records did not contain any information on the actual intake of drugs by the applicant.22.  the next recurrence of the applicant’s ulcer occurred in autumn 2010. according to the medical records, the applicant did not receive any drugs at that time.the resident doctor prescribed drug treatment in december 2010 and january and march 2011. however, the medical records contain no information concerning the actual provision of the prescribed drugs to the applicant.25.  in the beginning of 2012 the applicant underwent a magnetic resonance imaging scan of the brain and spine in a civilian hospital.he paid for the scan himself, which revealed the presence of schmorl’s nodes, protruded discs, spondylarthrosis and a haemangioma in one of the spinal discs.27.  on 23 october 2012 the applicant arrived at the prison in minusinsk in the krasnoyarsk region (“the prison”).29.  in the meantime, an independent medical specialist and neurologist, dr m., assessed the applicant’s health and prepared a report on 5 november 2012. it stated that he should be admitted to a neurological or neurosurgical medical facility, where his spinal problems could be treated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medication, neuromuscular blocking agents and painkillers.31.  in the absence of any positive developments, in january 2013 the doctor amended the spinal treatment and introduced a stronger anti‑inflammatory drug.33.  after the applicant’s return to the prison his treatment continued in line with the recommendations of the prison hospital doctors.the doctor noted that the applicant required anti-recurrence ulcer treatment and in-depth examinations every six months, recording that it was necessary for him to be placed on a special diet when the ulcer recurred.39.  on 30 august 2013 the applicant filed a complaint against the prison administration, arguing that his treatment fell short of the requirements of russian law.
6.  the first applicant, partners 2000 kft, is a hungarian limited liability company with its seat in nyárliget.it is owned and run by the second applicant.the second applicant is a hungarian national, who was born in 1972 and lives in sopron.the third applicant is the second applicant’s wife, who was born in 1973 and lives in sopron.the fourth applicant is the second and third applicants’ minor child, born in 2000.cxxxiv of 2012 on the repression of smoking of the youth and on tobacco retail.the act was published on 24 september 2012.8.  according to the act, tobacco retail was to become a state monopoly (exercised through a state-owned company, nd nemzeti dohánykereskedelmi nonprofit zrt), and tobacco retailers would become authorised through a concession tender, advertised on 15 december 2012. the time-limit for applying was 22 february 2013.9.  entities or persons previously engaged in tobacco retail had no privileges in the tender.10.  the act was subsequently amended on several occasions, and the final version was enacted on 6 june 2013, with entry into force on 1 july 2013. government decree no.), which contained the detailed rules for the operations of the future concession-holders, was published on 8 june 2013, that is, after the completion of the tendering process, the results of which had become public on 22 april 2013. the decision about the tenders was taken by nd zrt itself.11.  the first applicant, partners 2000 kft had been active in tobacco retail for several years.since, however, it was not entitled to apply for a concession under the new law, the second applicant applied personally for one, on several occasions.the decisions said that his applications did not fully meet the requirements, without developing the shortcomings.13.  the applicants submitted that others in comparable situations – and in the case of those who had never been doing tobacco retail beforehand, in non-comparable situations – were granted concessions, which difference in treatment cannot be explained by any circumstance other than political adherence.
14.  on the day following his admission to the hospital, the applicant made a written refusal to receive injections of hypotensive medication, arguing that they could lead to a sharp drop in his blood pressure.18.  in december 2010, the applicant’s wife, anticipating his discharge from the hospital, complained to the head of the regional department of the federal service for execution of sentences in st petersburg and leningrad region and to the investigative committee of the leningrad region that the applicant’s medical treatment had been inadequate and about his impending transfer from the hospital to a temporary detention facility.these and the subsequent recommendations of dr f. were submitted to the authorities by the applicant’s lawyer or wife and appear to have been included in his medical file.26.  in the meantime, in march 2011 dr f. studied the applicant’s clinical records and recommended that he undergo a coronary angiography examination, as well as haemodialysis to define the correct treatment and to prevent possible progress of his kidney disease.28.  four days later dr f., an independent nephrologist, dr g., and the head of the prison hospital examined the applicant in the hospital.29.  another examination of the applicant by dr f. and an independent cardiologist, dr m., on 22 april 2011 led to the following opinion: the applicant had received adequate hypotensive therapy, which had nevertheless resulted in the aggravation of his hypercreatinemia.the doctors stressed that there was a high risk of the applicant’s condition deteriorating and leading to his death as a result of heart failure, a stroke or myocardial infarction, should prison medical personnel fail to perform a coronary angiography examination or surgery.200/k of 27 may 2011, the applicant was suffering from third-degree hypertension, third-stage arterial hypertension, chronic heart insufficiency of the second degree, first-degree chronic venous insufficiency, chronic coronary disease, second-degree angina pectoris, sclerotic kidney, second-stage chronic renal insufficiency, the initial stage of cerebral atherosclerosis, and dyscirculatory encephalopathy of the first degree.33.  on 1 july 2011 the applicant was examined by dr f., who observed that the authorities had failed to give him necessary drugs and that the applicant’s relatives had had to step in and supply the prescribed medication.34.  the applicant’s wife complained to the representative of the russian president in the north-west federal circuit of the applicant’s poor treatment in detention.on 26 july 2011 the ombudsman recommended that the applicant’s wife complain before the courts, apply for the applicant’s early release on medical grounds, or complain to the administration of the detention facility.the doctor stressed that an angiography examination at that stage of the development of the applicant’s illness posed a risk of irreparable damage to the applicant’s kidneys.39.   in a report prepared after the applicant’s examination on 20 january 2012, dr f. and the head of the prison hospital stated that he had not received any statins.40.  on 26 april 2012 in the course of the criminal proceedings against the applicant, the trial court ordered his expert examination with a view to updating the information about his state of health, particularly in the light of the results of his coronary angiography examination.52.  the discharge report issued to the applicant upon his discharge from the medical ward on 22 november 2013 indicated that he was to consult a heart surgeon and a nephrologist.
according to the applicant, the reason for buying a house was the fact that the building in which his flat was situated had no lift and for that reason did not meet the needs of his disabled child and his family.he relied on section 11(9) of the real property transfer tax act, which provided for the possibility of tax exemption for a person who was buying a flat or a house in order to solve his or her housing needs, if he or she, or his or her family members, did not have another flat or house meeting their housing needs (see paragraph 24 below).in his request the applicant argued that the flat which he owned did not meet the housing needs of his family since it was very difficult, and in fact becoming impossible, to take his disabled child out of the flat from the third floor without a lift, given that he was in a wheelchair.12.  on 6 may 2009 the samobor tax office (ministarstvo financija – porezna uprava, područni ured zagreb, ispostava samobor) dismissed the applicant’s request, giving the following reasons: “section 11(9) of the real property transfer tax act ... provides for tax exemption for citizens who are buying their first real property in order to meet their housing needs, under conditions which must be cumulatively satisfied, including the requirement that the taxpayer in question, or his or her family members, do not have another flat or a house meeting their housing needs.during the proceedings it was established that the taxpayer joško guberina had owned a flat measuring 114,49 square metres, in zagreb ..., which he had sold on 25 november 2008 to ... given that the surface of that real property, and in view of the number of the taxpayer’s immediate family members (five), satisfied the housing needs of the taxpayer and his immediate family, within the meaning of section 11(9.3) of the real property transfer tax act, and given that it satisfied all housing needs in terms of hygiene and technical requirements as well as the basic infrastructure (electricity, water and [access to] other public utilities), under section 11(9.5) of the real property transfer tax act, the taxpayer does not meet the cumulative conditions provided under section 11(9) of the real property transfer tax act.14.  the applicant appealed against the above decision to the finance ministry (ministarstvo financija, samostalna služba za drugostupanjski upravni postupak; hereafter, “the ministry”), and on 6 july 2009 the ministry dismissed his appeal as ill-founded, endorsing the reasoning of the samobor tax office.in this connection, one of the conditions laid down under indent 9.5 is that the citizen and the members of his or her immediate family must not have another real property (flat or house) meeting their housing needs; and indent 9.6 also provides that the citizen and the members of his or her immediate family must not own a flat, a holiday house, or property of a significant value (other property of a significant value can include a piece of land where construction is allowed) or a business premises where the citizen or his or her immediate family members do not exercise a registered [business] activity, whereby the value of the real property is similar to that of the real property (flat or house) which the citizen is purchasing.given the rationale of the cited provisions and the facts of the case as established beyond doubt during the proceedings, [the ministry] considers that the first-instance authority was justified in rejecting the appellant’s request for tax exemption ... the right to tax exemption exists if the citizen, or his or her immediate family members, at the time of purchase [of the real property], do not own, or did not own, another real property meeting their housing needs or a flat, a holiday house or other real property of a significant value.as this is not the situation in the present case, given that the appellant, at the time of purchase [of the house], owned a flat in zagreb ... larger than the real property he was buying and in respect of which he sought tax exemption, it cannot be said that by buying the house the appellant was purchasing his first real property in order to meet his housing needs.” 15.  on 7 september 2009 the applicant lodged an administrative action with the high administrative court (visoki upravni sud republike hrvatske), arguing that in their decisions the lower bodies had ignored his specific family situation and, in particular, his child’s disability and therefore the housing needs of his family.in the applicant’s view, it was necessary to recognise that in his particular case the availability of a lift in the building was an infrastructural requirement on the same level as access to water and electricity in general.the relevant part of the judgment reads: “given that the surface area of the flat [which the applicant owned] satisfied the needs of five members of the plaintiff’s family (provision 9.3) and that the flat at issue was equipped with the basic infrastructure and hygiene and technical requirements, the defendant correctly concluded that the plaintiff, in the given case, did not meet the conditions for a tax exemption set out in section 11(9) of the real property transfer tax act.the arguments regarding the administrative action are ineffective in changing the decision in this administrative matter, and therefore the court considers that the impugned decision did not breach the law to the plaintiff’s detriment.” 17.  on 25 may 2012 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) relying on article 14 of the constitution, contending, inter alia, that, given the specific accommodation needs of his family due to his child’s disability, he had been discriminated against by unfair application of the relevant tax legislation.he argued, in particular, that the competent administrative authorities had failed to correct the factual inequality inherent in his particular situation with regard to the ordinary meaning of the term basic infrastructural requirements meeting the housing needs of his family.in particular, having examined his complaints from the angle of the right to a fair trial, the constitutional court held that no issue arose with regard to the other complaints relied upon by the applicant.20.  the government provided a report by the ministry of social policy and youth (ministarstvo socijalne politike i mladih) of 6 november 2013, according to which the applicant’s child had been in receipt of monthly monetary allowances of hrk 1,000 (approximately eur 130) in the period between 19 january 2006 and 10 september 2012, and allowances of hrk 625 (approximately eur 80) from 11 september 2012 onwards.
19.  on 30 may 2002, the iaşi forensics institute, sitting as a review commission, informed the iaşi police department that they approved the conclusions of the forensic necropsy report of 27 march 2002 as scientifically grounded and based on the medical data included in the report.21.  on 27 march 2002, the applicant’s son-in-law lodged a second criminal complaint, with no civil claims, with the general prosecutor’s office attached to the court of cassation (“the general prosecutor’s office”) against the medical personnel of the suceava county hospital and the cuza-vodă clinic in iaşi.it held, on the basis of the medical evidence, the forensic necropsy report and the approval of the review commission of 30 may 2002, that the death of the victim had had natural causes and had not been induced by any medical error.had acted correctly by hospitalising the patient and by giving her the treatment he did; (b) if the treatment with duvadilan was appropriate for the patient’s condition and if the treatment had influenced the deterioration of her condition; (c) what were the possible causes of the patient’s death occurring soon afterwards; (d) what would have been the patient’s chances of survival, given her diagnosis, if the surgery had been performed as soon as her condition had deteriorated.31.  on 25 august 2003, following dr i.m.’s objections, the suceava police department reiterated before the higher forensics commission attached to the national forensics institute in bucharest (“the higher forensics commission”) the same questions raised before the iaşi forensics institute on 16 may 2003, and asked it to help them clarify those aspects of the case and to provide explanations.32.  on 12 january and 8 march 2004, the suceava police department asked the higher forensics commission to provide its conclusions in respect of their request from 25 august 2003. it emphasised that the conclusions were necessary to solve the case, and that the victim’s family had complained repeatedly before the domestic authorities about the lack of promptness of the criminal investigation.33.  on 29 january 2004 the applicant complained before the superior prosecutor attached to the suceava prosecutor’s office that the criminal investigation lacked promptness and had failed to clarify the circumstances of the victims’ deaths.it concluded that the actions of the suceava hospital’s staff could be explained from a medical standpoint, in the context of the patient’s anamnesis and given that according to the information available and on the basis of the patient’s symptoms they could have also concluded that the patient’s condition had been caused by mushroom poisoning, and not by hellp syndrome as turned out to be the case.46.  by a judgment of 20 november 2009, the iaşi district court allowed the applicant’s and her son-in-law’s challenge against the order of 4 may 2004, cancelled the order, and referred the file back to the prosecutor’s office for criminal proceedings to be opened against dr i.m.consequently, the court ordered a forensic expert report to be produced which would establish whether: (a) the doctor had been diligent enough to correctly establish the diagnosis; (b) the actual diagnosis had been established on the basis of the symptoms and the investigations made in the case; (c) the correct diagnosis could have been established on the basis of supplementary tests and examinations which should have been performed; (d) the medical treatment had been appropriate; (e) the medical intervention should have been performed at the suceava county hospital; (f) the applicant’s daughter’s health had deteriorated during her transfer to the clinic in iaşi because she was not assisted by a doctor throughout the transportation; (g) any of the aspects above, or others, had any causal link with the death of the applicant’s daughter and her new born granddaughter.if the expert report established a causal link between the death and the fact that the transfer by ambulance had not been done with a doctor present, the reason why the patient had not been accompanied by a doctor and the identity of those responsible should be established.54.  on 1 february 2011, the superior prosecutor attached to the suceava prosecutor’s office dismissed the applicant’s challenge and upheld the order of 21 december 2010. it held amongst other things that the proceedings had not been abandoned by the authorities, since they had finished the investigation on 4 may 2004. the length of proceedings had been affected by the forensic expert reports, the last one being produced on 23 april 2004.also, it could not be accepted that the running of the statutory limit had been stopped or suspended, either by the request for a medical expert report to be produced or by the judgment of 20 november 2009. the judgment of a court quashing an order of the prosecutor’s office to discontinue a criminal investigation was not one of the lawfully permissible reasons to suspend the running of the statutory limit.the fact that the court of cassation had transferred the case for examination to a different district court would not have justified an investigation of the case by a different prosecutor’s office from the one which had initially investigated the case, once the examining court had referred the case back to the prosecutor.65.  on 26 september 2012 the suceava court of appeal dismissed as inadmissible the applicant’s appeal on points of law, on the ground that the domestic legislation did not allow a second level of jurisdiction in respect of court proceedings initiated against the prosecutor’s office’s orders or decisions.
4.  the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in szeged.5.  the applicant had a car accident in 1993, sustained serious injuries and, as a consequence, her loss of capacity to work was assessed to be 67 per cent.6.  an insurance company was obliged to pay a monthly allowance to the applicant.in order to redeem the monthly allowance, the insurance company offered 4,400,000 hungarian forints (17,600 euros) to the applicant as compensation for all damages she has suffered.the applicant and the insurance company concluded an agreement on the lump sum on 25 february 1999.7. subsequently, the applicant realised that the lump sum paid by the insurance company did not cover all her damages, believing that the calculation method applied by the insurance company was mistaken.consequently, on 7 august 2003 the applicant initiated a civil lawsuit against the insurance company requesting the court to declare the agreement invalid and to oblige the insurance company to pay compensation for damages.8.  the budapest regional court delivered a partial judgment on 18 april 2006 in which dismissed the applicant’s claim on the alleged invalidity of the parties’ agreement.on appeal, the budapest court of appeal upheld the partial judgment on 21 february 2007. the applicant challenged the partial judgment before the supreme court which upheld it on 17 october 2007.9.  as to the remainder, the budapest regional court in its judgment delivered on 11 june 2007 partly found for the applicant in respect of the damage claim.on appeal, the budapest court of appeal reversed the judgment and dismissed the applicant’s claim on 23 april 2008. the applicant challenged the judgment before the supreme court but to no avail.the supreme court upheld the final and binding judgment on 11 february 2009.
the migration board official explained that the reason why he was asking questions about it was that he had interpreted the certificate as though the applicant had relied on his conversion as a ground for asylum.the migration board official asked why, if the applicant did not wish to rely on his conversion as a ground for asylum, he had nevertheless handed in the certificate from the pastor, to which the applicant replied: “i don’t know.counsel commented that the applicant had not read the certificate from the congregation’s pastor before the interview as it had not been translated and that the applicant intended to submit the formal baptism certificate.the migration board noted that the applicant had changed his story in some parts during the proceedings, and in particular, he had changed his statements concerning the number of times he had been arrested.after the questioning in 2007 and until the elections in 2009, he had been able to continue working with the web pages that contained the critical material, even though, according to the applicant, already at that time the authorities had been aware of his activities.for these reasons, the migration board found that the applicant could not have been of interest to the authorities on account of his activities or the material he had in his possession.21.  as to the applicant’s conversion to christianity, the migration board noted that the conversion and baptism had not taken place in the church of sweden and that the applicant had not handed in any proof of his baptism.as regards the latter he handed in a baptism certificate of 31 january 2010. he reacted against the decision by the migration board, which in his view implied that a conversion within a “free church” was of less relevance than if it had been within the church of sweden.24. the migration board did not question the fact that the applicant, at the time, professed the christian faith, but found that this, by itself, was not enough to consider him in need of protection.however, as regards the summons to appear before the revolutionary court, the migration court found, regardless of the authenticity of the document, that it could not by itself substantiate a need for protection.the applicant had only stated that he had participated in the campaign for the opposition before the elections in 2009 by joining demonstrations and having contact with the student movement and students in order to help them with their web pages.furthermore, the applicant had stated that the material he had had in his possession when he was questioned in 2007 had not differed from the material he had in 2009. these circumstances, together with the fact that he had not been summoned again to appear before the revolutionary court after november 2009 and that his family had not been targeted, made the migration court doubt that his political activities had been of such a nature and extent as to have resulted in the consequences alleged.he submitted that the latter issue had been sensitive for him, that he had considered it a private matter and that had not wanted to tarnish the seriousness of his belief.the migration board noted that in the original asylum proceedings the applicant had stated that he had been baptised and had converted to christianity.the migration board found it noteworthy that the applicant now raised the question of conversion, when he had been given the chance to elaborate on it during the oral hearing before the migration court but had declined to do so.
since he was under the age of criminal responsibility, no criminal proceedings were instituted against him but he was the subject of five pre-investigation inquiries and placed under the supervision of the juveniles inspectorate within the department of the interior of the sovetskiy district of novosibirsk (hereafter “the juveniles inspectorate”).14.  on 3 january 2005 the applicant, who at that time was twelve years old, was at the home of his nine-year old neighbour s. when his mother, ms s., called the police, who came and took the applicant to the police station of the sovetskiy district of novosibirsk.relying on the applicant’s confession and the statements of s. and s.’s mother, it found it to be established that on 27 december 2004 and 3 january 2005 the applicant had extorted money from s. his actions therefore contained elements of the criminal offence of extortion, punishable under article 163 of the criminal code.20.  on 3 february 2005 the applicant’s grandfather complained to the prosecutor’s office of the sovetskiy district of novosibirsk that the applicant, a minor suffering from a psychological disorder, had been intimidated and then questioned in the absence of his guardian and that his confession had been obtained under duress.that the applicant had committed extortion had been established on the basis of the statements of s. and s.’s mother and the applicant’s admission of guilt during the interview of 3 january 2005.the representative of the juveniles inspectorate supported the request made by the head of the police department and explained that [the applicant’s] guardian had requested in writing that his guardianship rights be lifted and the [inspectorate] had accepted that request.the [applicant’s] representative [the grandfather] objected to [the applicant’s] placement in the temporary detention centre, having noted that [the applicant] had not committed a criminal offence on 27 december 2004 as he had been with [the grandfather] at a doctor’s surgery for an examination at that time.the prosecutor asked the court to accept the request and to place [the applicant] in the temporary detention centre for juvenile offenders, taking into account that the documents presented by [the applicant’s] guardian did not confirm that [the applicant] had been at a doctor’s surgery on 27 december 2004 at 1 p.m. or that he had been unable to commit the criminal offence, particularly taking into account the [applicant’s] personality and the fact that he had already committed a number of offences.having heard the parties to the proceedings and having examined the materials submitted by them, the court considers that the request must be allowed for the following reasons: [the applicant] is registered in the database of [the juvenile department of the police]; he was previously placed in the [temporary detention centre for juvenile offenders] for behaviour correction but did not draw the proper conclusions and committed further delinquent acts; the preventive measures put in place by the [juveniles] inspectorate and by the guardian have not produced results, which shows that [the applicant] has not learnt his lesson.having taken these circumstances into account, the court finds unsubstantiated and far-fetched the explanations by the applicant’s guardian that [the applicant] did not commit the offences on 27 december 2004 and 3 january 2005. having regard to the above-mentioned facts and ruling under section 22(2)(4) of the minors act, the court grants the request of the head of the police department and decides to place the applicant in the temporary detention centre for juvenile offenders for thirty days.” 28.  on 21 february 2005 the applicant was placed in the novosibirsk temporary detention centre for juvenile offenders, where he remained until 23 march 2005.he reiterated his complaints to the prosecution authorities in a letter dated 30 november 2005. while the prosecutor’s office of the sovetskiy district of novosibirsk sent a reply to the applicant’s grandfather on 9 november 2005 and the prosecutor’s office of the novosibirsk region sent a reply on 16 december 2005, both of these dealt exclusively with the procedural issues related to the applicant’s case (see paragraph 24 above) and did not contain any answer to the grandfather’s complaints in so far as they related to the applicant’s health and the conditions of detention.49.  on 11 april 2005 the sovetskiy district court discontinued the proceedings because the head of the sovetskiy district police department of novosibirsk had withdrawn his request for the placement of the applicant in the temporary detention centre for juvenile offenders.50.  on 22 march 2006 the applicant’s grandfather lodged an application for supervisory review of the decision of 11 april 2005. he complained that as a result of the discontinuation of the proceedings the applicant had been deprived of an opportunity to prove his innocence in respect of the offence for which he had already unlawfully served a term of detention in the temporary detention centre for juvenile offenders.51.  on 3 april 2006 the president of the novosibirsk regional court quashed the decision of 11 april 2005. he found, firstly, that, in accordance with section 31.2(3) of the minors act, a judge examining a request for the placement of a minor in a temporary detention centre for juvenile offenders had the power either to grant or to reject the request.secondly, the applicant and his guardian had not been informed of the date of the hearing and had therefore been deprived of an opportunity to make submissions on the issue of the discontinuation of the proceedings.
17.  on 12 november 2012 the first applicant wrote in a statement for the sizo administration (see paragraphs 41 and 76) that the maternity hospital staff had treated her well, that she had not been handcuffed or shackled, and that the two female security officers who had been on her ward had been helping her take care of the baby.19.  on 21 december 2012 the chief doctor of the maternity hospital wrote to the governor of the kharkiv sizo, in reply to an enquiry by the latter, to say that during her stay in the maternity hospital the first applicant had been guarded by sizo officers at all times, that the officers in question had not been on the delivery ward, and that the first applicant had not been handcuffed or shackled during the delivery.she submitted that the first applicant had been shackled by the wrists to the gynaecological examination chair during her examinations both in the admissions unit and later in the obstetric unit, and that it was usual practice for detainees to be shackled and guarded by three guards.40.  on 22 october 2012 the kharkiv regional prosecutor’s office informed the agent of the government that there had been no complaints from the first applicant regarding the conditions of detention or the second applicant’s medical care in the sizo.in december 2012 a television programme was broadcast, in which the first applicant and the state authorities gave accounts, particularly as regards the conditions of the applicants’ detention in the sizo.53.  as submitted by the first applicant and noted in a letter by the chief doctor of the children’s hospital to the first applicant’s lawyer dated 6 september 2012, a paediatrician from that hospital had examined the second applicant on 28 may 2012. the baby was found to be in good health but to have phimosis (a condition of the penis where the foreskin cannot be fully retracted).54.  however, according to the second applicant’s medical file kept by the sizo, the first time a paediatrician of the children’s hospital examined him was on 31 may 2012. he was found to be in an adaptation period and the first applicant received advice regarding childcare.58.  on 28 august 2012 the first applicant’s lawyer asked the kharkiv sizo administration to provide him with details of when the second applicant had been examined by a paediatrician and whether the conditions of detention had been appropriate for such a small baby.61.  on 6 september 2012 the chief doctor of the children’s hospital wrote to the first applicant’s lawyer in reply to an enquiry by him dated 5 september 2012. he said that with no paediatrician at the kharkiv sizo, a paediatrician from that hospital monitored babies born there.65.  on 18 october 2012 the chief doctor of the children’s hospital wrote to the first applicant’s lawyer, in reply to an enquiry made on 10 october 2012, to say that hospital was in charge of the medical supervision of children in the kharkiv sizo where needed, subject to the sizo administration making the relevant application.70.  on 30 november 2012 the first applicant’s lawyer enquired with the children’s hospital whether it had kept a medical file in respect of the second applicant and whether he had been vaccinated during his stay with the first applicant in the sizo.73.  on 14 march 2013 the judge of the dzerzhynskyy court, who had been in charge of the first applicant’s case, wrote to the agent of the government, in reply to the latter’s request, to say that the first applicant had indeed been held in a metal cage in the courtroom during hearings.74.  on 15 march 2013 the ministry of the interior confirmed once again to the agent of the government that the first applicant had been held in a metal cage in the courtroom during hearings.78.  on 2 january 2013 the first applicant complained to the kharkiv zhovtnevyy district prosecutor’s office (“the zhovtnevyy prosecutor’s office”) that she had not been provided with adequate medical care during her pregnancy and the delivery; that she had been shackled by her wrists and feet to a gynaecological examination chair or her bed in the maternity hospital at all times, including during the delivery; that the conditions of her detention in the kharkiv sizo had been poor; and that neither she nor her baby had received adequate medical care there.79.  on 18 january 2013 the zhovtnevyy prosecutor’s office ordered a forensic medical examination of the case material with a view to establishing: (i) whether the first applicant had any injuries and, if so, how they had been caused; (ii) whether there was any forensic medical evidence that the first applicant had been handcuffed or shackled between 26 january and 15 november 2012; (iii) whether there was any forensic medical evidence that the applicants had not been provided with adequate or sufficient medical care in the kharkiv sizo; (iv) whether there was any forensic medical evidence that the applicants had not been provided with adequate or sufficient medical care in the maternity hospital; and (v) if the applicants had not received adequate or sufficient medical care, whether this had had any negative impact on their health.
11.  according to the government, on 30 september 2004 the applicant’s wife wrote the office of citizenship and migration affairs a short letter stating that “my husband ... was refused a permanent residence permit; i would like to object to this.” this objection was accompanied by another letter requesting to ignore the former, as it had been drawn up under threat by the applicant.15.  meanwhile, on 9 december 2004, the applicant’s wife applied to the office of citizenship and migration affairs with a view to withdrawing the applicant’s permanent residence permit and expelling him from latvia on the grounds that he presented threats to her life and health and those of their children.following legislative changes (see paragraph 45 below) the persistence of the grounds for the inclusion in the blacklist could be re-examined by the minister of interior; the applicant attempted to avail himself of this remedy (see paragraph 21 below).19.  on 24 march 2005 the minister of interior replied to the applicant’s enquiry of 22 february 2005 and, having reviewed the applicant’s case, concluded that the applicant could not be removed from the blacklist.20.  on 14 april 2005 the applicant’s wife applied to the ministry of the interior claiming that notwithstanding her previous letters expressing her wish for the applicant to leave the country their relations had improved and she wished to maintain her family and not to separate the applicant from their children.in reply, the minister explained that her subjective feelings towards the applicant did not imply a change in the circumstances on the basis of which the applicant had been included in the blacklist.on 31 may 2005 the security police informed the office of citizenship and migration affairs that the applicant had been included in the list of persons prohibited from entering in latvia, confirming their view that the applicant constituted a threat to public order and safety; there had been no change in those circumstances.in the decision, the minister relied on the letter of 27 may 2005 informing him that the circumstances on the basis of which the applicant had been included in the blacklist had not changed.on 14 february 2005 the applicant was informed of the decision and of the fact that he was to leave the country by 26 march 2005. the applicant lodged an appeal against this decision with the office of citizenship and migration affairs.it further considered that the contested decision complied with the rule of law, and that it was taken in the interests of national security, public order and safety and for protection of the rights of others, namely the spouse and children.references were also made to the court’s case-law on immigration control, to article 8 of the convention under which the interference with the applicant’s family life could be justified, and to the 2004 report of the committee on the elimination of discrimination against women (cedaw) concerning latvia.35.  on 30 june 2005 the office of citizenship and migration affairs adopted a decision under section 61, paragraph 4, part 3 of the immigration law (see paragraph 46 below), including the applicant in the list of persons prohibited from entering in latvia until 13 june 2010. the applicant did not lodge an appeal against this decision with the administrative courts.on the basis of information received from the state police and the security police and section 64, paragraph 1, part 1 of the immigration law the minister decided to remove the applicant from the blacklist.39.  on 29 april 2011, in response to an email from the applicant, the ministry of the interior explained that he had been included in the blacklist on the basis of decision no.having received the applicant’s request for a review of the decision, the ministry of the interior had made enquiries with the state police and the security police.
further, the court takes into consideration the fact that, at the time of the arrest, [the applicant] did not reside in moscow, did not reside at his registered address and, according to him, was staying at his friend’s place in the moscow region; and that he had applied for two years’ leave of absence from his studies at university.the court also takes into consideration the motive for and the specific circumstances of the offence with which [the applicant] has been charged.regard being had to the circumstances described above, the court concludes that, if at large, [the applicant] may abscond or otherwise interfere with the administration of justice by, inter alia, putting pressure on [witnesses].” 7.  on an unspecified date the applicant lodged an appeal against the decision of 10 march 2009. he argued that the district court had failed to justify its decision to remand him in custody and had not considered the possibility of using a less restrictive preventive measure in his case.9.  on 27 april 2009 the district court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention until 15 june 2009. the court reasoned as follows: “as can be seen from the materials submitted to the court, [the applicant] is charged with a serious offence which carries a custodial sentence of up to seven years.furthermore, it can be seen from the documents submitted to the court that there is a risk that [the applicant] might engage in unlawful acts as defined in the above-mentioned provision of the law, regard being had to the nature and seriousness of the offence with which he is charged, to the circumstances of the case and of his arrest, and to his character ... accordingly, the court concludes that the circumstances justifying the [applicant’s] remand in custody have not changed.the statements of guarantee submitted by the [applicant’s] lawyer cannot be taken into consideration by the court because they were not submitted to the investigator or presented by the signatories in person.... some of the statements are not duly authorised and the court has doubts as to their authenticity.” 10.  on 18 may 2009 the city court upheld the decision of 27 april 2009 on appeal.11.  on 29 may 2009 the zamoskvoretskiy district court of moscow scheduled the trial for 10 june 2009. the applicant argued against the extension of his pre-trial detention.he further pointed out that the investigation in the case had already been completed and that he could not interfere with the administration of justice or put pressure on witnesses.in particular, the court stated as follows: “having examined the prosecutor’s request to detain [the applicant and two other defendants] pending trial, the court grants it.it discerns no grounds on which to change the preventive measure imposed on the defendants, regard being had to the seriousness of the charges, the factual circumstances and the defendants’ character.regard being had to the foregoing, the court discerns no grounds on which to change the preventive measure imposed earlier on the defendants and apply a less restrictive measure, including the [applicant’s] release upon a statement of guarantee signed by a surety.” 12.  on 24 june 2009 the applicant asked the district court for release.the court dismissed the applicant’s request noting as follows: “... the court considers that the request cannot be granted.the court discerns no circumstances that would allow it to change the preventive measure imposed on [the applicant], regard being had to the seriousness of the charges, the factual circumstances and his character.... the birth of his child has no effect to the contrary and cannot justify the decision to replace [pre-trial detention] with a less restrictive measure, including the [applicant’s] release upon a statement of guarantee signed by a surety.” 13.  on 22 july 2009 the city court upheld the decision of 29 may 2009 on appeal.
he does, on the other hand, submit, under an interpretation of articles 293 and 32 of the criminal code in the light of the principles inferred from article 10 echr by the european court of human rights, that having received that information in good faith without obtaining it unlawfully, he had the duty as a professional journalist, under article 32 of the criminal code, to publish it owing to what he sees as the obvious interest of the so-called ‘lausanne bridge’ case to the general public in french-speaking switzerland.in its stoll v. switzerland judgment of 10 december 2007, the european court of human rights confirmed that this formal conception of secrecy was not contrary to article 10 echr inasmuch as it did not prevent the federal court from determining whether the interference in issue was compatible with article 10 echr, by assessing, in the context of its examination of article 293, paragraph 3, of the criminal code, the justification for classifying a given piece of information as secret, on the one hand, and weighing up the interests at stake, on the other (see stoll v. switzerland, cited above, §§ 138 and 139).as an exception to article 185, the cantonal investigating judge and, with the latter’s agreement, the judge responsible for the preliminary inquiry or senior police officers specially appointed by the cantonal government [conseil d’etat] (see article 168, paragraph 3) may inform the press, radio or television about a pending investigation if so required by the public interest or considerations of fairness, particularly where public cooperation is required to shed light on an offence, in cases which are particularly serious or are already known to the general public, or where erroneous information must be corrected or the general public reassured (see article 185b, paragraph 1, cpp/vd).the aim is to maintain the authority and impartiality of the judiciary in accordance with the wording of article 10 (2) echr, which also mentions the protection of the reputation or rights of others (see weber v. switzerland, judgment of 22 may 1990, § 45, and dupuis and others v. france, judgment of 7 june 2007, § 32).this is the inescapable conclusion as regards the records of interviews of the accused, as it would be inadmissible to allow such documents to be analysed in the public sphere, before the conclusion of the investigation, before the trial and out of context, in a manner liable to influence the decisions taken by the investigating judge and the trial court.regardless of the guarantee of the presumption of innocence and the inferences concerning the detainee’s character which might be drawn during the criminal proceedings from such correspondence, the detainee, whose liberty is considerably restricted, even in respect of everyday acts relating to his private life, or indeed intimate sphere, can expect the authority restricting his liberty to protect him from public exposure of the practical details of his life as a remand prisoner and as a person facing charges (see article 13 of the constitution).it follows that in the instant case the information published by the appellant, in so far as it concerned the content of the records of his interviews and his correspondence with the investigating judge, cannot be described as a secret of minor importance for the purposes of article 293, paragraph 3, of the criminal code.8.  in short, the appellant submits that he had the professional duty (under former article 32 of the criminal code) as a journalist to publish the information in question because of what he describes as the obvious interest in the ‘lausanne bridge’ case for the population of french-speaking switzerland.while the european court of human rights reiterates that neither it, nor the domestic courts for that matter, should substitute their own views for those of the press as to what technique of reporting should be adopted by journalists, in weighing up the interests at stake it nevertheless takes account of the content, vocabulary and format of the publication, and of the headings and sub-headings (whether chosen by the journalist or the editors), and the accuracy of the information (see stoll v. switzerland, cited above, §§ 146 et seq., especially 146, 147 and 149).it suggested that the case had already been tried in the author’s view, in the sense that the fatalities on the lausanne bridge had been caused not by an ordinary motorist but by a ‘mad driver’, a man ‘oblivious to the events and all the hubbub around him’; the journalist concluded by wondering whether the driver was in fact doing his best to ‘make himself impossible to defend’.the manner in which he quoted the excerpts from the records of interviews and reproduced the letters sent by the defendant to the judge pointed to the motives of the author of the impugned article: he confined himself to sensationalism, his modus operandi being exclusively geared to satisfying the relatively unhealthy curiosity which anyone is liable to feel about this type of case.however, the mere possibility that the secrecy of criminal investigations might be lifted during a subsequent phase of proceedings, particularly during the trial, which is generally subject to the publicity principle, does not undermine the justification for keeping judicial investigations confidential, because the primary aim is to protect the opinion-forming and decision-making processes on the part not only of the trial court but also of the investigating authority, until the completion of this secret phase of proceedings.from the angle of weighing up the interest in the interference, we might simply note that the fine imposed, the amount of which took into account a previous conviction dating back to 1998 (imposition of a chf 2,000 fine, which could be struck out after a two-year probationary period, for coercion and defamation), does not exceed half the amount of the appellant’s monthly income at the material time (see police court judgment, point 1, p. 5), and there is nothing to suggest that his freelance status at the time of the first-instance judgment led to any significant drop in his earnings.it should also be pointed out that at chf 4,000 the amount of the fine is below the statutory maximum set out in former article 106, paragraph 1, of the criminal code (as in force until 31 december 2006), and that this maximum amount, set by the legislature more than thirty years ago, was not revised until the entry into force of the new general section of the criminal code, which now sets a figure of chf 10,000 (see article 106, paragraph 1, of the criminal code as in force since 1 january 2007).that being the case, it is unclear, in view of the nature of the offence charged (the least serious in the classification set out in the swiss criminal code), the amount of the fine and the time of its imposition, how the sanction imposed on the applicant could be regarded as a form of censorship.
6.  on 26 august 2005 the šibenik municipal state attorney’s office opened an investigation against the applicant on suspicion of the theft of a mobile telephone from e.r., who had come to croatia as a tourist from the czech republic.he had approached the house the children had come from and had knocked at the door, but no one had answered.8.  in response to a request for international legal assistance from the croatian prosecuting authorities, on 9 june 2006 the chomutovo county court in the czech republic heard evidence from e.r.he had then approached the house they were staying in and through a window she had seen him steal her mobile telephone from a table on the terrace of that house.9.  on 9 november 2006 the šibenik municipal state attorney’s office indicted the applicant in the šibenik municipal court (općinski sud u šibeniku) on the charge of stealing a mobile telephone from e.r.10.  during his trial before the šibenik municipal court the applicant gave oral evidence on 18 may 2010. he reiterated the statement he had given before the investigating judge.the finding of the applicant’s guilt was based solely on the evidence given by e.r.the trial court held that it was clear that the applicant had been the person who had approached the house where e.r.the relevant part of the first-instance judgment reads: “under article 331 § 1(12) of the code of criminal procedure this court read out the statement given by e.r.before the chomutovo county court, the czech republic, on 9 june 2009 without the parties’ consent because there were sound reasons for doing so, namely that the victim gave her evidence more than four years ago and this court considers that, owing to the passage of time, it would not learn any new facts or circumstances relevant for assessing the circumstances of the event [at issue], and was also mindful of the fact that the [charges against the accused] will become time-barred in july 2011 and ... summoning the victim would protract the criminal proceedings unnecessarily.as being credible and truthful, this court has established the criminal responsibility of the accused because it has not found in the victim’s statement any reason for which she would blame the accused without basis.the relevant part of the appeal judgment reads as follows: “in the reasoning of its judgment, the [first-instance] court stated the reasons why it had decided ... to read out the statement of the witness-victim e.r., stating that the victim had given her evidence more than four years previously, at which time her recollection of the event [at issue] would have been fresher than later, that the prosecution would become time-barred in july 2011 and since [the victim] was a foreign citizen ... summoning her [to a hearing] would protract the criminal proceedings unnecessarily.... this decision of the first-instance court did not violate the defence rights of the accused ... ... ... it should also be said that the mobile telephone could not have been found in the accused’s possession because nobody looked for it.the documents in the case-file show that the accused’s home was not searched, which was a mistake on the part of the police.however, even without it, the [first-instance] court undoubtedly established that the accused had stolen the mobile telephone from the victim ...” ... ” 14.  on 13 may 2011 the applicant lodged a complaint before the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske), arguing that he had not had a fair trial as he had not been given an opportunity to question e.r.
24.  a letter dated 14 february 2012 issued by the care home to the district court again confirmed that the first applicant regularly visited the second applicant at the children’s home, that he bought clothes for her and that he discussed with the management of the care home the steps he could take on his own to ensure the girl received a good upbringing, financial support, health care and an education.(b)  oral submissions and witness statements 25.  at the hearing before the district court, the first applicant’s representative contested the children’s home’s application as groundless and discriminatory as being based on the fact that the first applicant had an intellectual disability.he argued that the transfer could be performed gradually, to enable the girl to get used to the changes in her life, while the competent social care agencies could assist the first applicant in exercising his parental authority and monitor the family and, in particular, the second applicant’s life and upbringing.26.  representatives of the children’s home (its director and the doctor in charge of the second applicant’s treatment) maintained the claim, arguing that it was premature to transfer the girl into the first applicant’s care.regularly visited the second applicant at the children’s home and attempted to communicate with her in the presence of the social workers, and that the first applicant had obtained a compulsory medical insurance certificate for her.the court also referred to the report of 8 february 2012 regarding the first applicant’s living conditions and noted, more specifically, that the first applicant had carried out repairs at the flat allocated to him, had equipped a room for a child, and had registered the second applicant at the address.it noted, with reference to the reports by staff members of the children’s home (see paragraph 18 above) and similar statements by the representatives of the children’s home made at the hearing (see paragraph 26 above) that at present the girl felt anxious in the presence of her parents and had difficulties in communicating with them.the court added that by virtue of article 76 of the same code the first applicant would be able to apply to court to have the restriction of his parental authority lifted, if the reasons for the restriction being imposed ceased to exist.as for the children’s home’s reference to the girl’s anxiety in her parents’ presence, the first applicant argued that the reports to that end by its staff (see paragraph 18 above) were out of date and could not serve as a basis for the court’s finding, as at the hearing before the first-instance court the children’s home representatives had confirmed that the second applicant was no longer afraid of her parents or of being placed in the first applicant’s care (see paragraph 26 above).38.  the first applicant also argued that, in so far as the district court had relied on the fact that he had lived at the care home for a prolonged period, a parent’s past or present residence in a specialist institution, there was no such ground for restricting parental authority in the russian family code.42.  in his oral submissions before the city court, the first applicant argued that if the children’s home’s claim was rejected, the transfer of the second applicant into his care could be gradual to enable her to adapt psychologically to her new life in the family.it took into account the parties’ arguments and observed, as had been submitted by a representative of the children’s home, that the first and second applicants had developed close emotional ties, that at present the girl felt comfortable and calm in her father’s presence and that she missed him whenever he left the children’s home.52.  the district court further noted that the first applicant had a stable monthly income of approximately rub 19,000. the living wage being rub 7,352 for a working adult and rub 5,802.50 for a child, the court considered that he was fully able to ensure the second applicant had adequate financial support.the court went on to note that the legal capacity of ms n.s., who freely visited the first applicant’s flat, had by that time been restored and that the first applicant had himself submitted a medical report dated 5 march 2013 which confirmed that he was fully able to take care of his child.with reference to article 76 of the russian family code, the court thus allowed the first applicant’s application and ordered that the restriction of his parental authority over the second applicant be lifted and that she be transferred into his care.
7.  the judge established that the applicant was the webmaster of an internet forum on which defamatory messages against the complainants in the proceedings had been published, and that he had deliberately disregarded the request made to him by a police officer within the framework of the criminal investigation not to alter the messages in question.in fact, the applicant had proceeded to have the forum webpage removed altogether, despite the police officer’s request to leave it unchanged.as regards the charges for defamation and false accusation of a crime, the judge held that there were reasonable doubts as to whether the applicant had been aware of the messages in question before his police interview and that he should therefore be acquitted in that regard.it was also alleged that he had protected the individuals who had made the defamatory statements; however, the judge considered that he could not be found guilty of concealment as it had not been proved that he had been aware at the time of his police interview that it had been possible for him to have access to the internet protocol (ip) numbers of the participants on the forum.9.  on 16 may 2011 the audiencia provincial upheld the applicant’s conviction for serious disobedience to public authority and, unlike the first-instance judge, found him guilty of continuous and false accusation of a crime (delito continuado de calumnias).in finding the applicant guilty, the appellate court stated that it had relied on the facts established by the first-instance judge and on the testimony given by the complainants, the applicant and the witnesses in the earlier trial.of the criminal code in relation to section 74 of the same code for which the defendant jorge gómez olmeda should be declared guilty as a principal pursuant to sections 28 and 30 of the code with the mitigating factor of undue delays pursuant to section 21 paragraph six of the code.... it is undisputed that documentary evidence does not require judicial immediacy for its assessment because it is written down and can be read and interpreted in the light of the circumstances of the case, which had been perfectly outlined in the complainants’ brief and proved in the hearing, both with respect to what was written on the forum and the people against whom those expressions were directed.those expressions imputed the commission of crimes to the complainants (sexual assault, sexual slavery of a person) and were detrimental to their fame and reputation to the extent that it is obvious that the imputations were serious in themselves and related to public understanding, which is an open-ended concept of which interpretation depends on the particular facts of the case.it is worth remembering that we are speaking here of a small town where everybody knows each other, where everybody runs into each other, where everybody attends the same places, where everyday life is routine and there is little room for novelties, where anything breaking the monotony is something which attracts public attention, where the genealogy of every inhabitant is known to the rest.for these reasons we find the applicant guilty of the crime of continuous and false accusation of a crime ...which he had been acquitted of at first instance.the applicant states that he was the administrator of the forum; that he did not log onto it very often; that he lacked computer skills and that he had removed some phrases and messages which in his view might be considered insulting for the purposes of the case now before us.we disagree with the accused when he states that he was unaware of what was written on the forum, the argument on which the first-instance judge relied to acquit him of false accusation of a crime and defamation.firstly, because it was part of his duties as the administrator of the forum to be aware of what was written on it, to the extent that he was its ‘censor’, so to speak, on account of the fact that he had created it; and secondly, because it is untrue that he was unaware of what was written on it, since he had removed some phrases and messages which were insulting to the complainants, thus proving that he had read what was written on the forum in question and demonstrating that he had regarded what was written there as insulting to a specific individual or individuals, which led him to the decision to remove what he regarded as defamatory or insulting.” 10.  the applicant applied to the audiencia provincial to have the previous proceedings before it declared void.he cited article 24 of the constitution (right to a fair hearing), complaining that the audiencia provincial had convicted him on appeal without giving him the opportunity to plead his case in open court.
8.  the applicant describes in the following way the conditions of his detention in prison no.the water was yellow because the pipes were rusted, but he had to drink it in the absence of an alternative.as a result of the lack of specialised medical assistance the applicant’s state of health worsened to such an extent that he could no longer control the process of urination, wetting himself as a result and thus having to endure additional humiliation.he claims that only the intervention of his cellmates prevented his suicide on several occasions, as confirmed by the signatures of five cellmates under his description of the conditions addressed to his lawyer.moreover, after the change of the preventive measure from detention to house arrest on 23 august 2011 he continued to need specialised treatment, but was unable to secure it since he had no money to pay for a hospital.each cell was lit by three 100-w bulbs and had a window and artificial ventilation, as well as a washbasin and a toilet separated from the rest of the cell by a partition.13.  in an appeal to the chișinău court of appeal on 18 february 2011 the applicant referred to his poor state of health as a reason for his release; he was ill with prostate cancer.14.  on 19 april 2011 the applicant asked to be released, relying, inter alia, on a letter from his doctor in austria concerning his untreated cancer and recommendations after delayed surgery for cancer in 2008. that request was refused on 20 april 2011 by the buiucani district court.15.  in an appeal of 16 may 2011 against a further extension of his detention, the applicant noted, inter alia, the lack in prison no.13 of medical personnel who specialised in treating his kind of illness, as well as the lack of equipment required to treat him, and the worsening of his health resulting in severe pain and in his inability to control the urination process, causing him to wet himself.on 24 may 2011 the chișinău court of appeal dismissed that appeal, finding that there was no medical evidence in the file to suggest that the applicant could not be treated while in detention.19.  the court refers to the findings made by the european committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, as cited in its previous case-law concerning the republic of moldova (see, for instance, shishanov v. the republic of moldova, no.20.  in its report for 2010 (page 142 et seq., “conditions of detention”) the human rights centre (the moldovan ombudsman institution) found, inter alia, that: “... [t]he prisons department informed the ombudsman that meat and fish products are provided [to detainees] whenever possible.in this connection, the minister of justice submitted information concerning the expenditure on prisoners’ food in 2010. the cost amounted to mdl 24,500,000, whereas the budgetary need for the same year was, according to the ministry of finance’s draft budget, mdl 29,500,000. the daily cost of feeding a detainee in 2010 was mdl 10.24 [approximately eur 0.6], while the daily budgetary need was mdl 12.35. this statistic was often cited by prison authorities to justify why they were unable to provide detainees with meat and fish ...” 21.  in its report for 2011 (page 71 et seq., “conditions of detention”) the human rights centre found, inter alia, that during 2011 it had addressed a total of seventeen recommendations to the authorities after making 238 visits to various prisons in moldova.... the moldovan minister of justice confirmed that the conditions in prisons are akin to those in medieval times, noting that the conditions in prisons constitute a systemic problem.” the report noted the continuing problem of insufficient access to daylight in the cells, in which the windows are covered with layers of metal bars, the lack of ventilation, increased humidity in the cells, very worn-out bed linen, the separation of the toilet from the rest of the cell by a cellophane sheet, or the lack of any type of separation.
7.  on 29 july 2004 the krestetskiy federal court of the novgorod region authorised the applicant’s pre-trial detention noting as follows: “having heard the parties to the proceedings and examined the materials, [the court] has established that there is reasonable suspicion that [the applicant] has committed the crime.9.  on 27 september 2004 the novgorod town court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention until 8 november 2004 noting as follows: “regard being had to the [applicant’s] character and the seriousness of the charges against him, the court considers that it is not possible to lift or replace the earlier imposed preventive measure because [the applicant] may interfere with the establishment of the truth or abscond.” 10.  on 4 november 2004 the town court extended the applicant’s detention until 8 january 2005. it reiterated verbatim its earlier reasoning.12.  on 30 december 2004 the town court extended the applicant’s pre‑trial detention until 28 january 2005. the court noted as follows: “regard being had to the seriousness of the charges, the [applicant’s] character and the negative references, the court does not discern grounds to change the earlier imposed preventive measure or to release [the applicant].” 13.  on 25 january 2005 the novgorod regional court upheld the decision of 30 december 2004 on appeal noting that, in view of the seriousness of the charges, the applicant might interfere with the establishment of the truth, abscond or re-offend.14.  on 14 february 2005 the regional court fixed the preliminary hearing of the applicant’s case for 24 february 2005. the court also ruled that the applicant should be detained pending trial.on 28 april 2005 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the said decision on appeal.15.  on 20 july 2005 the regional court rescheduled the preliminary hearing in the applicant’s case for 4 august 2005. the applicant and his lawyer were present.the court dismissed the request and extended the applicant’s detention until 27 october 2005 noting that “the preventive measure earlier imposed on [the applicant] should remain unchanged”.the court decided to consider the matter in the applicant’s absence noting that the applicant had attended the hearing on 20 july 2005 and had been provided with an opportunity to be heard.the applicant’s lawyer and the prosecutor were present and made submissions to the court.as regards the extension of the applicant’s detention, the court ruled that the circumstances underlying the applicant’s remand in custody continued to exist.in this connection the court noted as follows: “it follows from the materials of the case that [the applicant] has earlier committed another crime, that he had been absent from classes in school and had demonstrated anti-social behavior.the [applicant’s] release into his mother’s care ... would not ensure his due behavior pending trial.” 17.  on 17 october 2005 the regional court extended the applicant’s and two other defendants’ detention until 27 january 2006. the court noted: “the defendants are charged with particularly serious offences; the circumstances of their remand in custody have not changed.the court does not discern circumstances that would allow it to apply a more lenient preventive measure, including the [applicant’s] release into his mother’s care.” 18.  on 15 december 2005 the supreme court upheld the decision of 17 october 2005 on appeal.19.  on 24 january 2006 the regional court extended the applicant’s detention and two other defendants’ detention until 27 april 2006. the court reiterated verbatim its reasoning of 17 october 2005.21.  on 2 august 2007 the nevelskiy district court of the pskov region released the applicant on parole.
46.  the purpose of the investigation was to advise the cps of any criminal offence that might have been committed; to provide it with the evidence necessary to come to a decision about any prosecution; to enable the “responsible authorities” of the officers concerned (the mps and metropolitan police authority, or “mpa”) to consider what disciplinary or other action they might need to take; to inform the secretary of state for the home department of the circumstances of mr de menezes’ death; and to assist the coroner in relation to any inquest.47.  in particular, the investigation by the ipcc was to examine: a)  the information that led to the surveillance of the apartments at scotia road; b)  the command structure of the operation, including details of the numbers and types of specialist officers deployed and the tactics available to them; c)  the qualification and training of those involved and their suitability to carry out their role; d)  details of the briefing given to the officers involved and any description or photograph of any suspect made available; e)  whether or not the operation was designated as a “kratos” operation (the national strategy for dealing with suspected suicide bombers which permitted the use of lethal force if absolutely necessary) and the policy, operational tactics and authority levels of “kratos”; f)  the details of the mobile surveillance operation from scotia road to stockwell underground station; g)  the details of police action once mr de menezes had reached stockwell underground station; h)  whether or not the policy and operational authorities of “kratos” were followed and were effective; and i)  whether “kratos” was compliant with article 2 of the convention.48.  the ipcc was also to report on the actions and statements of the dps from the time of the incident to the formal handover of the investigation to the ipcc to ensure that the ipcc investigation met its obligations under article 2 of the convention.20.50 while two minutes is a very short time period, the delay in [so19] getting to the scene and the failure to get a positive identification had enabled a person, believed to be a possible suspect for attempting to detonate a bomb on the underground system the day before, to get on the same bus twice and enter an underground station.” 56.  thirdly, the report was critical of the delay in handing the investigation to the ipcc: “17.22 the pressures under which the metropolitan police were operating following the events of 7 july and 21 july are self-evident.... ... ... 17.33 had the ipcc been involved at the commencement of the investigation, the surveillance log would not have been released for amendments to be made.” 57.  nevertheless, the ipcc found that high vibrations had interfered with the recording of most of the bus journey, the hard drive on the train had not been replaced on the relevant day, and the recording equipment in the station had been broken during prior refurbishments.... ... ... 20.94 ... [the cps] ... may also wish to consider whether they were grossly negligent to come to the conclusion that they were confronting a suicide bomber.” (ii)  the dso 61.  with regard to the role of the dso, the ipcc stated: “20.77 the order given by commander dick was to stop the suspect getting onto the underground station and subsequently the underground train.the [cps] may wish to consider whether the manner in which this operation was commanded, the failures to have resources properly deployed and the absence of any other tactical options could be considered to be grossly negligent.” (iii)  “james” 62.  with regard to the “identification” of mr de menezes as the suspect, the ipcc noted: “20.53 ... james [the head of the surveillance teams] did not communicate that some of his team thought that the subject was not [the suspect].67.  the ipcc underlined two operational concerns about the use of firearms: the substantial delay between the time the unit from so19 was requested and when it was deployed, and the lack of clarity about the command to “stop” the suspect given the likely mind-set of the sfos.68.  in respect of the surveillance operations, the ipcc expressed concern that the surveillance team, the sfos, and those in command were not used to working together and were not sufficiently familiar with each other’s working practices; that two surveillance officers believed the person being followed was not the suspect and that this was not communicated to the dso; and that the surveillance log had been altered.i am therefore satisfied that i have sufficient material before me to reach a decision on the criminal liability of those officers involved in the operation that led to the death of mr de menezes and the commissioner as corporation sole.” 81.  however, the review note drew attention to one particular evidential difficulty: “perhaps the most significant problem in understanding what occurred is that there is an almost complete absence of any worthwhile contemporaneous records and the accounts from the participants vary significantly on all the crucial aspects.i believe that if such a charge is preferred, we can prove the case on the evidence already available but a decision not to prosecute individuals will enable the ipcc to seek further evidence to strengthen the case, from those individuals who are at present declining to.” 91.  the only defence open would be one of “reasonable practicability” and it was “difficult to see how the police could argue the lack of reasonable practicability in ensuring the safety of [mr de menezes].93.  in particular, the applicant argued that the threshold evidential test in the crown prosecutors’ code (“the code”), which prevented a prosecution unless a jury properly directed was likely to convict (see paragraph 163 below), was not compatible with article 2. she also submitted that article 2 required the courts to undertake a more intensive review of a prosecutor’s decision than that provided for in r v. director of public prosecutions, ex parte manning [2001] 1 qb 330, in which the divisional court stated that it would accord great weight to the judgment of experienced prosecutors and, as such, a prosecutorial decision would be lawful if it was taken in accordance with the code and was a decision reasonably open to the prosecutor on the material before him (see paragraph 165 below).the prosecution argued that the ocpm was guilty of the following: a)  commander mcdowall’s strategy had not been communicated adequately to the officers who took over the running of the operations on 22 july 2005, the surveillance officers or the sfos; b)  commander mcdowall’s strategy for controlling the premises was not adequately planned for or carried out; c)  the control room officers, the sfos and the surveillance officers had a confused and inconsistent understanding of the strategy for scotia road; d)  officers had not been deployed to stop and question persons emerging from the scotia road premises, including mr de menezes; e)  the sfos were not in attendance at scotia road when mr de menezes emerged from the common doorway; f)  there was no contingency plan for dealing with persons who emerged from the apartment building before the firearms officers arrived; g)  persons emerging from scotia road had not been stopped and questioned; h)  a safe and appropriate area where those leaving scotia road could be stopped and questioned had not been identified; i)  the briefings given to the sfos were inaccurate, unbalanced, and provided the sfos with inadequate and inaccurate information about the operation, including the operation at scotia road; j)  the information concerning the identification of mr de menezes, his clothing, demeanour and likely level of threat, was not properly or accurately assessed or disseminated to officers and, in particular, to the sfos; k)  doubts about the correctness of the identification of mr de menezes as the suspect were not communicated to the control room; l)  the control room officers failed to satisfy themselves that a positive identification of mr de menezes as the suspect had been made by the surveillance officers; m)  the sfos had not been deployed at relevant locations in time to prevent mr de menezes from getting on the bus and entering stockwell underground station; n)  the sfos failed to satisfy themselves that a positive identification of mr de menezes as the suspect had been made by the surveillance officers; o)  effective steps were not taken to stop underground trains or buses so as to minimise the risk to the travelling public; p)  mr de menezes was permitted to get on a bus twice and to enter stockwell underground station despite being suspected of being a suicide bomber and despite having emerged from an address linked to a suspected suicide bomber; q)  a clear and timely order that mr de menezes be stopped or arrested before he entered stockwell underground station had not been given; r)  accurate information had not been given to the dso about the location of the sfos when she was deciding whether the sfos or officers from the anti-terrorist branch should stop mr de menezes; and s)  the risk inherent in effecting the arrest of mr de menezes by armed officers had not been minimised, whether in relation to the location, timing or manner of his arrest.in this case the duty would not arise before the point at which firearms officers were ordered to move through with a view to performing an interception.” (a)  commander mcdowall 111.  in relation to commander mcdowall, there were three alleged breaches of a duty of care: that he should have set a strategic plan to ensure that suspects were stopped between leaving the premises and reaching the public transport system; that he did not ensure that the unit from so19 was deployed sooner; and that he had failed to keep himself informed and to ensure that his orders were being followed.in answering the questions left to them the jury found as follows: a)  that charlie 12 did not shout “armed police”; b)  that while mr de menezes did stand up before being grabbed in a bear hug by one of the surveillance officers, he did not move towards the sfos; c)  that the general difficulty in identifying the man under surveillance in the time available and the innocent behaviour of mr de menezes (which may have increased suspicion) were not contributory factors to his death; d)  that the following were contributory factors to his death: the failure to obtain and provide to surveillance officers better photographic images of the failed bomber hussain osman; the fact that the views of the surveillance officers regarding the identification of the suspect were not accurately communicated to the command team and the sfos; the failure by police to ensure that mr de menezes was stopped before he reached public transport; the fact that the position of the cars containing the sfos was not accurately known by the command team as the sfo teams were approaching stockwell underground station; the shortcomings in the communications system between various police teams on the ground; and a failure to conclude at the time that surveillance officers could have been used to carry out the stop on mr menezes at stockwell underground station; and e)  it was not clear whether the pressure on police after the suicide attacks in july 2005 was a contributory factor to mr de menezes’ death.
in the context of those proceedings the second applicant, who at that time was the owner of a chain of pharmacies in latvia, was summoned to the knab to give statements about the activities of certain state officials supervising pharmaceutical matters in latvia.7.  according to the document (uzziņa) prepared by the supreme court on 27 july 2012 and addressed to the government, on 10 march 2005 an operational measure – the interception of the second applicant’s telephone conversations – had been authorised until 12 may 2005. the document was based on “the supreme court’s register of special proceedings (lietvedība) relating to classified state secrets for the year 2005, volume 13, entry no 2‑1264s of 19 march 2005”.on the knab’s behalf, the meeting was organised as an undercover operation under section 15(3) of the law on operational activities, and prior authorisation from a specially authorised prosecutor of the prosecutor general’s office was obtained.10.  on 13 and 14 april 2005 three meetings took place between the second applicant and j. during the second meeting, which was video and audio recorded by j., the second applicant offered j. a bribe in the amount of 50,000 latvian lati (lvl) and monthly payments of lvl 1,000 in return for the cessation of any investigative activities concerning his business and the state officials connected with it.15.  in a letter of 31 may 2005 the knab informed the supervising prosecutor at the prosecutor general’s office that the second applicant’s phone had been tapped in accordance with section 17(3) of the law on operational activities “upon the authorisation of a judge of the supreme court”.16.  on 2 june 2005 the office of the prosecutor brought a charge of aiding and abetting against the first applicant, and a charge of bribery against the second applicant.18.  on 12 july 2005, having studied the material in the criminal case file, the representative of the first applicant asked the prosecutor to disclose a document attesting to the lawfulness of the interception of the telephone conversations between both applicants.on the same day the supervising prosecutor dismissed that request, arguing that the decision to authorise interception of the telephone conversations of the applicant and other persons had been adopted under 17(3) of the law on operational activities, and therefore was not a procedural document.20.  it appears that on 18 october 2005 the representative of the first applicant sent a complaint about the activities of knab officials in relation to the phone tapping to the prosecutor general’s office.the prosecutor in charge replied that the phone tapping had been authorised by a judge of the supreme court, and that the knab had not infringed any provisions of the law on operational activities.the prosecutor also stated that the information obtained as a result of the operational activities was open to assessment in the course of the criminal proceedings.the representative of the first applicant submitted that the case file did not contain any information pertaining to the authorisation of the interception of phone conversations, which had been the main evidence against her.the appellate court stated, inter alia, “the court recognises all the evidence in the criminal case as admissible, on the grounds that the factual information has been obtained and established (nostiprinātas) in line with procedure and in accordance with the order set out by law ...”.the second applicant submitted, inter alia, that the appellate court had not assessed the lawfulness of the phone tapping and had ignored the fact that the criminal case had contained no reference to any authorisation to carry out the above activity as prescribed by article 176¹ of the code of criminal procedure.in response to the article 8 complaint, the senate stated that the phone had been tapped “in accordance with section 17 of the law on operational activities, and not as a special investigative measure under article 176¹ of the code of criminal procedure”.
7.  in 2001 the applicant instituted special (non-contentious) proceedings in the shengavit district court of yerevan seeking recognition of his ownership right in respect of that building by virtue of acquisitive prescription under article 187 of the civil code (cc), as well as his right of use in respect of the plot of land.the certificate further stated that, by virtue of article 118 § 4 of the land code (lc), the applicant enjoyed a right of lease in respect of the plot of land for a period of 99 years.15.  on 11 november 2008, a third person addressed a letter to the yerevan mayor’s office, stating that she had bought a plot of land at an auction held on 16 june 2008. when she later applied to the local branch of the state real estate registry to have her ownership right registered, she was informed that the plot of land in question overlapped with the neighbouring plot of land.16.  the government alleged that the neighbouring plot of land was the applicant’s and that following this letter there was an exchange of correspondence between the yerevan mayor’s office and the local branch of the real estate registry.17.  on 24 february 2009 the local branch of the state real estate registry addressed a letter to the mayor’s office stating, in reply to an inquiry by the mayor dated 17 february 2009, that the registration of the applicant’s ownership and lease rights had been performed on 9 april 2002 on the basis of the judgment of the shengavit district court of yerevan of 8 june 2001. this letter was received by the mayor’s office on 18 march 2009 and attached to it was a copy of the judgment of 8 june 2001.18.  on 7 may 2009 the deputy prosecutor general lodged an appeal against the judgment of 8 june 2001 seeking to quash it and to dismiss the applicant’s acquisitive prescription claim, arguing that the district court had erred in its interpretation and application of the relevant provisions of the substantive law.the deputy prosecutor general further argued that the district court had been obliged to involve, as parties to the proceedings, the local branch of the real estate registry, as well as the yerevan mayor’s office as the authority vested with management of land.the deputy prosecutor general requested the court of appeal to restore the expired time-limit for appeal, arguing that the yerevan mayor’s office had not been aware of the judgment of 8 june 2001 and therefore had been deprived of the possibility of lodging an appeal, while the prosecutor’s office had been informed about that judgment by the mayor’s letter of 24 february 2009.as regards the procedural issues, it claimed that the shengavit district court had violated the relevant provisions by examining the case through special proceedings and not involving it as a party, despite the fact that the mayor’s office was the authority vested with management of public land in yerevan and therefore the judgment affected its rights.the mayor’s office further claimed that it had become aware of the contested judgment by a letter from the local branch of the state real estate registry dated 24 february 2009, which had been received by the mayor’s office on 18 march 2009. it finally added that the letter of the judicial department of armenia of 6 february 2009 had been accompanied by a copy of another judgment of the shengavit district court, dated 26 june 2001, which was unrelated to the present case.thus, on the one hand, by virtue of article 61 of the lc, the yerevan mayor’s office had alienated the plot of land to him, received a sum of money and since then had continued to levy property tax and, on the other hand, it now claimed to be unaware of that transaction.moreover, the yerevan mayor’s office had been notified of his becoming the new owner of the plot of land by virtue of the law on the state registration of rights in respect of property.hence, the mayor’s office had been aware of the registration of his property rights on the basis of the court judgment of 8 june 2001 and of the direct sale of the plot of land, and had not – as it claimed – become aware of that judgment from a letter of 24 february 2009.21.  on 12 june 2009 the civil court of appeal decided, with reference to article 207 § 5 of the code of civil procedure (ccp), to admit the appeals, stating: “the yerevan mayor’s office and the general prosecutor have missed the time‑limit for appeal prescribed by law and they submitted motions seeking to find this to be valid, arguing that the mayor’s office found out about the judgment [of 8 june 2001] from a copy of the judgment attached to the letter of the judicial department of armenia of 6 february 2009, while the general prosecutor’s office from the letter of the yerevan mayor’s office of 24 february 2009.... the court finds that the motions of the yerevan mayor’s office and the general prosecutor’s office are substantiated and must be granted.” 22.  on 18 july 2009 the civil court of appeal decided to grant the appeals, to quash the judgment of 8 june 2001 and to dismiss the applicant’s acquisitive prescription claim.
14.  on 4 january 2010 the mother of the first and second applicants submitted a complaint to the state police alleging that the coach, o.b., had sexually abused her daughters.was massaging [the girls] in the sauna, he did not touch [their] intimate body parts, [he] touched [their] bodies only with the bath brush, [he] did not touch [them] with [his] hands.” 28.  the second applicant had told the other girls that the above‑mentioned practice was not normal.29.  from the documents furnished to the court it appears that the applicants gave the police the names of the other girls who had attended the sauna, a.f., a.b.the third applicant had gone to a separate bed to sleep and o.b., while drunk, had entered the room and had pulled at the children’s legs, including those of the third applicant.37.  during the psychologist’s examination the first applicant commented that she had been surprised that the sauna had to be attended and that girls had attended it naked and that o.b.the psychologist noted her statements to the police of 14 january and 1 april 2010. concerning the sauna sessions, the third applicant had not found it normal that the sauna needed to be attended naked.the report referred to the applicant’s character report from her previous school, which stated that on 1 september 2009 the applicant had been observed in a tense condition, unwilling to participate in extracurricular activities, in low spirits and suffering from loss of concentration.the third applicant’s ability to resist could have been diminished by personality traits such as a difficulty in expressing her own opinion where it contradicted the expectations of others, in assessing her own attitude and feelings with regard to events, judging what is right and what is not, an insecurity in communication, and the wish to avoid conflict situations and to maintain a friendly relationship with everyone.42.  the report noted that the events in issue had caused the first applicant unpleasant feelings, insecurity, and anger and had made her distrustful in her communication with other coaches and with older men.between 2005 and 2008. from a copy of d.b.’s statement furnished to the court by the government it appears that she stated: “... at the beginning [students] were going to the sauna in swimsuits, but [o.b.]the third applicant’s account regarding the events in lithuania had been ignored and other students who had been present on the trip to lithuania had not been interviewed.the first applicant had spoken about it to the psychologist, who had affirmed that she had been speaking the truth.86.  on 17 june 2011 the mother of the first and second applicants, arguing that the report by the psychologist, k.v., constituted newly discovered facts, asked the state police to reopen the investigation.88.  on 22 november 2011 the mother of the third applicant, arguing that the report of the psychologist, k.v., constituted newly discovered facts, asked the police to reopen the investigation.massaging naked girls with a besom had been unethical and in contravention of general moral principles, as had been the suggestion to a girl under the age of eighteen to sleep with the coach in the same bed.
the order said that he was being detained under section 63(1)(1) of the ministry of internal affairs act 2006 (“the miaa” – see paragraph 41 below) in conjunction with article 195 § 1 (3) and (4) of the criminal code 1968, which criminalise burglary and theft committed by using a motor vehicle, technical means or a special technique.the court went on to say that the order had been issued more than nine hours after mr dzhabarov’s de facto arrest, which was out of line with the object and purpose of the law.he sought bgn 2,000 (eur 1,023) in non-pecuniary damages and, under the head of pecuniary damages, reimbursement of the remainder of the costs that he had allegedly incurred in the judicial review proceedings: bgn 206 (eur 105).it held that claimants in proceedings under section 1(1) of the 1988 act bore the burden of making out all elements of the tort, including the existence of damage, and that the only evidence that could be used to prove non-pecuniary damage in the form of mental suffering was medical expert evidence, not witness evidence.the police detention log showed that mr petkov had been brought to the police station at 3.10 a.m. on 20 december 2007, whereas the three witness statements submitted by the police in the judicial review proceedings in support of their contention that mr petkov was suspected of an offence spoke of a robbery of a petrol station committed at 4.50 a.m. this showed that, at the time of mr petkov’s arrest, the police did not have a reasonable suspicion of him committing an offence.), the supreme administrative court declared the appeal inadmissible, finding that the time-limit for the police to lodge an appeal had expired as early as 25 march 2008. the court did not mention mr petkov’s claim in respect of the costs incurred in the appeal proceedings.), the supreme administrative court refused the request, finding that it had been made out of the applicable seven-day time-limit, which had started to run on 18 november 2009. mr petkov appealed, but a five-member panel of the court dismissed the appeal in a decision of 3 february 2010 (опр.he sought bgn 2,000 (eur 1,023) in non-pecuniary damages and, under the head of pecuniary damages, reimbursement of the remainder of the costs that he had allegedly incurred in the judicial review proceedings: bgn 206 (eur 105).the evidence of mr dzhabarov and the other person with whom mr petkov had been detained, who had been called by mr petkov to testify, and the expert evidence on the lawfulness of those conditions adduced in the course of the proceedings, gave information about the material conditions in the detention facility but not about mr petkov’s state of mind or subjective perceptions.it held that claimants in proceedings under section 1 of the 1988 act bore the burden of proving all elements of the tort, including the existence of damage, and that the only evidence that could be used to prove non-pecuniary damage in the form of mental suffering was medical expert evidence, not witness evidence.the statements of the witnesses called by mr petkov had established the conditions in the detention facility and the attitude of the police officers towards him, but could not serve as proof of negative changes in his physical, psychological or neurological status.she said that, on her way there, she ran into an acquaintance of hers, mr b.t., who asked her whether she could run a check on the identities of certain persons that he needed for court papers that he was about to file in connection with the registration of the united macedonian organisation ilinden-pirin as a political party.ms nikolova was released at about 3.40 p.m. it appears that, in the meantime, at about 1.50 p.m., she was briefly taken by the police back to the office of national revenue agency to be present while the police drew up a record, and then returned to the police station.she also argued, by reference to article 5 § 5 of the convention, that the mere fact of unlawful detention gave rise to non-pecuniary damage because it was an infringement of the fundamental right to liberty, guaranteed by, inter alia, article 5 § 1 of the convention.it fully agreed with all of the lower court’s findings, including that ms nikolova had been placed under police detention within the meaning of section 63 of the miaa, but did not mention article 5 §§ 1 or 5 of the convention.
12.  the applicant’s trial for the murder of mr bartlett started on 11 august 2008. at the trial it was accepted by the applicant that the real issue for the jury was whether he or mr pearman was the murderer.20.  sixthly, the trial judge said that the defence had already cross‑examined the officer in the case as to mr pearman’s previous convictions and the details of the murder for which he was serving his sentence of life imprisonment.25.  the seller of the silver vectra gave evidence that on the afternoon of the murder he had been contacted by the applicant, who had arranged to meet at his house at 6 p.m. the seller’s mother testified that one of the two men who collected the car was named john and was wearing a baseball cap.27.  mobile telephone cell site evidence was led by the prosecution with the intention of showing that the applicant’s mobile telephone was in the vicinity of the murder at the relevant time, although it was switched off between 7.28 p.m. and 7.50 p.m. cell site evidence also demonstrated that the applicant and his co-accused were in the vicinity of the road where the vectra was found between 8.01 p.m. and 8.17 p.m. 28.  residents of the streets near the shooting gave evidence.29.  cctv footage from a petrol station showed the applicant arriving in the white ava van, wearing a baseball cap and making telephone calls to an associate at 1.47 a.m. the number dialled by the applicant was in the vicinity of the cell site covering the road where the vectra was found and the inference sought by the prosecution was that the applicant was in discussions about the destruction of the car.the police had found no connection between mr pearman and either mr bartlett or the applicant (there was, for instance, no reference to mr pearman in mr bartlett’s telephones) and it was the superintendent’s conclusion that there was absolutely no evidence that he had been involved in mr bartlett’s murder.33.  on mr pearman’s telephone calls, the trial judge directed the jury as follows: “it is for you to decide what weight, if any, you attach to this evidence; but it does have certain limitations which i must draw to your attention: (a) you had not had the opportunity of seeing and hearing the witnesses in the witness box and sometimes when you do see and hear a witness you get a much clearer idea of whether his evidence is honest and accurate; (b) their evidence has not been tested under cross‑examination and you have not had the opportunity of seeing how their evidence survived this form of challenge; (c) in the case of pearman these were self-serving statements, that is he was saying he was not involved in the murder of jon bartlett.in addition calls made by high risk category a prisoners, such as pearman, from prison would be known by him to be recorded and he was speaking in those calls to members of his own family.” 34.  on mr pearman’s previous convictions, the trial judge directed the jury: “you have heard this evidence because it may help you to resolve two issues in the case, namely: (a) whether the convictions show that on 31st may 2006 he had a tendency to be a drug dealer, carry a firearm and commit murder, and whether this makes it more likely that he was the gunman in this case; and (b) whether he was being truthful and reliable in denying his involvement in the present case in his telephone calls to his son and wife.there is no doubt that the recordings were important evidence in the context of the case as a whole (at least so far as we are thus persuaded) and we have come to the conclusion that permission to appeal should be granted on all grounds advanced and the hearing will proceed in due course accordingly.” 37.  on 4 march 2010 the full court heard the case and dismissed the appeal, reserving its judgment.the judgment was delivered on 12 march 2010. in relation to the tapes of mr pearman’s telephone calls, the court observed: “it is contended on behalf of the appellant [the present applicant] that the tapes of the calls should not have been admitted without calling, or trying to call, pearman to give evidence.the allegation against pearman had been made late, and given that on the appellant’s case he had known of pearman’s responsibility for the murder within days of its being committed, it is to be inferred that it was deliberately made late so as to make it more difficult for the crown to investigate it.it will do so, in general, only if his decision is marred by legal error, or by a failure to take relevant matters into account or it is such that the judge could not sensibly have made.’ the judge’s decision was not marred by legal error; he took all relevant matters into account; and the decision to admit the recordings in evidence was not one that no judge could sensibly have made.(x) the evidence relating to the purchase of the vectra and the hire of the ava van on the day of the murder supports the prosecution case.(xi) the cell phone evidence showed seton to be in the vicinity of the murder when it was committed; the timing of his last telephone connection with bartlett, just before the murder, and the switching off of his telephone at the time of the murder, and his call to a telephone in the vicinity of the location where the vectra was set on fire, all powerfully supported his guilt.thus, quite apart from the evidence of pearman’s telephone calls, we had no doubt as to the safety of the conviction of the appellant.” 39.  on 6 march 2010 the applicant was informed that the court of appeal had refused to certify questions of general public importance for the consideration of the supreme court.
7.  on 27 november 1997 the applicant requested from the regional governor of sofia region compensation for an apartment which had belonged to his ancestor at the time of its nationalisation in 1949. as he received no reply, at some point in 1998 the applicant challenged the governor’s silence in court.8.  instead of ruling on the compensation, the sofia city court archived the case; it was only put back on the case roll on 5 july 2002 when the applicant complained.9.  the sofia city court, sitting in its administrative bench, delivered a decision on 19 july 2005. it determined that the amount of total compensation due in respect of the property in question was bgn 23,604, and that the regional governor was liable for costs.the court went on to state that, as evidenced by the heirs certificate issued in 1994 and presented during the proceedings, the applicant and his brother were the two heirs of the owner of the confiscated property.12.  on 19 february 2007 the applicant submitted a certified copy of the court decision of 19 july 2005. he signalled that enforcement continued to be outstanding and emphasised that he had already submitted a certificate attesting to his status as heir to the regional governor, together with his initial request for compensation of 27 november 1997 (see paragraph 7 above).he also pointed out that it was clear from the judicial decision that the heirs in question were two – himself and a sibling of his; pursuant to section 5(1) of the inheritance act 1949 he was eligible to receive half of the inheritance and, therefore, half of the compensation awarded by the court.9 of 1998; the latter governed the conditions and order for the payment of experts included in the list under § 4 of the 1997 compensation law.14.  in the meantime, on 19 january 2007, the applicant requested to be issued with a writ of execution on the basis of the 19 july 2005 judgment and, more specifically, in respect of its part concerning the amount of compensation and his consequent share of it.18.  on 25 april 2007 the applicant wrote to the regional governor that the ordinance in question did not apply to his case, as it only concerned situations in which the administrative body itself was called upon to determine the compensation amount.in the applicant’s case that amount had been determined in court, which had also ruled that the applicant and his sibling were the only heirs, and the property had to be evenly split between the two of them.he reiterated that the writ of execution had been issued following a final judicial decision which was binding in respect of the parties and in which the court had established all relevant facts as well as the compensation due to the applicant.the bailiff specified that the costs and expenses which the governor was requested to pay related to the enforcement proceedings, that a writ of execution was not necessary in order to claim or collect those expenses, and that they had increased with the passage of time.finally, the bailiff reiterated that a weekly fine in the amount of bgn 200 would be imposed on the governor in the event of failure to enforce the court decision.21.  as no further action by the regional governor followed, in march 2009 the applicant once again asked the bailiff to enforce the court decision of 19 july 2005. the bailiff wrote to the governor on 31 march 2009, requesting enforcement and with a reminder that failure to enforce could result in weekly fines of bgn 1,200 and in prosecution.22.  the deputy regional governor replied on 27 april 2009 that the compensation proceedings had not been completed because of the applicant’s failure to submit the requested declaration about his share of the inheritance in accordance with the inheritance act 1949. two days later the regional governor himself fined the applicant bgn 1,000, to be applied weekly.
6.  the applicant intended to organise a demonstration protesting against “the persecution of national radicalism”.it was planned to take place between 4 p.m. and 7 p.m. on 15 august 2009. the venue was venyige street in budapest xth district, in front of budapest penitentiary.7.  venyige street is of a width of five metres in the government’s submissions and of eight in the applicant’s.parallel to the main driveway, there is a service lane, of a width equivalent to that of two cars; this area is normally used as a car park.in the applicant’s submissions, this latter section could have accommodated largely all the participants, without them creating any major traffic incident.8.  the applicant, in the notification addressed to budapest police department under act no.iii of 1989 on the right of assembly, indicated that a maximum of 200 participants were to be expected.9.  on 14 august 2009 budapest police department banned the demonstration, in pursuit of its prerogatives under section 8(1) of act no.iii of 1989. it was of the view that there was no alternative route for the traffic in the neighbourhood, and consequently the demonstration would impede traffic inordinately.the applicant was reproached with the fact that the notification did not contain the agenda for the gathering.11.  on 17 august 2009 the applicant requested judicial review of the police decision.he explained inter alia that he had not specified the agenda because the meeting had been intended as a rather small one and that therefore the actual course of events, such as speeches or discussion, was hard to predict.12.  on 19 august 2009 the budapest regional court rejected the applicant’s complaint.it observed that the question of previous notification of the agenda was immaterial, since the only valid reason in the case was the disproportionate difficulties which would be caused to traffic by the demonstration.13.  the court relied on the expert opinion provided by the traffic division of budapest police department, in whose view the demonstration would have significantly impeded the traffic heading to the shops located in venyige street, a dead end, to the local waste disposal site and to the suppliers’ entrance of budapest prison; and the disruption caused by the crowd might have extended to maglódi road, a major thoroughfare in the vicinity with lines of city transport involved.
5.  on 28 april 2009 the applicant lodged a request to be granted permanent disability with respect to work before the state’s attorney’s office of the porto labour court as a consequence of a labour accident that she had suffered and with regard to which she was claiming damages and compensation.6.  on 27 may 2009 the applicant supplied statements to the state’s attorney’s office in which she confirmed she was receiving medical care.on the same day the state’s attorney’s office request the applicant to provide her medical reports, which she submitted on 28 and 29 july 2009.7.  meanwhile, the applicant’s employee was notified to provide information on the applicant’s work accident, which was done on 16 june 2009.9.  between 16 september 2009 and 20 september 2010 the state’s attorney’s office requested information regarding the evolution of the applicant’s medical treatment.between these dates, the state’s attorney’s office stayed the proceedings twice for thirty days, on 5 march and on 4 may 2010, until the applicant was medically fit.10.  on an unknown date the state’s attorney’s office was informed that the applicant was no longer being treated in the same clinic and on 7 october 2010 requested the applicant to inform whether she was still being treated and in which clinic.the state’s attorney’s office was informed that the applicant had changed her address and on 25 october 2010 requested the police to provide information on the applicant’s new address.12.  on 5 january 2011 the court requested the forensic institute (instituto de medicina legal) to make a medical examination of the applicant, which was made on 27 february 2011. the medical report was submitted by the forensic institute on 3 march 2011 in which it referred that further clinical data and an additional examination were still needed.13.  on 9 march 2011 the porto labour court the collection of those data and the realisation of the additional examination, which were submitted on 26 may and 15 june 2011, respectively.14.  on 24 october 2011 the state’s attorney’s office scheduled a conciliatory hearing between the parties on 23 november 2011.15.  the conciliatory hearing was adjourned to 24 january 2012 due to the lack of notification of the applicant’s employer.on 24 january 2012 the hearing was again adjourned to 14 march 2012 at the request of the applicant.16.  on 2 april 2012 the applicant requested the porto labour court to continue with the judicial stage of the proceedings against her employer and the insurance company.17.  between 8 june 2012 and 21 november 2012 several procedural steps took place, mostly notifications, provision of information from the parties to the porto labour court and a medical examination at the request of the applicant.
7.  on 18 august 2003 her ownership of the house was registered in the consolidated state register of real estate titles and transactions (единый государственный реестр прав на недвижимое имущество и сделок с ним, “the land register”) and it remains there to date.9.  on 20 april 2005 a judge of the lomonosovskiy district court of arkhangelsk issued an interlocutory injunction prohibiting the applicant from selling the house.the court found, inter alia, that m. was also the de facto owner of the house as she had paid for it and resided in it since 2003. the court ordered the seizure and sale of the house in order to pay m.’s debt to the victims of the crime.11.  on 9 june 2006 the arkhangelsk regional court partly quashed m.’s conviction on appeal, notably as regards the district court’s finding that she was the real owner of the house.12.  on an unspecified date the bank sued m. for additional damages and sought reimbursement by means of the sale of the house.13.  on 17 september 2007 the tsentralnyy district court of kaliningrad rejected the bank’s civil claims and declared that the house was the applicant’s property.it held that the applicant had always demonstrated her intention to be the owner of the disputed house, notably by systematically paying all charges and taxes relating to the house, and that her mother was living in it.as regards the bank’s request for annulment of the powers of attorney given by the applicant to m. for the purchase of the house and of the purchase contract itself, the district court found that this claim was time-barred and consequently rejected it.14.  on unspecified date the bank lodged an appeal against that judgment, notably arguing that the purchase contract should be declared null and void because the applicant had never intended to become the real owner of the house but was merely helping m. to cover up for her crimes.16.  on 16 april 2008 the applicant applied to the tsentralnyy district court of kaliningrad for the revocation of the interlocutory decision of 20 april 2005 by the lomonosovskiy district court of arkhangelsk to seize the house.17.  on 28 april 2008 the tsentralnyy district court of kaliningrad rejected the application on the grounds that it lacked jurisdiction to decide on a measure imposed by another court in the framework of criminal proceedings.19.  on 18 august 2008 the presidium of the kaliningrad regional court quashed the judgment of 17 september 2007, as upheld on 19 december 2007, and ordered the seizure of the house from the applicant in order to pay m.’s debt to the bank.the presidium relied on the finding made by the oktyabrskiy district court in its judgment of 15 march 2006 that although the applicant was registered as the official owner of the house, it had been bought with funds belonging to m. 20.  on 16 october 2008 and 10 march 2009 the applicant and m. challenged the judgment of the presidium of the kaliningrad regional court by way of supervisory review applications, which were rejected by the supreme court and the deputy president of the supreme court, respectively.21.  on 8 june 2009 the bailiff decided to seize the house in accordance with the judgment of the presidium of the kaliningrad regional court.22.  on 2 april 2010 at the bailiff’s request the tsentralnyy district court stayed the enforcement proceedings pending examination of the applicant’s case by the court.
4.  the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in krasnodar.5.  on 24 march 2009 the military court of novorossiysk garrison (новороссийский гарнизонный военный суд) convicted the applicant of laundering of the proceeds of crime and sentenced him to a fine.6.  on 21 may 2009 the military court of the north-caucasian command (северо-кавказский окружной военный суд) acquitted the applicant on appeal.7.  on 21 july 2009 the presidium of the military court of the north‑caucasian command, on a public prosecutor’s initiative, annulled the judgment of 21 may 2009 by way of supervisory review and remitted the case for fresh consideration to the appeal court.the annulment was reasoned by two main arguments: (1) unresolved contradictions between witnesses’ statements pertaining to the applicant’s criminal intent, and (2) absence in the appeal judgment of a summary of the arguments presented by the prosecution during the appeal proceedings.8.  on 6 august 2009 the military court of the north-caucasian command, acting on appeal, reversed the judgment of 24 march 2009 and remitted the case for fresh consideration to the trial court.9.  in 2010 the criminal proceedings against the applicant were terminated due to decriminalization of his actions under the domestic law.
5.  the applicants were claimants in civil proceedings.6.  in the applications trapeznikov v. russia and bychkov and others v. russia, the applicants were former participants of the chernobyl clean-up operation who sued the relevant authorities for an inflation adjustment to their social benefits.7.  in the application markova v. russia, the applicant sought the eviction of her late son’s wife and her granddaughter from the flat she was living in, alleging that she was the sole owner because her son had renounced his share in the flat in her favour.8.  in the application ryabchikov v. russia, the applicant inherited a house in accordance with a will drawn up by his late mother.later he discovered that she had two plots of land which she transferred back in 1994 to an agricultural company to which she was a member.the applicant sought to recover the property of these two plots of land alleging that the transfer had not been duly formalised and that consequently the land formed part of his inheritance.9.  in all of the applications, the first-instance courts found for the applicants, the judgments were upheld on appeal and they became enforceable.subsequently, at the defendants’ requests, the presidia of the relevant regional courts quashed the judgments by way of supervisory review.in the applications trapeznikov and bychkov and others, the presidia found that the lower courts failed to take into account the specific method of calculation of indexation established by the government for this particular category of social benefits.in the applications markova and ryabchikov, they concluded that the findings of the lower courts favorable to the applicants were based on the retrospective application of the law (see appendix).
9/1998 (the county commission) to award compensation for a property owned by his ancestors and taken over by the bulgarian state.on 15 december 2000 the commission issued a decision proposing payment of compensation in the amount of rol 2,013,957,441 (approximately eur 88,000 at the time).as the central commission did not issue any decision, the applicant brought a court action aimed at obliging the central commission to act in accordance with the law.the applicant also asked for the amounts granted by the county commission to be adjusted for inflation when payment was made.the applicant’s action was dismissed on 17 february 2002 by the bucharest county court, which held that the sixty-day deadline was not compulsory, but rather advisory.the court also held that the adjustment of the amounts granted was indeed prescribed by article 8 § 3 of the law, but any adjustment was to be made at the time payment was actually made, once the central commission had ratified or otherwise the county commission decision.7.  on 23 june 2003 the bucharest court of appeal allowed the applicant’s claim, and ordered that the central commission issue a decision ratifying or otherwise the proposal made by the county commission on 15 december 2000. the court held that the claim concerning the adjustment of the amounts granted as compensation was to be dealt with during the enforcement stage.8.  on 29 august 2003 the central commission ratified the county commission decision of 15 december 2000.10.  dissatisfied with the decision of the central commission, on 13 december 2003 the applicant lodged a court action aimed at obtaining an adjustment of the initial amount to take into account inflation from the date on which it was established by the county commission to the date of actual payment.11.  by a decision of 16 april 2004, the bucharest county court ruled in the applicant’s favour.9/1998, the amounts set by the county commission had to be adjusted for inflation if they were not paid in the year they were awarded.12.  on 21 february 2005 the bucharest court of appeal reversed the decision, and ruled that the applicant was not entitled to an adjustment for inflation.13.  the appellate court concluded that the county court had interpreted the applicable law incorrectly, as the entitlement to adjustment for inflation had to be determined on the basis of the date when the central commission had ratified the decision of the county commission.as the payment had been made uno ictu, and not in instalments, during the same year as the central commission took its decision, the applicant was not entitled to an adjustment for inflation.14.  it also concluded that the failure of the central commission to ratify the decision of the county commission within sixty days could not represent a legal basis for the adjustment of the amount in question.
5.  the applicant was born in 1936 and lives in skokie, usa.6.  on 31 august 1998 the applicant lodged a request with the bucharest commission for implementing law no.9/1998 (the county commission) seeking compensation for assets owned by her ancestors and transferred to the bulgarian state.on 29 april 2004 the county commission issued a decision whereby the applicant was entitled to compensation of rol 4,991,284,506 (approximately eur 123,500 at the time).7.  between 2005 and 2008 the applicant lodged several applications with the national authority for property restitution (hereinafter “the national authority”) and the president of romania for payment of the compensation.on each occasion, the applicant was informed that her file was subject to ratification by the responsible authority for implementing law no.9/1998.8.  on 20 february 2009 the national authority issued the ratification decision, confirming the applicant’s entitlement to ron 499,128.43 (approximately eur 117,000 at the time).the decision mentioned that the payment would be made in two annual instalments, as provided for by the methodological rules for the implementation of the law, in force since 30 november 1998 and amended on 26 october 2007.9.  to date, the applicant has not received the compensation or any indication as to when such compensation would be paid.
12.  on 31 october 2006 and 4 december 2006, in the course of the criminal proceedings against o.g., the judge of the linz regional court reported to the upper austrian bar association (rechtsanwaltskammer, hereinafter “the bar association”) that he suspected the applicant of double representation.13.  on 11 july 2007, upon a request by the linz public prosecutor, the linz regional court instituted a preliminary investigation into allegations of attempting to aid the perpetrator (versuchte begünstigung), false testimony (falsche beweisaussage) and falsifying evidence (fälschung eines beweismittels) against the applicant, and informed the bar association.14.  on 17 july 2007, 17 august 2007 and 6 september 2007 the linz public prosecutor requested that the court conduct further preliminary investigations in the case, in particular the questioning of several witnesses and to put the applicant on the stand.16.  because of the reform of the code of criminal procedure, which entered into force on 1 january 2008, the investigating judge transmitted the file to the linz public prosecutor, who took charge of the case.18.  on 4 february 2009 the linz public prosecutor ordered the suspension of the criminal proceedings against the applicant since the criminal proceedings against o.g.20.  on 6 july 2009 the criminal proceedings against the applicant were resumed and he was charged with the offence of attempted aiding of the perpetrator and falsifying evidence.27.  following the notice of the investigating judge of 31 october 2006 the disciplinary prosecutor (disziplinaranwalt) on 13 december 2006 applied to introduce disciplinary proceedings against the applicant on charges of double representation and falsification of evidence.30.  on 25 september 2007 the disciplinary prosecutor applied for the withdrawal of the applicant’s right to represent clients before the linz courts in criminal cases as an interim measure.32.  on 17 december 2007 the disciplinary council, without holding a hearing, withdrew the applicant’s right to represent before the linz district court, the linz regional court and the linz court of appeal in criminal law cases as an interim measure by virtue of section 19 of the disciplinary act (disziplinarstatut für rechtsanwälte und rechtsanwaltsanwärter).38.  on 1 december 2009 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s complaint and held that the reasoning of the authorities had been sufficient and therefore the imposed measure was not arbitrary.as the preliminary measure imposed on the applicant had not been a “criminal charge” in the sense of article 6 of the convention, an oral hearing had not been compulsory.40.  on 17 june 2011, after the applicant had been acquitted on all counts by the linz regional court, he lodged another request with the bar association to have the interim measure withdrawn referring to the court’s decision.45.  the applicant filed statements in preparation of the hearing on 8 and 22 february 2012 denying that there was a case of double representation and referring to the decision of the linz court of appeal of 8 november 2011.the disciplinary council stated that the fact that the disciplinary proceedings had lasted almost seven years and the fact that the right of the applicant to represent before certain courts in criminal cases had been withdrawn for about four years had to be taken into account.48.  the supreme court, acting as the highest court in disciplinary proceedings against lawyers, held a hearing on 20 may 2014 and dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law, but reduced the additional disciplinary fine to eur 500. it explicitly mentioned the length of disciplinary proceedings as a violation of the applicant’s rights under article 6 of the convention and took account of the fact that the applicant’s right to represent before the linz courts in criminal cases had been withdrawn for four years.
6.  on an unspecified date the applicant lodged a civil claim against several individuals, who were apparently his relatives residing in the house (hereafter, the respondents), seeking to terminate their right of use of accommodation in respect of a part of the house by paying compensation and to evict them.7.  on 24 august 2006 the respondents lodged a counter-claim seeking to invalidate the ownership certificate and to have their ownership recognised in respect of the part of the house and of the plot of land used by them by virtue of acquisitive prescription.8.  on 14 september 2006 the shengavit district court of yerevan dismissed the applicant’s and his mother’s claims and granted the respondents’ counter-claim.9.  on an unspecified date the applicant lodged an appeal against the judgment of the district court.10.  on 19 january 2007 the civil court of appeal examined the appeal and granted the applicant’s claim in its part concerning the termination of the respondents’ right of use of accommodation through payment of compensation.12.  on 24 april 2007 the respondents lodged an appeal on points of law with the court of cassation against this judgment, claiming that it had been adopted in violation of substantive law.as a ground for admitting their appeal, the respondents submitted, pursuant to article 231.2 § 1 (1) and (3) of the code of civil procedure (the ccp), that the judicial act to be adopted by the court of cassation might have a significant impact on the uniform application of the law and that the violation of the substantive law might cause grave consequences.13.  on 2 may 2007 the court of cassation decided to return the respondents’ appeal as inadmissible for lack of merit.the reasons provided were as follows: “the civil chamber of the court of cassation ... having examined the question of admitting [the respondents’ appeal lodged against the judgment of the civil court of appeal of 19 january 2007], found that it must be returned for the following reasons: pursuant to article 230 § 1 (4.1) of [the ccp] an appeal on points of law must contain a ground [required by] article 231.2 § 1 of [the ccp].the court of cassation finds that the admissibility grounds raised in the appeal on points of law[, as required by] article 231.2 § 1 of [the ccp], are absent.in particular, the court of cassation considers the arguments raised in the appeal on points of law concerning a possible judicial error and its consequences, in the circumstances of the case, to be unfounded.” 14.  this decision became final from the moment of its pronouncement and was not subject to appeal.15.  on 19 july 2007 the respondents lodged another appeal on points of law with the court of cassation against the judgment of the court of appeal of 19 january 2007, alleging violations of substantive and procedural law.as a ground for admitting their appeal the respondents indicated, besides the grounds mentioned in their first appeal on points of law, that the contested judicial act contradicted a judicial act previously adopted by the court of cassation.16.  on 2 august 2007 the court of cassation decided to admit the appeal for examination, finding that it complied with the requirements of articles 230 and 231.2 § 1 of the ccp.17.  on 10 october 2007 the court of cassation examined the appeal on the merits and decided to grant it by quashing the judgment of the civil court of appeal of 19 january 2007 and validating the judgment of the shengavit district court of 14 september 2006.
5.  on 30 may 2003 the gjirokastra commission recognised, amongst others, the applicants’ inherited property rights over an agricultural land measuring 655,400 sq.m. the applicants and other heirs would be awarded compensation in the sum of 2,297,398 albanian leks (“all”) in respect of the entire land.7.  on 15 september 1995 the korça commission recognised, amongst others, the applicant’s inherited property rights over some land measuring 2,800 sq.m, which was situated within the village boundaries and used to be arable land, was occupied, the applicant and other heirs would be compensated in state bonds in the event the buildings located on the land were not privatised (“u kompensohet me obligacion shtetëror sipërfaqja 2,500 m2 ish tokë arë, brenda vijave kufizuese të zvarishtit, në rast se objektet (...) nuk do të privatizohen”).the commission stated that the applicant owned one sixths of the land.8.  on 21 december 1998 the korça commission recognised, amongst others, the applicant’s inherited property rights over another plot of arable land and meadow measuring 19,796 sq.m. since the arable land and meadow were occupied, the applicant would be compensated in state bonds equivalent to a financial amount of all 36,890.12.  on 28 august 2000 the kavaja commission recognised, amongst others, the applicant’s inherited property rights over two plots of land totalling 17,500 sq.m. since the plots of land were occupied, the applicant and other heirs would be compensated in kind in respect of a plot measuring 10,000 sq.m. no decision was taken in respect of any right to compensation as regards the remaining plot measuring 6,750 sq.m. 14.  on 13 december 1996 the devoll commission recognised the applicants’ inherited property rights over an agricultural land measuring 27,200 sq.m. the applicants would be awarded compensation by way of state bonds in the sum of all 367,000.16. on 23 june 1995 the tirana commission recognised the applicant’s inherited property rights over a plot of land measuring 836 sq.since the remaining plot was occupied, the applicant would be compensated in one of the ways provided by law.17.  on 17 march 2008 the agency on restitution and compensation of properties amended in part the commission decision and decided that the applicant would be compensated in one of the ways provided by law even in respect of the plot of land measuring 513 sq.
5.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the applicants, are similar to those in association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos.they have the same historical context and relate to the same domestic criminal proceedings.6.  between 17 and 28 december 1989, many people, including the applicants and the close relatives involved in this case, took part in anti‑communist demonstrations in bucharest, timișoara, slobozia, vișina and țăndărei, which led to the fall of the communist regime.they were injured or killed by gunfire during the demonstrations, which took place on 17 december 1989 in timișoara, and in bucharest and other cities across the country from 21 to 28 december 1989.7.  in 1990, following the overthrow of the communist regime, the military prosecutor’s office opened a criminal investigation into the december 1989 armed crackdown on the anti-communist demonstrations in bucharest and the other cities.8.  in a number of cases concerning the events in timișoara, the investigations culminated in referral to the courts and the conviction of senior military officers (see şandru and others v. romania, no.9.  as regards the events in other cities, the criminal investigation is still pending before the prosecuting authorities.10.  on 18 october 2010, the military prosecutor’s office at the high court of cassation and justice decided not to institute criminal proceedings with regard to the acts committed by the military, finding that the applicants’ complaints were partly statute-barred and partly ill-founded.the investigation into crimes committed by civilians, members of patriotic guards, members of militia and prison staff was severed from the case file and jurisdiction was relinquished in favour of the prosecuting authorities at the high court of cassation and justice.11.  on 15 april 2011 the chief prosecutor at the military prosecutor’s office set aside the decision of 18 october 2010 on the grounds that the investigation had not yet been finalised and that not all the victims and perpetrators had been identified.12.  on 18 april 2011 the military prosecutor’s office relinquished jurisdiction in favour of the prosecutor’s office at the high court of cassation and justice on the grounds that the investigation concerned both civilians and military personnel.13.  on 9 march 2012 - following the opening of the classified information in the criminal investigation file to the public in 2010 - the case was re-registered with a view to an investigation in the light of the newly available data.14.  following the entry into force of the new code of criminal procedure in february 2014, jurisdiction over the case was relinquished in favour of the military prosecutor’s office.15.  on 14 october 2015, the prosecutor’s office closed the investigation, finding that the applicants’ complaints were partly statute-barred, partly subject to an amnesty and partly ill-founded.it also found that some of the facts which had been investigated could not be classified as criminal offences; and that some of the facts were res judicata.
8.  at around 7 pm, at the end of the march, the applicants and four other participants left the area using the routes and means of transport recommended by the authorities in the guidelines prepared by the organisers for march participants.15.  the second applicant was diagnosed with multiple contusions (related to the incidents), minor cranio-cerebral trauma, contusion on the left shoulder and the left side of his face, and bruises.17.  according to the applicants, the police agents were surprised when they realised that the applicants and the other victims, although gay, were affluent individuals with regular jobs and positions of responsibility.23.  as it appeared that nothing was happening in the case, the applicants sought information on the progress of the investigation by means of letters sent by accept on 25 september 2006, 28 march 2007 and 20 july 2011. on 19 march 2007 they also complained to the ministry of internal affairs about the lack of an effective investigation in the case, but to no avail.the letter also informed the applicants that the investigation was ongoing and steps were being taken to identify the culprits.25.  on the same day, the police submitted a request to the romanian intelligence service (the “sri”) to confirm whether r.s.a.28.  on 10 june 2011 the police stated their view that the investigation should come to an end and asked the prosecutor’s office not to institute criminal proceedings in the case.the police gave the following explanation for their request: “... the investigation was rendered difficult by the fact that the file arrived at the metro police station ... almost one year after the incidents, and the police agents ... who had been in charge of the case until september 2006 could not continue the investigation as the intelligence service had refused to cooperate and allow their agent ‒ who was the only identified eye-witness to the events ‒ to be interviewed; it is to be noted that the police lost their motivation to use the information for the purposes of finding the truth in this case, of identifying and bringing to justice those responsible.in addition, to a certain extent the victims lost their interest in how their complaint was being dealt with (they did not ... adduce the medical certificates ... which had been obtained at the request of the police ... on 27 october 2009 when it was noted that none of the victims had needed more than two days of medical care).it is observed that all the evidence-gathering methods for this type of crime have been exhausted and, given the lapse of time from the date when the complaints were lodged, the validity and relevance of the evidence gathered ... [have decreased], leaving the investigation into the identity of the culprits without an outcome.the police explained that the investigation had been rendered more difficult by the fact that the file had not arrived at the metro police office until a year after the events.30.  on 4 october 2011 the prosecutor’s office attached to the bucharest district court of the fourth precinct endorsed the police proposal and decided to terminate the investigation.31.  on 19 march 2012 the applicants lodged a complaint with the prosecutor‑in‑chief against the decision of 4 october 2011. they argued that the prosecutor should have investigated the more serious crime of organising a criminal group (asocierea pentru savârşirea de infracţiuni), which had not yet become time-barred.33.  on 9 august 2012 the district court dismissed the complaint lodged by the applicants against the prosecutor’s decision of 4 october 2011. the court made the following observation: “it is true that the authorities were apparently not sufficiently diligent in carrying out within a reasonable time an effective investigation capable of identifying and punishing those responsible for the criminal acts (the long periods of police inactivity, the transfer of files, the lack of cooperation from some authorities are all duly noted).on the other hand, this situation – although not imputable to the [applicants] – cannot prevent the application of the statute of limitation of criminal responsibility.” 34.  on 12 november 2012 the district court dismissed the complaint lodged against the prosecutor’s decision of 18 june 2012 as a mere reiteration of that already dealt with by the court in its decision of 9 august 2012.
between 1 and 16 march 2011, in connection with the demonstration, the civil guard association for a better future (szebb jövőért polgárőr egyesület) and two right-wing paramilitary groups (betyársereg and véderő) organised marches in the roma neighbourhood of the village.9.  at around 11 a.m. on 10 march 2011 mr j.f., the president of the local roma minority self-governing body, informed the police that he and the mayor of the municipality had been threatened by people they did not know.the mayor reported on the same events to the police, explaining that earlier that day some fifty members of the roma minority had confronted approximately fifteen members of the civil guard association, who were joined by four or five unknown persons, one of whom had an axe and another a whip.10.  as it appears from the case file, at around the same time four men passed by the applicant’s house, yelling “go inside, you damned dirty gypsies!” at this time the applicant was outside the house in her garden together with her daughter and some acquaintances.informed the police that he was the leader of one of the “clans” within the organisation.13.  in parallel, the gyöngyös district public prosecutor’s office opened an investigation on suspicion of harassment based on the report of a third person, mr j.f., the president of the local roma minority self-governing body.15.  at the request of her lawyer, the gyöngyös police department informed the applicant that criminal proceedings had been instituted on charges of harassment on the basis of the criminal complaint lodged by mr j.f.mr j.f., questioned as a witness, maintained that two of the persons subject to the proceedings had been wielding an axe and a whip and had threatened the inhabitants of the roma settlement that they would kill them and paint the houses with their blood.mr l.t., the mayor of gyöngyöspata, identified one of the persons as having been present in gyöngyöspata on 10 march 2011, but could not confirm that the threats had been directed at the roma.as having said that he would “paint the houses with [the applicant’s] blood.” 19.  on an unspecified date the applicant attached to the criminal file extracts from comments posted on a right-wing internet portal in which mr s.t.21.  on 7 october 2011, following a complaint that procedural errors had been committed by the heves county regional police department in the investigation of mr j.f.’s complaint, the gyöngyös district public prosecutor’s office informed the applicant that it had opened a separate investigation into the allegations of harassment on the basis of the applicant’s complaint.22.  on 20 october 2011, in the criminal proceedings on charges of harassment, the applicant’s lawyer requested the gyöngyös district prosecutor’s office to open an investigation into “violence against a member of an ethnic group” under article 174/b (1) of the criminal code.23.  on 3 november 2011 the prosecutor’s office refused the request, finding that the use of force, the objective element of the criminal offence of “violence against a member of a group” under article 174/b (1) of the criminal code as in force at the material time could not be established at that stage of the proceedings.24.  the identities of the persons who had passed by the applicant’s house and that of the alleged perpetrator, mr s.t., were established by the investigating authorities.25.  on 2 february 2012 the gyöngyös police department discontinued the investigation into harassment on the grounds that none of the witnesses heard had substantiated the applicant’s allegation that she had been threatened.
6.  in 1984, the applicant, a professional photographer, took a number of photographs of landscapes in călăraşi county that had been commissioned for commercial publication in an album.the album was not, in the event, published, but the photographs were retained by f.g., who was in charge of the album project.7.  in 2004, the applicant discovered by chance that an album named “călăraşi county” had been published by a company run by f.g. in 1999. he noticed that of the 143 photographs of landscapes from călăraşi county contained in the album, 135 were photographs taken by him and left in the possession of f.g. in 1984. however, f.g. was credited as the photographer, and not the applicant.8.  the applicant lodged a criminal complaint against f.g. with the romanian copyright office (“the rco”) on 25 february 2004, claiming that f.g. had committed one of the offences provided for by articles 140‑142 of law 8/1996 on copyright and neighbouring rights (“law 8/1996”).9.  on 29 june 2004, a report was drawn up by the rco following an investigation carried out at the headquarters of the company that had published the album.a) of law 8/1996 had been infringed, the rco forwarded the applicant’s complaint, together with the accompanying documents, to the călăraşi police department on 5 november 2004.the report, dated 24 december 2004, confirmed that the photographs had been taken by the applicant.12.  on 21 april 2005, the prosecutor’s office attached to călăraşi county court decided not to open a criminal investigation on the ground that the limitation period for the punishment of f.g. had expired.13.  the applicant lodged a complaint against that decision with the chief prosecutor.14.  a complaint lodged by the applicant with the călăraşi county court was allowed on 24 november 2005. the court held that the period between 27 april 1999 (the date of publication of the album) and 25 february 2004 (the date on which the applicant lodged his complaint with the rco) was less than five years – the term of limitation provided by law.it added that the procedure stipulated by law 8/1996 was a special procedure for the punishment of offences related to copyright, which was justified by the complexity and exceptional nature of such cases.therefore, the court held that in the light of the special provisions applicable to the file, the date from which the term of limitation of five years should have been calculated was not the date on which the rco forwarded the file to the police (5 november 2004) but the date on which the applicant lodged his complaint with the rco (25 february 2004).15.  accordingly, the călăraşi county court remitted the file to the prosecutor’s office in order for it to initiate criminal proceedings.16.  on 17 february 2006, the bucharest court of appeal allowed an appeal by the prosecutor against the judgment of 24 november 2005 and held that the case had become time-barred, given that the police had received the criminal complaint only on 5 november 2004 – more than five years after the offence had been committed.no reference was made to the civil complaint lodged by the applicant.
6.  the applicant is the son and heir of mr c. pleş.he was immediately hospitalised and diagnosed with “a gunshot wound in the right side of the chest, rupture of the right lung and fracture of ribs seven and eight, plus a gunshot wound in the right arm”.8.  criminal proceedings were instituted against the army commanders who had ordered the shooting of demonstrators during the events of december 1989 in cluj.many victims of the repression joined civil complaints to the proceedings, requesting compensation for pecuniary and non‑pecuniary damage.the applicant’s father lodged one such civil complaint, requesting 150,000,000 romanian lei (rol) (approximately 4,100 euros (eur)) in respect of pecuniary damage, rol 500,000,000 (approximately eur 14,000) in respect of non-pecuniary damage, and rol 50,000,000 (about 1,400 euros) for costs and expenses incurred during the trial.he was replaced as a civil party in the proceedings by the applicant.10.  by a judgment of 23 may 2005 the high court of cassation and justice, acting as a first-instance court, convicted five of the officers involved in the events of december 1989 in cluj.they were ordered to pay compensation jointly with the ministry of national defence to all eighty‑four civil parties in the case.the court granted the applicant rol 150,000,000 in respect of pecuniary damage and rol 50,000,000 for costs and expenses.11.  eighteen civil parties to the criminal proceedings, including the applicant, lodged an appeal on points of law, complaining about the way in which the first-instance court had examined their claims for damages.the grounds of appeal of the civil parties were not identical.in most of the cases they concerned the amount of damages awarded.the applicant complained that the first-instance court had not granted him the requested compensation for non-pecuniary damage.12.  by a decision of 20 march 2006, a panel of nine judges of the high court of cassation and justice dismissed all the appeals lodged by the civil parties.the court of last resort referred to the general provisions of the code of criminal procedure and civil code concerning compensation for damages in the context of civil actions joined to criminal proceedings (see paragraph 13 below) and without examining in particular any of the civil parties’ appeals, it dismissed all the appeals as ill‑founded.
5.  the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in novi pazar.6.  she was employed by dp “raška holding kompanija” ad, a socially-owned company based in novi pazar (hereinafter “the debtor”).7.  on 30 june 2004, 25 september 2009 and 21 december 2009 respectively, the novi pazar municipal court ordered the debtor to pay the applicant certain amounts on account of salary arrears and social insurance contributions, plus the costs of the civil proceedings.these judgments became final on 15 september 2004, 20 october 2009 and 5 october 2010 respectively.8.  on 5 october 2004 and 11 july 2011 respectively, upon the applicant’s request to that effect, the novi pazar municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said judgments; it further ordered the debtor to pay the applicant the enforcement costs.9.  on 11 september 2013 the kraljevo commercial court opened preliminary insolvency proceedings against the debtor.10.  on 25 october 2013 the same court opened insolvency proceedings against the debtor.11.  the insolvency proceedings are still ongoing.
he was taken that day to a public hospital – the cardiology unit of the hospital of the lithuanian university of health sciences’ kaunas clinics (lietuvos sveikatos mokslų universiteto ligoninė – kauno klinikos, hereinafter – “the kaunas clinics”), where he underwent a surgical intervention.17.  as can be seen in the documents submitted by the parties, and as was later confirmed by the ombudsperson (see paragraph 30 below), the doctors at the prison department hospital, on the instructions of the doctors at the kaunas clinics, performed a number of tests on the applicant (including urine, blood, and an ecg).19.  on 14 december 2011, while at the prison department hospital, the applicant had a second myocardial infarction and was immediately transferred to a public hospital – the cardiology and angiology centre of vilnius university hospital’s santariškės clinics (vilniaus universiteto ligoninės santariškių klinikos, hereinafter – “the santariškės clinics”), where he was examined and tests were performed.two days later, on 16 december 2011, the doctors in santariškės held that the applicant’s state of health was stable, and on that day he was returned to the prison department hospital.the medical certificate issued at the time of the applicant’s discharge from the hospital on 28 june 2012 also indicated that he smoked, which was a risk factor.the ombudsperson, however, established that the conditions of the applicant’s detention at lukiškės remand prison, where he had been held between march 2009 and june 2010, as well as at the prison department hospital, where he had been held between 16 december 2011 and 15 march 2012, had been in breach of domestic legislation on overcrowding.after examining the documents related to the applicant’s treatment in hospitals, the ombudsperson noted that, contrary to the applicant’s submissions, neither the kaunas clinics nor the santariškės clinics had prescribed him a course of rehabilitation therapy after the applicant’s first and second heart attacks respectively.31.  according to three documents provided by the applicant’s representative, mr. s. tomas, in september and december 2012 and in april 2013 the outpatient polyclinic in upninkai (upninkų ambulatorija, hereinafter – upninkai polyclinic), a village in jonava district in lithuania, gave “the applicant’s authorised person” three written statements by the polyclinic’s head doctor.35.  on 28 november 2011 the kaunas regional court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention for three months on the grounds that the applicant was suspected of being the organiser of a criminal group which committed drug-related crimes, that he had connections abroad, did not work and faced a heavy sentence.the court noted that the applicant was being held at the time at the prison department hospital and was receiving 24-hour medical assistance.39.  on the basis of the request by the applicant’s lawyer, on 23 march 2012 the kaunas regional court ordered a comprehensive forensic examination to be performed by a doctors’ commission, comprising a cardiologist, to answer the question whether the applicant was ill with a serious, incurable illness (sunki nepagydoma liga), and, if so, whether for that reason he could be released from serving a sentence.41.  after examining the applicant’s medical records from the kaunas clinics and the santariškės clinics, as well as from the prison department hospital, on 11 june 2012 experts from the state forensic medicine service (valstybinė teismo medicinos tarnyba) produced report no.however, the experts concluded that the applicant’s state of health at the time did not meet the criteria which allowed a convicted person to be exempted from serving a sentence, according to the rules set by the ministry of health and the ministry of the interior (see paragraph 49 below).the applicant’s lawyer referred to the reports from the upninkai polyclinic and claimed that neither kaunas remand prison nor the prison department hospital could guarantee the necessary medical care for the applicant.the court of appeal also had regard to the practice of the court to the effect that the state should protect inmates’ physical health (it relied on kudła v. poland [gc], no.
4.  the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in barnaul.5.  in 2001 he became a suspect and then an accused in a criminal case concerning fraud.during the investigation of the criminal case the applicant was under a written undertaking not to leave his place of residence.6.  in march 2003 the prosecutor referred the criminal case to the industrialnyy district court of barnaul (“the district court”) for trial.7.  on 19 september 2003 the district court ordered the applicant’s detention pending trial following the complaints by one of the victims and a witness about threats expressed by the applicant in their respect.8.  on 22 september 2003 the applicant’s representatives lodged a cassation appeal against the detention order of 19 september 2003 with the regional court via the district court.9.  on 6 october 2003 the district court forwarded that appeal to the regional court and set its examination on 27 november 2003.10.  on 8 october 2003 the district court forwarded a copy of the applicant’s appeal to other participants of the criminal proceedings and informed them that they had until 22 october 2003 to submit their comments, if any.submitted her comments on the applicant’s grounds of appeal.12.  on 19 november 2003 the regional court received all materials related to the applicant’s appeal against the detention order of 19 september 2003.13.  on 27 november 2003 the regional court examined and rejected the applicant’s appeal.14.  the district court subsequently extended the applicant’s detention on several occasions.15.  on 30 september 2004 the applicant was released under a written undertaking.16.  on 13 december 2005 the district court found the applicant guilty of fraud and sentenced him to two years’ imprisonment.17.  on 18 may 2006 the regional court upheld the applicant’s conviction.
5.  the applicant was born in 1952 and lives in rostov region.he took part in the clean-up operation at the chernobyl nuclear disaster site.he was subsequently registered disabled, and became entitled to various social benefits.6.  in february 2003 the applicant brought proceedings claiming that his benefits should be increased in accordance with a particular method.the adjustment method suggested by the applicant was approved by the domestic courts, which in addition increased the social benefits to which he was entitled to in 2002 in accordance with this same method (judgment of 25 february 2003).7.  in june 2003 the applicant brought a similar set of proceedings in respect of social benefits to which he was entitled to during the first six months of 2003. relying on their previous judgment by which they approved the adjustment method suggested by the applicant, the domestic courts increased his social benefits for the new period accordingly (judgment of 18 june 2003).8.  in october 2003 the judgment of 25 february 2003 approving the adjustment method suggested by the applicant was quashed by a supervisory review court.9.  in march 2004 the domestic courts quashed on the basis of newly discovered circumstances the judgment delivered on 18 june 2003 on the ground that it was based on the judgment delivered in february 2003 but quashed since then by way of supervisory review.10.  both judgments, of february and june 2003, remained unenforced prior to their quashing.11.  in 2006 the applicant brought proceedings against welfare authorities claiming arrears for various benefits as well as indexation of those benefits.the zernogradskiy district court of the rostov region granted the applicant’s claims (judgment of 19 june 2006, upheld on 18 july 2006).this judgment remained unenforced for fourteen months.
4.  the municipal unitary enterprise sysolskoye proizvodstvennoye obyedineniye “zhilkomkhoz” (муп сысольское производственное объединение «жилкомхоз», hereinafter “the company”) was set up by a decision of the administration of the sysolskiy district.it provided maintenance services in respect of municipal housing, including heating and water supply, maintenance of the sewage systems and renovation and maintenance of the municipal housing stock.5.  the company had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to it in order to carry out its statutory activities.according to its statutory articles all of the company’s property as well as obtained profits belonged to the municipal estate.6.  on 3 march 2006 the commercial court of the komi republic commenced insolvency proceedings and appointed an external administrator to oversee the company’s administration.7.  on 29 september 2006 the commercial court of the komi republic ordered the insolvency proceedings in respect of the company.8.  on 28 august 2008 the commercial court of the komi republic discontinued the insolvency proceedings and ordered the respondent company’s liquidation.the creditors’ claims, which had not been satisfied during the liquidation procedure, including the applicants’ claims, were considered as settled.10.  on an unspecified date in 2006 the applicants brought proceedings against the debtor company seeking salary arrears and other work-related payments.11.  on 9 august 2006 and 30 october 2006 the justice of the peace of the sysolskiy court circuit of the komi republic awarded the applicants salary arrears (the amounts are specified in the appendix, column no.2) and compensation for non-pecuniary damage against their employer.on 10 october 2006 and 10 november 2006 respectively the sysolskiy district court upheld those judgments on appeal and they became final.
13.  it transpires from the wording of the decisions that the city court relied solely on the seriousness of the charges as grounds for the continuing detention and rejected a complaint made by the applicants concerning the composition of the bench.16.  the first hearing was scheduled for 1 october 2001, but the city court adjourned it at least eighty-eight times between that date and 27 september 2004 for the reasons summarised as follows: (i) some lawyers failed to appear for no reason; (ii) some of the lawyers excused their absence for health, professional or personal reasons; (iii) the applicants were not escorted to the court on the days they were ill; or (iv) the applicants and/or their lawyers were removed from the courtroom for interrupting the presiding judge and court clerk, addressing the city court using obscene language and engaging in other unruly behaviour.17.  on 28 september 2004 the city court began to examine the case on the merits by inviting the prosecution to read out the bill of indictment.in particular, they submitted that ms i. had never been selected as a lay judge, and that ms m.’s term of office had expired in 1996. they further alleged that subsequent extensions of ms m.’s term of office by presidential decree had been unlawful, and that in any event she could no longer serve in her office following the adoption in january 2000 of a law governing the selection and service of lay judges and the entry into force in july 2002 of the new code of criminal procedure, which had abolished lay judges in the russian judicial system.25.  on 27 september 2004 the other four applicants were removed from the courtroom prior to the start of examination of the case on the merits until the end of the submissions, on the same grounds as mr denisov.the prosecutor explained to the court that mr shutov suffered from different health ailments and constantly required medical supervision which was not possible in the courtroom as there was no on-site medical stuff present in the court building, unlike in the remand prison which had a permanent medical post.the prosecutor further submitted that the removal of the trial to iz-47/1 was also aimed at ensuring the safety of the presiding judge, lay judges and three co-defendants of the applicants who started receiving physical threats in connection with the proceedings and asked for state protection.29.  according to the documents in the case-file, the members of the general public could attend the hearings in iz-47/1 after they presented their identity document to the security personnel and obtained a security pass.33.  on 16 august 2000 the head of the criminal investigation unit gave mr denisov a formal warning for delaying the review of the case documents for no valid reason and notified him that the time allocated to him for studying the case material might be reduced.34.  on 6 september 2000 the head of the criminal investigation unit reported that because mr denisov had intentionally delayed the review of the case documents and had refused to review them on several occasions, he and his lawyer had been given eighty days to finish the review, and by 15 january 2001 at the latest.35.  according to the trial transcript of 28 september 2004, the city court refused a request by mr denisov’s new lawyer, k., to adjourn the hearing in order to review the case documents.37.  on 10 november 2004 the city court ruled that mr denisov would be allowed to review the transcript of the hearings from which he had been removed at the end of the deliberations.41.  the applicant submitted that on 4 march 2002 and 20 july 2003 the court had refused his request to study certain case material even though he had only studied thirty-two of the sixty-eight files produced by the end of the preliminary investigation.the city court had refused, noting that he had had ample opportunity to study the case in advance, and that the trial transcript would be distributed at the end of the proceedings.45.  on 20 july 2005 his counsel had unsuccessfully asked to be allowed time to study the statements certain witnesses, victims and co-accused had made during the preliminary investigation, and to familiarise himself with transcripts of the hearings held while the applicant had been excluded from the courtroom.
5.  the applicant was born in 1971 and is currently in detention in warsaw.he was suspected of the murder of two people and of inciting the murder of another person who had intended to testify against him in a separate set of proceedings.8.  on 19 january 2006 the warsaw remand centre penitentiary commission (“the commission”) classified the applicant as a dangerous detainee.the decision stated as follows: “the commission hereby decides that [the applicant] is to be placed in a designated wing or cell in a remand centre in conditions which provide increased protection for society and for the security of the remand centre.the commission approves the proposals of the directors of the protection and prison wings.the detainee has been informed of his right to appeal against the commission’s decision within seven days to the warsaw regional court, xi penitentiary division.” the last sentence of the decision contained information about who was to be informed about the applicant’s placement in a cell for dangerous detainees.10.  the commission reviewed and upheld its decision to classify the applicant as a dangerous detainee on several occasions.in total, there were over thirty decisions to extend the period of imposition of the regime in respect of the applicant.all the decisions were based on the same pattern of wording, which read as follows: “the commission has decided to extend [the applicant’s categorisation as a dangerous detainee] as the reasons for his placement in a cell in conditions which provide increased protection for society and for the security of the remand centre have not ceased to exist.” 11.  in particular, a decision of 3 january 2013 to extend the imposition of the dangerous detainee regime on the applicant referred to the seriousness of the charges against him and his highly deficient moral character.12.  an appeal by the applicant against the latter decision was the only one he made against the series of decisions to impose and extend the dangerous detainee regime on him.13.  on 30 january 2013 the warsaw regional court dismissed the appeal.the court held that the decision had been lawful.14.  on 21 november 2013 the commission lifted the dangerous detainee regime applied to the applicant.15.  the applicant was kept in a cell which was constantly monitored via closed‑circuit television.he was subjected to a body search every time he left or entered the cell, which meant in practice that he had to strip naked in front of prison officers.
9.  in the meantime, on the assumption that the landowners’ properties would be restored in natura by the commission on property restitution and compensation, in january and february 1996, the applicant concluded two agreements with one of the landowners, who was acting on his own and the remaining heirs’ behalf, whereby the applicant would assist the landowners in the process of the privatisation of installations and fuel tanks on the land (see paragraphs 21-22 below).10.  on the strength of the district court’s decisions, on an unspecified date the landowners lodged a request with the tirana commission on property restitution and compensation (“the commission”) seeking restitution of the above-mentioned property by the domestic authorities.a constitutional appeal lodged by the applicant on 1 august 2000 was declared inadmissible by the constitutional court on 7 december 2000. as a result of the remittal of the cases to the district court, on an unspecified date the court decided to join the proceedings.17.  in the first set of rehearing proceedings, the case was heard by the district court, the tirana court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) and the supreme court, which on 18 march 2003 decided to remit the case to the court of appeal for a further rehearing.18.  in the second set of rehearing proceedings, the case was heard by the court of appeal and the supreme court, which on 27 october 2005 decided to remit the case to the court of appeal for fresh consideration.19.  in the third set of rehearing proceedings, the case was heard by the court of appeal, the supreme court and the constitutional court, which gave its final decision on 20 september 2009. the domestic courts ruled in favour of the landowners.21.  on 18 january 1996 one of the landowners, acting on his own and the remaining heirs’ behalf, concluded an agreement (akt marrëveshje) with the applicant’s company, according to which the latter would secure finance for the privatisation of fuel tanks and installations located on the landowners’ plot of land, in respect of which they would exercise their right of first refusal (e drejta e parablerjes) at the time of privatisation.23.  on 23 may 1996 the same landowner, again acting on his own and the remaining heirs’ behalf, concluded a notarised sales contract with the applicant for the sale of almost all of the fuel tanks and installations for 100,000 united states dollars (usd), which, according to the contract, was paid by the applicant to the landowners.2.  second set of proceeding concerning the nullity of the contract and agreements concluded in 1996 (a)  proceedings before the district court 27.  on 17 april 2005 the landowners instituted a fresh set of proceedings against the applicant seeking the annulment of the agreements and contract concluded between february and may 1996. the claim was signed by only their lawyer.the applicant argued that a number of factors pointed to his having lawful property rights over the fuel tanks and installations, such as the fact that all the agreements and contracts were lawful and valid, the property had been registered in his name, he had represented the landowners in the domestic proceedings and he had taken legal action to defend their interests.in this connection, the withdrawal of the presiding judge of the bench had not been accepted by the president of the district court and his four requests for the withdrawal of the bench were rejected, no such mention having been made in the hearing records.the applicant further submitted that the claim had been brought outside the statutory time-limit, and had been signed by only the lawyer and not the landowners, the power of attorney dating back to 2002 and being limited in time and scope, and that the facts of the claim were unrelated.it transpires that the applicant had withdrawn the request for the exemption of the bench from hearing the case, and that the court had partially reopened the judicial examination and accepted new items of evidence as produced by him.the court of appeal held that the objects mentioned in the agreements and contracts of 1996 were, at the time of the judgment, being administered by the state and that their ownership had not yet been transferred to the landowners.he further objected to the lower courts’ application and interpretation of the domestic law since, in his view, he had been authorised by the landowners to act as their representative, had lodged various appeals and other procedural requests and followed the judicial proceedings with the landowners, had requested the enforcement of final decisions on his and the landowners’ behalf and had sought the criminal prosecution of third parties.
6.  the two of them have lived as a family since 1989. at that time, they resided in the town of burgas, where the first applicant owned a flat, which in 2013 she donated to her daughter, who had lived in it with her family for a number of years.following the death of the first applicant’s father in 1986 and ensuing division-of-property proceedings between his surviving wife and seven children, the first applicant’s mother was allotted 250 out of the 625 shares in the plot.combining the shares that she obtained as a result of this transfer and the one sixteenth of the plot that she had inherited from her father, the first applicant became the owner of 484.43 shares, or 77.5%, of the plot.9.  in 2006 the other ten heirs of the first applicant’s father and mother brought a claim against the first applicant, seeking a judicial declaration that they were the owners of 140.57 of the 625 shares of the plot and of the house built on it.on an appeal by the claimants, on 7 june 2009 the burgas regional court quashed that judgment and made a declaration in the terms sought by the claimants, finding that they were the owners of 140.57 out of the total of 625 shares of the plot and the house built in the place of the old cabin.it also held that the first applicant was the owner of the remaining 484.43 shares of the plot and the house.in so doing, it held, inter alia, that by including the house in the declaration, the lower court had not erred because it was settled case-law that illegal buildings could be the objects of the right to property.they notified their findings to the first applicant in october 2011. in july 2012 the municipality brought the matter to the attention of the regional office of the national building control directorate.12.  on 30 september 2013 the head of the regional office of the directorate noted that the house had been constructed in 2004-05 without a building permit, in breach of section 148(1) of the territorial organisation act 2001, and was as such subject to demolition under section 225(2)(2) of that act (see paragraphs 25 and 26 below).the house could not be exempted from demolition under paragraph 16 of the transitional provisions of the 2001 act or paragraph 127 of the transitional and concluding provisions of a 2012 act for the amendment of the 2001 act (see paragraphs 28 and 29 below).it agreed that the house was illegal as it had been constructed without a building permit, that it was as such subject to demolition, and that, having been constructed in 2004-05, it could not be legalised under the transitional amnesty provisions of the 2001 act or the 2012 act.17.  on 15 april 2015 the regional office of the national building control directorate invited the first applicant to comply with the demolition order within fourteen days of receiving notice to do so, and advised her that failure to do so would prompt it to enforce the order at her expense.19.  on 18 august 2015 the burgas municipal ombudsman urged the minister of regional development to halt the demolition on the basis that, although formally lawful, it would have a disproportionate impact on the applicants.until 27 october 2015, date of the latest information from the parties on that point, the municipal authorities had not replied to that query, and the directorate’s regional office had for that reason not proceeded with the demolition.21.  on an unspecified date in the second half of october 2015, again after notice of the application had been given to the government, a social worker interviewed the first applicant and explained to her the possibilities to request social services.
7.  ancestors of the applicants owned a plot of land measuring 246 square metres in the old part of plovdiv, which had a two-storey house built on 160 square metres of it.after that, the building was the subject of substantial renovation work, in particular after a fire destroyed part of it in 1978.8.  after the adoption of the restitution of property expropriated under building planning legislation act (“the restitution act”) in 1992 (see paragraph 15 below), some of the applicants and other heirs of the original owners (from whom the remaining applicants succeeded in the course of the domestic proceedings) applied for the revocation of the expropriation.the property in issue, however, had been declared a cultural monument, and had been expropriated to be used as such, thus the expropriation had been in breach of the law.the fact that no construction work had ever been envisaged had to be assimilated to a situation where no public works within the meaning of the restitution act had ever been commenced.in addition, the renovation work carried out after the expropriation did not represent “public works” either, as it had only aimed to preserve the building.10.  following the above judgment, in order to make the restitution effective (see paragraph 16 below), on 21 may 1999 the applicants paid back to the municipality the monetary compensation received by their ancestors at the time of the expropriation.the parties disagreed as to whether the applicants had also received compensation in the form of other property at the time of the expropriation, and whether they had to return that as well.12.  despite the events described above, the applicants could not take possession of the property, because it was being held and used by the plovdiv municipality, which in 1997 had declared it a public municipal property and had rented a room in the building to an organisation called “13 centuries bulgaria” national endowment fund (“the fund”, see paragraphs 19-20 below).13.  after unsuccessfully attempting to negotiate an agreement, in december 2003 the applicants brought rei vindicatio proceedings against the plovdiv municipality and the fund.the action was dismissed by a final judgment of the supreme court of cassation of 8 june 2007. in the first place, the domestic courts found that they were competent to examine the action.according to the second-instance plovdiv regional court, the judgment of 2 october 1998 was open to indirect judicial review, because it was replacing the mayor’s administrative decision on the applicants’ request for restitution, and did not have a res judicata effect in proceedings specifically concerning the right to property.according to the supreme court of cassation, the defendants to the rei vindicatio action, namely the plovdiv municipality and the fund, had not participated in the earlier judicial proceedings and therefore were not bound by the judgment of 2 october 1998.14.  next, the domestic courts found that the reparation work carried out on the building which the applicants were claiming had been so substantial (the building’s appearance had been preserved, but the internal construction had been largely modified – the roof, some windows and other elements had also been replaced) that, within the meaning of the restitution act, it could not be said that the building still existed.in addition, the property was being used for the purpose for which it had been expropriated, namely as “a cultural monument”, which, in the courts’ view, constituted “public works” within the meaning of the same act.
8.  the harju county court (“the county court”) heard evidence from the applicant and nine witnesses and examined certain other evidence such as a written forensic expert opinion on l.’s injuries, a telephone activity report concerning the time and location of the applicant’s communications, identification reports based on photographs and a video-recording from a closed circuit television camera near the scene.the witnesses had given different accounts of the events, regarding the number of persons who had been at the scene and attacked l., as well as the attackers’ actions during the scuffle and after l. had fallen to the ground.the court noted that according to i.j.’s statements given during the preliminary investigation, he had hit l. twice, l. had fallen to the ground, and the applicant had arrived afterwards.as evidence, as well as identification reports drawn up during the pre-trial investigation identifying the applicant as one of the (probable) attackers of the victim, as their statements in the identification reports did not match their statements before the court.it also pointed to the lack of credibility of some of the witness statements, such as k.m.’s statement, which said that she had recognised the applicant’s eye colour and the look in his eyes, but that she had not seen the colour of his jacket.the court of appeal disclosed the records of the county court hearings at the prosecutor’s request, to which the applicant’s counsel did not object.15.  the court of appeal assessed the evidence differently, based on the material in the case file, and found that the applicant’s guilt was established.the court provided a comprehensive analysis of the evidence in its judgment, delivered on 18 september 2007, and explained in detail why, and to what extent, it assessed the statements given in the county court differently from the lower court.(another witness) – who had been together at the time of the events – had taken note of different aspects of the events did not render those statements unreliable; rather, it reflected the fact that the perception and memory of different people differed.it pointed to the fact that his statements, according to which the applicant had arrived at the scene after l. had already fallen to the ground, did not match any of the other witness statements.the court also referred in that connection to the words heard by witnesses from a person whose appearance corresponded to that of the applicant: “why then did he come to start a quarrel?” if the applicant had arrived at the scene after l. had been knocked down, he would have known nothing about the reasons and initial stages of the conflict and would have had no reason to express himself in such a way.18.  the court of appeal noted that since the applicant had acted jointly with another person, it was legally irrelevant which of them had struck l., causing him to fall, although it also referred to k.s.’s statements according to which the last blow had been given by the applicant.the court further analysed at length the subjective element of the offence and concluded that the applicant had acted with the indirect intent of causing serious health damage.he pointed out that the court of appeal had not directly verified the evidence; he referred in that respect to the conduct of the witnesses, which was of paramount importance in assessing their credibility but which was not reflected in the record of the court hearing.he considered that the court of appeal had assessed the evidence in a selective and arbitrary manner and had given the benefit of the doubt to the prosecution.
9.  at the time the applicant was convicted and sentenced, the kingdom of the netherlands consisted of the netherlands (the realm in europe) and the netherlands antilles (consisting of the islands aruba, bonaire, curaçao, sint maarten, sint eustatius and saba).11.  the joint court of justice of the netherlands antilles, which imposed the life sentence on the applicant in 1980, became the joint court of justice of the netherlands antilles and aruba in 1986, and is currently called the joint court of justice of aruba, curaçao, sint maarten and of bonaire, sint eustatius and saba.the conclusion reached by the psychiatrist was summarised as follows in the judgment (the conclusion and advice contained in the psychiatrist’s report are set out in full in paragraph 33 below): “... that the defendant suffers from a pathological disturbance, in particular a very limited development of his mental faculties ... considering this, the defendant should be regarded as having diminished criminal responsibility (verminderd toerekeningsvatbaar), but nevertheless should mainly be held criminally liable for his actions.it is noted in particular that the defendant cannot be considered to have been mentally insane before, during or after the commission of the crime ... even though the defendant is capable of committing a similar offence in the future, it is not necessary to commit him to a regular mental hospital (krankzinnigengesticht), but instead he should be placed in a custodial clinic for psychopaths (psychopatenasiel) to undergo a rather lengthy treatment under very strict surveillance.taking into consideration that the risk of recidivism is for the time being very high, even if treatment would possibly start immediately, and that, consequently, intensive surveillance is of primordial importance (such surveillance being impossible in the national mental hospital), and the fact that the defendant is not to be considered criminally insane within the meaning of the law, admission to the national mental hospital is wholly contra-indicated.it is strongly advised that, where possible in the prison setting, an attempt should be made to attain a stronger personality structure in the defendant in order to avoid recidivism in the future.” 13.  the first instance court considered that a life sentence, the imposition of which had been sought by the public prosecutor, would only be condign punishment if it was established from the outset that the applicant’s condition was not amenable to improvement.in this connection it cited part of the psychiatrist’s report as summarised in the judgment of the first instance court (see paragraph 12 above) and furthermore held, inter alia, as follows: “considering that in view of the findings of the psychiatrist, which the court accepts and adopts as its own, and in particular the fact that the risk of recidivism is very significant, the interest of society in being protected against any such recidivism should, in the opinion of the court, carry the most weight, having regard to the personality of the accused; considering that − however regrettable − there is no possibility in the netherlands antilles for the imposition of a tbs order (terbeschikkingstelling met bevel tot verpleging van overheidswege) for confinement in a custodial clinic, which would be the most appropriate measure in this case; that placement in a custodial clinic in the netherlands in similar cases has in the past proved impracticable – as is known to the court ex officio – and is in the present case moreover considered impossible by the psychiatrist due to the accused’s limited intelligence and insufficient ability to express himself verbally; considering that in the present case there is no way in which the aforementioned preponderant interest can adequately be protected in these lands other than through the imposition of a penalty which will prevent the accused’s return to society, and thus that only a sentence of life imprisonment qualifies as suitable; considering that the court is aware that this sentence does not – in principle – provide the accused with any prospect of one day returning to society as a free man, a fact which will presumably make this sentence heavier to bear for the accused than a temporary sentence of imprisonment, but which in the court’s opinion should not lead to the aforementioned interests, which, as set out above, should carry the most weight, being sacrificed; ... ... sentences the accused to imprisonment for life; ...” 16.  on 25 november 1980 the supreme court (hoge raad) dismissed the applicant’s appeal in cassation against the judgment of the joint court of justice.in a letter of 22 october 1997 the joint court of justice advised the governor not to grant a pardon, writing, in so far as relevant, as follows: “... it appears from the psychiatric report in the file that the petitioner has very inadequately developed mental faculties ... in said psychiatric report it is concluded that the petitioner is certainly capable of committing the same offence or of disrupting public order in a different way.26.  on 26 january 2004 the advocate general of the netherlands antilles wrote, in so far as relevant, as follows to the joint court of justice in relation to the applicant’s request for a pardon lodged on 27 october 2003: “... the opinion of the public prosecution service is unchanged.27.  the procurator general, in a letter to the joint court of justice of 5 august 2004, recommended that that court issue negative advice on the application for a pardon lodged by the applicant on 17 june 2004. he wrote, in so far as relevant, as follows: “... having regard to the content of his request for a pardon together with the interview with him that was recently broadcast on television, the petitioner obviously still does not, in my opinion, realise the gravity of the diabolical act committed by him on 23 may 1979.28.  in a letter of 28 september 2007 the joint court of justice advised the governor to reject a request for a pardon lodged by the applicant as there was no appearance of any circumstance which the trial court had failed or had been unable to take (sufficiently) into account at the time of its decision and which, had the court been sufficiently aware of it, would have caused it to impose a different sentence or to refrain from imposing any sentence.the foundation for probation and social rehabilitation concludes that a possible conditional release of the convicted person would at this stage have far-reaching psychological consequences for the relatives.” the decision goes on to observe that, in the acting procurator general’s submission, there was not a single objective indication from which it could be inferred that the risk of the applicant’s committing an offence had disappeared or diminished, that an early release would seriously shock the surviving relatives, and that it would also shock society to such an extent that this would hinder the applicant’s possible reintegration.the court further considers that the nature of the offence committed by the convicted person – the killing of a six-year-old girl for the sole purpose of hurting her aunt, his former girlfriend – is bizarre and, as was concluded at the time, must be attributed to the psychopathically disturbed personality of the convicted person.the conclusion and advice as set out in the psychiatrist’s report, reads, in so far as relevant, as follows: “conclusion: in view of the above the rapporteur reaches the following structure diagnosis: serious criminal behaviour in the shape of a murder committed as a result of a primitive and primary outburst of emotions, by a retarded, infantile and narcissistic young man whose character structure has a serious disturbance of a psychopathiform nature.if a pardon is applicable, it is recommended that [the applicant] follow a rehabilitation and social skills programme and that he be provided with support both inside and outside the kia in order to promote his independence and functioning in society.” 38.  on 26 march 2012 the aruban foundation for probation, social rehabilitation and the protection of juveniles (stichting reclassering en jeugdbescherming) issued a report, in which it was noted that the applicant could live with his mother on aruba and could work in an upholstery shop.
6.  in keeping with the requirement under article 69 of the constitution and sections 74 and 75 of the political parties act, the applicant party submitted the consolidated final accounts of its headquarters and local branches for the years 2007, 2008 and 2009 to the constitutional court for inspection.10.  on 7 march 2012 the constitutional court delivered its decision regarding the final accounts of the applicant party for the year 2007, which was followed by decisions pertaining to the 2008 and 2009 accounts, both delivered on 11 july 2012. the decision concerning the 2007 accounts was published in the official gazette on 5 april 2012 and the decisions for the 2008 and 2009 accounts were published on 20 september 2012.under section 70 of the political parties act, ‘all expenses of a political party shall be incurred on behalf of the legal personality of that political party’ and pursuant to section 75 of the same act, ‘at the end of its inspection, the constitutional court shall determine the accuracy and the lawfulness of the political party’s income and expenses, and shall order the registration of unlawful income and expenses as revenue with the state treasury’.6111 ..., which was published in the official gazette dated 25 february 2011 [and which introduced some amendments to section 74 of the political parties act], came into force on the date of its publication and it does not envisage ... the [retroactive] application of the amended provisions ...; therefore, the unamended provisions are to be applied to inspections and proceedings predating the amendments.” 12.  on the basis of the principles outlined above, the constitutional court found that certain expenses incurred in the respective periods under review had been in violation of the political parties act.the violations in question fell under two heads: the first head consisted of expenses that could not be considered to have been made “in pursuance of the objectives of the political party” and “in the name of the party’s legal personality” on the basis of a decision of the competent party organ, in accordance with section 70 of the political parties act; and the second head concerned the expenses that had not been substantiated with the necessary documents as required under section 76, regardless of whether they were otherwise lawful.16.  the expenses that were found not to have been incurred “in pursuance of the party’s objectives” and “in the name of the legal personality of the party” following a decision of the competent party organ, and those that were considered to “fall outside the party’s political activities”, covered a wide array of financial activities.although the applicant party argued that the expenses in question had been incurred by the relevant individuals while on official duty, the constitutional court did not accept them as lawful expenses since the invoices had been drawn up in the individual members’ or employees’ names, rather than in the name of the party.in this connection, the constitutional court refused to accept that the food expenses of the driver assigned to the party leader and of other drivers working for the party could be lawfully met by the applicant party, in spite of the latter’s explanation that the relevant expenses had been incurred while the drivers were on duty.in this connection, the constitutional court found that the expenses borne for the meals hosted for the alevi-bektaşi federation and the pir sultan abdal association, as well as the meals organised for party personnel on the occasion of bayram[3] and following the death of an employee’s father, should not have been paid from the party’s budget, whereas it deemed legitimate the expenses in relation to food offered to tekel[4] workers during their industrial action.20.  the constitutional court also refused to accept a great number of travel expenses as lawful, because the bus and plane tickets in question had been prepared in the name of the individuals travelling rather than in the party’s name, and the official decisions of the relevant party organs authorising travel had not been submitted.although the applicant party stated that the legal proceedings in question had concerned the party’s political activities, and not personal disputes, the constitutional court nevertheless decided that the litigation expenses had to be met by the persons in question, regardless of their role or status in the party, as the political party itself was not a party to any of the relevant proceedings.in the decision of 11 july 2012 concerning the review of the 2009 accounts (see paragraph 10 above), one of the judges dissented from the majority’s approach to this matter, and argued that demanding that such costs be met by the individual members of the party involved directly in the litigation, regardless of the effects of that litigation on the political party, would unduly curtail the scope of the party’s political activities in an unconstitutional manner.35.  on 11 may 2012 the applicant party received a letter from the ankara governor’s office ordering it to pay the amounts indicated in the constitutional court decision concerning the review of the 2007 final accounts, which totalled try 3,372,446 (approximately eur 1,435,000 on 7 march 2012, the date of the delivery of the decision), within thirty days of the receipt of the letter.38.  on 31 october 2012 the applicant party received a letter from the ankara governor’s office ordering it to pay the amounts indicated in the constitutional court decisions concerning the review of the 2008 and 2009 final accounts, plus interest, which totalled approximately try 3,738,700 (approximately eur 1,604,000 as at 31 october 2012), within ten days of the receipt of the letter.40.  on 15 january 2013 the applicant party paid try 1,432,257.30 (approximately eur 605,212 at the material time) to the state treasury for its unlawful expenses, in compliance with the constitutional court’s review decision for the year 2008, and try 1,257,030.83 (approximately eur 531,168 at the material time) for the decision regarding the accounts for the year 2009. it refused to pay the interest, which it contested before the relevant authorities.
19.  on 29 june 2005, at the request of the relatives of the deceased, the prosecutor asked the forensic medicine institute to examine the clothes and bodies of the deceased with a view to establishing whether the security forces had opened fire from a distance without issuing any warning to surrender.according to one of those documents which, in effect, is a list of the documents forwarded to the prosecutor by the military, two of the documents handed over to the prosecutor were a twelve-page military order, drawn up on 15 june 2005, for the carrying out of the operation and a sketch of the operation area.one of the three men, who had been apprehended the previous morning and had assisted the soldiers in locating the applicants’ relatives, was with the soldiers at that time and identified the bodies as the persons whom he and his two friends had helped after their arrival in the area.37.  it appears from the kemah prosecutor’s file that on 9 june 2005 the security forces had obtained authorisation from a judge to intercept the applicants’ relatives’ mobile telephones, and telephone conversations some of the applicants’ relatives had had with a number of local people, including the men who were subsequently arrested for providing them with logistical support, were intercepted by the authorities between 9 and 17 june 2005. according to the transcripts of the intercepted telephone conversations drawn up on 11 june 2005, the applicants’ relatives had discussed over the telephone issues such as renting vehicles and facilitating their movements in the area.38.  on 21 june 2005 the ovacık prosecutor also asked the ovacık district gendarmerie command to send the weapons and the ammunition recovered together with the bodies of the applicants’ relatives to the regional forensic laboratories with a view to establishing whether the rifles had been used in any other previous incident and whether the 23 g3 spent cartridges and the 45 kalashnikov spent cartridges had been discharged from the g3 and the kalashnikov rifles found together with the bodies and whether they had thus been used in the armed clash.44.  when the ovacık prosecutor received the applicants’ complaint he wrote to the ovacık magistrates’ court the same day and informed that court of his opinion that “when taken into account that [the three applicants] are related to the deceased members of the terrorist organisation, handing over to them documents from the investigation file would endanger the investigation”.the same day the prosecutor forwarded the magistrates’ court’s decision to the three applicants and informed them that in the light of the magistrates’ court’s decision it was not possible to accede to their request and that he was therefore unable to give them any of the documents from the file, with the exception of the autopsy reports.52.  the relatives began by stating that the arguments they were making in their complaint were inevitably based only on the autopsy reports and the things they had heard or witnessed personally; as they had been denied access to the investigation they had not had the opportunity to see any of the evidence or the information in the prosecutor’s file.the investigation documents, the nature of the weapons recovered, the other documents and information [in the file] and the fact that the deceased did not obey the security forces’ warning to surrender show conclusively that they were members of the mkp/hko and were acting in accordance with that organisation’s aims to change the constitutional order through armed struggle.thus, no offence was committed by the members of the security forces who killed the deceased or by members of the security forces and the administrative officials who planned the operation and ordered it ... the decision is hereby taken not to continue with the investigation...” 62.  the applicants lodged objections to the prosecutor’s decision on 14 and 22 july 2006. in their submissions the applicants also referred to the kemah report and drew attention to the discrepancies between that report and the ovacık report.moreover, when taking into account that their relatives had been killed in the course of a military operation during which heavy weapons had been used and that their bodies had been carried by soldiers who had taken part in the operation, the prosecutor’s conclusion, which was based on the forensic reports showing that they had gunpowder residue on their hands, that their relatives had taken part in the armed clash was not compatible with the other information in the file.similarly, although the fact that only spent cartridges belonging to kalashnikov and g3 rifles had been found after the operation could lead to the assumption that only g3 and kalashnikov rifles had been used in the operation, the failure to specify exactly where those spent cartridges had been found and the added failure to collect the spent cartridges discharged from the rifles used by the soldiers discredited that assumption.70.  in addition to the above, in their complaint the applicants also criticised the prosecutor’s failure to identify the names of the soldiers who had killed their relatives, to establish the exact locations and movements of both their relatives and the soldiers, to visit the scene, to identify the weapons used by members of the security forces, and to safeguard the clothes removed from the bodies of their relatives.73.  the objection lodged by the applicants against the prosecutor’s decision was rejected by the erzincan assize court on 24 august 2006. the assize court’s decision is as follows: “the complainants submitted through their legal representatives that, although their relatives who were killed on 17 may 2005 (sic) could have been apprehended alive, members of the security forces had acted with the intention to kill and that they had stripped the clothes off their relatives and displayed their bodies publicly.76.  according to a document which was made available to the court by the respondent government and which was prepared by the ministry of justice on 12 may 2009 and sent to the ministry of foreign affairs apparently in order to advise the latter when preparing its observations to be submitted to the court, the applicants’ relatives’ clothes and a number of other items found on their persons were destroyed on the orders of the ovacık prosecutor, on the ground that they had no evidential value.
the investigating judge found, on the basis of the available material, that there was a reasonable suspicion that in the period between october and december 1991, in his capacity as commander of a police unit, the applicant had ordered arbitrary arrests, ill-treatment and the killing of a number of civilians, and that, by not taking the necessary measures to prevent and punish those responsible, he had consented to a number of other arbitrary arrests, the unlawful confiscation of property, ill-treatment and the killing of civilians by his subordinates.the relevant part of the indictment concerning the applicant’s participation in those acts reads: “in the period between 8 october and mid-december 1991, in zagreb and pakračka poljana, during an international armed conflict between the forces of the republic of croatia and the former [yugoslav people’s army] and the paramilitary serb forces, assisted by volunteer fighters from other parts of the former yugoslavia, contrary to articles 2, 3 § 1 (a) and (c), 13 and 32 of the geneva convention relative to the protection of civilian persons in time of war of 12 august 1949 and articles 4 §§ 4 and 2 (a), 51 §§ 2 and 6, 86 and 87 of the protocol additional to the geneva conventions of 12 august 1949, and relating to the protection of victims of international armed conflicts (protocol i), as an official in the ministry of the interior of the republic of croatia and the commander of the reserve unit of the ministry of the interior stationed in pakračka poljana and partially in zagreb, where it had its compound, and thereby authorised to command his subordinates and responsible for the application of rules of international humanitarian law concerning the protection of civilians, ordered the unlawful deprivation of liberty, torture and killing of certain civilians, and when he was not present in the field, although aware that his subordinates were acting unlawfully by arbitrarily depriving civilians of their liberty, robbing, ill-treatment, torture, causing physical harm and killing civilians, did not take the necessary measures to prevent or suppress such unlawful actions, thereby accepting that his subordinates continue with such acts and condoning their consequences ...” 13.  on 28 june 2011 the applicant lodged an objection against the indictment, arguing that it was not supported by any relevant evidence.20.  on the same day, having questioned the applicant (see paragraph 7 above), the investigating judge of the zagreb county court ordered his remand in custody for a further forty-eight hours on the grounds that he might try to influence the witnesses and on account of the gravity of the charges.the relevant part of the decision reads: “it is firstly to be noted that in connection with the offences imputed to the defendant, in particular concerning the acts of the reserve [police] forces under his command, the questioning of a number of victims and witnesses, who have the relevant knowledge about the events from the period at issue, has been requested.irrespective of the time that has passed since the period at issue, the defendant, who has only recently been informed of the facts of the offences forming the charges against him, if at large is likely to try to contact the [following] witnesses ... [these witnesses] still feel distress and fear and [the defendant could], in order to minimise his criminal responsibility, directly or indirectly influence their statements and thereby hinder the proper course of the investigation.furthermore, in view of the manner in which the war crimes against the civilian population under article 120 of the criminal code were allegedly committed by the defendant, and which are punishable by twenty years’ imprisonment, the investigating judge correctly found that the circumstances of the offences were particularly grave, warranting pre-trial detention under article 102 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure.these particularly grave circumstances of the offences concern, in the view of this panel, the manner in which the civilians ... were unlawfully and arbitrarily deprived of their liberty, how their property was confiscated without any legal basis, how they were physically and mentally ill-treated (often by the use of electric shocks) and eventually killed; and the fact that some of these unlawful acts were committed on the basis of the defendant’s orders, while the others he did not prevent although he was aware of them ...” 26.  on 5 january 2011 the investigating judge extended the applicant’s detention for a further two months under article 102 § 1 (2) and (4) of the code of criminal procedure (risk of collusion and gravity of charges).the relevant part of the decision reads: “when assessing whether further extension of the detention is needed under article 102 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure, the panel looked into the facts of the indictment and found that there was a reasonable suspicion that the accused tomislav merčep, in the period between 8 october 1991 and mid-december 1991, as an official and the commander of the reserve unit of the ministry of the interior of the republic of croatia, authorised to command his subordinates, ordered the unlawful deprivation of liberty, torture and killing of certain civilians.by firing six bullets into her head, together with her mother m., both of whom had been taken away after her father, m.z., had been killed in their doorway in z. consequently, and bearing in mind the extent of the unlawful actions which there is a reasonable suspicion that the accused committed and in particular the number of victims, which was, according to the facts of the indictment, more than twenty, all of them civilians, who were brutally tortured, robbed and killed or who have disappeared, the panel finds that the perpetrator acted with extreme cruelty, brutality, persistence and an extraordinary degree of criminal intent.... according to the indictment ... the behaviour of the accused, in the view of this second-instance court, significantly surpasses the ordinary circumstances and consequences of such offences, and represents particularly grave circumstances of the offence allegedly committed by the accused which warrant detention under article 102 § 1(4) of the code of criminal procedure.detention under article 102 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure has a preventive purpose, namely the deprivation of liberty of the perpetrators of such serious crimes that, if they would be at large, the reputation of the judiciary and the public’s faith in it would be diminished; its purpose is not to avert the risk of the proceedings being hindered.... the poor state of health of the accused does not call into question the reasonableness of his detention, since adequate medical care, bearing in mind that he suffers from a chronic disease, can be offered to him in detention, that is to say in the prison hospital.” 35.  the applicant challenged the decision of the supreme court before the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske), arguing that the supreme court had failed to provide relevant and sufficient reasons for his prolonged pre-trial detention.the relevant part of the decision reads: “in view of the competence of the supreme court as the highest court ensuring the coherent application of the law and the equality of everyone in its application (article 116 § 1 of the constitution), the likelihood of a prison sentence within the given term and the particularly grave circumstances of the offence, the constitutional court finds that the supreme court and the zagreb county court satisfied the relevant opinions and requirements when extending the pre-trial detention under article 102 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure ...” 37.  on 6 september 2011 a three-judge panel of the zagreb county court extended the applicant’s detention under article 102 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure (gravity of charges), reiterating its previous arguments.50.  on 5 july 2012 a three-judge panel of the zagreb county court revoked the decision on the applicant’s detention and ordered his immediate release on the grounds that, although the circumstances of the case warranted his detention, the quality of the medical treatment which he was receiving in detention was not adequate.it stressed in particular: “thus, in the concrete case priority should be given to the values protected by article 3 of the european convention on human rights because the public interest is reflected not only in the grounds for detention under article 102 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure but also in the protection and application of the values provided for under the cited provision of the european convention on human rights.
they requested, in particular, that the transcripts of the deceased’s telephone conversations, his emails, messages and all information on his computers be examined; that the date of creation of the file containing the suicide note be determined and that an examination of the deceased’s computer be carried out by experts.he further noted that the fingerprints and the blood and hair samples collected at the crime scene belonged to mr hüseyin başbilen and that according to the autopsy report the fatal wound on his body had been the cut on his left wrist, which had caused bleeding.they complained, in particular, about the failure of the public prosecutor to take statements from their son’s wife, the psychiatrist who had been treating mr hüseyin başbilen, and other possible witnesses, to have the deceased’s computer, his emails and the transcripts of his telephone conversations examined and to determine the date the suicide note file had been created on his computer.taking into account the circumstances of the case, in particular the fact that the deceased had not been in a suicidal state of mind, the position of the deceased’s body in the car and the nature of his injuries, they considered that mr hüseyin başbilen had not committed suicide.according to the search report, the engineer who acted as an expert stated that he was unable to copy the files on the computer on the spot and that therefore the computer case and the hard disk should be confiscated for further examination in a laboratory.28.   on 5 january 2011 the ankara public prosecutor asked the altındağ gendarmerie command to submit the usb flash drive found in the deceased’s workplace and confiscated on 6 august 2006, and the report concerning the date of creation of the suicide note document found on the deceased’s computer on the same date, if such a report had been drawn up.29.  on 16 march 2011 the altındağ gendarmerie commander sent a letter to the ankara public prosecutor in which he stated that the gendarmerie forces did not have any information as to the whereabouts of the usb flash drive and that it had not been possible to ascertain whether an examination of the suicide note document to ascertain its date of creation had been carried out.he further stated that the usb flash drive had not been found on the gendarmerie command premises and that he had no information as to whether such an object had been found at the scene of the crime or whether the public prosecutor had an order for its confiscation.the expert opined that the cuts had been inflicted when the deceased had been in the driver’s seat; that he had touched the left door handle at least once; that later on he had crawled to reach the door on the passenger side for an unknown reason; that he had lost consciousness and his head had fallen under the glove department on the passenger side; and that he had then died.in particular, having regard to the position of the briefcase and the absence of blood on it, he considered that the briefcase had been put in the place where it had been found after the death had occurred and the blood clots had dried.51.  on 13 february 2014, the plenary assembly of the forensic medicine institute concluded, by a majority (seventeen votes), that it was possible that the injuries on hüseyin başbilen’s body had been inflicted by himself; however, seven members considered that mr hüseyin başbilen had not committed suicide and fourteen members opined that it could not be determined whether the deceased had been killed or had committed suicide.secondly, he considered suspicious the fact that the deceased’s briefcase had not been forensically examined but had been given to his wife, and requested that the officer who had given the order to deliver the briefcase to his wife be identified.lastly, the public prosecutor noted that on the basis of hüseyin başbilen’s credit card statements it had been found out that he had bought petrol in a filling station at 6.56 a.m. on 4 august 2006. he ordered that enquiries be carried out into whether the video surveillance recordings had been requested from the filling station and that, if so, that they be sent to the public prosecutor’s office.53.  on 7 august 2014 the deputy commander of the ankara gendarmerie command sent a list of gendarmerie officers to be included in the task force, and a table containing the instructions given by the ankara public prosecutor, to the ankara public prosecutor’s office.54.  on 29 september 2014 the ankara public prosecutor asked the gendarmerie command to instruct the officers in the task force to conduct a thorough investigation, to be in constant contact with the public prosecutor’s office and to provide information on the outcome, especially in view of the public interest in the investigation.
defendant vladimir milanković in the period between july 1991 and june 1992, while defending the wider area of sisak and banovina from armed attacks carried out by paramilitary formations of a part of the local serbian population and the yugoslav people’s army in the conflict on the constitutional and territorial integrity of the republic of croatia, ... as a commander of the police units in the wider area of sisak and banovina ... authorised thereby to give orders to all police units and responsible for [securing] compliance with and application of the laws of war and international humanitarian law relative to the protection of civilian persons on that territory and for the humane treatment of prisoners of war, aware that, due to the conflict and occupation of an important part of banovina and the terrorising and expulsion of the non-serbian population from the occupied territories, intolerance towards the serbian citizens of sisak was growing, that the security situation in the city was ... extremely complex, that inter-ethnic relations were very tense, that there was a perception amongst the croatian and other non-serbian citizens of sisak that all serbs were collectively responsible for the war, ... at the same time aware that the police units under his command were mostly composed of members of the local population affected by the suffering, that amongst the members of his subordinate police units there were some individuals who had been previously in conflict with the law, while the members of the reserve police units had not been instructed about or trained on all the obligations arising from the norms of international laws of war and humanitarian law, aware that in the sisak area members of his subordinate units frequently and without any legal basis carried out searches [and seizures] in the houses and flats of persons of serbian origin, ... who were, in the course of these unlawful actions, often arrested ... although aware that the arrested persons were subjected to unlawful actions, that during questioning they were accused of collaboration with the enemy, offended, humiliated and coerced, that some of them were physically and psychologically ill-treated and that grave bodily injuries were inflicted on them, and that already on 4 august 1991, during one such intervention ... v.b.[was arrested and subsequently] brutally beaten by a number of unknown members of the reserve police unit ..., and that the numerous injuries he had sustained led to his death the same evening in the sisak hospital, although aware that in the above-noted circumstances, if he failed to take timely and adequate measures, the members of his subordinate units would continue their unlawful actions against the citizens of sisak of serbian origin and their inhumane treatment of prisoners of war, although under the commonly recognised rules of international laws of war and humanitarian customary law relative to the protection of civilian persons, and the command responsibility for the acts of subordinates in times of armed conflict, contrary to articles 3 § 1 (a) and (c), 13, 27, 31 and 32 of the fourth geneva convention relative to the protection of civilian persons in time of war of 12 august 1949, article 4 §§ 1 and 2 (a) and article 13 of the protocol additional to the geneva conventions of 12 august 1949, and relating to the protection of victims of non-international armed conflicts of 8 june 1977 (protocol ii), articles 75, 86 and 87 of the protocol additional to the geneva conventions of 12 august 1949, and relating to the protection of victims of international armed conflicts (protocol i) and article 3 § 1 (a) and (c) and article 13 of the third geneva convention relative to the treatment of prisoners of war of 12 august 1949, he was required to take measures to prevent, supress and punish such unlawful actions, he failed to do so.defendant drago bošnjak in the second half of august 1991, ..., as a member of the special police unit v. of the sisak police department, together with, at present, unknown members of that unit, ..., in order to carry out coercion and revenge on citizens of serbian origin, contrary to articles 3 § 1 (a) and (c), 13, 27 and 32 of the fourth geneva convention relative to the protection of civilian persons in time of war of 12 august 1949, article 4 §§ 1 and 2 (a) and article 13 of the protocol additional to the geneva conventions of 12 august 1949, and relating to the protection of victims of non-international armed conflicts of 8 june 1977 (protocol ii), organised and led a group of unknown members of the said unit with whom he carried out unlawful arrests, ill-treatment and the killing of persons of serbian origin ...” 12.  the applicants objected to the indictment.furthermore, since the defendant ... has been charged with individual and command responsibility for the unlawful deprivation of liberty and ill-treatment of thirty-eight civilians of serbian origin and the killing of thirty-one persons of serbian origin from the sisak area, all of which was perpetrated in a particularly brutal manner, including entire families irrespective of the sex or age [of the victims], and in view of the fact that the criminal offence at issue carries a sentence of more than twelve years’ imprisonment, and also the circumstances described in [the decision on opening of the investigation], ... it follows that detention under article 102 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure is justified.... a number of witnesses who should be questioned during the investigation, and who were members of unit v., have given different statements about the [relevant] events from those given by the defendant ... which suggests that there is a risk that if at large he could hinder the conduct of the investigation by influencing these witnesses ... the same circumstances which have been stated above concerning the first and the second defendants accordingly apply to the third defendant with regard to the existence of a risk that if at large they could continue with threats to the mentioned witnesses, who have already been threatened several times concerning their statements against the defendants in the proceedings at issue.... furthermore, the appeal arguments that in the case at issue the same purpose of the detention could be achieved by one of the alternative measures under article 90 of the code of criminal procedure cannot be accepted ... in view of all the circumstances of the case, this panel finds that detention under article 102 § 1 (2) and (4) of the code of criminal procedure is necessary and the only appropriate measure for the prevention of collusion, especially given the particular gravity of the offences at issue.” 22.  on 19 july 2011 the investigating judge extended the applicants’ detention for a further two months under article 102 § 1 (2) and (4) of the code of criminal procedure (risk of collusion and gravity of charges).... since article 102 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure does not explicitly provide for a legitimate aim of detention, as provided for in the other relevant provisions on detention, it is particularly important that the competent criminal justice authorities correctly establish the necessity of applying article 102 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure ... in view of the findings of the osijek county court, and taking into account the sentence of imprisonment which can be imposed in this specific case, as well as the gravity of the charges, the constitutional court finds that the decisions of the investigating judge and the three-judge panel of the osijek county court comply with the relevant opinions and requirements when extending the pre-trial detention under article 102 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure ...” 28.  following the filing of the indictment against the applicants in the osijek county court (see paragraph 11 above), on 19 december 2011 a three-judge panel of that court extended the first applicant’s detention pending trial under article 102 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure (gravity of charges).this justifies detention under article 102 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure in respect of the accused vladimir milanković and drago bošnjak ... the preventive measures [under the code of criminal procedure], in view of the specific circumstances of the offences at issue, could not achieve the purpose of detention ...” 29.  the first applicant appealed against that decision to the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske), challenging the necessity of and the lack of relevant and sufficient reasons for his continued detention.the supreme court held as follows: “it is therefore, in the view of this court, justified to remand the accused vladimir milanković in custody under article 102 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure ... in view of the fact that the purpose of detention under the cited provision is to prevent persons whose actions provoke particular moral condemnation from being at large, the appeal arguments, according to which the decision of the first-instance court with regard to the necessity of detention lacks the relevant reasoning, cannot be accepted.” 47.  the first applicant challenged that decision before the constitutional court.... ... accordingly, the extension of detention under article 102 § 2 (4) of the code of criminal procedure cannot be grounded on a simple repetition of the description of the offence imputed [to a defendant] ... but requires an analysis and a detailed reasoning of all the facts and circumstances, particularly those related to the personality of the defendant, the public interest in his or her remand in custody, as well as the conduct and the results of the proceedings.” 53.  on 2 september 2013 a three-judge panel of the osijek county court examined the specific circumstances of the case and extended the first applicant’s detention under article 102 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure (gravity of charges).the relevant part of the decision reads: “... the constitutional court accepts the fact that the supreme court, in compliance with the decision ... of 26 august 2013, in the impugned decision provided reasons justifying the necessity of detention under article 102 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure in the circumstances of the present case.the relevant part of the decision reads: “it is alleged in the confirmed indictment that there is a reasonable suspicion that the accused drago bošnjak, in the second half of august 1991, while defending the wider area of sisak and banovina from armed attacks carried out by paramilitary formations of part of the local serbian population and the yugoslav people’s army, as a member of special police unit v. of the sisak police department, together with several unidentified members of that unit, organised and led a group of unidentified members of the said unit with whom he carried out unlawful arrests, ill-treatment and the killing of persons of serbian origin.the relevant part of the decision reads: “bearing in mind all the circumstances of the present case enumerated in the impugned decisions, the fact that there is a reasonable suspicion that the appellant (in detention since 20 june 2011) ‘committed an offence under article 120 § 1 of the criminal code by which a general statutory condition under article 102 § 1 of the code of criminal procedure’ has been satisfied, and ‘in particular the intensity and recurrence of the impugned acts’, the constitutional court finds that, notwithstanding the presumption of the appellant’s innocence (and the fact that he has been in detention for nineteen months) the compelling public interest outweighs the accused’s right to liberty.therefore, the constitutional court finds that the detention ‘with regard to the gravity of the offence and the sentence which could be expected’ is entirely proportionate to the legitimate aim pursued, and that the impugned decision does not limit the rights or freedoms of the appellant contrary to [the constitution].” 70.  on 5 february 2013 a three-judge panel of the osijek county court extended the second applicant’s detention under article 102 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure (gravity of charges), reiterating its previous arguments.however, the constitutional court stressed: “in view of the findings [with regard to the possibility of ordering detention on the grounds of the gravity of the charges] and the length of the appellant’s continued detention, as well as the length of the criminal proceedings and the expected termination of the main hearing, and in view of the fact that the detention was ordered twenty years after the alleged commission of the offences with which the appellant has been charged, the constitutional court finds that the validity of the findings of the supreme court [with regard to the avoidance of public disturbance] has reached its temporal limits.
6.  in 2001 the comrat prosecutor’s office initiated a criminal investigation against the applicant on charges of murder and an arrest warrant was issued by the comrat district court.the last judgment in the proceedings complained of by the applicant is dated 18 october 2011 and was issued by the comrat court of appeal.the toilets were separated from the rest of the cells by a wall which was not very high and were located at a distance of some 1.5 metres from the table where the inmates served their meals.there was no ventilation system and the air was impregnated with a sewage smell and with cigarette smoke; there was no sufficient natural light because the windows were very small; the daily walks lasted for only one hour and the food served was of a very bad quality.the applicant submitted that according to information available on the web page of the ministry of justice, each inmate was allocated only 10 moldovan lei per day, i.e. the equivalent of 0.8 euros (eur) at the time.10.  the applicant was released from detention on 12 june 2013. the court was not informed about subsequent developments in the criminal proceedings against the applicant.11.  the relevant parts of the report of the united nations special rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment compiled following his visit to moldova from 4 to 11 july 2008 (the united nations human rights council, document a/hrc/10/44/add.3, 12 february 2009) read: “b.whereas the special rapporteur notes that the minimum norms regarding nutrition of detainees (government decision n. 609 of 29 may 2006) are checked on a daily basis and that, according to the financial plan of the penitentiary department, the food budget for 2008 had almost doubled in comparison to 2004 and is set to rise further, he also received consistent allegations regarding the poor quality and quantity of food....” 12.  in its report for 2009 (page 117, “conditions of detention”), the centre for human rights in moldova (“the human rights centre”, which also acts as the moldovan ombudsman) found, inter alia, that: “regarding personal hygiene, clothing and bedding, despite [the fact that] government decision no.609 (29 may 2006) concerning minimum daily food requirements and the issuing of items of personal hygiene provides for the issuing of soap to detainees for bathing and other sanitary-hygienic needs, this has remained unfulfilled during 2009.” 13.  in its report for 2010 (page 142 et seq.“conditions of detention”) the human rights centre found, inter alia, that: “failure to adhere to the statutory cell size (4 square metres per person) in the living blocks of the institution has become an unpleasant problem which now affects the prison system across the entire country.overcrowding comes directly within the ombudsman’s remit as part of the national mechanism for the prevention of torture, which on many occasions has recognised overcrowding in the country’s prisons.at the same time, the authority stated that, owing to the difficult financial situation, during 2010 the detainees in rezina prison no.in this connection, the minister of justice provided information to the ombudsman about the expenditure on prisoners’ food in 2010. the cost amounted to mdl 24.05 million, whereas the budgetary need for the same year was, according to the ministry of finance’s draft budget, mdl 29.05 million.the daily cost of feeding a detainee in 2010 was mdl 10.24, whilst the daily budgetary need was mdl 12.35. this statistic was often cited by prison authorities to justify why they were unable to provide detainees with meat and fish.
6.  on 11 october 2009 the ecopolis association, founded by the applicant and four other associates, opened proceedings before the bucharest district court to seek registration in the register of associations and foundations kept by that court.7.  the association’s goal, as declared in its memorandum of association (act constitutiv) and in article 2 of its articles of association (statutul asociației), was that of promoting the principles of sustainable development at the public policy level in romania (promovarea principiilor dezvoltării durabile la nivelul politicilor publice din românia).the association’s objectives, as declared in article 7 of its articles of association, were: to increase expertise in the development of sustainable public policies in romania (creşterea expertizei ȋn elaborarea politicilor publice durabile din românia); to improve the process of the development of sustainable public policies by facilitating public participation in and access to relevant information about the environment; to increase the accountability of the relevant official bodies by scrutinising the implementation of public policies with an impact on the environment; to facilitate the access of official bodies to best practices by examining the government’s environmental initiatives in a european context; to ensure transparency in the work of public institutions and increase their responsibility for their actions in relation to other citizens; to review whether public institutions worked on the basis of principles of sustainability; and to defend the right to a clean environment, as provided by international treaties.the activities envisaged by the association in order to achieve its objectives, as declared in article 8 of its articles of association, were: research and analysis; public debates and conferences; monitoring the implementation of european union directives; public communication campaigns; opinion polls; reviewing the development and implementation of public policies in the environmental field; training; raising citizens’ awareness; informing people of matters of public concern; raising the awareness of the community and of public authorities about the need to protect the environment; organising meetings between citizens and representatives of public authorities; organising debates and opinion polls on issues impacting the environment; developing programmes in partnership with public authorities; active involvement of citizens in the development of public policies and the decision-making process; improving the legal framework; setting up annual prizes for environmental activities; awarding scholarships for promoting sustainable development; networking with similar national and international organisations; supporting and defending the association’s members and volunteers; and other lawful activities.8.  by an interlocutory judgment of 24 october 2009, delivered in private, the bucharest district court granted the association legal personality and ordered its registration in the register of associations and foundations.the court held that the organisation had attached all the lawfully required documents to the application for registration and that the documents had complied both in form and content with the requirements set out by government ordinance no.moreover, the goal set by the association complied with the provisions of articles 1 and 4 of that ordinance.9.  the bucharest public prosecutor’s office lodged an appeal on points of law (recurs) against the interlocutory judgment of 24 october 2009. it argued that it interpreted the association’s declared goal as belonging to the field of activities of a political party.that interpretation was supported by the association’s objectives and by the activities it planned, as set out in articles 7 and 8 of the articles of association.10.  by a final judgment of 10 february 2010 the bucharest county court allowed the appeal on points of law by the public prosecutor’s office and rejected the organisation’s request for registration.it held that the goal of the association, as declared in its memorandum and articles of association, was that of promoting the principles of sustainable development at the public policy level in romania.also, according to article 7 of its articles of association, one of the association’s objectives was to increase expertise in the development of sustainable public policies in romania.the court considered that the concepts used by the organisation had been very general and had run the risk of being understood as belonging to the field of activities of political parties.the association’s objectives could likewise have been interpreted as belonging to the realm of activity of a political party, although government ordinance no.26/2000 expressly prohibited the use of the ordinance for the registration of political parties.
6.  the applicant was a co-owner of a block of flats on the island of vir.7.  on 2 and 23 march 2006 building inspectors of the inspectorate of the ministry of the environment, spatial development and construction (ministarstvo zaštite okoliša, prostornog uređenja i graditeljstva, uprava za inspekcijske poslove) carried out an on-site inspection of the block of flats in question.8.  on 31 march 2006 one of the building inspectors ordered that the block of flats be demolished within three days from the date of service of the decision.9.  the applicant lodged an appeal against the demolition order, submitting that the time-limit for compliance was too short and that the block of flats was not within the protected coastal area.10.  on 15 may 2006 the appeal section of the legal department at the inspectorate (odsjek za postupak u drugom stupnju – “the second-instance body”) dismissed the appeal, finding that the block of flats had been built without a building permit.11.  meanwhile, on 4 may 2006 the building inspector issued an administrative enforcement order (zaključak o dozvoli izvršenja), stating that the demolition order of 31 march 2006 had become enforceable on 6 april 2006 and that the co-owners had not complied with it within the given time-limit.he therefore ordered that the demolition be carried out by a third party after 11 may 2006, at the expense of the co-owners.12.  the applicant lodged an appeal against the administrative enforcement order, submitting that it was not sufficiently reasoned and that the construction of the block of flats could be retrospectively approved.14.  on 27 june 2006 the co-owners had the block of flats demolished.15.  meanwhile, on 26 june 2006 the applicant lodged an administrative complaint with the administrative court, repeating the arguments made in her appeal and seeking damages for the demolition.since it was not clear whether the applicant was complaining about the second-instance decision concerning the demolition order or the administrative enforcement, on 11 july 2006 the administrative court requested her to specify which she wished to contest.16.  on 30 august 2006 the applicant replied that she was seeking annulment of the second-instance decision of 15 may 2006 concerning the demolition order.17.  on 22 april 2010 the administrative court dismissed her complaint as ill-founded, but addressed it as if it had been about the second-instance decision of 23 may 2006 concerning the administrative enforcement.18.  on 13 july 2010 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint, alleging, inter alia, a violation of her right of access to court, on the ground that the administrative court had erroneously decided a matter which had not been the subject of her administrative complaint.19.  on 13 december 2010 the constitutional court declared the constitutional complaint inadmissible, on the grounds that the contested decision had not concerned the merits of the case and as such was not amenable to constitutional review.
the government also submitted to the court copies of documents relating to administrative offence proceedings against a., m. and s. 9.  as for the applicant, the administrative offence record states that she was accused of “taking part, together with other citizens, in a demonstration in respect of which no prior notification had been provided to the public authorities”.her actions were classified under article 20.2 of the code of administrative offences of the russian federation (hereinafter “the cao”), which regulates the penalties applied to violations of the regulations on public events set out in, inter alia, the public assemblies act.11.  according to the government, on 14 november 2006 the case against the applicant was received by the justice of the peace of the tverskoy district, who on the same day scheduled a hearing for 15 november 2006. according to the applicant, she was not informed of the hearing date until it was too late.13.  referring to the arrest record, the offence record and g.’s report (see above), the court considered that the applicant had participated in a demonstration after which some five people and the applicant had been arrested.the justice of the peace then held as follows: “[the applicant’s] actions constitute a violation of the regulations on static demonstrations in that no notification had been made [to the competent authority] about the possibility of staging a demonstration ... thus, this demonstration was held without legal grounds.the court takes into account that the applicant’s presence next to the object being picketed, together with other people, directly discloses the expression of opinions and attitudes, and thus takes the form of a group public event, namely a static demonstration.” 14.  the applicant sought re-examination of the case on appeal by the tverskoy district court of moscow.on 5 december 2006 the court heard the applicant and upheld the judgment of the justice of the peace, concluding that the applicant had taken part in a public event held without prior notification to the competent authority; on 10 november 2006 she had been apprised of the hearing to be held before the justice of the peace but had failed to sign the summons.the court held as follows: “following the escorting of [the applicant] to the police station no administrative offence case was opened ... [mr s.] testified that the defendant had shown his identity document and had not expressed his consent to go with the police to the police station ... the police officers acted unlawfully when escorting the applicant to the police station ...” the court awarded the applicant rub 6,000 in respect of non-pecuniary damage (approximately eur 149 at the time).the appeal court noted that the courts dealing with the administrative offence case had not determined whether the applicant had committed the impugned action (using foul language) and whether he had committed an offence, but had simply discontinued the case on procedural grounds.the appeal court concluded that the above “did not disclose any unlawfulness” on the part of the law-enforcement officers, while the applicant had not substantiated, in the current case, that their actions had violated or otherwise impeded the exercise of his protected rights or freedoms.the police decided to apply the escort procedure (доставление) to the applicant because it was necessary to put an end to the administrative offence and because an administrative offence record could not be compiled on the spot since the applicant had no identity document on him.the justice of the peace sentenced the applicant to a fine of rub 20,000 (approximately eur 505 at the time), noting that the applicant had committed an offence that was similar to another one for which he had already been convicted earlier the same year.the justice of the peace warned the applicant that his failure to pay the fine would constitute an administrative offence under article 20.25 of the cao, which was punishable by a fine of double the amount or up to fifteen days’ detention.the appeal court dismissed the argument concerning the amount of the fine by stating that it was the minimum statutory amount prescribed by article 20.2 § 2 of the cao.45.  on the same day, the justice of the peace convicted the applicant under article 20.2 § 2 of the cao (organisation and holding of a public event without prior notification) and imposed a fine of rub 20,000 on him.
21.  on 20 september 2013 the office of the president replied that the conclusion of the investigation of the matter by the competent authority was awaited.they confiscated the applicant’s wsa passport and arrested him for the flagrant criminal offences of assaulting a police officer, resisting lawful arrest, obstructing a police officer in the execution of his duty and threatening violence (sections 244 (a) and (b) and 91(c) of the criminal code, cap.the applicant was charged with a number of offences: (a) circulating forged documents contrary to sections 331, 332, 333, 335 and 339 of the criminal code; (b) unlawful entry into the republic contrary to section 12 (1, (2) (5) of the aliens and immigration law; (c) unlawful residence in the republic contrary to sections 6(1)(k) and 19 (l) of the aliens and immigration law; (d) resisting lawful arrest contrary to section 244(a) of the criminal code; (e) assaulting a police officer and deliberately obstructing a police officer during the performance of his duties contrary to section 244(b) of the criminal code; and lastly, (f) threatening violence (section 91(c) of the criminal code).the court held, inter alia, that it had not been established that the applicant had entered cyprus unlawfully and that, on the basis of the evidence before it, the aliens and immigration law did not apply to the applicant who was a european union citizen.43.  on the same day, the director of the department of civil registry and immigration issued deportation and detention orders against the applicant pursuant to section 14 of the aliens and immigration law on the ground that he was an illegal immigrant under section 6(1)(d) of that law.44.  a letter was also prepared by the ministry of interior informing him of the decision to detain and deport him following his conviction and imprisonment pursuant to section 6(1) of the aliens and immigration law and article 35 of the right of union citizens and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the republic of cyprus (see paragraphs 90 and 94 below).in the letter it was stated that the applicant’s personal conduct represented a “genuine, present and sufficiently serious threat” to the public and legal order of the republic and that following his deportation to france he would be prohibited from entering cyprus for ten years.the letter, along with a form setting out his communication rights pursuant to law 163(1)/2005 were served on him on 21 june 2013. on the copies of both documents there was a handwritten signed note by a police officer stating that they were served on the applicant on 21 june 2013 but that he refused to sign for them and give reasons.the applicant signed a form which stated that he had received the list of rights and obligations of the detainees in a language that he understood and which also informed him of the right to undergo medical tests, treatment and follow-up.65.  on 23 april 2013, the prison guard who was responsible for giving medical treatment to prisoners came to examine him and then sent him to the nicosia general hospital because of blood on his face, 66.  on 20 may 2013 he was taken to hospital as he could not hear anything because of pain and blood in his ear.the head guard informed the chief officer of the wing who instructed that the applicant be taken to his office by one of the guards so he could talk to him.the head guard stated that he had been in the office of the particular wing at the time of the incident and two of the prisoners and one of the guards had intervened and pushed the applicant back.the government also submitted a copy of a letter dated 16 october 2014 sent by the prison administrator to the ministry of justice concerning the present case describing the incident, in which it was stated that following the applicant’s attempt to hit the escorting guard, two of the prisoners and the other guard on duty pushed him aside and immobilised him.74.  the government also submitted a medical record taken by a doctor at the accident and emergency department of the above hospital certifying that the applicant had a perforated eardrum and referring the applicant to an ear and throat specialist.84.  on 21 june 2013, the date on which the applicant was released following the suspension of his sentence (see paragraph 42 above), he was informed by the prison guard in charge of his release that if he wished to have his x-rays he should apply directly to nicosia general hospital.
of smuggling nearly 9 tonnes of sugar, which he had transported in the lorry in november 1997. according to the government, the court dismissed the prosecutor’s application to have the lorry confiscated, given that mr i.a.the court considered that the conditions for confiscation of the lorry under article 68 (2) of the criminal code 1996 (see paragraph 21 below) had not been fulfilled: specifically it had not been established that the lorry could be used again to commit an offence; that the confiscation had been necessary for the protection of safety or for reasons of ethics; and that the lorry had been specially adjusted for the commission of specific type of offences.it fined him and ordered, under article 278 (3) of the criminal code 1996, the confiscation of the lorry and the sugar (“the confiscation order”).14.  on 19 june 2006 the applicant submitted a civil claim seeking that the first-instance court declare him to be the owner of the lorry and to order the state to restore it to his possession.he argued that the authorities had failed to seize the lorry immediately after the offence had been committed (на лице место) and to note a ban on the sale of the lorry on its registration certificate.as he was making his living off the lorry, he requested an injunction restricting the state from selling or otherwise disposing of the lorry until the final resolution of the dispute.15.  by decisions of 29 june and 16 november 2006 respectively, the first-instance court and the skopje court of appeal (“the second-instance court”) dismissed the applicant’s application for an injunction finding no evidence that in the absence of such a measure his claim would be considerably affected or that he would sustain irreparable damage.it established that mr i.a., who knew that the lorry could have been confiscated, had sold it to the company m. at the relevant time, neither the manager of m. nor the applicant had known that the lorry had been used in the commission of the offence and that it had been subject to a confiscation order.relying on articles 68 and 278 (3) of the criminal code (see paragraphs 21 and 22 below), the court stated that: “confiscation is a safety measure, the typical aim of which is to remove conditions which are convenient for the commission of offences, and it is a condition for ordering such a measure that the offender has been sentenced, as in the present case.the court considers that it is mandatory to confiscate the [lorry] under the afore-mentioned provisions, because this safety measure has a wider influence [in the sense of] general deterrence of all future offenders of this type of offences, and otherwise the offenders would be encouraged, after the offence has been committed, to dispose of the means with which they committed the offence and, thus, to even acquire pecuniary benefit; furthermore that would have a negative influence on the ethics of the wider public, [that is to say] on general deterrence ... ... given that from the evidence and the above-mentioned statutory provisions it has been established that the [lorry] in question was confiscated in favour of [the respondent state] in lawful proceedings, the court finds that the [respondent state] has therein obtained ownership of the [lorry] in question on the basis of a final and enforceable judgment ... in accordance with sections 112(2) and 154 of the [property act.]on the other hand, the court considers that the [applicant], as the bona fide owner, can be indemnified for the value of the entire [lorry], including the upgrades, but solely from the offender, [mr i.a.], in accordance with article 68 (3) of the [criminal code], and not from the [respondent state] ... the court dismisses as groundless the argument that at the moment of confiscation of the [lorry] in question it was not owned by [mr i.a.]the court also considers groundless the [applicant’s] representative’s arguments that under section 129(5) of the criminal proceedings act the final decision for confiscation of the [lorry] could be amended with a decision in civil proceedings if there were a dispute concerning the ownership of the confiscated items, given that this provision would have been applied if the [lorry] had been sold to the [applicant] before the offence was committed and had, under any legal basis, remained in the factual possession of the convicted [mr i.a.]and he, after having sold it, committed the crime; but in the present case it is vice versa; firstly the offence was committed and then the [lorry] was sold.” 18.  the court also established that the applicant had upgraded the lorry to the value of 69,150 macedonian denars (mkd).furthermore, on the basis of the applicant’s and two witnesses’ statements, the court established that the applicant had bought the lorry for 4,300 euros (eur).
telephoned the second applicant, asking her to return to the site to find his power of attorney to act on behalf of company m. she arrived at about 10.30 p.m. 11.  according to the government, at 1.16 a.m. on 17 november 2011 v.k.25.  on 14 and 29 december 2011 the applicants lodged complaints with the prosecution service regarding the events of 16 to 18 november 2011. they alleged that the officers had breached article 5 of the convention and had also restricted their freedom of movement.the first applicant had been allowed to leave the site at about 7 p.m. on 17 november 2011. as regards his handcuffing, the first applicant submitted that when the officers had handcuffed him a criminal investigation had not yet been opened.telephoned the second applicant, asking her to return to the site to find his power of attorney to act on behalf of company m. she had arrived at about 10.30 p.m. later, the second applicant had gone to a lounge area to rest.he had meanwhile contacted a lawyer, i.b., who had arrived at the site at about 9.30 p.m. the second applicant had been allowed to leave the site at about 4.30 a.m. the following morning, when the inspection had been completed.the second applicant had noted in the record that she had not known what her role in the inspection had been.36.  the applicants had been present at the site at the start of the inspection at 2.50 a.m. on 17 november 2011. i.r.the second applicant had also attended the second part of the inspection between 7.15 p.m. on 17 november 2011 and 4.23 a.m. on 18 november 2011. from 8.45 p.m. on 17 november 2011 she had been assisted by i.b.43.  there was no reason to conclude that the applicants had not known their rights, including the right to be present at the inspection, to familiarise themselves with and write remarks in the inspection record and to make complaints.47.  referring to section 12 of the criminal procedure law, the vid stated that the restrictions on the first and second applicants’ freedom of movement between 17 and 18 november 2011 had been proportionate to the public interest in crime prevention.in view of the information received from the vid, the first applicant had been handcuffed under section 161(1)3) and 4) of that legislation on the grounds that he had failed to comply with lawful requests made by the vid officers and to protect an object under guard from unlawful threat.57.  at the same time, there was no information in the case material regarding lawful requests made by the vid officers which the first applicant had failed to fulfil.the first applicant had not been detained under article 253 of the code of administrative violations, and in the criminal proceedings he had only been detained at 10.10 a.m. on 18 november 2011. a record of his arrest had not been drawn up with regard to the restriction on his right to liberty during the inspection on 17 november 2011. this had therefore not been in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law.ska-454/2006) the administrative cases division of the senate of the supreme court (augstākās tiesas senāta administratīvo lietu departaments) stated that a request made by a police officer in the performance of his or her official duties was regarded as binding on the person concerned.in the present case, the first applicant had not been informed of the right to refuse to participate in the inspection.
9.  on 28 october 2005 the applicant requested the family court to impose a coercive fine on the mother in order to enforce contact rights.at the same time it gave specific directions about the contact and set out sanctions to be applied if the parents did not comply with the order.12.  on 2 september 2010, after having heard the child again, the family court, at the mother’s request, suspended the applicant’s contact until the conclusion of the main proceedings and rejected his requests for a coercive fine.the applicant pursued his request for contact and furthermore requested that the zweibrücken court of appeal order the mother to supply regular information on the child’s development.15.  the court of appeal obtained further written submissions from dr b., who, with regard to the development, was now of the opinion that a suspension of the applicant’s contact was, at the moment, the less damaging approach and therefore in the child’s best interest.contact with the applicant as such was not found to be damaging, but the circumstances of the conflict rendered a different solution at the moment impossible.in her written submission to the court of appeal, the child’s guardian expressed her view according to which, to prevent long‑time damages of the child, a minimum contact with the applicant should be guaranteed in any event by allowing him to send letters and presents to the child.16.  on 19 october 2012 the court of appeal heard from the parents, the child’s guardian, the child and dr b., it rejected the applicant’s request and suspended all contact between him and his daughter indefinitely, pursuant to articles 1696 and 1684 § 4 of the civil code (see paragraphs 23 and 24 below).18.  the court of appeal considered that the child’s attitude had been influenced by the loyalty she felt towards her mother, who continuously talked negatively about the father.on the one hand, the loss of contact with a parent generally led to a disturbance of psychological development which affected a child’s welfare, but on the other, forced contact in the context of a continuing dispute between parents could also seriously affect the child.19.  the court of appeal noted that the expert, in his opinion submitted to the family court, had explained that contact with the father did not in itself jeopardise the child’s welfare.when heard in the court of appeal on 6 september 2012, the expert had clarified that if the parents did not change their way of communicating, which would necessitate at least some form of professional help such as mediation, it would cause more harm to attempt to reinstate contact than to exclude it altogether.20.  the court of appeal continued: “against the background of the parents’ previous conduct both in and outside the courtroom, the [court of appeal’s] chamber rules out the possibility that the parents will be able successfully to have recourse to mediation in the foreseeable future.it is up to the mother to overcome her aversion to the father, and up to the father to learn that contact can only be reinstated through patience, restraint and understanding of both the mother’s and child’s feelings.22.  after the applicant lodged his application with the court and the application had been communicated to the government, the family case file was sent to the ministry of justice and then back to the family court.
8.  the government submitted that the pain in the area of the applicant’s waist had later returned, and that at approximately 1 p.m. he had once again asked his escort officers to call an ambulance, shouting and cursing whilst so doing.at some point, one of the officers had entered the holding cell and had kicked him in the chest, as a result of which the applicant had fallen to the floor.the applicant was taken to the prison hospital in olaine, where he was diagnosed with a fracture to the third lumbar vertebra and contusion of the left kidney.18.  in the meantime, a senior inspector questioned the applicant on 5 july 2006. during the interview he had been unable to identify, from numerous photographs, the officers who had allegedly used excessive force against him.20.  the applicant referred to the evidence of s.š., who stated that the applicant and two other individuals had been placed in the same cell as him.22.  she found that at approximately 1.30 p.m. on 8 may 2006 the applicant had been swearing and banging on the door of the holding cell while asking the escort officers to call an ambulance for the second time.24.  while the expert report of 19 september 2006 indicated that the applicant had been diagnosed with a moderately severe injury in the form of a fracture of a lumbar vertebra, the possibility could not be excluded that this injury had been caused by the applicant’s falling against a hard object, which corresponded to the escort officers’ account of the incident.it was therefore necessary to inspect the holding cell in which force had been used against the applicant and to verify the statements of both the applicant and of m.p.33.  she noted that the ambulance had arrived for the second time at 2.06 p.m. on 8 may 2006. the applicant had complained of a pain in the area of his left kidney, alleging that the officers had kicked him there.34.  according to the expert report dated 12 march 2007, the applicant could have remained mobile even after sustaining a lumbar vertebral fracture, and the possibility could not be excluded that the applicant had sustained this injury prior to 8 may 2006.he found that the investigation had not been thorough and that the decision had been made without assessing all the evidence in the case.39.  the chief prosecutor referred the case back to the internal security office of the state police for the second time.44.  furthermore, the applicant’s allegation that he had been kicked in the chest and hit on the head with a truncheon was not corroborated by the expert report, which had not recorded injuries to those areas of his body.the duration of the investigation had been lengthy because many of the individuals who had been escorted on the day in question had been released and their whereabouts were unknown.55.  on 30 june 2006 the state police found that without carrying out procedural acts it was impossible to establish the circumstances in which the applicant had sustained the injuries and whether the force used against him by m.p.
6.  on 12 april 2006, the applicant concluded a sales contract (купопродажен договор) with a sh.a., for the purchase of a concrete mixing and transport lorry (“the vehicle”) for the equivalent of 5,000 euros (eur) in macedonian denars (mkd).7.  on 6 october 2008 the ministry of the interior temporarily seized the vehicle and its registration certificate (сообраќајна дозвола) from the applicant in order to examine the vehicle’s chassis (проверка на шасија).in accordance with section 102(3) of the criminal proceedings act (see paragraph 18 below), the court further advised the applicant, who had claimed compensation in the criminal proceedings, to pursue the claim by means of a separate civil action before the civil courts.for eur 25,000. he further stated that he could not have been aware at the time that the chassis number of the vehicle had been forged.11.  on 6 december 2010 the first-instance court, relying on article 100‑a (3) of the criminal code (“the code”, see paragraph 17 below), found that there were no grounds for confiscation of the applicant’s vehicle.relying on article 100-a (2) of the code, the appellate court found that the vehicle’s chassis had been forged and that the vehicle, in the interest of public safety, could not be declared roadworthy.it further referred to section 100-a (3) of the code and instructed the first-instance court to assess whether the continued use of the vehicle would constitute a “use of a forged document” offence under the code (употреба на фалсификувана јавна исправа, see paragraph 17 below).13.  on 22 february 2011 the first-instance court dismissed the applicant’s application and ordered the confiscation (се одземаат) of the vehicle and its registration certificate.it referred to article 100-a (2) and (3) of the code and found that the vehicle’s chassis number had been forged and that the vehicle could be used for committing an offence.for that reason and for the reasons of road safety, it was necessary to confiscate the vehicle and the registration certificate.it also referred to section 532(1) of the criminal proceedings act (see paragraph 18 below) and found that, irrespective of the fact that there had been no proceedings against the applicant and that he was not an offender, it was necessary to confiscate the vehicle for general safety reasons.14.  on 11 march 2011 the applicant appealed arguing that the first-instance court had wrongly applied article 100-a (2) and (3) of the code and that he had not known that the vehicle had been used to commit a crime.the relevant part of the decision states as follows: “[the arguments] raised in the appeals, [namely] that the first-instance court had not established the decisive facts concerning [the certitude] that the [applicant] had not known that the vehicle’s chassis had been forged, which was decisive, are groundless.specifically, it is true that [the applicant] did not know that the vehicle’s chassis had been forged, as a result of which [he] registered the vehicle as its last buyer, [he was] issued a driving licence and [he] paid a large amount.however, [what is] primary under article 100-a (2) of the [criminal code] is that the objects which were intended to [commit] an offence or were used to commit an offence shall be confiscated notwithstanding that they are not in the ownership of the offender or that they are in the ownership of a third person, if general safety, public health or ethics require so ... the fact that [the applicant] did not know that the vehicle’s chassis had been forged does not signify that the conditions of article 100-a(3) are met, but the first-instance court correctly found that the use of the vehicle with thus forged identification numbers would affect the safety of the road users in the state [безбедноста на јавниот сообраќај], and therefore also the general safety [интересите на општата безбедност].” 16.  it appears that the latter decision was served on the applicant on 2 june 2011.
8.  on 10 march 2005 an investigator with the pivdenno-zakhidna railway police department, who was dealing with the criminal case against b., applied to the shevchenkivskyy district court in kyiv for search warrants for two flats, including the one belonging to the applicant, where, according to the investigator, b. permanently resided.with regard to the applicant’s flat, the court found that it was necessary to carry out a search of the flat where b. permanently resided and where the forged documents, as well as the means of and instruments for forging the documents, might be kept.according to the statements of the police officers, as submitted to the investigative authorities, they had contacted the applicant to inform her about the search.once the door had been opened, the investigator and three police officers carried out the search, with two attesting witnesses and a representative of the building maintenance organisation in attendance.13.  the applicant made a complaint to the law-enforcement authorities regarding the actions of the police officers carrying out the search.16.  on 1 october 2005 the kyiv city prosecutor’s office reversed the decision of 5 july 2005 as regards the suspension of the proceedings, finding that the investigation had not been carried out comprehensively: the people participating in the search of the applicant’s flat had not been questioned properly, the mobile phones and the top-up cards had not been found, and the investigative measures implemented had not been properly documented.18.  on 28 december 2005 the transport prosecutor’s office of kyiv refused to investigate the possible neglect of official duties by the police officers as regards the failure to fully document the items seized.20.  on 30 june 2006 an investigator with the kyiv transport prosecutor’s office terminated the investigation, stating that there had been no evidence to suggest that any item had been stolen from the applicant’s flat during the search.22.  on 7 august 2006 the holosiyivskyy district court of kyiv dismissed the applicant’s complaint, considering that the investigator had taken the necessary measures and had lawfully closed the case.24.  on 16 november 2006 the kyiv city court of appeal quashed the first-instance court’s decision of 7 august 2006 and the investigator’s decision of 30 june 2006 as unsubstantiated, and remitted the case for further investigation.26.  on 16 june 2005 the kyiv transport prosecutor, having conducted a pre-investigation inquiry, refused to commence criminal proceedings in relation to the possible abuse of power or ultra vires actions by the police officers during the search of the applicant’s flat.in his decision, the prosecutor referred to the statement of a police officer that the applicant had been contacted on her mobile phone and informed that the search would be carried out, and the door to the flat had only been broken down after her refusal to appear.the prosecutor also stated that the search had been carried out in accordance with established procedure; it had been observed by two attesting witnesses and the representative of the building maintenance organisation, as required by the domestic law.the court stated that the prosecutor had adopted the decision after interviewing the police officers, two attesting witnesses, and a representative of the building maintenance organisation who had been involved in the search, in addition to the applicant and her former husband.the court further stated that the prosecutor had examined the search warrant, search report and other relevant documents, and had come to the correct conclusions when refusing to open an investigation.
6.  the applicant’s husband, mr sefer cerf, was the district leader and administrative board member of the people’s democracy party (halkın demokrasi partisi, hereinafter referred to as “hadep”), a political party which was dissolved by the constitutional court in 2003 (see hadep and demir v. turkey, no.14.  on 20 october 1994 the adana prosecutor’s office issued a standing search order in relation to the killing of sefer cerf and r.ç., requesting that the perpetrators be sought as long as prosecution was not time-barred, and that information be given to the office on a regular basis, every three months.17.  following m.d.’s confession, a “scene report” was drawn up on 30 january 2000. he was taken by helicopter to adana, where he was taken to the scene of the killing of the applicant’s husband for further questioning.20.  the information obtained by the police during the investigations was forwarded to the adana state security court, which subsequently decided that it had no jurisdiction, and sent the investigation file to the state security court in diyarbakır.the prosecutor replied and informed the applicant in his letter that the investigation in question not only concerned the killing of her husband and r.ç., but the killings of seven other persons in 1994 and 1995. the prosecutor informed the applicant in his letter of 11 february 2005 that on account of the confidential nature of the investigation he could not give her a copy of the entire investigation file.the prosecutor did, however, give the applicant copies of certain documents from the file and informed her that five persons had been identified as possible suspects in the killing of her husband and that criminal proceedings had been initiated against one of those individuals before the diyarbakır state security court.23.  on 5 march 2007 the applicant made a detailed submission to the office of the diyarbakır prosecutor and informed that prosecutor about the actions taken by her in having her husband’s killing investigated.and a.a. 24.  on 27 august 2012 the applicant’s daughter applied to the diyarbakır assize court, to which the proceedings had been transferred in the meantime, and asked for information on the proceedings against k.g., m.d.the prosecutor also secured the evidence such as the bullets, spent cartridges and the clothes worn by the applicant’s husband on the day in question, and sent them for forensic examination.the prosecutor and the investigating police officers took statements from witnesses and prepared a sketch of the scene of the incident.his conviction was quashed by the court of cassation on 1 april 2010 on the ground that at the time the offences were committed he had been under the age of 18 and that fact had not been taken into account by the first-instance court.40.  in the indictments the killing of the applicant’s husband was also included as one of the acts imputable to m.d.was indicted on 11 june 2001 and charged with the offence of membership of an outlawed organisation, namely hizbullah, and for carrying out illegal acts on behalf of that organisation, including the killing of the applicant’s husband.49.  while the above-mentioned criminal proceedings were pending, on 11 february 2005 the adana prosecutor communicated to the applicant, in response to a request made by her, copies of the documents concerning the investigation into the killing of her husband.as the investigation did not concern only the killing of her husband but also those of a number of other individuals, the applicant was only provided with copies of those documents which concerned the killing of her husband.
in july 1996 the applicant challenged that decision before the ministry of defence, which accepted his appeal and on 12 december 1997 quashed the first-instance decision and remitted the case for re-examination on the grounds that the nature of the applicant’s request had not been adequately established.9.  following several procedural decisions of the zagreb municipality office with responsibility for war veterans’ affairs (hereinafter: the “zagreb office”) and the ministry in charge of war veterans’ affairs (ministarstvo branitelja i međugeneracijske solidarnosti; hereinafter: the “ministry”), on 3 june 2004 the administrative court (upravni sud republike hrvatske) ordered the zagreb office and the ministry to examine the applicant’s request for family disability benefit on the merits, which the applicant should have a possibility to challenge if he was not be satisfied with the outcome.10.  on 8 november 2005 the zagreb office dismissed the applicant’s request on the grounds that nothing from the materials available in the case file suggested that the death of his father was a result of his participation in the war.11.  the applicant challenged this decision before the ministry, and on 15 january 2006 the ministry found that the facts of the case connecting the suicide of the applicant’s father to his participation in the war had never been clearly established.12.  on the basis of the ministry’s instructions, the zagreb office commissioned an expert report concerning the question whether the suicide of the applicant’s father was related to his participation in the war from the psychiatric clinic of the clinical hospital dubrava, reference centre of the ministry of health and social care for stress-induced disorders, regional centre for psychotrauma in zagreb (klinička bolnica dubrava, klinika za psihijatriju, referentni centar ministarstva zdravstva i socijalne skrbi za poremećaje uzrokovane stresom, regionalni centar za psihotraumu zagreb; hereinafter: the “centre”), a public health care institution authorised by law to give expert opinions on matters related to war veterans’ psychiatric disorders (see paragraph 28 below).13.  in an expert report dated 10 june 2007 addressed to the zagreb office, the centre concluded, on the basis of the available medical reports and the statements of witnesses, that the applicant’s father had not developed any symptoms resulting in a psychiatric diagnosis linked to his participation in the war and that his suicide could not be attributed to his wartime service.16.  on 2 april 2008 the ministry dismissed the applicant’s appeal on the grounds that the centre’s report was conclusive that the suicide of his father had not been related to his participation in the war.17.  the applicant lodged an administrative action in the administrative court against the above decision, asking the administrative court to decide the case on the merits instead of remitting it to the administrative bodies.18.  in his administrative action the applicant in particular pointed out that the ministry had failed to reply to the specific arguments set out in his appeal against the first-instance decision of the zagreb office and had merely reiterated the findings of the first-instance decision.he also reiterated his appeal arguments that the centre’s expert report was superficial and illogical, since it had not been commissioned with regard to all aspects of the events, such as the triple murder committed by his father, and that it had failed to take into account that before the war his father had had no psychiatric problems whereas after his wartime activities he had committed a triple murder and suicide.in particular, it stressed: “during the proceedings an expert report was commissioned, under section 123 § 1 (8) of the [veterans act], from the [centre] and the report was produced on 10 june 2007. the report concluded that based on the relevant documents from the case file it did not find that ž.l.had developed any symptoms resulting in a psychiatric diagnosis linked to his participation in the war ... having these facts in mind, this court is of the opinion that the defendant acted lawfully when dismissing the appellant’s appeal against the first-instance decision ... it should also be noted that this court already held that the formation of an expert team [competent to determine] a possible link [between death and participation in the war], which [provides for] a decisive evidence within the meaning of section 123 § 1 (8) of the [veterans act], is a precondition for any further proceedings concerning the status of the family member of a deceased war veteran.this is because such a criminal act cannot be a basis for the establishment of a link between the death of the war veteran and his participation in [the war]...” 20.  on 18 february 2009 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) arguing that his right to a fair trial in the proceedings had been violated.he contended in particular that the administrative bodies and the administrative court had ignored his request for an expert report to be commissioned from the permanent court experts and that he had been offered neither the possibility of participating in the choice of experts nor the opportunity to take cognisance of and comment on the expert opinion before the adoption of a decision during the proceedings.21.  on 27 may 2010 the constitutional court declared the applicant’s constitutional complaint inadmissible as manifestly ill-founded, noting that: “in his constitutional complaint, the complainant was unable to show that the administrative court had acted contrary to the constitutional provisions concerning human rights and fundamental freedoms or had arbitrarily interpreted the relevant statutory provisions.
5.  the applicant was born in 1992, and at the time of the introduction of the application was detained in lyster barracks detention centre, in ħal far.7.  the return decision stated that she was a prohibited immigrant by virtue of article 5 of the immigration act (chapter 217 of the laws of malta) because she was in malta “without means of subsistence and liable to become a charge on public funds”.the two documents further informed the applicant of her right to appeal against the decision and order before the immigration appeals board (“the iab”) within three working days.9.  on 30 june 2012 the orc rejected her application on the basis, inter alia, that she had failed to support her claim that she was from central/southern somalia with convincing evidence (in particular, she had shown insufficient knowledge about mogadishu and her speech displayed phonological, grammatical and lexical features not typical of those spoken in mogadishu).her appeal was also rejected by the refugee appeals board (the “rab”) on 18 december 2012. the appeal decision reads as follows: “the refugee appeals board refers to a fill-in-the-blanks form received in its office on 18 july 2012 and to a legal submission on your behalf received in its office on 8 october 2012. the board notes that you travelled to libya in december 2011, first via kenya and then via sudan.your appeal for the grant of refugee status by malta cannot be upheld according to law.” 10.  up to the date of the lodging of her application with the court on 19 august 2013 the applicant had heard no news about any steps being taken in connection with her removal.every time we visit she is in her bed crying and showing signs of severe anxiety.” 12.  in december 2012 the applicant was interviewed (for a few minutes) by the vulnerable adults assessment team of awas, with a view to determine whether she should be released on the grounds of vulnerability.13.  nevertheless, up to the date of the lodging of her application with the court on 19 august 2013 the applicant was still in detention.the applicant submitted that although awas was not formally charged with the responsibility of this procedure by the law which set it up, in practice the agency had full responsibility for the procedure.however, in spite of the fact that this procedure can have a determining impact on the continued detention of individuals detained in terms of the immigration act, it was not adequately regulated by law or by publicly available rules or procedures.16. a certificate issued by a doctor in may 2012 confirmed that the applicant had been hospitalised on 7 and 8 may 2012 (upon her arrival in malta) for dehydration, she was seen again on 15 may and 15 june of the same year.17.   according to the documents provided by the applicant, after her initial hospitalisation, and apart from the two visits mentioned above, she was seen by a doctor at the state hospital around sixteen times between may and september 2012, and each time was prescribed medication.in june 2012 following claims by the applicant that she had been falling repeatedly, and that she was having episodes of jerking and tongue biting (which had left evident marks), the doctor requested her referral to a specified department to run the relevant tests to exclude epilepsy – the result of these tests, if undertaken, are unknown to the court.22.  she complained about the lack of constructive activities to occupy detainees, overcrowding (particularly during the summer months), lack of privacy, limited access to open air, difficulties in communication with staff, other detainees and with the outside world, lack of information about their own situations, and the lack of proper arrangements for heating and cooling, leading to extreme cold in winter and extreme heat in summer.the applicant highlighted the lack of female staff - in particular she noted that every morning male soldiers barged into her dormitory while the inmates were still asleep to make a head count, during which they removed the sheets to check for their presence.
in support of his allegation of the risk of ill-treatment in uzbekistan, the applicant submitted a copy of a list of persons who had been charged with offences against the state.at the top of the document, it was explained that the list had been compiled on the basis of the “bulletin on the search for criminals” prepared by the criminal investigation and counter-terrorism department of the ministry of the interior of uzbekistan and published in tashkent in may 2003.14.  on an unspecified date the van police sent a notice to a number of uzbek families requiring them to appear at the police station on 12 september 2008. the notice stated that their attendance was required for the distribution of food rations and school stationery.16.  after crossing the border to iran on foot, the uzbek asylum seekers, including the applicant, were captured and held hostage by people smugglers, who demanded 5,000 united states dollars to spare their lives and to release them.it was also alleged that the expulsion had been motivated by political considerations to improve relations with uzbekistan, which had been strained following the acceptance by turkey of members of uzbek opposition groups, such as the applicant, as asylum seekers in recent years.19.  the deportation of the applicant and the other uzbek nationals was brought to the attention of the national and international public through press releases from various ngos and the unhcr.in particular, seven human rights and refugee rights organisations, including amnesty international, issued a press release in which they condemned the forced illegal deportation of the applicant and the other uzbek nationals to iran.20.  on an unspecified date the applicant’s representative sent letters to, inter alia, the human rights commission of the parliament of turkey, the human rights commission of the van governor’s office and the ministry of the interior.21.  on 26 november 2008 the head of the human rights commission of the parliament of turkey replied to the applicant’s representative that the ministry of the interior had informed the parliament, in a letter dated 11 november 2008, that the applicant had been deported to iran, a safe third country, in compliance with the legislation in force.22.  in his reply dated 22 april 2009, in his capacity as head of the human rights commission of the van governor’s office, the deputy governor of van informed the applicant’s representative that the applicant and the other deportees had been removed to iran in compliance with the legislation in force and that iran was a safe third country where the applicant had lived before he had arrived in turkey in 2007.23.  on 16 march 2010 the unhcr ankara office sent a letter to the applicant’s representative, informing him that the unhcr had learned that the applicant, along with a number of other uzbek nationals, had been illegally deported to iran and that the applicant’s asylum claim was under review.the unhcr also informed the applicant’s representative that on 26 september 2008 they had sent a letter to the turkish authorities requesting the latter to take the necessary measures to grant the applicant and other uzbek nationals who had been deported on 12 september 2008 residence permits with a view to legalizing their status in turkey pending the completion of the procedures with regard to their cases.the applicant cannot approach the turkish authorities to apply for asylum or to obtain a temporary residence permit for fear of being deported to iran, like the other uzbek asylum seekers who were deported once again to iran in october 2008. moreover, he cannot appoint a lawyer to undertake the necessary legal and procedural actions on his behalf before the domestic authorities as he does not possess the necessary identity documents required to issue a power of attorney before a notary public.25.  when the applicant applied for asylum in turkey in december 2007, he informed the authorities that he had been granted refugee status in iran by the unhcr.27.  on an unspecified date the applicant’s asylum request was assessed in the light of article 33 of the convention relating to the status of refugees, the european convention on human rights, the united nations convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment and the national legislation.
the next day the tverskoy district court of moscow (“the district court”) authorised his pre-trial detention until 16 september 2013, having regard to the seriousness of the charges against him and the risk of his absconding, reoffending and interfering with justice.11.  on 19 august 2013 the moscow city court (“the city court”) upheld the detention order on appeal after examining his recent medical documents, stating that his health did not preclude his detention on remand.12.  on 13 september 2013 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 16 november 2013, citing the risk of his absconding given his previous attempt to evade prosecution and the seriousness of the charges against him.lastly, the court noted the complexity of the case and several steps in the investigation which had yet to be performed, including some which required the applicant’s presence and participation.in the meantime, in october 2013 he was served with the final version of the bill of indictment and was committed to stand trial before the district court.16.  on 14 november 2013 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 30 march 2014. it again cited his unemployment status and ability to abscond, in view of the seriousness of the charges and his having been on the run from january to july 2013. noting that his state of health was compatible with the detention conditions, the court concluded that the extension of his detention was justified.it reiterated the arguments contained in the preceding detention orders and noted the discovery of the forged passport in his flat during the police search, which for the court was a clear sign of his intention to flee.28.  on 13 november 2013 the applicant was discharged from the medical ward to be transferred to the hospital in remand prison no.according to a medical report dated 13 december 2013, he suffered the consequences of a reduced blood supply to the adamkiewicz artery, including lower limb spasticity, dysfunction of the pelvic organs and bedsores developed outside the hospital.35.  meanwhile, the applicant’s lawyer asked an independent medical specialist to provide an opinion on the quality of medical care afforded to the applicant in the remand prison.38.  in the early hours of 1 march 2014 the applicant was taken in a gazel minivan designed to transfer the seriously ill, to a moscow train station.according to the written statements by escort officers submitted by the government, he was put on a thin blanket on the floor of the van.the applicant had to wait for another hour, lying on the floor of the van, while the official procedure involving the escort officers was under way.44.  the parties disagreed whether the vehicles used to transfer the applicant, with the exception of the gazel minivan, were equipped to accommodate ill inmates.48.  on the panel’s recommendation, the colony administration asked the court to authorise the applicant’s early release on health grounds.
(from greece) ... in order to give him the contact details of a person working for a company, m.s., that handled containers ... i called n.[v.] and told her that a friend had asked me for information regarding this matter ... half an hour after this discussion with n.[v.], i received a telephone call from certain sandrina ... who told me that the container belonged to her and that it should not go to belgrade, but to greece, so she needed a forwarding agent ... on 26 december 2006 i travelled to bologna, italy ... while i was in bologna, i received a telephone call from a man who spoke english and who introduced himself as p. (a greek name) ... telling me that the container which needed to be taken to bar belonged to him ... on 3 january 2007 a man who introduced himself as alija called me and said that he was a driver and that he had come in order to collect the goods in that container ... i called n.v. and told her that the driver had arrived.stated, inter alia, that: “... when preparing the expert report, all packages had been analysed using colour tests; 20 packages, which were randomly selected from the total of 389 packages in accordance with the undcp recommendations, were analysed by means of ... (methods of analysis) ... the packages were brought into the laboratory for examination in 39 black plastic bags ... when we arrived at blace border crossing, the packages were lined up at the roadside; they were covered with polycolor; we took samples for analysis from several packages ...” 29.  the applicants objected to both the experts’ statements and the expert reports, arguing that they had been drawn up by the ministry of the interior, the same body that had instituted the proceedings against them.1399/07), the relevant parts of which read as follows: “in order to determine the nature of the substance and in accordance with the recommendations of enfsi (european network of forensic sciences institutes) and undcp (united nations drug control program) regarding the analysis of multiple samples, 27 randomly-chosen packages ... were analysed ... out of the total number of packages (432) ... the net weight of the material taken from the analysed packages was 27.30 kilos ... on the basis of the analysis made, it is confirmed that the analysed material taken from the packages was cocaine.35.  as to the applicants’ objections regarding the expert evidence, the trial court stated: “... [the applicants’] request for an alternative expert examination of the quality and quantity of seized packages by an independent institution is not allowed since the expert evidence adduced by the court was produced by the ministry of the interior; in accordance with the criminal proceedings act, an expert report may be drawn up by a state body; in more complex cases, such as the present one, such expert examination is entrusted, in principle, to a state body.the request ... for a complete analysis of all seized packages is refused since ... some of the packages had been handed over to the experts (for examination), as provided for in the undcp and enfsi recommendations ...” 36.  on 16 november 2007 the trial court accepted the applicants’ request for an on-site inspection of the (27) packages (kept in a special department of the trial court) examined by the bureau’s experts and the subject matter of expert report no.the total weight of the drugs was 434.555 kg.” 39.  the judgment, which runs to fifty-five pages, was based on the following evidence: the applicants’ statements; statements from four witnesses for the second applicant (including his wife and father, who confirmed that he had spent the night 6 january 2007 at home and had returned the next morning to blace customs terminal); statements from three customs officials who searched the truck at the customs terminal; the statements given by the experts s.k.40.  in addition to the facts indicated above (see paragraph 6 above), the trial court also established that the second applicant had arrived in bar on 3 january 2007; that he had called n.v. regarding the shipment; that on 4 january 2007 the cans had been loaded onto his truck and he had left for kosovo; that he had spent the night of 4 january in the truck at pec customs terminal; that on 5 january 2007 the truck had been searched (using police dogs) at that terminal; that on the night of 5 january the truck had remained at the terminal and the second applicant had spent the night in a hotel; that he had returned to the terminal on 6 january; and that at 2 pm.they did not make any suggestions regarding these statements ...” 43.  as to the second applicant, the trial court stated, inter alia, that: “... the court assessed [the second applicant’s] defence that he had not entered into an agreement with [the first applicant] to transport drugs ..., but rather that the agreement concerned the transportation of acrylic paint ... that drugs had never been mentioned in their discussions, that the freight documents referred only to acrylic paint ... that during the transport, he had spoken about 5 times by telephone with [the first applicant].the court did not accept the defence of the accused since it was contrary to his actions and the admitted evidence in support of the indictment ... [the second applicant] does not deny that by having transported the paint, he also transported the cocaine ... the court cannot accept [his] defence that he did not know that there was cocaine in the cans because it is not supported by any evidence and it is contrary to his actions ‒ he transported the drugs from bar to the macedonian border and (contrary) to admitted evidence – cocaine found in the cans, which was noted in the certificate of temporary seized objects ... signed by [the second applicant] who did not contest the signature and the confiscation of the cocaine at any stage of the proceedings ...” 44.  the applicants appealed against the trial court’s judgment.the first applicant further alleged that the trial court had refused her request for an alternative expert examination, notwithstanding that the forensic institute (институт за судска медицина was also authorised to conduct such an analysis, that the trial court had not explained the discrepancy between the gross and net weight of the drugs found, and that the court had accepted that the packages containing the drugs had been submerged in acrylic paint, which contradicted the experts’ findings regarding the type of the paint involved (see paragraph 28 above).as to the first applicant’s complaint concerning the requests she had made in the pre-trial proceedings to consult the case file, the court stated: “... on 11 may 2007 [the first applicant], in the presence of her lawyer, was informed about the charges against her ... (and) that she was not obliged to answer the questions and present her defence, but she stated that she would give a statement in any case after the available evidence had been presented to her ... on 16 may 2007 she gave a statement in the presence of her representative; the questioning continued on 18 may 2007.in the present case ... it is clear that the trial court did not violate the accused’s right of defence ... ... regarding the alleged violation of section 126 of the criminal proceedings act ... it is evident that after the investigating judge had questioned [the first applicant] ... [she] gave a detailed statement which was duly noted in the court record and which she had read and signed ... ... the lawyer requested and was given access to the file before he objected to the indictment ... moreover, the trial court established all the relevant facts at the trial ... ” 46.  as regards the expert evidence, the court established that all the expert reports admitted as evidence had confirmed that the substance found in the cans had been cocaine; in the statement of 15 november 2007, s.k.48.  as to the second applicant’s complaint that he had not known that he was transporting drugs, the court stated: “... such an allegation is contrary to the established facts based on admitted evidence concerning the actions taken by [the second applicant] and his criminal liability ... the court does not accept [his] allegations because on the basis of all evidence admitted at the trial, [the trial] court correctly established the relevant facts concerning the actions taken by [the second applicant] ... (these) allegations were assessed by [the trial] court ... (which) gave reasonable grounds why it did not give credence to them ... it was established beyond any doubt that drugs ‒ cocaine ‒ had been found in some paint-cans transported by the vehicle driven by [the second applicant].” 49.  the court further noted that: “... the large quantity of drugs, the way they were procured and transported, and the actions taken by the accused, suggest that the cocaine was transported for the purpose of selling it and not for any other purpose ... on the basis of the admitted evidence, the analysis and assessment thereof, (and) the accused’s behaviour before they reached agreement concerning the shipment, the fact that they communicated between themselves, during the shipment, that is to say before, during and after the crime ... it can be concluded that the accused knew and were aware of their actions, including the crime that they had committed ... in this connection, according to this court, there is no logical economic reason to import acrylic paint from venezuela, given the fact that transport costs from venezuela to the (final) destination ... would be higher than its value.and n.v. in bar, ... together with the fact that [the first applicant] provided [the second applicant] with written documentation ... issued by her company m., stipulating that the cargo should be transported to the republic of greece to company s. ‒ which, on the basis of the available evidence, does not exist ‒ it becomes clear that [the applicants] knew and were aware of their unlawful actions and the crime committed ...” 50.  the applicants lodged requests before the supreme court for extraordinary review of the final judgment (барање за вонредно преиспитување на правосилна пресуда).and n.v., the accused’s behaviour before they reached agreement concerning the shipment, the intensive and multiple contacts between themselves during the shipment, when the crime had been committed and after it had been discovered, the trial court correctly concluded that the accused knew and were aware of their actions regarding the unlawful transport of drugs.” 52.  the supreme court further added: “... as to the allegations raised in the requests that the expression “for the purpose of selling (заради продажба)” is missing from the operative part of the trial court’s judgment, the court considers that (this omission) does not render it defective, since that can be presumed (произлегува) in view of the actions undertaken by [the applicants] when committing the criminal offence ... from the description of [the applicants’] actions there is no doubt that drugs were transported for the purpose of selling and that such a large quantity of drugs, namely pure cocaine, cannot be for [the applicants’] personal use.
according to the minister of the interior, ruslan alkhanov, the fighting continued for fifteen minutes ... ... the special operation aimed at liquidating the member of illegal armed groups was conducted under the command of the president of the chechen republic, ramzan kadyrov ... at the moment a group of investigators is working at the crime scene ...” 14.  the online press release was accompanied by a video.15.  on 31 october 2009 an investigator from the leninskiy inter-district investigation department of the investigation committee at the prosecutor’s office of the russian federation in the chechen republic (ленинский межрайонный отдел следственного комитета по чеченской республике) (hereinafter “the leninskiy investigation department” or “the investigation department”) reported to his superiors that at 3.30 p.m. he had been informed about the “liquidation” of mr a.kh., a member of illegal armed groups, at 7 second darvina lane in the leninskiy district of grozny.these included the applicant’s neighbours, the workers who had carried out the reconstruction work on the applicant’s house, several police officers from the argun department of the interior (аргунский отдел внутренних дел) (hereinafter “the argun ovd”), who had participated in the special operation, the firemen who had put out the house fire, ms gaysanova’s colleagues and the applicant’s relatives in nazran.at 6.15 p.m. on 31 october 2009 the [mvd] front desk was informed ... that at 3.30 p.m. on 31 october 2009 in a deserted half-ruined house at 7 second darvina lane, grozny ... officers from the argun [ovd], leninskiy [rovd], 8th company of the 2nd regiment of the [mvd] traffic police and the head of the argun town administration’s security service had blocked a member of illegal armed groups, who had offered armed resistance during his apprehension and had been liquidated ... present [during the operation were]: minister of the interior mr r. alkhanov and deputy minister of the interior mr r.l.e, chief of grozny criminal police mr sh., chief of the department of the interior mr ir., chief of criminal police at the department of the interior mr is., chief of public security police at the department of the interior mr ba.the [entire] operational investigation group of the [mvd], the operational investigation group of the department of the interior, the leninskiy district [of grozny] operational investigation group of the temporary alignment of departments at the ministry of the interior of the russian federation in the north caucasus region ...” 52.  on 11 january 2010 the applicant’s lawyer requested that the investigators take a number of steps.however, at the time of writing this evidence and the relevant documents have not been provided to the investigators of the criminal case ... [as] to our request of 9 december 2009 concerning the identities of the servicemen who participated in the special operation and the conclusions of the internal inquiry, on 18 december 2009 a formal reply was given ... which did not contain any meaningful information; the information and documents requested were not submitted.you are also requested to forward me documents confirming the lawfulness of the special operation ... the order to conduct the operation and a copy of the results of the internal inquiry carried out into the matter ...” 55.  on 2 february 2010 the acting chief of the argun ovd replied to the investigators that they had no information concerning ms zarema gaysanova’s abduction and that the officers mentioned in the request of 28 january 2010 had been instructed to give statements to the investigators.60.  on 22 april 2010 the applicant’s lawyer reiterated his request for the investigators to take a number of steps such as obtaining copies of the video footage of the special operation, identifying and questioning all of the participants, asking the drivers of the uaz vehicles whether they had seen ms zarema gaysanova being forced into one of them, and questioning the chechen minister of the interior mr alkhanov concerning the law-enforcement agencies who had participated in the operation and the firemen who had put out the house fire afterwards.had lived with his wife, zarema gaysanova, whose whereabouts after the special operation remain unknown ...” 62.  on 9 july 2010 the chechen deputy prosecutor criticised the investigation into ms zarema gaysanova’s disappearance and ordered the investigators to take a number of remedial measures: “... on 16 june 2010 the investigation was suspended for failure to identify the perpetrators ... an examination of the case file has demonstrated that this decision was unfounded and premature; it was taken prior to all the investigative steps being taken... ... the criminal case has been investigated by several investigators for seven months, however, an effective investigation has not been carried out, the whereabouts of the abducted ms z. gaysanova have not been established, and sufficiently effective steps to identify the culprits have not been taken ... up to the present date the servicemen of the law-enforcement agencies who took part in the special operation ... have not all been identified and questioned.the requests of the applicant, ms l. gaysanova, for access to the investigation file have been granted, but her representatives have not been provided [it] ... in addition, the applicant’s representative requested that the investigators take certain investigative steps such as seizure and examination of the video footage posted on the chechen ministry of the interior’s website concerning the special operation... identifying the person who filmed the operation ... those steps have not been taken.had lived with his wife, zarema gaysanova, whose whereabouts after the special operation remain unknown ... ms zarema gaysanova was not officially married ... two theories were proposed within the framework of the operational-search activities:  zarema gaysanova was detained by servicemen of the law-enforcement agencies owing to her possible involvement in illegal armed groups;  zarema gaysanova was hiding from the police to avoid prosecution for being a member of illegal armed groups ...” 72.  on an unspecified date in 2011 the investigators established that on 31 october 2009 ms zarema gaysanova had had various telephone conversations, one of which had been with mr a.kh., who had subsequently been killed during the special operation.66094. the letter stressed that the leninskiy rovd, the argun ovd, the 8th company of the 2nd regiment of the mvd traffic police and the minister himself had persistently disregarded the investigators’ repeated requests for information concerning the officers who had participated in the special operation on 31 october 2009. moreover, officers mr m.a.b, mr d.r.v, mr i.d.g.the investigation established that the following servicemen had participated in the special operation (according to the operational information note of 31 october 2009, volume 2, page 49 of the case file):  the argun department of the interior (ovd)  the leninskiy district department of the interior in grozny (rovd)  the 8th regiment of the 2nd regiment of the chechen traffic police  the head of the argun town administration security service also, from the same document it follows that the crime scene had been visited by senior officials of the chechen law-enforcement agencies and operational investigation groups:  chechen minister of the interior, mr a.;  chechen deputy minister of the interior, mr e;  chief of the grozny department of the interior (the grozny ovd), mr t.;  chief of the criminal search division of the grozny ovd, mr sh.it is necessary to examine this footage with the assistance of the police in order to identify the participants of the special operation on 31 october 2009 ...” 96.  on 24 january 2011 the investigators refused to grant the request, but on 26 january 2011 the deputy head of the chechen investigation department overruled that refusal and ordered that the request be granted.the applicant’s request also contained the following: “... from the replies of the acting head of the chechen mvd headquarters to the investigators’ requests it appears that ... the applicant’s complaint concerning her daughter’s abduction, which was received by the police department on 9 november 2009 at 7.10 p.m., stated that zarema gaysanova had left herself in an unknown destination and that the police had not received any complaints about her being abducted by unidentified persons in camouflage uniforms driving around in uaz vehicles.
he argued that he had intended to build on his property, but had noticed that the width of v. street (and therefore the access to his land) had been significantly reduced because the owner of the property located opposite to his had unlawfully closed off a large part of the street by building the fence in question.he asked the authorities to verify his claims because, as confirmed by the land expert who had prepared the documents needed for the registration of the applicant’s property rights, they had been “wrongfully established” in the letter that the applicant received from the sdc on 17 september 2007.moreover, he asked the court to require the mayor to arrange for the removal of the fence without the owner’s consent if the fence’s owner ignored such removal notice.by relying on the relevant domestic legislation (see paragraph 24, below) he argued that the proceedings had concerned the refusal by the public authorities to issue an act or to carry out the administrative formalities needed for the removal of the fence built on v. street and for the reopening of access to the street.it held that the applicant had not specified which of his neighbours had closed off part of the street by building the fence, either in his applications to the administrative authorities or in his application to that court.because the applicant had referred only in general terms to the person whose fence had closed off part of the street, the bucharest general council had merely replied to him in general terms about the future development plans for the area in question and the size of the street in question.the administrative authorities could not have been considered to have been inactive as long as the applicant had failed to specify which of the owners of the neighbouring plots of land had diminished the width of the road.13.  the court also dismissed – on the grounds that they were unnecessary and would not further the resolution of the case – the applicant’s request for additional testimonial evidence, an onsite investigation and an expert report that would (according to the applicant) have demonstrated that the road had been obstructed by the construction of the fence.14.  the court lastly dismissed the administrative authorities’ claim that the applicant’s action had been inadmissible on the ground that the applicant had claimed a breach of his rights as a result of the restricted use of a public road which ensured his access to his property.he argued, inter alia, that the evidence that had been requested by him before the first-instance court would have clarified the circumstances of the case and the identity of the owner of the fence; however, the court had wrongfully dismissed that request.the applicant had himself been unable to establish the identity of the owner of the fence, because that owner’s property had been empty and no visible postal number had been attached to the entrance gate.the authorities had not asked him to provide the name of the owner of the fence; indeed, it was the duty of the public servants – not the applicant – to inform the mayor of bucharest of the impugned person’s identity.18.  by a final judgment of 3 november 2008 the bucharest court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law against the judgment of 17 june 2008. it noted that no further evidence had been added to the file and that the local authorities had not submitted any observations (ȋntâmpinare) even though they had been lawfully summoned.the applicant had argued before the judicial authorities that the administrative authorities had been mistaken as to the identity of the owner of the fence; however, he had failed to inform them of the alleged mistake in order that they might clarify the situation.he stated that the notary public who had drafted the sale contract had calculated the taxes for the transfer of the land’s ownership based on a guideline for property prices used by notary public offices and not based on the price actually received by him for the land.
12.  in the resumed proceedings, and after the 2010 confiscation of the proceeds of crime act (see paragraph 36 below) had entered into force, on 27 june 2012 the vukovar county state attorney’s office requested the vukovar county court that several items of the applicant’s real property be seized (ten plots of land, two houses and a commercial building) so as to secure effective enforcement of a probable confiscation order in the amount of approximately eur 1,060,000.however, according to the information submitted by the government, the assessment of the value of several items of the real property, which were the subject matter of the proceedings, had been made on the basis of the material available from the investigation case file and their estimated value at the moment of purchase in 1997 (in total estimated at approximately eur 440,000), whereas the assessment of the value of the remainder of the real property had been made by the vukovar county state attorney’s office with regard to the information available in the land registry, although the records in the land registry did not contain information on the value of the property itself.14.  on 27 june 2012 a single judge of the vukovar county court ordered seizure of the applicant’s real property listed in the request of the vukovar county state attorney’s office so as to secure effective enforcement of a possible confiscation order in the amount of approximately eur 1,060,000. no reasoning was provided with regard to the proportionality of the alleged pecuniary gain obtained and the value of the restrained real property.16.  the applicant challenged the decision of the vukovar county court before the supreme court and on 5 september 2012 the supreme court quashed it and remitted the matter for re-examination on the grounds that the decision on seizure of the real property was not within the competence of a single judge but a panel of three judges.145/2010), and also in view of section 12 of the confiscation of the proceeds of crime act, this panel finds that it is presumed that there is a danger that the claim of the republic of croatia with regard to confiscation of the proceeds of crime would not be enforceable or that its enforcement would be difficult without ordering of a restraint measure.in view of the above, it is ordered to the land registry of the županja municipal court to register the restraint of the listed property in the land registry.” 20.  the restraint of the applicant’s real property was registered in the land registry on the basis of an order of the vukovar county court.22.  the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on 27 december 2012. with regard to the applicant’s specific complaint concerning the lack of proportionality of the measure imposed, the supreme court noted: “the supreme court finds that the principle of proportionality has not been breached since antun džinić is charged with having obtained a pecuniary gain in the amount of hrk 1,800,857.74, and the value of the restrained property does not justify [his] argument that the value of the restrained property listed in the operative part of the impugned decision significantly surpasses the [possible confiscation] claim.” 23.  on 18 february 2013 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint before the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) challenging the decisions of the lower courts on the seizure of his property.it follows from the final indictment of the vukovar county state attorney’s office ... that there is a reasonable suspicion that the accused antun džinić, by the offences listed in count 4 (a), (b) and (c) [of the indictment], obtained pecuniary gain in the total amount of hrk 1,800,857. since the [seizure order] is based, under section 12 § 1 of the confiscation of the proceeds of crime act, on the presumption that there is a danger that the confiscation of the proceeds from crime would not be enforceable or that its enforcement would be difficult without ordering of a restraint measure, it was decided as noted in the operative part of this decision.” 27.  on 12 july 2013 the applicant challenged this decision by lodging an appeal before the supreme court.1. the applicant further stressed that it was unclear for which amount of the alleged pecuniary gain the seizure order had been made given that the vukovar county court had only referred to one count of the indictment, alleging that he had obtained pecuniary gain in the amount of hrk 1,800,857, whereas it had ignored the other count of the indictment according to which he had obtained a pecuniary gain in the amount of hrk 6,169,977.35. the applicant, therefore, assuming that the overall amount of the pecuniary gain for which the seizure order had been made corresponded to the sum of the two amounts noted (approximately eur 1,060,000), submitted a detailed estimate value of each item of the restrained property based on the information from a publicly available internet portal on the market values of real properties in croatia.according to this estimate, the total value of the seized property corresponded to some eur 9,887,084. the applicant thus contended that there was a gross disproportionality between the alleged pecuniary gain obtained by the commission of the offences referred to in the indictment and the value of the seized property, which imposed on him an excessive individual burden.28.  on 17 october 2013 the supreme court, acting as the appeal court, dismissed the applicant’s appeal by noting the following: “the same complaints had been made against the decision of 30 october 2012 ... and then it was answered to the appellant that the principle of proportionality had not been breached ... by a speculative assessment of the value of the real properties listed in the appeal, the appellant did not manage to put into doubt the findings of the first-instance court.the first-instance court stated in the impugned decision that the accused had obtained a pecuniary gain in the amount of hrk 1,800,857, as referred to in count 4 of the indictment, but it failed to cite the amount referred to in count 1 of the indictment of hrk 6,169,977.35, which is as such, in view of the status of the case, uncontested.there is therefore no doubt that the [seizure order] was made in respect of the overall amount of the possible pecuniary gain, as it was explained in the first decision by which the measure was ordered.” 29.  the applicant challenged this decision before the constitutional court and on 7 february 2014 the constitutional court declared it inadmissible, reiterating its previous reasoning (see paragraph 25 above).31.  on 11 july 2014 the vukovar county court found the applicant guilty on the charges of misuse of the company m.’s assets and facilities by which he had allegedly obtained a pecuniary gain in the amount of hrk 1,800,857.74 (approximately eur 240,000), and acquitted him on charges of misappropriation of company shares and one alleged event of misuse of the company m.’s assets and facilities.32.  on the same day the vukovar county court dismissed the applicant’s request for lifting of the seizure order made at the hearing on 8 july 2014 (see paragraph 30 above) as ill-founded on the ground that the seizure of the property could be maintained for sixty days following the relevant procedures related to the finality of the judgment.
8.  in their observations, the government submitted that the applicant had been detained in the remand centre from 17 august 2005 to 17 july 2008 and that from 17 july 2008 to 13 august 2009 he had been detained in łódź prison.10.  the applicant submitted that for seven months during his detention between 17 august 2005 and 26 april 2010 he had been held in overcrowded cells, where the space per person had been below the polish statutory minimum of 3 sq.the figure shows the degree by which the number of prisoners exceeds the maximum allowed capacity of a particular detention facility, which, in turn, is calculated on the basis of the standard of 3 sq.(b)  facts in dispute (i)  the government’s submissions 18.  the government submitted that the applicant had failed to inform the court that from 17 july 2008 to 13 august 2009 he had been detained in łódź prison, not in łódź remand centre, and that from 13 august 2009 to 8 january 2010 he had been at liberty.(ii)  the applicant’s submissions 19.  the applicant submitted that he had been detained in łódź remand centre from 17 august 2005 to 26 april 2010. he argued that that was confirmed by the łódź court of appeal (sąd apelacyjny) in the written grounds of its judgment of 17 september 2010 (see paragraph 24 below).20.  official statistics published by the prison service show that during the applicant’s second period of detention, overcrowding at łódź prison had ranged from highs of 18.5% in july 2008 and 19.4% in august 2008 to a low of 2.5% in june and august 2009. the overall capacity of łódź prison from 17 july 2008 to 13 august 2009 was exceeded on average by 10.4%.21.  the government did not contest the fact that the applicant had been held in overcrowded cells in łódź prison.the court found that the applicant had been detained in overcrowded cells from 17 august 2005 to 26 april 2010. nevertheless, the applicant had failed to prove that those conditions of detention had had any adverse effects on his health.the state treasury, represented during the proceedings by a professional lawyer, did not submit any objections neither to the period nor to the indications of the prison facilities in which the applicant had been held.24.  on 17 september 2010 the łódź court of appeal (sąd apelacyjny) amended the above judgment, granted the applicant pln 6,000 (eur 1,500) in compensation and dismissed the remainder of his appeal.the court held that the award was adequate redress for the period in which the applicant had been detained in permanently overcrowded cells.the court found that the applicant had been held in overcrowded cells for most of the time of his detention.the domestic court exempted the applicant from paying the costs of the proceedings but ordered him to reimburse part of the legal fees paid by the respondent, a sum of pln 1,000 (eur 250).26.  the government submitted that the applicant had been served with the opinion by his legal aid lawyer on 15 february 2011 and again by the łódź court of appeal on 27 september 2012. the government attached to their observations a postal slip confirming the february date for the posting of the opinion to the applicant at łódź remand centre.(b)  the applicant’s submissions 27.  the applicant submitted that the legal opinion dated 15 february 2011 had not been served on him as he had been on a temporary release between 8 february 2011 and 22 february 2012. the applicant submitted a certificate to the court issued by łódź remand centre confirming the above dates.
12.  at a plenary session on 30 april 2013, during a pre-agenda speech, an opposition member of parliament from the hungarian socialist party criticised the government and accused it of corruption with regard to, inter alia, the reorganisation of the tobacco market.mr zoltán cséfalvay, the secretary of state for the national economy, was replying on behalf of the government when the applicants mr karácsony and mr szilágyi carried into the centre of the chamber a large placard displaying the words “fidesz [the party in government] you steal, you cheat, and you lie.” subsequently, they placed it next to the secretary of state’s seat.13.  the minutes of the session read as follows: “dr zoltán cséfalvay, the secretary of state for the national economy: ... tell them that the increase of commodity wages particularly affects those with a minimum income, since the minimum income has been increased by 5.4 %, which is impossible to keep up with inflation lower than 3.5%.)” 14.  on 6 may 2013 the speaker presented a proposal to fine mr karácsony 50,000 hungarian forints ((huf); equivalent to eur 170) and mr szilágyi huf 185,520 (eur 600) for their conduct, as recorded in the minutes and considered to be gravely offensive to parliamentary order, in application of sections 49(4) and 49(7) of the parliament act.t/10881 amending certain tobacco-related acts the applicants mr dorosz and ms szabó carried into the centre of the chamber and displayed there a large banner displaying the words “here operates the national tobacco mafia”.16.  the minutes of the session read as follows: “speaker: ... i ask the honourable parliament whether it adopts bill t/10881 in accordance with the consolidated proposal as amended just now.(voting) i proclaim the decision: parliament has (mr dávid dorosz and ms rebeka szabó display a banner with the words “here operates the national tobacco mafia”) adopted the bill with 222 votes in favour, 81 against and 1 abstention.i call the attention of the two members of parliament to the fact that their conduct constitutes a grave disruption of the plenary proceedings.thank you very much.” 17.  on 24 may 2013 the speaker submitted a proposal to fine mr dorosz and ms szabó huf 70,000 (eur 240) each for their conduct, as recorded in the minutes and considered to be gravely offensive to parliamentary order, in application of sections 49(4) and 49(7) of the parliament act.in protest during the final vote on the bill, ms lengyel placed a small, golden wheelbarrow filled with soil on the table in front of the prime minister, while ms szél and ms osztolykán unfurled a banner displaying the words “land distribution instead of land robbery!” in front of the speaker’s pulpit; meanwhile, ms lengyel used a megaphone to speak.21.  the minutes of the session read as follows: “speaker: the next point on the agenda is the vote on the amendments submitted prior to the final vote on the transfer of agricultural and forestry land bill and the final vote.(continuous disruption of the session) ... speaker: because the members of jobbik [opposition party] do not allow me to take my position at the speaker’s pulpit, i will continue presiding over the session from here.because members of jobbik are not allowing the left-wing, opposition party member and notary to sit at [the speaker’s pulpit] during the vote by roll call and conduct the vote and proclaim the results (continuous noise)....” 22.  on 25 june 2013 the speaker presented a proposal to fine ms szél and ms lengyel huf 131,400 (eur 430) each and ms osztolykán huf 154,000 (eur 510) for their conduct, as recorded in the minutes and considered to be gravely offensive to parliamentary order, in application of sections 49(4) and 49(7) of the parliament act.23.  the speaker proposed that the maximum fine be applied, given the extraordinary situation that had developed during the voting process and that the mps had engaged in conduct gravely offensive to parliamentary order by displaying their banner and using a megaphone.
7.  on 21 june 2001 the investigation of the criminal case against the applicant was terminated and he began examining the case file.9.  on 26 september 2001 the prosecutor general’s office of russia decided that in view of the seriousness of the charges faced by the applicant, the risk of his absconding, as well as the necessity to “secure the enforcement of the conviction” the applicant should be placed in pre-trial detention.11.  in the meantime, on 8 october 2001 the investigation was completed and the applicant was informed that he could start to examine the case file.he argued that there was no indication that he would abscond or otherwise obstruct the administration of justice: the applicant had no criminal record; he had a family, a permanent job and a permanent place of residence, and he suffered from a number of chronic cardiovascular and surgical diseases; the choice of a custodial measure had thus not been justified.13.  on 24 october 2001 the moscow babushkinskiy district court examined the applicant’s arguments with references to his medical documents, documents attesting to his family situation, his positive references from work, and the arguments by the investigator to the effect that the applicant had ignored the investigator’s summonses to appear on 22 and 25 july, 13 and 14 august and 24 september 2001 without giving reasons, that he had often been several hours late to appear before the investigator, that he could appear for fifteen minutes and then leave saying that nobody could tell him when to come and when to leave, and that throughout the summer, in the eyes of the investigator, the applicant had been out of contact.having considered the reasons which prompted the choice of preventive measure, in particular, the seriousness of the charges against the applicant and his conduct during the pre-trial investigation, the district court held that there were no grounds for releasing the applicant.17.  on 20 june 2002 the criminal case against the applicant was submitted to the moscow presnenskiy district court for trial.such extensions were granted upon the prosecutor’s request on 16 december 2002, 19 march, 23 june, 24 september, 23 december 2003 and 24 march 2004. on each occasion the district court referred to the seriousness of the charges against the applicant and the risk of his absconding or otherwise obstructing justice, and the absence of grounds for changing the preventive measure imposed.the court further held that the civil claim against the applicant, as well as the question of lifting the restriction imposed on the applicant’s property, should be referred for consideration within the framework of the civil procedure.in particular, he referred to the fact that the lay judges who participated in the examination of his case had at the same time been examining a criminal case against a certain mr tver.he also complained that the trial court had read out the testimonies of the majority of the witnesses for the prosecution, including testimonies by key prosecution witnesses, and had thus deprived him of the possibility of cross-examining them.21.  on 17 august 2004 the moscow city court reduced the sentence to six years and upheld the rest of the judgment on appeal.in reply to the applicant’s argument regarding the alleged unlawfulness of the composition of the trial court, the city court held that the composition of the court had remained unchanged throughout the trial in accordance with article 242 of the code of criminal procedure, and that the participation of lay judges, who had also been involved in the examination of another case, had had no legal consequences and had not amounted to a violation of the law.the city court further held that the reading out of the testimonies of certain witnesses had been carried out by the trial court on the request of the prosecutor and in compliance with the requirements of article 281 of the code of criminal procedure.22.  on 30 december 2004 the presidium of the moscow city court, by way of supervisory review, modified the charges the applicant had been convicted on and reduced his sentence to five years six months’ imprisonment.
according to him, he was first taken to the premises of the tyumen police organised crime department (“the organised crime department”) and subsequently to a private cottage, where he was allegedly subjected to various forms of ill-treatment until 23 november 2004. the applicant was forced to do the splits, he was suffocated with a plastic bag, a book was held on top of his head and hit with a mallet, causing him to suffer head injuries, he had his arms twisted and stretched out and was given nothing to eat.14.  on 9 december and 14 december 2004 the applicant’s lawyer complained to the prosecutor for the leninskiy district of tyumen (“the district prosecutor”) and the tyumen regional prosecutor (“the regional prosecutor”) respectively about the beatings administered to the applicant between 17 november and 23 november 2004 by unidentified people.17.  on 28 january 2005 the forensic medical expert reported that the abrasions on the bridge of the applicant’s nose, in the region of his left elbow, left forearm, right shin and left thigh would not cause harm to the applicant’s health and had been inflicted by the impact of blunt objects, which had not left traces suitable for identification, between eight to thirteen days prior to the applicant’s examination (apparently, the report referred to the applicant’s examinations on 23 november and 25 november 2004) (report no.23.  between 30 december 2004 and 19 july 2007 an investigator of the tsentralnyy district prosecutor’s office of tyumen issued at least seven decisions refusing the institution of criminal proceedings against police officers or any other people for allegedly ill-treating the applicant between 17 november and 23 november 2004. all of the above decisions, except for the most recent decision of 19 july 2007, were subsequently set aside by the deputy prosecutor of the tsentralnyy district prosecutor’s office of tyumen as unfounded, and additional pre-investigation inquiries were ordered.691 (see paragraph 17 above); -  the report of a service inquiry by the iz-72/2 remand prison in connection with the delayed recording of yam.’s physical injuries; -  an expert report on yam.’s physical injuries; -  explanations by yam.’s ex-wife; -  explanations by the applicant’s wife to the effect that on 17 november 2004 the applicant had not come home, and that on 20 november 2004 the police had carried out a search of their flat and seized the applicant’s personal belongings, video and audio equipment, and the applicant’s hunting rifles.the applicant’s wife further asked that medical assistance be provided to the applicant who had been in a very bad state of health; -  the reply from the prison hospital where the applicant had been examined in the neurological unit and given the following diagnosis: “mentally healthy, simulation of neurological condition.24.  having regard to the above evidence, the decisions refusing the institution of the criminal proceedings in respect of the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment concluded that: -  the abrasions on the bridge of the applicant’s nose, in the region of his left elbow, left forearm, right shin and left thigh had not caused harm to the applicant’s health; -  the presence of abrasions on the applicant’s body, which had not caused harm to the applicant’s health and could have appeared in the course of everyday life, had not been indicative of alleged torture; -  the applicant was inclined to lie and deceive; -  between 17 november and 23 november 2004 measures had been taken by the domestic authorities to identify and arrest those involved in the commission of crimes with which the applicant and his co-defendants had been charged, however the applicant could not be located; -  the applicant had often gone away from home hunting, therefore his allegation of abduction should be regarded with a critical eye as being a means to avoid criminal responsibility; the applicant’s allegations had contradicted the statements by the police officers, and the bor.after the hearing, the officers dragged the applicant out of the courthouse to the prison van, where they allegedly subjected him to severe beatings on the way to remand prison iz-72/1 in tyumen where the applicant was being detained at the material time.the supreme court found as follows: “... [p]ursuant to article 109 § 8 of the code of criminal procedure, the court correctly extended the [applicant’s] detention until such time as [he] and [his] lawyer have finished studying the case file materials ... the statement in the appeal to the effect that the court was required to indicate a specific date when extending [the applicant’s] detention in such circumstances was not based on [domestic] law....” 43.  on 8 november 2006 the regional court extended the applicant’s detention for thirty days, to be counted from the date on which the prosecutor had approved the indictment in respect of the applicant and sent the case to the trial court.the time-limits for submitting the indictment to the prosecutor are determined by [domestic] law; therefore, the calculation of the time-limit for [the applicant’s] detention depended on the submission of the criminal case to the prosecutor.the court found no reasons to alter the custodial measure in respect of the defendants and, in so far as the applicant’s health was concerned, mentioned that the forensic medical report contained in the case file indicated that the applicant was simulating the symptoms of neurological conditions and that there was nothing to prevent him from participating in the proceedings.50.  on 2 december 2006, in the course of a preliminary hearing in the applicant’s case, the investigator gave an interview to the local newspaper the tyumen courier (тюменский курьер) in which she referred to the applicant and his co-defendants as a criminal gang and expressed her opinion on the issue of their guilt.58.  on 14 november 2006 the regional court held on appeal that the applicant and his lawyer should be allowed to study all the case file material, including audio and video tapes and physical evidence, until the expiry of the deadline for the conclusion of the pre-trial investigation (extended by then until 27 november 2006).it noted that the applicant had been given additional time to complete his studying of the case file (see paragraph 60 above), and that although it had been open to him to study the case file each day until 6 p.m., he had only done so until 3 p.m. the regional court therefore concluded that the applicant had been afforded sufficient time to finish studying the case file and that he had familiarised himself with it as much as he had considered necessary.
now it seems, it gets rough for [the applicant] as an expert report about her psychological condition has been disclosed ... a psychological expert report by dr. m. was commissioned in 1993 in the course of civil proceedings (action because of an alleged breach of promise of marriage) which unearthed the deficiencies of [the applicant] described above.three years later, the applicant was introduced to the “expert community” at the wiener neustadt regional court, and her integrity was beyond reproach for a decade – until now.” 9.  the passage was followed by comments by a member of the green party, who had made a criminal complaint against the applicant with the public prosecutor’s office, the youth advocate at the regional government of lower austria, and the vice-president of the wiener neustadt regional court, who was responsible for managing the list of experts at the court.she sought damages under section 8a of the media act (mediengesetz) and the publication of the judgment claiming that the article and in particular the passages dealing with the psychological expert report on the applicant had violated her intimate personal sphere and compromised her publicly.12.  on 3 april 2009 the st. pölten regional court (landesgericht st. pölten) allowed the applicant’s action, ordered the publisher to pay damages in the amount of 5,000 euros (eur) and the operative part of the judgment to be published.the court found that an average reader would understand the article as putting the expert opinion from 1993 in direct relation to the applicant’s work as an expert now, thus questioning the quality of her work.furthermore, the court did not find the article to be incomplete or manipulative, but sufficiently well-balanced and faithful to the different sides of the story in that it also referred to the fact that the applicant’s integrity had never been questioned in ten years; the court also asked for statements from the vice-president of the wiener neustadt regional court, a member of the green party, and the youth advocate of the regional government of lower austria.considering the importance and sensitivity of the area of custody proceedings and the dominant role of experts in the field, the psychological integrity of an expert assigned to those cases had to be beyond doubt.any reservation in relation to the mental health of experts – if based on sufficient reasons – had to be met with a thorough investigation in the interest of good conduct of the administration of justice, which was what had happened as the next step in the present case.17.  in the meantime the applicant lodged an action with the innsbruck regional court on 7 april 2009. she sought damages under section 8a of the media act (mediengesetz) and publication of the judgment claiming that the article, and in particular the passages dealing with the psychological expert report on her, violated her intimate personal sphere and compromised her publicly.18.  on 2 october 2009 the innsbruck regional court (landesgericht innsbruck) granted the applicant’s action, ordered the publisher to pay damages in the amount of 5,000 euros (eur) and the publication of the operative part of the judgment.the court found that the average reader would understand the article as stating that the applicant was incapable of being an expert in custody proceedings because of her own mental health impairments in 1993 and that this placed in question the quality of the applicant’s work so far.in contrast to the regional court it found that the average reader would understand from the article at issue that in 1993 an expert opinion was rendered in respect of the applicant that showed the above-mentioned psychological impairments.the article, while focusing on the applicant’s work in custody proceedings, gave space to comments from the youth advocate of the regional government of lower austria, a member of the green party, and the vice-president of the wiener neustadt regional court.21.  as regards the connection to the public sphere and public interest, the court of appeal found that the state administration, together with the administration of justice, belonged to the public sphere.considering the importance and sensitivity of the area of custody proceedings and the dominant role of experts in the field, the psychological integrity of an expert assigned to those cases had to be beyond doubt.
4.  the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in kazan.5.  on 24 november 2006 the novo-savinovskiy district court of kazan (ново-савиновский районный суда города казани) acquitted the applicant on four counts of drug-dealing, convicted her on one count and sentenced her to eight years’ imprisonment and a fine.6.  on 13 february 2007 the supreme court of republic of tatarstan (верховный суд республики татарстан) upheld the judgment on appeal with minor changes.7.  on 2 july 2008 the presidium of the supreme court of the republic of tatarstan in supervisory review proceedings annulled the judgment on the applicant’s request, because she was formally indicted outside the prescribed statutory time-limits.8.  on 15 october 2008 the novo-savinovskiy district court of kazan acquitted the applicant on the same grounds after re-calculation of the applicable time-limits for investigative actions.9.  on 18 november 2008 the supreme court of the republic of tatarstan upheld the judgment on appeal.10.  on 18 february 2009 the presidium of the supreme court of the republic of tatarstan in supervisory review proceedings annulled the judgments on the prosecutor’s request.the annulment was reasoned by three main arguments: 1) in the opinion of the supervisory court all of the evidence was collected within the statutory time-limits, 2) the lower courts having examining all the evidence during the hearings did not mention them in the judgments and only gave reasons for dismissing them, and 3) formal indictment of the applicant outside of the statutory time-limits should not have led to acquittal in any event.the case was sent for reconsideration.11.  on 9 october 2009 the applicant was convicted, sentenced to five years’ imprisonment, suspended for five years, and fined.
in his written observations submitted to the court on 23 february 2012 in reply to those of the government, the applicant’s lawyer stated that police officers had “wrung the [applicant’s] hands and feet and hit him on the body, including the areas of his liver and kidneys, and on [his] arms and legs”.later on a. and e. had been passing by the bushes and had seen the applicant raping p. 12.  in april 2005 charges under paragraph 3 of article 153 of the criminal code (see paragraph 45 below) were brought against the applicant.19.  during one of the hearings the trial court questioned the victim, p., who stated, without indicating the exact dates, that the applicant had raped him several times between september 2004 and april 2005. p. provided very detailed information about the circumstances of the rapes and about the events which had taken place before and after them.p.’s mother also said that the applicant’s mother had told her that p. had come to the apartment where the applicant lived and the applicant’s grandmother had ousted him.the lawyer and the applicant were allowed to question the witnesses and ask for explanations regarding the facts of the case.27.  on 25 january 2006 the kominternivskyy court, in the presence of the applicant’s lawyer and mother, convicted the applicant of several counts of rape (gratification of unnatural sexual desires in respect of a person under fourteen years of age), committed on unspecified dates between autumn 2004 and april 2005 and notably on 10 april 2005. it sentenced him to ten years’ imprisonment under paragraph 3 of article 153 of the criminal code (see paragraph 45 below).the court based his conviction mainly on the victim’s statements but also on the statements of p.’s friends, mother, teacher, and witness a. and on a report drawn up by a psychiatrist who had examined p. and concluded that he could not have made up his account of the rapes.in particular, the p., trial court had failed to establish on which dates p. had been raped, and the medical examination of the victim had revealed no injuries on the child’s body.the applicant also argued, without providing further details, that the police had beaten him on 21 april 2005. he stated that he could not rape p. on 10 april 2005 because on that day he had sawn wood with m. he also stated that a. had given false statements during the trial because he himself had raped p. the statements of p.’s mother were also false, the applicant had refused to give her money and she had wanted to take revenge.the applicant submitted that a.’s statements concerning the date of the alleged rape near the pond contradicted the statements of p.’s mother (see paragraphs 21 and 23 above).the court granted the request and ordered the bailiffs to bring the applicant to the court hearing.34.  in the meantime, on the same date the court of appeal, in the presence of the applicant’s lawyer, upheld the judgment of the first-instance court.on the basis of the findings made by the trial court, the court of appeal held that the arguments raised in the appeal by the applicant and his lawyer’s arguments were ill-founded because they had been refuted by evidential material in the applicant’s criminal case file.38.  on 2 april 2007 the court requested the applicant to provide: (i) documentary evidence supporting his allegations of ill-treatment; (ii) copies of the complaints of ill-treatment lodged with the domestic authorities; (iii) copies of the applicant’s and his lawyer’s appeals in cassation, stamped by the supreme court to prove their receipt; and (iv) a copy of the supreme court’s decision as soon as it would be available.42.  on 27 november 2007 the court asked the applicant to send to the supreme court a repeated request for copies of the same documents (see paragraphs 38 and 40 above), indicating that he needed them to support his application before the court.
5.  the applicant arrived in the united kingdom on 7 january 2003. he claimed asylum on 15 january 2003 but his claim was refused by the secretary of state for the home department on 15 march 2003 and his appeal against that decision was refused on 1 october 2003.13.  on 11 december 2007 the administrative court ordered the applicant’s release from detention subject to a number of conditions, including that he be subject to a curfew; that he remain at a fixed address; that he report on a weekly basis to the nearest border and immigration agency office; and that he take the steps necessary to obtain travel documents.14.  the applicant refused to sign a “disclaimer” on 14 december 2007. although he was released on 17 december 2007, four days later the matter was brought back to the administrative court and a different judge discharged the previous order on account of his failure to comply with the conditions for release (namely, that he take the steps necessary to obtain travel documents).21.  in or around september 2008 the immigration authorities discussed the possibility of prosecuting the applicant under section 35 of the asylum and immigration (treatment of claimants, etc) act 2004 for failing without reasonable excuse to comply with the secretary of state’s requirement to take specified action to enable a travel document to be obtained.22.  on 13 october 2008 the applicant wrote to the united kingdom border agency, indicating that he would be willing to return to iran if he were to be compensated for the periods of detention which he had undergone.the reasons given for the dismissal of the applications included the fact that the applicant could end his own detention by signing the disclaimer.counsel for the secretary of state for the home department argued – and the court appears to have accepted – that the first period could not be in question legally, since the applicant had been released for one month pursuant to a court order and the order enforcing release had been discharged.27.  in considering the lawfulness of the second period of detention, the administrative court judge recalled that the authorities should be free to make strenuous efforts to obtain the assent of a person they proposed to deport.he observed that during this period there had been no change in approach to the applicant, no prosecution had been brought under section 35 of the 2004 act, and there had been no further approach to the iranian authorities to see if they would change their position.29.  the judge then had regard to the relevant principles of domestic law set out in r v. the governor of durham prison, ex parte hardial singh [1984] 1 wlr 704 and in the guidance given by the court of appeal in both r (a) v. secretary of state for the home department [2007] ewca civ 804 and wl (congo) v. secretary of state for the home department [2010] ewca civ 111 (see paragraphs 35-36 below).applying those principles and the relevant guidance, the judge noted that the most important factor justifying detention was the applicant’s refusal to sign the relevant disclaimer.however, even given those factors, the judge found that there had to come a time when such a sterile tactic as merely sitting and waiting while repeatedly urging the applicant to change his mind, in full expectation that he would not, ceased to be detention genuinely for the purpose of deportation.the judge therefore concluded that “the woeful lack of energy and impetus” applied to this case from at least the middle of 2008 meant that it could not possibly be said that the secretary of state on this occasion had complied with the obligation in hardial singh to act with “reasonable diligence and expedition”.30.  with regard to the question of whether there should be guidance on how long it might be appropriate to detain an individual, the judge made the following observations: “it cannot be right for the secretary of state to be led to believe, by looking at a digest of the range of decisions that have been taken, that it is safe to detain for x months or x years.a tariff is repugnant and wrong, and it seems to me that it would be wise for those preparing legally for such cases to abandon the attempt to ask the courts to set such a tariff by a review of the different periods established in different cases.” 31.  in a decision dated 13 may 2011 the applicant was awarded gbp 6,150 in damages.
it heard evidence from the applicant, her officially appointed lawyer, a representative of the local committee, an inspector from the child protection team (детска педагогическа стая), a representative of the district prosecutor’s office, a representative of the municipal child protection department and two social workers from the children’s crisis centre where the applicant was living.however, the social workers added that by the time of the hearing the applicant’s situation had worsened as she did not follow the rules in place, came back late from school or was brought back by the police when she failed to return, and continued to associate with individuals known to the police, to engage in sexual relations and to behave aggressively towards the staff.in its reasoning the court held that despite the judicial decision of 1 april 2013 in which a compromise solution had been adopted for the applicant, namely the confirmation and extension of her placement in the children’s crisis centre, she was still failing to abide by the institution’s internal rules, was not returning to the centre by the designated time after school, was in contact with individuals identified as “delinquents” and was still behaving rudely and aggressively towards the social workers at the centre.in the court’s view, the applicant no longer displayed any willingness to abide by the rules of society, or even those of the institution in which she was living, and it was therefore advisable to remove her from her circle of acquaintances who were harming her personal development, and to provide her with enhanced educational support in order to eradicate her negative behavioural traits.in the four years prior to her application, only six pupils had obtained the secondary-school leaving certificate, and none at all in 2011 or 2012. three pupils had been awarded the certificate in 2013 with an overall average mark of 3.67 out of 6, the minimum pass mark being 3. the applicant added that in 2012 and 2013 the pedagogical council had not given any positive assessments of pupils’ behaviour or school results, meaning that no proposals for the end of a placement had been submitted to the district court.27.  the report also noted that at the end of the 2013/14 school year, the applicant had achieved an average mark of 3.69 out of 6 and had therefore moved up to the next class, that she had also been awarded a certificate as a qualified seamstress and that she would be receiving a similar mark for the first semester of the 2014/15 school year.29.  the report also stated that according to information from the police, the child had been suspected of stealing a mobile phone and jewels from a house on 4 january 2014. on being questioned by the police, she had handed over the items in question of her own accord.31.  two reports issued in 2009 and 2013 by the state agency for child protection include a summary of the findings of an assessment of the operation of the four correctional boarding schools in bulgaria, including the one in podem.32.  the reports also note that there is a high pupil turnover rate during the school year because of the admission of juveniles on the basis of a placement order and because of their departure, in most cases on reaching the age of majority (18 years of age) or on the expiry of the statutory maximum duration of the placement.as regards the results achieved across all secure educational institutions in bulgaria, the reports indicate that in 2009, 10% of pupils were awarded a vocational qualification, 35% successfully completed their secondary education up to the age of 14 and 3% successfully completed their secondary education up to the age of 18. the remaining 52% of pupils failed to complete their education.the 2013 report is particularly critical of the prevalence of serious incidents involving suicide attempts or assaults on other pupils, and deplores the fact that no provision is made for follow-up action in the individual plans of the pupils concerned so that consideration can be given to the reasons for their actions and to their psychological state.37.  as far as the programme for social integration and rehabilitation is concerned, the reports state that, in addition to staff shortages, the existing groups of more than seven or eight children in difficulty cannot be effectively supervised, the activities on offer do not follow an appropriate methodology for vulnerable children, and no arrangements are made at the institutions to encourage contact between the children and their families, a shortcoming identified as a cause of aggressive behaviour.38.  lastly, the 2009 report recommends in particular: (a) a general reform of the status of the institutions in question and of their operation, through the inclusion of alternative educational and preventive methods; (b) the introduction and development of units for preventing deviant behaviour, and their involvement as soon as children display the first signs of such behaviour; (c) shorter placements, with more emphasis on social rehabilitation and psychological support for children than on teaching; (d) returning the children in question to the ordinary school system, including in schools in their home area, rather than keeping them apart in specialist institutions, through an intensive individual integration scheme managed by teams of educational experts; (e) the introduction of programmes allowing young people to acquire vocational skills; (f) instilling an atmosphere of cooperation with families; (g) a reform whereby local committees for combating juvenile antisocial behaviour would no longer have a decisive role in taking educational measures and such decisions would be taken by a specialist judge alone; (h) abolition of punishments for juvenile antisocial behaviour; (i) abolition of criminal penalties for children under 14 years of age and their replacement by exclusively social and protective measures, applicable only in exceptional cases; (j) admitting children under 14 years of age to specialist institutions only where there is a social need or a need for protection; and (k) closure of the institutions in question, subject to the introduction of alternative protective and judicial measures in legislation and practice.39.  it appears that, following the 2009 report by the state agency for child protection, the ministry of education and science undertook to reform the secure institutions for juveniles in order to ensure that the system was entirely focused on the child and offered an individually tailored approach.measures were subsequently put forward in an action plan for the implementation of the national policy strategy on juvenile justice for 2013-2020. among the measures envisaged were: the repeal of the juvenile antisocial behaviour act and the introduction of a new juvenile justice act for children in conflict with the law, with the aim of offering a wide range of social, educational and learning services to children in difficulty.
8.  on 27 december 2003, after a number of forensic medical examinations and on the basis of witnesses’ testimonies, the investigative officer terminated the criminal proceedings on the ground that it was impossible to establish who was responsible for the accident.on 4 february 2004 the investigative officer of the shostka district police department decided to resume the investigation on account of its incompleteness and the necessity to conduct further investigative actions.all of them were subsequently quashed and the criminal proceedings have accordingly been reopened by decisions of the police officer of the shostka district police department (on 3 march and 1 april, 11 june, 6 october, 10 november 2004, 1 march 2005) with reference to the incompleteness of the investigation.the latter authority referred, in particular, to the failure of the inquiring officers to question additional witnesses and to reconcile factual discrepancies between the experts’ conclusions and the accounts of some witnesses, the completion of technical examinations, including reconstruction of the events.10.  on 11 july 2004 the applicant was recognised as being a victim and a civil plaintiff in the criminal case and on 5 january 2005 he lodged a civil claim, seeking compensation for pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage within the context of the criminal proceedings.11.  on 27 april 2005 the police officer of the shostka district police department instituted criminal proceedings against the car driver mr v. on 1 july 2005 the indictment against mr v. was prepared by the shostka district prosecutor’s office.on 5 july 2005 the criminal case was referred to the shostka local court for consideration on the merits.on 29 august 2005 the shostka local court allowed the prosecutor’s request and decided that the case should be remitted for additional investigation to shostka district prosecutor’s office on account of the incompleteness of the investigation.12.  on 18 march 2006 the shostka district police department terminated the proceedings against mr v. for lack of evidence of his involvement in the crime.on 20 march 2007 the prosecutor quashed the resolution regarding the termination of the proceedings in the case, having found that additional investigation was required.14.  on 24 july 2008 the shostka prosecutor’s office instituted criminal proceedings against mr v. on 11 august 2008 the criminal case was referred to the shostka local court for consideration on the merits.15.  on 12 march 2011 the shostka local court sentenced mr v. to five years’ imprisonment combined with a driving ban for three years and awarded pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage to the applicant and other victims (two more persons were injured in the traffic accident).16.  on 28 july 2011 the sumy court of appeal quashed the judgment of 12 march 2011, terminated the criminal proceedings and amnestied mr v. it also left civil claims without examination, indicating that they could be examined in the context of civil proceedings.17.  on 29 august 2011 the applicant instituted separate civil proceedings against mr v. 18.  on 29 march 2012 the higher specialised civil and criminal court upheld the decision of the appellate court in the criminal case against mr v. 19.  on 8 january 2013 the higher specialised civil and criminal court of ukraine upheld the decision of the sumy court of appeal of 15 august 2012 allowing the applicant’s civil claim and ordering payment of pecuniary and non-pecuniary damages relating to his wife’s death in the amount of uah 10,774.32. it appears that the decision of the court of appeal has not been fully enforced due to lack of funds of mr v. and the impossibility of selling his property.on 28 november 2014 the decision was partly enforced and the applicant was paid pecuniary and non‑pecuniary damages in the amount of uah 1,942.
such cooperation may include the adoption of measures for the approximation of the laws and regulations of the member states.” article 82(1) “judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the union shall be based on the principle of mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions and shall include the approximation of the laws and regulations of the member states in the areas referred to in paragraph 2 and in article 83.” 39.  lastly, the second paragraph of article 249 of the treaty establishing the european community (applicable at the material time and identical to article 288, second paragraph, of the tfeu) provided: “a regulation shall have general application.as to the question of whether the entry into force of the lisbon treaty ought to have been regarded, as the appellant submits, as a matter which came to light in the course of the proceedings and, on that basis, gave good grounds, in accordance with the first subparagraph of article 48(2) of the rules of procedure of the general court, for introducing new pleas in law, the court of justice has held that the entry into force of that treaty, incorporating the charter into european union primary law, cannot be considered a new matter of law within the meaning of the first subparagraph of article 42(2) of its rules of procedure.105.  in the light of those factors, the answer to the questions referred is that european union law precludes the application of a conclusive presumption that the member state which article 3(1) of regulation no 343/2003 indicates as responsible observes the fundamental rights of the european union.” 47.  in the case of melloni v ministerio fiscal (case c-399/11, judgment of 26 february 2013), concerning in particular the issue whether a european union member state could refuse to execute a european arrest warrant on the basis of article 53 of the charter of fundamental rights on grounds of infringement of the fundamental rights of the person concerned guaranteed by the national constitution, the cjeu found as follows: “60.63.  consequently, allowing a member state to avail itself of article 53 of the charter to make the surrender of a person convicted in absentia conditional upon the conviction being open to review in the issuing member state, a possibility not provided for under [the] framework decision ..., in order to avoid an adverse effect on the right to a fair trial and the rights of the defence guaranteed by the constitution of the executing member state, by casting doubt on the uniformity of the standard of protection of fundamental rights as defined in that framework decision, would undermine the principles of mutual trust and recognition which that decision purports to uphold and would, therefore, compromise the efficacy of that framework decision.64.  in the light of the foregoing considerations, the answer to the third question is that article 53 of the charter must be interpreted as not allowing a member state to make the surrender of a person convicted in absentia conditional upon the conviction being open to review in the issuing member state, in order to avoid an adverse effect on the right to a fair trial and the rights of the defence guaranteed by its constitution.” 48.  in the case of alpha bank cyprus ltd v dau si senh and others (case c-519/13, judgment of 16 september 2015), concerning the application of regulation (ec) no 1393/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 13 november 2007 on the service in the member states of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters, the cjeu held: “30.31.  however, as the court has already held on numerous occasions, those objectives cannot be attained by undermining in any way the rights of the defence of the addressees, which derive from the right to a fair hearing, enshrined in the second paragraph of article 47 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and article 6(1) of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, signed in rome on 4 november 1950 (see, inter alia, judgment in alder, c‑325/11, eu:c:2012:824, paragraph 35 and the case-law cited).” 49.  in opinion 2/13 of 18 december 2014 on the draft agreement providing for the accession of the european union to the european convention on human rights, the cjeu found that the draft agreement was not compatible with the treaty on european union.194.  in so far as the echr would, in requiring the eu and the member states to be considered contracting parties not only in their relations with contracting parties which are not member states of the eu but also in their relations with each other, including where such relations are governed by eu law, require a member state to check that another member state has observed fundamental rights, even though eu law imposes an obligation of mutual trust between those member states, accession is liable to upset the underlying balance of the eu and undermine the autonomy of eu law.” 50.  article 234 of the treaty establishing the european community (applicable at the relevant time and replaced by article 267 of the tfeu) read as follows: “the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to give preliminary rulings concerning: ... (b)  the validity and interpretation of acts of the institutions of the community and of the ecb; ... where such a question is raised before any court or tribunal of a member state, that court or tribunal may, if it considers that a decision on the question is necessary to enable it to give judgment, request the court of justice to give a ruling thereon.37.  in that regard, although it is true that the procedure laid down in article 267 tfeu is an instrument for cooperation between the court of justice and the national courts, by means of which the court provides the national courts with the points of interpretation of eu law which they need in order to decide the disputes before them, the fact remains that when there is no judicial remedy under national law against the decision of a court or tribunal of a member state, that court or tribunal is, in principle, obliged to bring the matter before the court of justice under the third paragraph of article 267 tfeu where a question relating to the interpretation of eu law is raised before it (see judgment in consiglio nazionale dei geologi and autorità garante della concorrenza e del mercato, c‑136/12, eu:c:2013:489, paragraph 25 and the case-law cited).45.  accordingly, the answer to the second question is that, in circumstances such as those of the case in the main proceedings, which are characterised both by the fact that there are conflicting decisions of lower courts or tribunals regarding the interpretation of the concept of a ‘transfer of a business’ within the meaning of article 1(1) of directive 2001/23 and by the fact that that concept frequently gives rise to difficulties of interpretation in the various member states, the third paragraph of article 267 tfeu must be construed as meaning that a court or tribunal against whose decisions there is no judicial remedy under national law is obliged to make a reference to the court for a preliminary ruling concerning the interpretation of that concept.” 53.  council regulation (ec) no 44/2001 of 22 december 2000 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters (“the brussels i regulation”) entered into force on 1 march 2002. it replaced the brussels convention on jurisdiction and the enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters of 27 september 1968 and was binding on all the european union member states with the exception of denmark.2.  under no circumstances may the foreign judgment be reviewed as to its substance.” article 46(1) “the court with which an appeal is lodged under article 43 ... may, on the application of the party against whom enforcement is sought, stay the proceedings if an ordinary appeal has been lodged against the judgment in the member state of origin or if the time for such an appeal has not yet expired; in the latter case, the court may specify the time within which such an appeal is to be lodged.” article 54 “the court or competent authority of a member state where a judgment was given shall issue, at the request of any interested party, a certificate using the standard form in annex v to this regulation.” (b)  explanatory memorandum concerning the proposal for a regulation 56.  in so far as relevant to the present case, the explanatory memorandum concerning the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters presented by the commission (document com/99/0348 final, published in the official journal of the european communities c 376 e of 28 december 1999, pp.... 49.  in the light of all the foregoing considerations, the answer to the questions referred must be that article 34(2) of regulation no 44/2001 is to be interpreted as meaning that it is ‘possible’ for a defendant to bring proceedings to challenge a default judgment against him only if he was in fact acquainted with its contents, because it was served on him in sufficient time to enable him to arrange for his defence before the courts of the state in which the judgment was given.” 59.  in the case of bernardus hendrikman and maria feyen v magenta druck & verlag gmbh (case c-78/95, judgment of 10 october 1996, ecr i-4943), the cjeu found that where proceedings had been initiated against a person without his knowledge and a lawyer had appeared on his behalf but without his authority, the defendant was still to be regarded as being “in default of appearance” within the meaning of article 27(2) of the brussels convention, even if the proceedings before the court first seised had become proceedings inter partes.... 46.  having regard to all of the foregoing considerations, the answer to the first question is that article 34(2) of regulation no 44/2001, to which article 45(1) thereof refers, read in conjunction with recitals 16 and 17 in the preamble, must be interpreted as meaning that, where the defendant brings an action against the declaration of enforceability of a judgment given in default of appearance in the member state of origin which is accompanied by the certificate, claiming that he has not been served with the document instituting the proceedings, the court of the member state in which enforcement is sought hearing the action has jurisdiction to verify that the information in that certificate is consistent with the evidence.” 61.  in the case of apostolides v orams (case c-420/07, judgment of 28 april 2009, ecr i-3571), meanwhile, the cjeu stated: “55.74.  the court has had occasion, in case c-283/05 asml [2006] ecr i-12041, to make clear the differences between article 34(2) of regulation no 44/2001 and article 27(2) of the convention of 27 september 1968 on jurisdiction and the enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters ... 75.  article 34(2) of regulation no 44/2001, unlike article 27(2) of the convention, does not necessarily require the document which instituted the proceedings to be duly served, but does require that the rights of the defence are effectively respected ... 76.  under articles 34(2) and 45(1) of regulation no 44/2001, the recognition or enforcement of a default judgment must be refused, if there is an appeal, if the defendant was not served with the document which instituted the proceedings or with an equivalent document in sufficient time and in such a way as to enable him to arrange for his defence, unless the defendant failed to commence proceedings to challenge that judgment before the courts of the member state of origin when it was possible for him to do so.... 80.  in the light of the foregoing, the answer to the ... question [referred for a preliminary ruling] is that the recognition or enforcement of a default judgment cannot be refused under article 34(2) of regulation no 44/2001 where the defendant was able to commence proceedings to challenge the default judgment and those proceedings enabled him to argue that he had not been served with the document which instituted the proceedings or with the equivalent document in sufficient time and in such a way as to enable him to arrange for his defence.” 62.  the recast version of the brussels i regulation (known as “brussels i bis”), introduced by regulation (eu) no 1215/2012 of the european parliament and of the council of 12 december 2012 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters (recast), entered into force on 10 january 2015.it provides as follows: “a judgment given in a member state which is enforceable in that member state shall be enforceable in the other member states without any declaration of enforceability being required.” 64.  however, article 45(1) of the new version reiterates the terms of article 34(2) of the brussels i regulation: “on the application of any interested party, the recognition of a judgment shall be refused: (a)  if such recognition is manifestly contrary to public policy (ordre public) in the member state addressed; (b)  where the judgment was given in default of appearance, if the defendant was not served with the document which instituted the proceedings or with an equivalent document in sufficient time and in such a way as to enable him to arrange for his defence, unless the defendant failed to commence proceedings to challenge the judgment when it was possible for him to do so; ...” 65.  prior to 1 may 2004, the date of accession of cyprus and latvia to the european union, the service of judicial documents between the two countries was governed by the hague convention of 15 november 1965 on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters, which was ratified both by cyprus (where it entered into force on 1 june 1983) and by latvia (where it entered into force on 1 november 1995).
4.  all applicants were former employees of “leteks” u stečaju (the debtor), which was, at the relevant time, a company predominantly comprised of socially-owned capital.5.  since the debtor failed to fulfil its contractual obligations towards its employees, on an unspecified date, the applicants instituted civil proceedings against it.6.  on 18 april 2008 the leskovac municipal court ordered the debtor to pay the applicants specified amounts on account of salary arrears, plus the costs and expenses of the civil proceedings.7.  on 3 october 2010 the above judgment became final.8.  between 20 november 2008 and 30 november 2009 all applicants filed separate requests for the enforcement of the above judgment.9.  the leskovac municipal court ultimately accepted the applicants’ requests and issued the enforcement orders, respectively.the essential information as to the enforcement proceedings in respect of each application is outlined in the annex to this judgment.10.  on 25 january 2011 the leskovac commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor (st. 47/2010).11.  the applicants duly submitted their respective claims.12.  on an unspecified date the applicants’ claims based on the judgment of 18 april 2008 were formally recognised.13.  the insolvency proceedings against the debtor are still ongoing.14.  on 31 march 2010, the applicants lodged a constitutional appeal.15.  on 8 july 2013 the constitutional court dismissed the appeal in respect of all applicants except the applicants ms jagoda jančić (application no.16.  on 18 september 2013 the constitutional court also found a violation of the right to a hearing within a reasonable time, in respect of ms jančić, mr stamenković and ms stanković.it further awarded each of them 500 euros (eur) as just satisfaction for non-pecuniary damage and ordered the court in leskovac to expedite the proceedings.
4.  the applicant was born in 1968 and, prior to his conviction, lived in yaroslavl.5.  on 15 april 2008 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of fraud.6.  on 16 april 2008 the kirovskiy district court of yaroslavl remanded the applicant in custody pending investigation.the judge found that (1) the applicant was suspected of serious crimes, (2) he might abscond, (3) he might put pressure on witnesses, or (4) he might interfere with the investigation.7.  on 25 april 2008 the yaroslavl regional court upheld the detention order of 16 april 2008 on appeal.9.  on 16 march 2009 he was committed for trial before the kirovskiy district court of yaroslavl.10.  on 27 october 2009 he was convicted of the charges and sentenced to seven years’ imprisonment.11.  on 29 december 2009 the yaroslavl regional court quashed the judgment on appeal and remitted the case to the first-instance court for a fresh examination.12.  on 25 january 2010 the trial court ordered his release on bail.13.  on 27 january 2010 the bail was paid and the applicant was released.14.  on 20 july 2010 the applicant was convicted of fraud and attempted fraud and sentenced to five years and six months’ imprisonment.15.  on 19 october 2010 the yaroslavl regional court upheld the judgment on appeal.they acknowledged that the applicant had been detained “between 15 april 2008 and 27 october 2009 ... without relevant and sufficient grounds”, in breach of the requirements of article 5 § 3 of the convention.they offered to pay him a sum of 1,850 euros (eur) as just satisfaction and invited the court to strike the case out of its list of cases.17.  on 2 february 2015 the applicant replied that he had taken note of the government’s acknowledgment of the violation, but that the amount of compensation was not acceptable to him.
7.  in respect of the establishments in which he had been detained, the applicant alleged that he had been kept in overcrowded cells with poor conditions of hygiene.the food he had received had been of poor quality and had not been adapted to his medical condition.he also claimed that despite the fact that he was a non-smoker, he had had to share the cells with smokers.he also claimed that the cells in which he was detained in iași prison were infested with bugs, and the mattresses were old and dirty.8.  the government submitted that in all the cells occupied by him, the applicant had had his own bed.10.  the government made specific submissions in respect of the following detention facilities in which the applicant had been detained.11.  the applicant was detained in gherla prison between 18 october and 22 november 2011. he occupied the following cells: (i) cell eg 1.7, which measured 43.25 square metres and which he shared with nine co‑detainees between 18 october and 11 november 2011; (ii) cell eg 3.25, which measured 55.20 square metres and which he shared with twenty‑five co‑detainees between 11 and 16 november 2011; (iii) cell eg 1.15, which measured 43.25 square metres and which he shared with nine co‑detainees between 16 and 18 november 2011; and (iv) cell e 1.8, which measured 43.25 square metres and which he shared with eleven co-detainees between 18 and 22 november 2011.12.  the applicant was detained in bistrița prison between 22 november 2011 and 18 january 2012. he occupied cell no.13.  the applicant was detained in jilava prison between 4 and 23 february 2012. he occupied the following cells: (i) cell no.4.21, which measured 44.81 square metres and which he shared with twenty‑three co‑detainees from 4 to 16 february 2012; and (ii) cell no.6.24, which measured 43.90 square metres and which he shared with between twenty‑two and twenty-six co-detainees from 17 to 23 february 2012.14.  the applicant was detained in focșani prison on several occasions: between 2 and 9 march 2012, 11 and 18 january, 5 and 19 february, and 2 and 5 april 2013. he occupied the following cells: (i) cell no.e 1.8, which measured 21.22 square metres and which he shared with ten co‑detainees for seven days; (ii) cell no.e 3.28, which measured 25.28 square metres and which he shared with thirteen co‑detainees for another seven days; and (iii) cell no e 3.30, which measured 25.28 square metres and which he shared with fourteen co-detainees for five days.15.  for the rest of the period of detention until the present, the applicant has been detained in iași prison, in cells e 4.4., e 3.3, e 5.12, e 6.6, e 6.9, which each measured 33.30 square metres and which he shared with twenty‑five co-detainees.
8.  the parties provided conflicting descriptions of the conditions of the applicant’s detention in the prison hospital between march and october 2007.the ventilation system, which was switched on in the mornings and evenings, and a small ventilation window measuring 25 by 30 cm, was unable to ensure sufficient inflow of fresh air.the cell had a squat toilet separated by a metal screen from the sink, but not from the table or the door.4, save for the facts that the cell had two windows and was located in the semi-basement and was therefore excessively humid.13.  as to the general conditions of detention, the applicant argued that daily outdoor exercises were dispiriting, as the prison yard, secured by high walls, was gloomy and small, and the outdoor activities did not last longer than an hour, or were sometimes even shorter.17.  relying on certificates issued by the prison hospital administration on 22, 23 and 24 april 2013, extracts from records of inmates’ transfers on 7 and 28 february, 27 march, 5 and 23 april, 7 august, 7 and 11 september, 1 october 2007, and a detailed plan of the prison hospital, the government claimed that the facility had not been overcrowded.m) number of detainees 28 february to 21 march 2007 4 37 7 21 to 27 march 2007 6 18.  relying on photos of the prison hospital, written statements about the conditions of detention in 2007 made by three inmates in 2013, and on certificates issued by the prison hospital administration on 22 and 24 april 2013, the government argued that the cell windows had allowed sufficient daylight so that inmates had been able to read and write.22.  in addition to a daily hour-long walk in the prison hospital’s yard, the applicant had been able to walk freely during the daytime within sanitary block.26.  on the day of his arrest, 18 october 2006, the applicant was seen by a prison paramedic, who performed a general check-up, noting, inter alia, that the applicant’s lungs were clear.the prison doctor studied the x-ray record and recommended the applicant’s transfer to the prison hospital.30.  in the beginning of 2008, when a chest x-ray and tomography examinations registered a new focal point of infiltration in the right lung, the applicant’s doctor confirmed the extent of the deterioration of the applicant’s health.40.  in the end of 2006 the applicant complained about the poor quality of medical care to the ministry of health of the republic of udmurtiya.41.  in the early 2007 he lodged a similar claim with the service for the execution of sentences in the republic of udmurtiya.43.  he further complained of the lack of medical assistance to the prosecutor’s office of the republic of udmurtiya.44.  in 2010 the applicant lodged two claims with the industrialnyy district court of the republic of udmurtiya arguing that he had not benefitted from adequate medical care in detention.
6.  on 7 march 2008 the applicant was arrested and brought to the tsentralniy district police station, voronezh (отдел внутренних дел центрального района г. воронежа, “the tsentralniy ovd”) for having employed offensive language in public.in particular, they had handcuffed his hands behind his back, lifted the handcuffs so that he could only stand on his toes, attached the handcuffs to metal bars and administered several blows to the applicant’s face and chest.8.  on 10 march 2008 the applicant was examined by the voronezh regional forensic bureau which in addition detected bruises on the applicant’s right eye and right wrist, and scratches on the left of his forehead and both wrists, inflicted by a blunt hard object.the report reflected the timing of these injuries as “one to three days prior”, “possibly 7 march 2008, as argued by [the applicant]”.10.  on 19 march 2008 the applicant lodged an application with the tsentralniy district investigation department of the investigative committee at the voronezh regional prosecutor’s office (следственный отдел по центральному району г. воронежа cледственного управления следственного комитета при прокуратуре российской федерации по воронежской области, “the district investigation department”) requesting that criminal proceedings be instituted against the police officers who had ill-treated him at the tsentralniy ovd on 7 march 2008.11.  on 23 march 2008 an investigator of the district investigation department rejected the applicant’s request as unfounded for lack evidence of a crime.12.  on 24 april 2008 the above decision was set aside by the deputy head of the district investigation department as unfounded, and the case file material was referred for an additional pre-investigation inquiry.the respective decisions to reject the request were taken by the investigator of the district investigation department on 1 october, 5 november, 11 december 2008 and 13 august 2009 on the basis of: -  the applicant’s statements; -  the forensic medical report of 10 march 2008 (see paragraph 8 above) and the additional forensic medical report of 1 october 2008, which confirmed the conclusions of the initial report; -  the statements of mr p.m., the applicant’s father, who submitted that on 7 march 2008 at about 9.30 p.m. the applicant’s friends had brought his son from the tsentralniy ovd, that the applicant had had bruises and had been in shock and had told him that he had been subjected to ill-treatment by the police; -  the statements of ms t.d., a friend of the applicant, who submitted that she had picked the applicant up from the tsentralniy ovd on 7 march 2008 at about 10 p.m., that the applicant had had no visible injuries and told her that the police officers had ill-treated him by forcing him into a stress position known as “the swallow” (ласточка); -  the statements of ms a.m., the applicant’s wife, who submitted that the applicant had arrived home on 7 march 2008 at approximately 11.55 p.m., that he had had abrasions on his wrists and a black eye, and that he had told her that the police had beaten him up, handcuffed his hands behind his back and suspended him from a metal bar by handcuffs; -  the statements of ms z.k, the applicant’s mother-in-law, who submitted that she had picked up the applicant’s belongings at the tsentralniy ovd on 7 march 2008 and had not seen the applicant committing any unlawful acts or police officers applying physical force to the applicant; -  the report by police officer v.v., who submitted that on 7 march 2008 at about 6.10 p.m. he and police officer s.s. had apprehended the applicant for having employed offensive language in public; -  the statements of officers v.v.and s.s. who denied having applied physical force to the applicant; -  the statements of police officer p.a., who submitted that on 7 march 2008 at about 7.00 p.m. the applicant was brought to the tsentralniy ovd; he had had no visible injuries and had been behaving calmly, and no physical force or measures of restraint had been applied to him; -  the statements of police officers s.sh.and m.v., who had been on duty on 7 march 2008, who submitted that they had had no information about the applicant’s arrest, and that they had not seen physical force or measures of restraint being applied to any of the persons brought to the tsentralniy ovd on that date; -  the statements of several persons who had been detained at the tsentralniy ovd at the same time as the applicant, who submitted that they had not seen or heard that any unlawful measures had been applied to the applicant by the police officers.14.  all of the above decisions refusing the institution of criminal proceedings against the police officers were subsequently set aside by the deputy head of the district investigation department as unfounded, and an additional pre-investigation inquiry was ordered.15.  on 19 may and 28 october 2008, and 10 august 2009 the tsentralniy district court, voronezh, discontinued the proceedings by which the applicant sought to challenge the lawfulness of the decisions of 23 march, 1 october and 11 december 2008 respectively, refusing to open a criminal case against the police officers as in the meantime the above decisions had been set aside.16.  after the application was communicated to the russian government, on 23 march 2011 the district investigation department instituted criminal proceedings under article 286 § 3 of the criminal code of the russian federation.19.  on 6 june 2011 the applicant participated in an onsite verification of his statements and in an identity parade of the police officers.20.  on 25 july 2011 the investigation was suspended on the grounds that it was impossible to identify the alleged perpetrators.
26.  in a judgment of 25 september 2007 the high court of eastern denmark unanimously found that the refusal to grant the applicants family reunion with reference to the 28-year rule and the attachment requirement did not contravene the articles of the convention or of the european convention on nationality relied upon.in view of the information on [the applicants’] situation and their ties with ghana, the high court accordingly finds no basis for setting aside the respondent’s decision establishing that [the applicants’] aggregate ties with ghana were stronger than their aggregate ties with denmark and that [the applicants] therefore did not meet the attachment requirement set out in section 9, subsection 7, of the aliens act.although the high court has held that article 8 of the convention has not been breached in this case, the high court has to consider [the applicants’] claim that, within the substantive area otherwise protected by article 8, the decision of the ministry constituted a breach of article 14 read in conjunction with article 8 of the convention.the assessment of whether the refusal of the ministry implied discrimination amounting to a breach of article 14 read in conjunction with article 8 of the convention is accordingly considered to depend on whether the difference in treatment which occurred as a consequence of the attachment requirement in spite of nationality can be considered objectively justified and proportionate.accordingly, and in view of the specific information on [the first applicant’s] situation, the high court finds no sufficient basis for holding that the refusal by the ministry to grant a residence permit to [the second applicant] with reference to the attachment requirement of the aliens act implies a disproportionate infringement of [the first applicant’s] rights as a danish national and his right to family life.for the reasons given by the high court, the supreme court upholds the decision made by the ministry of integration that it is not contrary to article 8 to refuse [the second applicant’s] application for a residence permit.” 29.  moreover, the majority in the supreme court (four judges) found that the 28-year rule was in compliance with article 8 of the convention read in conjunction with article 14 of the convention.according to the preparatory work in respect of the relaxation, the government found that the fundamental aim of tightening the attachment requirement in 2002 was not forfeited by refraining from demanding that the attachment requirement be met in cases where the resident had been a danish national for 28 years (see page 49 of schedule a to the official gazette for 2003 to 2004).in this case the court found that it was not contrary to the convention that a person born in egypt who had later moved to the united kingdom and become a national of the united kingdom and colonies was treated less favourably as regards the right to family reunion with a foreigner than a national born in the united kingdom or whose parent(s) were born in the united kingdom.we find that the criterion of 28 years of danish nationality has the same aim as the requirement of birth in the united kingdom, which was accepted by the court in the 1985 judgment as not being contrary to the convention: to distinguish a group of nationals who, seen from a general perspective, had lasting and strong ties with the country.reference is made to the case, relative to the then applicable additional british requirement of place of birth considered by the european court of human rights, of a national who was not born in the united kingdom, but who had in reality stronger ties with the united kingdom than other nationals who satisfied the requirement of place of birth, but had moved abroad with their parents at a tender age or maybe had even been born abroad.she was born in egypt in 1946 or 1948. she first went to the united kingdom in 1973 and obtained nationality of the united kingdom and colonies in 1979. she married a turkish national bekir balkandali in 1981, and their application for spousal reunion in the united kingdom for the husband of a british national was refused later in 1981. a comparison of the two cases reveals that both [the first applicant] and mrs balkandali only came to denmark and the united kingdom, respectively, as adults.as regards the significance of the european convention on nationality of 6 november 1997, we find for the reasons stated by the high court that it cannot be a consequence of article 5 § 2 of this convention that the scope of the prohibition against discrimination based on article 14 read in conjunction with article 8 of the european convention of human rights should be extended further than justified by the 1985 judgment.concerning the reason for this, the preparatory work in respect of the act states, inter alia: ‘with resident aliens and danish nationals of foreign extraction it is a widespread marriage pattern to marry a person from their country of origin, among other reasons due to parental pressure ... the government find that the attachment requirement, as it is worded today, does not take sufficient account of the existence of this marriage pattern among both resident foreigners and resident danish nationals of foreign extraction.1204 of 27 december 2003, the application of the attachment requirement to danish nationals was restricted through the 28-year rule, and the preparatory work in respect of the act stated that the purpose was, inter alia, ‘to ensure that danish expatriates with strong and lasting ties to denmark in the form of at least 28 years of danish nationality will be able to obtain spousal reunion in denmark’.the memorandum of 14 january 2005 made by the ministry of integration and the memorandum of november 2006 made by the working group composed of representatives of the ministry of justice, the ministry of foreign affairs and the ministry of integration state that the provision solely concerns issues on the revocation and loss of nationality.
he had also intended to have sexual intercourse with the applicant but finally decided to help her get up, clean and dress herself, and accompanied her back to the house where the funeral wake was being held.it stated that the applicant presented a psychological disorder caused by a physical and psychological trauma to which she had been exposed on 13 january 2007. the doctor held that, according to the documents presented by the oradea psychiatric hospital, the applicant’s condition had required fourteen days of medical care.he alleged that he had seen the applicant during the wake and had invited her to go with him to the deserted house, which she had done voluntarily.when she asked him to come closer, he started kissing her and wanted to have sex with her, but felt uneasy about it, so he helped her get dressed and clean up the mud on her coat, and accompanied her back to the wake.20.  the applicant gave another detailed account of the facts in a statement drafted on 18 january 2007. she repeated that the three boys had forced her to go with them without saying where they were taking her, so she had not known what was going on.in addition, all the men questioned stated that they knew for a fact that the applicant had had sex before with other men and that they had been unaware of her age at the time.24.  on 2 march 2007 the case was transmitted to the prosecutor’s office attached to the bihor county court in order for it to pursue the investigation into the crime of sexual intercourse with a minor.the prosecutor based the decision on the following facts: the two men declared that they had not forced the applicant in any way; the forensic medical certificate attested to no signs of violence on the applicant’s body; and after returning to the wake she had not told her girlfriends what had happened to her.when he reached the meeting point, the applicant started kissing him and asked him to go with her to the back of the garden, away from the road.he concluded his testimony before the court with the remark: “... i was asked by someone in the village whether it was true what happened and whether i was not ashamed of what i had done, but i replied that it was not safe to leave girls alone on the streets.” 31.  on 31 august and 28 september 2007 the court heard statements from the applicant’s two girlfriends, as well as from m.i.c.lastly, the applicant considered that the medical reports submitted clearly attested to the suffering she had endured and therefore the court had erred in rejecting her claim for damages.the decision of the beiuş district court concerning the classification of the crime and the suspension of the execution of the sentences was upheld.in reply to the applicant’s reasons for appeal, the court reasoned: “it must be mentioned that the victim tried to convince the court that, in fact, she had not agreed to have sexual intercourse with the two defendants and that she had been the victim of a rape, but these allegations had not been proved in any way.... it must also be noted that from the forensic medical report ... it does not appear that the injured party was the victim of a rape, since she displayed no signs of post‑traumatic injury on her body.” 37.  an appeal on points of law (recurs) lodged by the applicant against that judgment was rejected as ill-founded on 8 may 2008 by the oradea court of appeal.the court declared briefly that by corroborating the victim’s statement with the forensic medical report of 14 january 2007, the existence of a crime of rape had been excluded in the case.
7.  on 15 april 2005 the criminal case was reopened and joined to the criminal proceedings instituted in respect of the killings of mr paul khlebnikov, the founding editor of the russian edition of forbes magazine, and mr yan sergunin, a former deputy prime minister of chechnya.two days later the basmannyy district court, moscow, (“the district court”) authorised his detention during the investigation, having assessed the gravity of the charges and the risk of the applicant absconding, reoffending and interference with witness.9.  on 21 july 2005 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 9 october 2005, citing the gravity of the charges and the particular complexity of the case, and having looked into the state of the applicant’s health and not considering it to be serious enough to justify his release.15.  after the preliminary hearing the city court authorised a trial by jury, fixed the first trial hearing for 29 december 2005 and once more collectively extended the detention of the defendants, including the applicant, for an unspecified period of time, again citing exclusively the gravity of the charges.16.  during a hearing of 15 february 2006 the applicant’s lawyer asked the city court to release the applicant, arguing that his detention pending trial was not based on sufficient and valid reasons and was therefore in breach of article 5 § 3 of the convention.17.  the applicant appealed against the decision of 15 february 2006. his statement of appeal bears the stamp of the city court and indicates that it was lodged on 21 february 2006. seventeen days later his lawyer received a letter from the presiding judge, stating that the appeal could not be accepted because russian procedural law did not provide for the possibility to appeal against intermediate decisions issued by a trial court.a stamp on the appeal statement indicates that it reached the city court on 12 april 2006. five days later the court returned the statement to the lawyers, noting that the decision of 4 april 2006 was not amenable to appeal.20.  a similar request for release was lodged by the applicant’s lawyers on 19 april 2006. that request was also refused by the city court, which ruled that the detention had been lawfully authorised on 6 december 2005 and that there were no grounds for changing the measure of restraint.according to a certificate issued by the detention authorities on 30 july 2010, as well as the daily transport schedule submitted by the government, on court hearing dates the applicant had risen at 6 a.m. at around 8 a.m. he had been put in a prison van and had been taken to the court house.35.  on 30 october 2005 nine of the applicant’s cellmates had lodged a complaint with the detention authorities, noting the applicant’s poor health and their (that is to say, the cellmates’) inability to cope with the applicant’s health problems.37.  the applicant had further alleged that the authorities had not provided him with the required medical attention or drugs necessary to treat his epilepsy or at least to decrease the frequency of seizures, of which they had been fully aware.38.  the applicant’s lawyer had interviewed three inmates who had shared a cell with the applicant between june 2005 and may 2006. they had consistently stated that the applicant’s epilepsy had been known to the detention authorities, including the resident doctor.the applicant had been initially assigned the upper-tier bunk, but on the doctor’s recommendation, he had been allowed to move to the lower tier to reduce the risk of injuries during seizures.the lawyer insisted that the applicant’s health had seriously deteriorated during his detention, that his convulsive episodes had become too frequent, that the applicant had started suffering from occasional visual and auditory hallucinations, that he had difficulty concentrating and had experienced memory loss, and so on.40.  in the meantime, on 24 october 2005, in view of the deterioration of the applicant’s health, his lawyer requested the head of the remand prison and the prosecutor general’s office to authorise a complex medical examination of the applicant by doctors from the s.p.
5.  the applicants were born in 1943 and 1942 respectively and live in odessa.6.  on 30 april 2002 the applicants’ daughter was struck by a car driven by p. as she was crossing the street.7.  between april 2002 and october 2010 the prosecution authorities delivered at least ten decisions refusing to institute or discontinuing criminal proceedings in respect of p. owing to a lack of corpus delicti in his actions.all those decisions were quashed by the supervising authorities as unsubstantiated and further investigations were ordered.8.  on 9 july 2009 the first applicant lodged a civil claim against p. within the criminal proceedings.on 15 july 2009 he was attributed the status of an aggrieved party in those proceedings.9.  on 26 october 2010 the odessa suvorivskyy district court discontinued the criminal proceedings against p. as time-barred.on 21 december 2010 and 20 november 2012 the odessa regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) and the higher specialised court for civil and criminal matters (“the higher specialised court”), respectively, upheld that decision.10.  on 20 november 2012 the higher specialised court also issued a separate ruling, by which it brought to the attention of the court of appeal and the odessa regional prosecutor’s office a number of shortcomings in the proceedings.it stated, in particular, that the pre-trial investigation had been perfunctory and lengthy.the numerous refusals by the investigating authorities to institute criminal proceedings in respect of the accident had been unfounded and had eventually been quashed.guidelines as regards remedying shortcomings in the investigation had been ignored.the overall duration of the investigation, over ten years, had been unjustified.in summary, the higher specialised court held that the criminal investigation in question had not complied with domestic legislation or the convention.it therefore instructed the aforementioned authorities to take measures to prevent similar violations in the future.
there were targeted killings of serbian civilians by members of the croatian police and army in the sisak area during a prolonged period in 1991 and 1992 (see jelić v. croatia, no.8.  on 3 june 1991 parliament enacted the specially protected tenancies (sale to occupier) act (zakon o prodaji stanova na kojima postoji stanarsko pravo, hereinafter “the sale to occupier act”) with regulations on the sale of socially-owned flats previously let under a specially protected tenancy.according to the government, during the proceedings before the domestic courts the applicant did not produce any document which showed the flat as having been allocated to him.the applicant participated in the reopened proceedings as an intervener on the side of the plaintiff.13.  on the same day, sisak ironworks holding and the fortis company concluded an agreement to sell the flat at issue to the applicant, under the sale to occupier act.14.  on 22 may 1996 the sisak county court dismissed the action by the sisak ironworks flat company to terminate the specially protected tenancy held by s.k.15.  after the croatian authorities had gained control over petrinja in 1995, the applicant and his family sought reconstruction assistance for their house in petrinja to be repaired, under the reconstruction act (see paragraph 28 below).16.  on 12 december 1996 the office for reconstruction and development of sisak-moslavina county accepted the applicant’s request and granted him and his family the sum of 29,900 croatian kunas (hrk) to repair their house in petrinja.17.  the applicant and his family confirmed to the administrative authorities that they had returned to petrinja on 16 january 1998. they had their registered residence in petrinja between 5 february 1993 and 28 december 1999.brought a civil action in the sisak municipal court (općinski sud u sisku) against the parties to the 1994 contract of sale, seeking the annulment of that contract.the claim was dismissed by the sisak municipal court on the grounds that the contract of sale had been concluded in accordance with the law, since at that time the applicant had had a specially protected tenancy of the flat in question.had not lost her specially protected tenancy since it had been restored to her and therefore the contract of sale had been concluded in breach of the mandatory rules of the sale to occupier act.it also held that the applicant had known the circumstances in which the former holders of the specially protected tenancy had left the flat at issue as well as that they had lodged a request for the re-opening of the proceedings in which their specially protected tenancy had been terminated.in essence he complained about the annulment of his title to the flat by the sisak county court.in particular, in his constitutional complaint he wrote, inter alia: “the complainant’s right to inviolability of ownership guaranteed by article 3 of the croatian constitution was violated by the decisions of the sisak county court and the sisak municipal court because the unconstitutional decision of the sisak county court interferes with the complainant’s ownership ...” 21.  the constitutional court declared the applicant’s constitutional complaint inadmissible on 9 june 2011 holding that the case did not raise any constitutional issues.
11.  on the same day, the prosecutor sent the request by the applicant’s mother to the akmenė district court, together with an extract from the applicant’s medical records.psychiatrists took into account the letters by his mother to the akmenė district psychiatric health centre and the prosecutor to the effect that the applicant did not take care of his daily needs, and had social and health issues and suicidal thoughts.the copy of the summons indicated that it had not been served because, according to his next door neighbour, the applicant was mentally ill and opened the door to no one.16.  at a public hearing on 31 january 2007 the akmenė district court, relying on articles 465-468 of the code of civil procedure, granted the prosecutor’s request for the applicant to be declared incapacitated, on the grounds that he could not understand or control his actions.17.  the government submitted that, given the fact that it had not actually been possible to serve the summons on the applicant, the decision of 31 january 2007 had only been sent to the interested parties in the case, that is to say the applicant’s mother, the prosecutor and social services.19.  having established that the applicant was legally incapacitated, by a ruling of 6 march 2007 the akmenė district court appointed the applicant’s mother as his guardian and the administrator of his property.later that day, in the presence of a psychiatrist and the appointed lawyer, the šiauliai district court granted a request by the psychiatric hospital for the applicant to be forcibly hospitalised.the court noted that the applicant was absolutely uncritical of his own behaviour, and that his state of mind at that time meant that he posed a danger to himself and others.22.  the government submitted to the court an extract from the applicant’s medical records, which indicated that he had been at the šiauliai psychiatric hospital from 9 march until 22 june 2007. the doctor indicated in that record that a copy of the court ruling of 13 march 2007 had been given to the applicant.26.  the legal aid service noted that the decisions the applicant wished to challenge had been taken in january and march 2007. given that he had not requested legal aid until 28 november 2008, he had missed the deadline for appeal against those decisions.27.  as to the appointment of the applicant’s mother as his legal guardian, the legal aid service indicated that he had given no grounds for doubting her ability to perform her duties as guardian and the administrator of his property.28.  on 15 december 2008 the applicant requested that the akmenė district court give him a copy of the court rulings regarding his incapacitation and the appointment of his legal guardian.29.  on 16 december 2008 a judge of the akmenė district court wrote to the applicant informing him that those court rulings would not be given to him, because his mother had been appointed as his legal guardian and the administrator of his property.30.  in their observations on the admissibility and merits of the case, sent to the court on 2 may 2012, the government noted that at that time the applicant had lived separately in his own apartment.31.  on 13 august 2014 the applicant complained to the šiauliai prosecutor’s office that in 2004 he had been forcibly admitted to the šiauliai psychiatric hospital and made to undergo medical treatment.
10.  on 9 november 2007 limarko provided the investigators with the following documents: the captain’s service report; an extract from the ship’s logbook of 24 october 2007; a report on the circumstances of v.b.’s death, signed by the captain and two assistant captains; two reports (one by the captain and one by the chief engineer) to the brazilian authorities; statements by twelve members of the crew; the death certificate issued on 5 november 2007 in brazil; documents about the work instructions given to v.b.11.  on 21 november 2007 the applicant requested that the prosecutor and the state labour inspectorate (valstybinė darbo inspekcija, a state body responsible for safety at work, hereinafter – “the sli”) examine her husband’s body and investigate the cause of his death and his working conditions on the ship.14.  after a complaint by the applicant, that decision, however, was quashed by the klaipėda regional court on 13 february 2008. the court held that the prosecutor had failed properly to investigate the applicant’s submission that her husband had died because of dangerous conditions on the vega.citing conversations with her late husband, the applicant said that in reality the conditions of work on the vega had been very difficult as the ship had been in a bad technical state and its mechanics had had to deal permanently with fires and leaks of gas, without any adequate protection.when examining the applicant’s complaint, the sli had obtained internal correspondence between limarko and the vega, which showed that the working conditions on the ship had been hard – the ship’s machinery, including the main engine, would often break down, and the engine emitted combustion gases into the ship; there had also been frequent fires.the prosecutor held that no crime had taken place and that the applicant’s husband had died of a heart attack, when ‘the ship was on a voyage in the atlantic ocean near the brazilian port of imbituba’.the court observed that on 10 september 2008 the applicant had asked the prosecutor to order an expert examination to establish whether the constant breathing of combustion gases could cause a heart attack, and to ask the brazilian authorities to provide the report on her husband’s autopsy and the results of blood tests, as those documents had not been present among those brought back with v.b.’s body.in the opinion of the klaipėda regional court, it was therefore vital to continue the pre-trial investigation and to eliminate the doubts raised by the applicant as to the reliability of the results of the medical examination of v.b.’s body, and to establish whether v.b.24.  on 24 march 2009 the prosecutor ordered the klaipėda seaport police to establish the whereabouts of the vega and whether it was possible to inspect the ship; to question everyone who worked on it, including about working conditions, as noted in the applicant’s complaint; to obtain documents from limarko related to safety at work; and to ask the sli whether they had examined the actual working conditions on the ship.she mentioned the records in the logs of the machinery room; the service reports to limarko by the captain and chief mechanic; the description of repairs to the main engine; and the work which her husband performed on the ship.33.  on 7 january 2010, in reply to a request made the same day by the prosecutor, the lithuanian maritime safety administration (lietuvos saugios laivybos administracija) noted that the vega had been taken off the register of lithuanian ships, because a foreign company, pantex trading limited (nevis), had bought the ship.had been performed and his blood tested (and, if so, to provide the results of the autopsy and the tests), and whether the brazilian authorities had inspected the vega after the death to examine the working conditions on board.39.  on 24 august 2010 the klaipėda seaport police asked experts from the state forensic medicine service (valstybinės teismo medicinos tarnyba) to answer the following questions: 1) what is characteristic evidence that a person has died from an acute heart attack and is it possible to conclude that a person has died from a heart attack without an autopsy; 2) could a dangerous working environment in a non-ventilated ship machinery room (where emission gases were present) have had an impact on v.b.’s death, that is, could such conditions have caused an acute heart attack; 3) how long must a person work in a harmful working environment, where there is an elevated level of emission gases, before getting a heart attack.41.  proceeding on that basis, the experts stated that, in medical practice, death certificates without an autopsy were delivered only when there was documented medical data that the person had been ill with a long-term disease (sirgo lėtine liga), that the circumstances of death were clear, and that there was no evidence that the cause of death could have been due to physical injuries or other external factors.46.  the applicant appealed against the decision to discontinue the criminal investigation, arguing that the report by the specialist, j. r., had not definitely confirmed that her husband had died of a heart attack, given that no autopsy had been carried out.
on 24 may 2011 the nova gorica local court (“the local court”) dismissed her claim and on 13 june 2011 the judgment was served on her lawyer.8.  the time-limit for appealing against the judgment expired at midnight on 28 june 2011. at 6.54 p.m. on that day the applicant’s lawyer sent a document of six pages by fax to the local court.the next day, after the expiry of the time-limit, the applicant’s lawyer sent the appeal against the first-instance judgment, consisting of six pages, by registered mail.10.  on 12 august 2011, at the request of the koper higher court (“the higher court”), the competent judge of the local court enquired about the faxes received by the registry of that court on 28 june 2011 from 6 to 7 p.m. the confirmation page showed that the local court had received a document of six pages from the applicant’s lawyer at 6.59 p.m. on 24 august 2011 the competent judge was informed that the fax from the applicant’s lawyer had been saved in the fax machine’s memory, but had not been printed out.11.  on 14 november 2011 the higher court dismissed the appeal, noting that the local court had received the documentation that had been lodged by mail only on 29 june 2011. it held that the appeal allegedly lodged on 28 june 2011 by fax would have been regarded as within the prescribed time-limit only if it had been delivered to the court before its expiry.the burden of proof that the appeal had been lodged in due time was on the applicant.the higher court acknowledged that the confirmation page submitted by the applicant indeed showed that on 28 june 2011 the applicant had sent a document of six pages by fax.she pointed out that section 112 of the civil procedure act allowed the submission of an application by fax and that according to the existing case-law of the supreme court an application was deemed to be submitted in due time if delivered to the competent court before the expiry of the time-limit regardless of how it was subsequently handled by the court, which was a matter of the court’s internal organisation.the applicant submitted that the local court had received her appeal by fax in due time but then most probably failed to print it out and the document had automatically been deleted from the fax machine’s memory.hence, she argued that the date when the fax had been sent should be considered as the date the appeal had been lodged and that she should not be made to bear the burden of proof in a case where the document had not been printed out by the court.furthermore, as regards her failure to prove the content of the fax that had been sent to the local court on 28 june 2011, the applicant submitted: firstly, that the confirmation page from her lawyer’s fax machine had showed the date of the transmission, the number of pages sent and the time it had taken to deliver the document to the receiving machine; secondly, on the following day, 29 june 2011, the applicant had lodged the relevant document by registered mail which, according to her, proved that the document in question was in fact the appeal against the judgment of 24 may 2011. the applicant added that, according to information given to her by a telecommunications company and a fax-machine manufacturer, it was not possible to prove the content of a document sent by fax as those transmissions were encrypted.in the supreme court’s opinion, there was a possibility that the court would not receive the relevant document in due time because of faults in the telecommunications network or similar technical reasons (lack of paper, an empty ink cartridge, the machine shutting down, and so on).such a risk was borne by the applicant in the same manner as if the document were sent by regular – as opposed to registered – mail, whereby the risk of late receipt of a motion was borne by the sender.since the applicant had failed to prove the content of the document sent by fax on 28 june 2011, the supreme court confirmed that the higher court had correctly taken into consideration only the appeal sent by registered post the next day.14.  on 18 october 2013 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint in which she reiterated the arguments raised before the supreme court.
4.  the applicant, mr vladislav andreyevich gankin, was born in 1954 and lives in volzhskiy, the volgograd region.on 3 october 2007 the volzhskiy town court of the volgograd region heard the case in the applicant’s presence and rejected his claim.the government stated that on 9 november 2007 a judicial summons was sent to the applicant by mail.6.  on 29 november 2007 the volgograd regional court upheld the judgment of the town court in the applicant’s absence, without addressing the issue of whether he had been notified.on 6 march 2007 the tsentralnyy district court of tyumen dismissed the applicant’s claim.the government stated that on 12 april 2007 a judicial summons was sent to the applicant’s post‑office box.9.  on 2 may 2007 the tyumen regional court examined and dismissed the applicant’s appeal in her absence, without examining the issue of whether she had been notified.10.  the applicant, mr aleksey dmitriyevich belkin, was born in 1952 and lives in neya, the kostroma region.on 19 may 2009 the neyskiy district court of the kostroma region examined the case in the applicant’s presence and satisfied his claim in part.the government stated that on 10 august 2009 the kostroma regional court had sent a judicial summons to the applicant by regular mail and had also called the telephone number listed in his statement of claim.12.  on 19 august 2009 the kostroma regional court quashed the district court’s judgment and dismissed the applicant’s claim in his absence, without examining the issue of whether he had been notified.on 1 september 2011 the kirovskiy district court of yekaterinburg heard the case in the applicant’s presence and refused his claim.the government stated that on 12 october 2011 the regional court sent a judicial summons to the applicant by registered mail.three postal notices were then sent to the applicant inviting him to pick up the letter from the post office: on 18 and 24 october and 7 november 2011. according to the applicant he received the postal notice only on 11 november 2011.15.  on 1 november 2011 the sverdlovsk regional court rejected the applicant’s appeal claim in his absence and did not examine the issue of whether he had been notified.
7.  at the time when the criminal proceedings (see paragraphs 11-32 below) were initiated, there were four judges working in the criminal section of the strumica court of first instance (“the trial court”): judges m.a., c.k., t.d.commissioned an expert report, to be prepared by the forensic bureau (биро за судски вештачења) (“the bureau”), regarding the reasons for the accident, the speed at which the applicant had been driving at the relevant time, whether the accident could have been avoided, and other relevant matters.14.  on 14 march 2007 a mechanical engineer from the bureau drew up an expert report (“the first expert report”), relying partly on the statements given by the witnesses before judge b.b.17.  on 12 july 2007 the applicant asked the president of the trial court to exclude the trial court judges who acted in the criminal proceedings, namely judge c.k.and t.d., given that the case concerned a traffic accident in which the daughter of a judge in the criminal section of the court had been killed.finally, he stated that he hoped that the president of the trial court would ask the president of the štip court of appeal (“the appellate court”) to assign the case to another first-instance court.and t.d., who had been appointed as members of the panel in the applicant’s case, gave written statements that the fact that their colleague’s daughter had died in the accident would not influence their adjudication.19.  the trial continued, and on the same day the applicant lodged a fresh application for exclusion of judge t.d., given that he had presided over the three-judge panel which had dismissed the applicant’s objection to the indictment (see paragraph 15 above).20.  on 13 july 2007 the president of the trial court upheld the latest application for the exclusion of judge t.d.finally, the trial court upheld the compensation claim lodged by judge m.a., her husband and her other daughter against the applicant’s insurance company, which had acknowledged the claim (го призна барањето).the third expert report was identical to the first and contradictory to the second, as regards the speed at which the applicant had been driving at the time of the accident.the part of its judgment concerning the alleged lack of impartiality reads as follows: “the complaints about a violation of section 36(2) of the [criminal proceedings act] are groundless ... [the applicant’s] defence lawyer applied for exclusion of [judges c.k, g.m., s.d.according to the statements given by the judges, the president of the court of first instance took a decision ... by which he dismissed the application for exclusion, for reasons stated in the decision.” 29.  the appellate court further held that the second expert report had not been ordered by the court, that the experts had not been warned of their duties and had not taken an oath, that the court had not established which matters should have been addressed by the report, and that it was for the trial court to decide whether it would accept the report.as regards the applicant’s complaint that evidence proposed by him had not been admitted at the trial, the appellate court held that this did not amount to a violation of the applicant’s right to defence, as the trial court was not obliged to accept all proposed evidence.citing articles 6 and 8 of the convention, the applicant complained that judge c.k., the clerk of the victim’s mother (judge m.a.
4.  the applicants were born in 1971 and 1975 respectively and live in the city of komsomolsk.on the same day police examined the scene of the accident, questioned s. and several other witnesses.6.  on 1 june 2006 the applicants’ son died of numerous serious injuries caused by the above traffic accident.7.  on 9 june 2006 the komsomolsk prosecutor’s office refused to institute criminal proceedings against s. this refusal was quashed on 14 june 2006 by the same office and instructions were given as to further investigative actions.in particular, the police were instructed to find and examine the direct witness of the accident who was an employee of the komsomolsk department of state postal service (later it turned out to be b.).8.  on 6 july 2006 the poltava regional police department instituted criminal proceedings into the traffic accident which led to the child’s death.9.  on 13 july 2006 the applicants were officially recognised as aggrieved parties in the criminal proceedings.10.  between may 2006 and april 2007 the police conducted two technical and two medical forensic expert examinations, on-site traffic accident reconstructions, questioned s., the applicants and several other witnesses.11.  from april 2007 until october 2009 the investigation was terminated on numerous occasions for lack of corpus delicti in the actions of s. subsequently it was resumed by the investigator (in november 2007) or the above decisions were quashed by higher prosecutor’s office, due to various omissions in the investigation and with instructions to carry out further actions with a view to collecting evidence.12.  on several occasions the criminal investigation was suspended because it was not possible to establish a person liable for the traffic accident.13.  during the above period the police investigator examined several witnesses (including b. on 7 september 2009) and conducted one reconstruction.15.  on 5 october 2010 s. was for the first time officially recognised as a suspect in the criminal proceedings.16.  on 26 march 2012 the case was referred to the komsomolsk court.17.  on 4 april 2013 the komsomolsk court, having established that s. had committed the crime of negligence, amnestied him and left unexamined the applicants’ civil claim.18.  on 25 june and 31 october 2013 the poltava regional court of appeal and the higher specialised civil and criminal court upheld the judgment of 4 april 2013.
according to the applicant company, at the material time the newspaper was one of the top nationwide dailies in ukraine by circulation and was closely associated with ms yuliya tymoshenko, a political leader.by the way, for the cost of an mp’s flat one could maintain the editorial staff of a daily newspaper for five to ten years (depending on what kind of flat it is).according to [the] ozhegov [dictionary], “demagoguery” is “influencing the feelings and instincts of those with low-level awareness on the basis of the deliberate distortion of facts”.at this point you need irony to make the demagogue’s statements sound absurd ...” 10.  on 18 july 2007 ms german lodged a defamation claim with the kyiv pecherskyy district court against the applicant company and the article’s author.she sought a retraction – in the form of the publication of a court judgment in her favour – of the allegedly false statements made in the article concerning her alleged acquisition of a flat,.the applicant company maintained that the statements in question had constituted a value judgment in respect of the legal provision entitling members of parliament to housing support.we don’t have many stars, like ganna german, [whose worth is] that of a flat in kyiv.” 12.  the court found that the plaintiff had not requested or received a flat in her capacity as a member of parliament; she had bought her own flat in 2001, before she had been elected.the court considered that the above statements suggested that the plaintiff had become a member of parliament for the sole purpose of obtaining a flat in kyiv.13.  relying in particular on the provisions of the civil code and of the information act and referring to the constitutional provision guaranteeing respect for private life (see paragraphs 20 and 21 below), the court ordered the applicant company to retract this information by publishing the operative part of its judgment and to pay the plaintiff 1,700 ukrainian hryvnias (uah, approximately 300 euros (eur) at the time) in compensation for non-pecuniary damage.14.  the court also found that the following extract constituted a value judgment on the author’s part and rejected the claim in this respect: “what if i were given more than a thousand bucks a month?i wish i could sell myself like that!” 15.  the applicant company appealed, arguing, in particular, that the statement in question had been an expression of the author’s opinion.for the applicant company, the lack of coherence in the plaintiff’s demand that a subjective opinion be retracted was illustrated by the fact that the plaintiff and the first-instance court had been unable to formulate a specific statement of retraction and had resorted to the requirement to publish the text of the judgment itself.for the applicant company, the plaintiff’s failure to formulate a specific retraction illustrated the rationale behind section 47-1 of the information act, under which value judgments were not subject to retraction.the applicant company argued that the requirement to retract the statement by publishing the text of the court judgment contradicted section 37 of the press act.72713/01, 29 march 2005), and de haes and gijsels v. belgium (24 february 1997, reports of judgments and decisions 1997‑i), arguing that according to the court’s case-law the limits of acceptable criticism were wider with regard to a politician than in relation to a private individual and that such criticism could include recourse to a degree of exaggeration, or even provocation.
the court found that the applicant’s criminal responsibility had been diminished at the time of the acts, owing to infantile brain damage combined with drunkenness.7.  in 1981 the göttingen regional court quashed the judgment of the hildesheim regional court of 1977. it convicted the applicant of intentionally committing offences while in a drunken state and sentenced him to one year and eight months’ imprisonment, without ordering his detention in a psychiatric hospital.the court, having regard to the findings of a psychiatric expert and the results of a re-examination of the applicant’s brain by new technical means, found that he did not suffer and had never suffered from a pathological mental disorder.he had either punched his victims in the face, kicked them in the face when they had fallen to the ground or set an alsatian dog on them, which had significantly injured the victims by biting them, sometimes on the stomach and neck.10.  the hildesheim regional court, having consulted a psychiatric expert and a psychological expert, found that the applicant had acted with full criminal responsibility at the time most of his offences had been committed, despite his prior consumption of alcohol.12.  on 2 may 2001 the hildesheim district court convicted the applicant of assault, finding that he had slapped his daughter in the face while under the influence of alcohol while on home leave from detention, and sentenced him to four months’ imprisonment.by a decision of 18 april 2005 the göttingen regional court then ordered further preventive detention in a psychiatric hospital (article 63 of the criminal code) rather than in a detoxification facility, as his rehabilitation could be better promoted there.16.  the regional court considered that the stricter criteria set out by the federal constitutional court in its judgment of 4 may 2011 regarding preventive detention beyond the former ten-year time-limit during the transitional period lasting until 31 may 2013 (see paragraph 39 below) were met in the applicant’s case.17.  the regional court found that the applicant suffered from a mental disorder for the purposes of section 1(1) of the therapy detention act (see paragraph 36 below), which was the cause of his previous offences.following its own critical review, it endorsed the conclusions about the applicant’s mental condition which s., an experienced and reliable expert in the field of forensic psychiatry, had drawn in his report dated 26 may 2010 and supplemented on 24 april 2011. the expert had completed his report on the basis of case files, as the applicant had refused an examination.s. had stated that, just as at the time of his offences, the applicant still suffered from a dissocial personality disorder with marked psychopathic elements, as defined by the relevant tool for the classification of diseases, the icd-10 (international statistical classification of diseases and related health problems in its current, revised version).as had been confirmed by s., there was a danger that he would again threaten the lives of others by attacking them, for instance by kicking his victims in the head or setting a dog on them and inciting it to bite them on the neck and face.20.  the regional court confirmed that the applicant’s rehabilitation could still be better promoted by detention in a psychiatric hospital than by placement in a preventive detention facility (article 67a §§ 1 and 2 of the criminal code, see paragraph 32 below).having regard to the fact that his offences – committed under the influence of alcohol – dated back twenty-seven years, that he had not drunk alcohol since then, and that the conditions of his detention had been extensively relaxed, the experts and the courts had not convincingly shown that there was a risk that he would commit a serious violent offence again if released.moreover, it had not been found by the experts or the domestic courts that his alleged mental disorder had caused the offences in question, nor that he was or had ever been an alcoholic.
10.  on 30 july 2014 the nasimi district court, relying on the official charges brought against the first applicant and the prosecutor’s request for application of the preventive measure of remand in custody (həbs qətimkan tədbiri), ordered her detention pending trial for a period of three months.13.  on 24 october 2014 the nasimi district court extended the first applicant’s detention pending trial by four months, until 28 february 2015. the court substantiated its decision by the fact that more time was needed to complete the investigation and that the grounds for the detention had not changed.25.  on 29 october 2014 the nasimi district court extended the second applicant’s detention pending trial by four months, until 5 march 2015. the court substantiated its decision by the fact that more time was needed to complete the investigation and that the grounds for the detention had not changed.35.  according to the first applicant, upon her arrival at the detention facility, she was examined by a doctor who confirmed that she had type 2 diabetes and chronic hepatitis c. 36.  from 31 july to 5 august 2014 she was provided with the necessary diabetic food and medicine by the second applicant who, as a close family member, was entitled to deliver her parcels.on 22 august 2014 the lawyer also lodged a request with the administration of the detention facility (“the administration”), complaining that on 21 august 2014 employees had refused to receive a parcel for the first applicant on the grounds that it had not been sent in by a family member.38.  on 22 august 2014 the first applicant lodged a request with the administration and the investigator in charge of the case, asking for a medical examination at her own expense by a doctor of her own choosing, a.g. she specified in her request that she suffered from diabetes and other serious illnesses, and that under domestic law detainees could be examined by a doctor of their own choosing.39.  by a letter of 4 september 2014, the deputy governor of the detention facility replied to her request, noting that there was no need for a medical examination by a.g. in this connection, he pointed out that the first applicant’s state of health was stable and being monitored by the detention facility doctors.49.  it further appears from the extracts of the first applicant’s detention facility medical records (məhkumun tibbi kitabçası) submitted by the government that on 31 july 2014 the doctor recommended that the first applicant continue the medical treatment for diabetes prescribed by her previous doctor, the drug galvus.the next delivery of medication, comprising 20 spasmalgon tablets, took place on 29 august 2014. the first applicant’s need for medication during this period was fully covered by the medication delivered on 2 august 2014. as to the provision of diabetic food from 5 to 23 august 2014, upon her arrival at the detention facility, the first applicant was registered on a list of diabetic detainees and was consequently provided with diabetic food during this period.on the same day she also underwent a blood test to determine her sugar level and the state of the hepatitis c. the government provided the court with copies of the results of the medical tests and examinations conducted that day.56.  on the same day she refused to undergo various medical examinations by a virologist, endocrinologist and physician from the ministry of health in the presence of the members of the joint working group on human rights and members of the public committee under the ministry of justice.74.  by a letter of 21 october 2014, the governor of the detention facility responded to the first applicant’s request of 19 september 2014. he claimed that she had not been subjected to violence by n.h. and that her conditions of detention complied with the established standards.79.  following the indication of the interim measure under rule 39 of the rules of court by the acting president of the section on 30 september 2014, the government responded by a letter dated 3 november 2014 submitting that the relevant domestic authorities had been immediately informed of the interim measure indicated by the court under rule 39. they further submitted that the applicants’ state of health was stable and did not require their transfer to an appropriate medical facility.81.  the reports sent by the government from november 2014 to june 2015 contained the same information in respect of the first applicant’s state of health and medical treatment as they submitted in their observations of 27 may 2015. as regards the second applicant’s state of health and medical treatment, all the reports contained the two following sentences: “over the past month, the second applicant’s state of health was under constant medical supervision, and it was assessed as satisfactory; no deterioration in his health has been noted.89.  it appears from the information submitted by the government that on an unspecified date the medical department of the prison service requested the baku court of appeal to change the second applicant’s detention pending trial due to his emotional state and the possible repeat of hypertensive crisis.
it established that m. had been strangled and that her body had been dragged to the place where it had been discovered.9.  on 28 june 1998 the police inspected the scene of the crime.they discovered the remnants of a fire and two plastic bags not far from the place where m.’s body had been found.furthermore, the police discovered the burnt remains of a calendar, some tampons, a student id with a stamp containing the word “law” (m. was a student at the kharkiv law academy), and a lighter.12.  on 1 october 1998 the police seized one of m.’s shoes, which had been discovered by a villager at some distance from the crime scene.13.  on 18 january 1999 a witness stated that on the evening of 18 june 1998 she had twice seen a beige car belonging to a certain b., with two male passengers and a girl resembling m., near the crime scene.14.  on 14 april 1999 the investigator in the case instructed the police to verify whether b. and his two passengers of 18 june 1998 could have been involved in the murder and to identify the girl who had been seen with them.as regards an inspection of the car and the covers of the seats, it appears that none was carried out at the time as the investigator had to order one again on 22 february 2010. that belated inspection produced no tangible results.in the remaining instances the investigation was resumed without any further details being given in the respective decisions.at least four times (in particular, in 1998, 2001 and 2009) the investigator complained to his supervisors that his instructions to the police had not been complied with.in particular, on 20 january 2009 the investigator, when instructing the police to undertake certain investigative measures, noted that earlier instructions to that effect, given in 2000, had not been followed up.overall, throughout the period in question, the investigator’s instructions to the police remained the same: to identify all the possible witnesses to the murder and to verify whether any of m.’s acquaintances, or any people with a criminal record living nearby, could have been involved in it.16.  the applicant submitted numerous complaints to the prosecution authorities about the length and ineffectiveness of the investigation.he was informed on at least four occasions that there had indeed been omissions in the investigation and that the police officers responsible had been disciplined.as regards the applicant’s requests for access to the case file, they were rejected on the grounds that under the applicable procedural legislation, an aggrieved party could only have such access after the pre-trial investigation had been completed.
the employers’ associations in the building industry (hauptverband der deutschen bauindustrie and zentralverband des deutschen baugewerbes) and the trade union (ig bauen-agrar-umwelt) concluded the collective agreement on social welfare proceedings in the building trade (tarifvertrag über das sozialkassenverfahren im baugewerbe, “vtv”).the vtv contained rules about contributions and entitlements in relation to both the zvk and the holiday and wage equalisation fund of the construction industry (urlaubs- und lohnausgleichskasse der bauwirtschaft, “ulak”), which jointly comprised the social welfare fund in the building industry which went by the common name “soka-bau”.8.  as the federal ministry for labour and social affairs declared the vtv generally binding (allgemeinverbindlich) pursuant to section 5 § 1 of the law on collective agreements (tarifvertragsgesetz), it was binding on all employers in the building industry, even if they did not belong to the employers’ association (section 5 § 4 of the law on collective agreements, see relevant domestic law and practice paragraph 20).as a consequence, all employers in the building industry were obliged to contribute to the social welfare fund an additional sum amounting to 19.8% of the gross wages paid to their employees.11.  on 12 april 2005, following enquiries made in order to establish whether the applicant was obliged to pay contributions, the social welfare fund sent a letter to the applicant company, informing it about its duty to pay contributions and that an account had been opened into which benefits would be paid.13.  on 11 october 2007 the wiesbaden labour court ordered the applicant company to pay 63,625.58 euros (eur) in welfare fund arrears for the period between september 2002 and march 2004 to the zvk.the applicant company was further ordered to submit copies of the wage slips issued to its employees between january 2006 and june 2007. the labour court considered that the applicant company was bound by the vtv, which was binding on all employers in the building industry even if they did not belong to one of the employers’ associations.the activities of the applicant company fell within the scope of the vtv which, in its article 1 § 2 (v) no.14.  the applicant company lodged an appeal submitting, in particular, that the generally binding effect of the vtv violated the negative aspects of its right to freedom of association.as well as confirming the labour court’s reasoning, the court of appeal held that the generally binding effect of the vtv did not violate the applicant company’s right to freedom of association.it observed that the generally binding effect did not entail an obligation to adhere either to one of the employers’ associations or to the social welfare fund.referring to the case-law of the federal constitutional court (decision of 15 july 1980, 1 bvr 24/74, see relevant domestic law and practice paragraph 27), the labour court of appeal conceded that the applicant company, which was not a member of one of the employers’ associations, had the disadvantage of not being able to assert its interests by exercising control over the activities of the social welfare fund via these associations.in so far as this fact exerted a certain pressure to become a member of one of the employers’ associations, this was, however, not sufficient to amount to a violation of the negative aspect of its right to freedom of association.16.  the court of appeal further considered that the obligation to contribute to the social welfare fund did not prevent the applicant company from founding its own association.17.  the court of appeal finally considered that the obligatory contribution to the social welfare fund took account of the high fluctuation of employees in the building industry and served the public interest of allowing for management of the employee’s claims by the social welfare fund, thus preventing a distortion of competition.
123), the banking regulation and supervision board (bankalar düzenleme ve denetleme kurulu, hereinafter referred to as “the board”) transferred the management and control of demirbank to the savings deposit insurance fund (tasarruf mevduatı sigorta fonu – hereinafter “the fund”), pursuant to section 14(3) of the banking activities act (law no.in its decision the board held that the assets of demirbank were insufficient to cover its liabilities and that the continuation of its activities would threaten the security and stability of the financial system.7.  on 31 january 2001 all of the bank’s equities were removed from its account at the istanbul stock exchange (istanbul menkul kıymetler borsası – hereinafter “the stock exchange”) and transferred to the account of the fund.8.  on 2 february 2001, the main shareholder of demirbank, namely cıngıllı holding a.ş., brought administrative proceedings against the banking regulation and supervision agency (bankalar düzenleme ve denetleme kurumu – hereinafter “the agency”) before the ankara administrative court, seeking a ruling setting aside the decision of 6 december 2000 to transfer demirbank to the fund.lastly, the company stated that following the transfer of the bank to the fund, a general assembly composed of the fund’s officials had exonerated the former managers of demirbank, holding that they had not been at fault in the incident leading to the bank’s transfer.12.  on 18 december 2003 the joint administrative chambers of the supreme administrative court decided to quash the decision of 3 june 2003. in its judgment, the court held that prior to ordering the transfer of demirbank to the fund, the board should have carried out an objective evaluation of the bank’s financial situation.14.  the case was remitted to the supreme administrative court, which delivered its decision on 5 november 2004 applying the decision of the joint administrative chambers of the supreme administrative court.15.  on 20 september 2001 ms s. cıngıllıoğlu, the main shareholder of cıngıllı holding a.ş., brought administrative proceedings against the fund before the ankara administrative court, seeking the annulment of the agreement to sell demirbank to hsbc.16.  given that the transfer of demirbank to the fund had been found to be illegal by the joint administrative chambers of the supreme administrative court, on 21 april 2004 the ankara administrative court annulled the agreement entered into by the fund and hsbc on 20 september 2001. an appeal and a request for rectification lodged by the fund were rejected on 3 june 2005 and 24 february 2006 respectively.on the basis of a previous judgment it had rendered on 3 june 2003 (see paragraph 11 above), the court found that the takeover of the bank by the fund had been in accordance with section 14(3) of the banking act.the court held that the applicant should have initiated proceedings within sixty days of the date on which demirbank’s equities had been transferred to the fund’s account at the stock exchange, namely 31 january 2001 (see paragraph 7 above).26.  following the two judgments in respect of the main shareholders (see paragraphs 8-16 above), on 10 and 11 may 2006 the applicant applied to the agency and the fund respectively, requesting the restitution of his rights as a shareholder.29.  subsequently, the applicant initiated another set of proceedings before the ankara administrative court, claiming that the agency should enforce the above-mentioned judgments and that his rights as a shareholder of demirbank should be reinstated.the court held that if the annulled administrative act had been regulatory (düzenleyici işlem), the concept of “concerned persons” would have applied to anyone who had been affected by it, whereas in the case of an individual act (bireysel işlem), it applied only to those who had been parties to the annulment proceedings.lastly, it indicated that the decisions of the agency and the fund to reject the applicant’s requests had been lawful and that restitution would not be possible.
in the light of various contradictions in the statements given by the first and second applicants, their inability to answer basic questions about the respective tribes they claimed to belong to, and the second applicant’s inability to provide simple topographic details of the city and the surroundings of the place where he claimed he had grown up and/or to provide any details about the m. opposition movement (goal, members, structure, leader) for which he claimed to have been active, the deputy minister concluded that no credence could be attached to the applicants’ asylum statement.the minister also took into consideration the order amending the aliens act 2000 implementation guidelines 2004/36 (wijzigingsbesluit vreemdelingencirculaire 2000, “wbv 2004/36”), which was based on an official report on sudan drawn up by the ministry of foreign affairs (ministerie van buitenlandse zaken) on 3 february 2004 (dpv/am‑823666), according to which women who had had the benefit of a higher education (namely a university or higher professional level education) and who were living in the larger cities in sudan did not experience any social stigma for not subjecting their daughters to fgm, whereas women in the rural areas who had received little or no schooling had little choice but to subject their daughters to this practice.16.  in a joint ruling given on 12 june 2005 the provisional-measures judge (voorzieningenrechter) of the regional court of the hague sitting in zwolle granted the first and second applicants’ appeals, quashed the impugned decisions and remitted the case to the minister for a fresh decision.according to the policy guidelines set out in c1/4.3.3 vc 2000, a girl can – if return would entail a real risk of genital mutilation – qualify for an asylum-based residence permit ... the following conditions apply: - there exists a risk of genital mutilation; - the authorities of the country of origin are unwilling or unable to provide protection to persons exposed to an imminent risk of genital mutilation; and - no internal relocation possibility is deemed to exist in the country of origin.the defendant’s refusal to grant the requested residence permit is based to a large extent on the fact that the identity and origin of, in particular, [the first applicant] has not been demonstrated, but also because in the proceedings concerning the first asylum request, it was found that statements lacking credence had been given.however, it is unclear what the relevance of that conclusion is in the context of the present [asylum] application, which is concerned with the protection of the daughters and not of [the parents].” 17.  on 19 july 2005 the minister filed a further appeal against this judgment with the administrative jurisdiction division (afdeling bestuursrechtspraak) of the council of state.18.  on 25 august 2005, the administrative jurisdiction division granted the minister’s further appeal, quashed the judgment of the regional court and rejected the first and second applicants’ appeal against the minister’s decision of 20 june 2005. it considered that, pursuant to section 31 § 1 of the aliens act 2000 (vreemdelingenwet 2000), it was for the applicants to demonstrate as plausible those facts and circumstances which could lead to the conclusion that they were eligible for admission pursuant to the policy in force, and not for the minister to demonstrate the opposite.as not only the applicants’ statements about their identity and origin but also their asylum statement had been found to lack credibility in a decision of 17 january 2002 which had obtained the force of res iudicata, the minister could reasonably have found that the applicants had not made out a persuasive case to show that they complied with the conditions for admission under the policy concerned, that the authorities could not provide them with protection, and that there was no internal relocation alternative for them.25.  the official report (ambtsbericht) on sudan released by the netherlands minister of foreign affairs in april 2010 states the following in respect of the situation of women in sudan: “after the regime change in 1989, the position of women deteriorated.the same interagency statement described fgm as a violation of the right to freedom from torture, inhuman and degrading treatment, meaning that protection from fgm was provided for by various international treaties (the convention on the rights of the child and the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women), by regional treaties (the protocol to the african charter on human and people’s rights relating to the rights of women in africa, the “maputo protocol”) as well as by consensus documents published by several international organisations.several ngos worked to eradicate fgm.’ the unicef sudan country page, accessed 15 january 2010, reported that ‘[fgm] and cutting affects 68 per cent of women and girls – mostly in the north of sudan.’ 25.41 unicef reported on 6 february 2009 that the organisation commended the efforts made by the sudanese government, civil society and local communities to bring an end to the practice of fgm in the country.the report stated that the government took its decision in accordance with an islamic fatwa on the issue: ‘the council of ministers on february 5 dropped the article (13) of the draft children’s act of 2009, which provides for the ban of female genital mutilation as part of other customs and traditions harmful to the health of the child, and after approval of the draft children’s act 2009. the cabinet decided to drop the article, which deals with female circumcision, taking into account the advisory opinion of the islamic fiqh academy, which distinguish between harmful circumcision or infibulation (pharaonic circumcision) and the circumcision of sunna, a less extensive procedure.25.43 a press statement issued by unicef on 7 january 2010 however stated that the ‘article dealing with female genital mutilation/cutting which was taken out of this bill [the child act] will be included in the revision of the criminal act in the near future’.” 30.  as regards fgm in sudan, the operational guidance note on sudan released in august 2012 by the united kingdom home office cites the following extracts from a country guidance determination issued by the united kingdom immigration and asylum tribunal (fm (fgm) sudan cg [2007] ukait00060) on 27 june 2007: “‘significant action is being taken in sudan, both within government and by ngos, to combat the practice of female genital mutilation in all its forms.it is, however, not possible to say that such a background will automatically lead to a finding that she is not at real risk.’ ... ‘the risk of fgm from extended family members will depend on a variety of factors, including the age and vulnerability of the woman concerned, the attitude and whereabouts of her parents and the location and “reach” of the extended family.’ ... ‘if a woman’s parents are opposed to fgm, they will normally be in a position to ensure that she does not marry a man who (or whose family) is in favour of it, regardless of the attitude of other relatives of the woman concerned.’” 31.  the “joint evaluation of the unfpa-unicef joint programme on fgm/c: accelerating change 2008–2012” in respect of sudan, published in july 2013, includes the following: “in 1983, when sharia law was introduced, the article prohibiting fgm/c was removed from the penal code.the government and unicef reported a shift in attitudes towards fgm/c and observed downward trends in the prevalence of fgm/c between the household health surveys in 2006 and 2010. the 2010 survey concluded 34.5 percent of girls ages five to nine were cut, as compared with 41 percent in 2006. of girls and women ages 15-19, 37 percent favored fgm/c in 2010, compared with 73 percent in 2006. the government attempted to curb the prevalence of fgm/c and made public awareness campaigns on the subject a top priority.
8.  on 22 february 2005 the first-instance panel of the supreme court of georgia, rejecting the prosecutor’s request to place the applicant in pre-trial detention, ordered the applicant’s release under police supervision.the applicant was released at 4.00 p.m. on the same day.9.  on 25 february 2005 the appeals chamber of the supreme court of georgia, reversing the lower-instance decision, placed the applicant in pre-trial detention for three months.it justified its decision solely by noting that the applicant had been charged with a serious crime carrying a possible penalty of more than five years’ imprisonment.this fact in itself, in the supreme court’s view, substantiated the risk of the applicant absconding, given that article 151 § 3 of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccp”), as in force at the material time, provided that the seriousness of an offence could constitute grounds for the imposition of pre-trial detention.10. on 25 march 2005 amendments were introduced to article 151 §§ 1 and 4 of the ccp; those amendments, inter alia, provided that, subject to assessment by the national courts, pre-trial detention should in principle only be the last resort in cases where it is demonstrated that a more lenient measure of restraint would not suffice in view of the profile of the accused and the concrete circumstances of the case in question.11.  on 18 may 2005 the investigative panel of the tbilisi district court, having heard the prosecutor’s argument that more time was needed to finalise the investigation, extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention for another two months, until 22 july 2005. the court did not address the question of whether the required investigative actions could be conducted without the applicant’s continued detention.the applicant’s reasons for his objection to any prolongation (his good reputation and family situation; the absence of previous convictions; and formal assurances from several public persons, including a member of parliament) were dismissed by the court.the court also refused an offer made by the georgian labour union to post bail for the applicant in the form of bonds with an approximate value of 680,000 georgian laris (gel, approximately 248,300 euros (eur)), reasoning that, under article 168 § 3 of the ccp, persons being charged with serious offences were not subject to release on bail.12.  on 23 may 2005 the appeals chamber of the tbilisi district court upheld the order of 18 may 2005. like the lower-instance court, the appellate court did not address the possibility of imposing a more lenient measure of restraint in order to ensure the aims of the investigation.13.  on 15 june 2005 the applicant requested that his pre-trial detention be replaced by a more lenient measure of restraint.the prosecutor agreed to the applicant’s request.14.  on 9 july 2005 the tbilisi district court released the applicant on bail on payment of a security of gel 5,000 (approximately eur 1,800).when ordering his release, the court took into consideration the applicant’s good references and the fact that he had fully compensated the injured party for the damage caused by his allegedly fraudulent activities.15. at the time of submission of the present application, while the applicant contended that he was unable to have certain unspecified witnesses examined and to obtain expert opinions pertinent to his case, the criminal proceedings against him were still pending.
11.  at the same time on the same day the applicant also signed a record confirming that he had been informed about his rights as a suspect, in particular the right to remain silent and to consult a lawyer.the applicant signed the report and added by hand in the relevant field provided on the pre-printed form that he had “refused the assistance of a defence counsel and would defend himself, not for financial reasons” (свои права буду защищать самостоятельно, не по материальным причинам).on the same day the investigator announced to the applicant that the pre-trial investigation was complete and gave him the criminal case file to study.according to the trial record, the trial unfolded as follows: (a)  only the applicant and b. were present at the opening of the trial, the prosecutor, p. and the witnesses being absent.he stated that the evidence of his guilt was “admissible and sufficient,” asked the court not to call the absent witnesses since he was ashamed of his actions, and asked the court to dispense with the examination of evidence, pursuant to article 299 of the code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 30 below).(j)  the court ruled that the examination of the evidence be dispensed with and proceeded to read out some of the written evidence in the case file.in particular it referred to the identification reports, according to which p. and another eyewitness had identified the applicant as the person who had attacked p. 20.  on 4 march 2005 b. appealed, maintaining that the sentence was too lenient.she also maintained that the prosecutor had not been present at the trial and that the applicant had never repented or admitted his guilt and had behaved defiantly at the trial.21.  the applicant replied to the appeal, submitting that his guilty plea and remorse for the crime had been genuine and that the sentence imposed by the trial court had been correct and justified.22.  on 20 may 2005 the dnipropetrovsk regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) held a hearing in the presence of a prosecutor, b. and the applicant.at the hearing the applicant reaffirmed his initial submissions, said that he regretted the offence he had committed, and requested that the trial court’s verdict be left in force.23.  on the same date the court of appeal quashed the sentence of the pavlograd court as unduly lenient, taking into account the seriousness of the offence and the applicant’s personality.in particular, it had failed to take into account the fact that ukraine had made a reservation to the protocol to the minsk convention on legal assistance and legal relations in civil, family and criminal matters 1993 concerning the effect given to sentences rendered in other states parties to the protocol.25.  on 30 august 2005 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s appeal and found that, taking due account of the adequacy of the written evidence collected by the prosecution, the applicant’s conviction had a sufficient factual and evidentiary basis.26.  on 10 march 2009, at the request of the prosecutors’ office, the court of appeal ordered that the term of the applicant’s imprisonment be calculated from 1 june 2004 (the date of the decision to remand him in custody pending consideration of the extradition request).
the flat, purchased from the state by the applicant’s parents in 1968, had become state property after having been nationalised in the period following 1947, and denationalisation legislation adopted in the beginning of the 1990s provided that under certain circumstances even properties which had in the meantime been sold to private parties could be subject to restitution.at the end of the proceedings at issue the courts found that the pre-nationalisation owners were the true owners of the flat by virtue of restitution.those proceedings were the subject of the applicant’s first application before the court, in which the court found a violation of article 1 of protocol no.1, and also a violation of article 6 § 1 of the convention due to the length of the court proceedings (see gyuleva and others v. bulgaria, no.7.  on 1 february 2002 the persons recognised as owners of the flat at issue (the pre-nationalisation owners) sold it to a mr and mrs p. soon after that, mr and mrs p. brought rei vindicatio proceedings against the applicant, who was still living in the property.their claim was allowed at first instance by the plovdiv district court on 24 october 2002. even though the rei vindicatio proceedings after that remained the subject of appeals, the applicant vacated the property on 10 january 2003. she moved to a house she owned in the village of hrabrino, where she registered her address on 4 february 2003.9.  on 16 may 2005 the plovdiv district court issued a summons, notifying the applicant of the action brought against her and the date of the first court hearing.however, in a letter to the district court dated 16 june 2005, the mayor sent the summons back, stating that “no such person has been registered” as living in the village.10.  on 8 july 2005, upon a request by mr and mrs p., the plovdiv regional directorate of the interior issued a certificate confirming that the applicant’s last declared address was in the village of hrabrino.11.  without making any further attempts to find the applicant, on 26 august 2005 the plovdiv district court, after concluding that the applicant was of “unknown address”, published a notification concerning the unjust enrichment proceedings in the state gazette (article 50 § 1 of the 1952 code of civil procedure, see paragraph 18 below in fine).according to the applicant, the lawyer did not adequately defend her interests in the proceedings, because she failed to seek to contact the applicant, to appeal against the plovdiv district court’s judgment, which would have been standard practice, to make any evidentiary requests, or to contest in any meaningful manner the claimants’ arguments, including by raising what the applicant considered a valid objection that the claims against her were partially time-barred.13.  on 6 april 2006 the plovdiv district court gave judgment, allowing the claim against the applicant and ordering her to pay 3,573 bulgarian levs (bgn), plus interest, to mr and mrs p. 14.  upon an appeal by mr and mrs p., in a judgment of 10 july 2006 which was final, the plovdiv regional court ordered the applicant to pay the claimants an additional bgn 1,006.21.15.  the applicant became aware of the proceedings and the judgments against her on 22 february 2008, when she received a notice from a bailiff to pay the sums due.in 2004, she was appointed as a juror at the plovdiv district court for the period between 2005 and 2009 and she received notifications of the court hearings she needed to attend at another address she had provided to the authorities (the address of her brother in plovdiv).the applicant is a well-known piano teacher at the academy of music, dance and fine arts in plovdiv whose place of work could have been known to the authorities.
at the time of lodging his application to the court, the applicant was a member of the national assembly of the republika srpska.the relevant part of the majority opinion reads as follows (the translation has been provided by the constitutional court): “...therefore, the provision of article 8 of the election law of bosnia and herzegovina, including article v of the constitution of bosnia and herzegovina, should be viewed in the light of the discretionary right of the state to impose certain restrictions when it comes to the exercise of individual rights.the said restrictions are justified by the specific nature of the internal order of bosnia and herzegovina that was agreed upon by dayton agreement and whose ultimate goal was the establishment of peace and dialogue between the opposing parties given that the said provision was intentionally incorporated into the constitution so that the members of the presidency come from amongst bosniaks, croats and serbs.there is no dispute that the provision of article v of the constitution of bosnia and herzegovina, as well as the provision of article 8 of the election act 2001, have a restrictive character in that they restrict the rights of citizens, namely the candidacy of bosniacs and croats from the territory of the republika srpska and the serbs from the territory of the federation of bosnia and herzegovina to stand for election as members of the presidency of bosnia and herzegovina.however, the purpose of those provisions is to strengthen the position of the constituent peoples in order to ensure that the presidency is composed of the representatives from these three constituent peoples.therefore, given the current situation in bosnia and herzegovina and specific nature of its constitutional order as well as the current constitutional and statutory arrangements, the challenged decisions of the court of bosnia and herzegovina and the central election commission did not violate the appellants’ rights under article 1 of protocol no.it means that they serve a legitimate aim, that they are reasonably justified and that they do not place an excessive burden on the appellants given that the restrictions imposed on the appellants’ rights are proportionate to the objectives of the general community in terms of preservation of the established peace, continuation of dialogue, and consequently the creation of conditions for amending the above-mentioned provisions of the constitution of bosnia and herzegovina and election act 2001.” the relevant part of the concurring opinion of judge feldman reads as follows: “i agree that the special circumstances in which the dayton agreement was drafted and the needs of the time are capable of providing a rational and objective justification for treatment which would otherwise be discriminatory...like judge grewe in her separate dissenting opinions....i regard the justification as being temporary rather than permanent, but i respectfully differ from judge grewe in thinking that the time has not yet arrived when the state will have completed its transition away from the special needs which dictated the unusual architecture of the state under the dayton agreement and the constitution of bosnia and herzegovina.until the time (if it ever arrives) when article v of the constitution of bosnia and herzegovina is amended to remove the differential treatment of potential candidates for the presidency, it seems to me that article v leaves the drafters of the election law, the central election commission and the courts no choice.the constitutional court has an express constitutional obligation to uphold the constitution, and in my opinion has no power to set aside parts of it, or make them ineffective, by relying on rights arising in an international instrument in preference to the express and unambiguous terms of the constitution itself.” the relevant part of the dissenting opinion of judge grewe, joined by judge palavrić, reads as follows: “...i respectfully differ from the conclusion that there is no violation of the appellant’s rights guaranteed by the european convention, its protocols and additional human rights agreements because of an ‘objective and reasonable justification for differential treatment’.contrary to the statements of the majority (§ 22), it seems to me that the current situation in bosnia and herzegovina does not justify at this moment the differential treatment of the appellant’s candidacy in relation to the candidacy of other candidates who are the serbs and are directly elected from the territory of the republika srpska, nor it serves a legitimate aim, such as preservation of peace, continuation of dialogue or creation of conditions for amending the provisions of the constitution of bih and election law.the coherence of this decision implies a multi-ethnic composition of the presidency without territorial interference since the three constituent peoples are precisely equal in the whole state territory of bih...it is the particular combination of ethnic and territorial structures which leads to unjustified discriminations since the territorial interference in presidential elections result to an ethnic separation materialized by the exclusion of the right to stand for election for all serbs living in the federation and for all croats and bosniacs living in republika srpska.this combination is inconsistent with the dayton agreement’s goal of a multi-ethnic state and with the principle of equality of constituent peoples in both entities which only justifies that the serbs living in federation and that the bosniacs and the croats living in republika srpska do not benefit of the status of a minority.this implies that the constitutional court grants the same importance to the peace agreement and its annexes and thus that in case of conflict of norms, the case may only be resolved through a method of systematic interpretation.furthermore the provisions of articles ii.2, ii.3 and x.2 of constitution place the compliance with the human rights and the european convention among the basic pillars of the constitutional order in bosnia and herzegovina which have priority over any other law and cannot be restricted even by a constitutional revision.12. the constitutional court cannot, of course, replace or modify the present constitution but it can request the parliament to harmonize the text with the requirements of bih’s international obligations.” 15.  on 5 july 2010 the applicant again submitted his candidacy to the cec.
his father was a pharmaceutical entrepreneur who had owned property in the soviet occupied zone of germany which was subject to expropriation measures in 1946 and 1947, after an administrative body classified him as a “nazi activist”, “nazi criminal” and “person profiting from the war”.he submitted a vast number of documents, claiming that the historical background of the measures taken under the soviet occupation command had to be evaluated anew.the applicant requested, inter alia, that the 1946 decisions to find his father guilty of being a nazi and the subsequent decisions to expropriate him and confiscate his personal property and the property belonging to his company be declared contrary to the rule of law and hence void.8.  on 21 july 2008 the applicant’s lawyers published a press release under the following title: “turnaround in the assessment of the communist industrial reform?for the first time the dresden regional court discusses a criminal rehabilitation application at an oral hearing.” in the press release the lawyers explained, in particular, that until that time the domestic courts had seen the objective of the measures in question as motivated by economic policy, that is, having the purpose of modifying the prevailing ownership structure.they presented the fact that the regional court had fixed an oral hearing as a potential turning point in domestic case-law and announced that they would explain orally and in detail at the hearing what the so-called “economic reform” had really been about.9.  on 8 august 2008 the regional court cancelled the hearing foreseen for 19 august and set a time-limit for written procedure ending on 15 september 2008. it found that, according to section 11 § 3, first sentence, of the criminal rehabilitation act, a decision should generally be taken without holding an oral discussion.the date for a hearing, according to section 11 § 3, second sentence, of the criminal rehabilitation act (see paragraph 13 below) had been set to give the applicant the opportunity to illustrate (erläutern) his legal opinion, which conflicted with that of the regional court and the dresden court of appeal and was supported by particularly extensive factual submissions.in fact, the scheduling of the hearing had been used to create the impression in a press release, also published on the internet, that by calling a hearing the regional court had indicated that it was abandoning its settled case-law.furthermore, the press release had announced that the applicant would use the hearing to “reveal an important part of contemporary history”.10.  on 24 august 2009, following unsuccessful claims by the applicant that the judges were biased, the regional court rejected the applicant’s request.contrary to the applicant’s submission, nothing indicated that an arrest warrant had been issued in 1947. the applicant’s father’s loss of his electoral rights, his business licence and his personal assets had been a necessary consequence of the expropriation.11.  on 26 november 2010 the dresden court of appeal, without holding an oral hearing, dismissed the applicant’s appeal, fully endorsing the regional court’s reasons.12.  by decision of 19 november 2013 the federal constitutional court, without providing reasons, declined to consider the applicant’s constitutional complaint, in which he had alleged violations of his right to an effective remedy, his right to be heard and his personality rights (file no.2 bvr 1511/11).
the court noted as follows: “[the applicant] is charged with a serious offence representing an increased danger to society; the material submitted contains sufficient data about [his] involvement in the crime, including the testimony of the victim ... [the applicant] is an acting police officer, and under such circumstances the court finds that the prosecutor has made a well-founded argument about the necessity to isolate [the applicant] in view of the risk of [his] absconding and obstructing the establishment of the truth in the early stage of the investigation by putting pressure on witnesses using his [status].” 9.  on 25 june 2004 the astrakhan regional court (“the regional court”) upheld the above decision on appeal.10.  on 13 august 2004 the applicant was informed that the investigation had been completed and that the case file had been submitted to the district court for trial.12.  on 25 august 2004 the district court scheduled a preliminary hearing and ordered that the preventive measure applied to the applicant should remain unchanged until a date for the opening of the trial had been set.the sanction for the offence with which [the applicant] is charged varies from 5 to 10 years’ imprisonment; therefore the arguments of the prosecution that [the applicant] may abscond from justice and render the examination of the case on the merits impossible are well-founded.” 16.  on 7 april 2005 the district court dismissed the application for release and extended the applicant’s detention pending trial for another two months, until 16 june 2005. the decision mentioned that an appeal could be lodged within three days to the regional court and the applicant appealed.referring to article 355 § 5 of the code of criminal procedure, the court held that rulings rendered by a court in the course of the trial were not amenable to separate appeal.17.  on 15 june 2005 the district court extended the applicant’s detention for three months, until 15 september 2005. the court applied the same reasoning as in its decision of 16 february 2005. on 21 july 2005 the regional court upheld the above decision on appeal.19.  on 14 september 2005 the district court, applying the same arguments as in its previous decisions, extended the applicant’s detention until 15 december 2005. during the hearing, the applicant requested that the court let his sister represent him.20.  on 15 december 2005 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 15 march 2006. the court again relied on the gravity of the charges against the applicant, his position and the risk of his putting pressure on the victim and witnesses, and of absconding and obstructing justice.35.  a medical certificate issued by the applicant’s dentist (who had provided dental care to the applicant since 2001, up to his detention) confirmed in january 2009 that there were no traces of dental care having been provided to the applicant in the period between june 2004 and january 2009 and noted a serious worsening of the state of the latter’s teeth.38.  at the request of the applicant’s lawyer, on 14 december 2005 the doctor at iz-30/1 remand prison issued a medical certificate reading as follows: “during his detention in iz-30/1 [the applicant] repeatedly turned to the medical unit of the [remand prison] for medical assistance.in the event of a worsening of his state of health the applicant can be transferred to the regional prison hospital for inpatient treatment.” 39.  an ambulance was called for the applicant at the court hearings on several occasions and he was given treatment for high blood pressure.the applicant submitted a medical certificate dated 14 december 2005, which shows that the ambulance was called for him on that date during the court hearing and that he was provided with the necessary medical assistance for a hypertensive crisis.40.  following numerous complaints about inadequate medical assistance in the remand prison, the applicant was transferred on several occasions to the hospital in the ik-2 correctional colony in the astrakhan region.41.  as is apparent from the documents submitted by the applicant in support of his allegations, on 19 september 2006 an inspection of iz-30/1 was carried out by the prosecutor’s office of the astrakhan region.42.  the applicant brought the issue of inadequate medical assistance before various domestic authorities, including the head of the remand prison, the astrakhan regional prosecutor’s office, the ombudsman and a judge of the district court, but all to no avail.
on the same day the suwałki district court issued a decision ordering the applicant’s detention on remand, relying on the reasonable suspicion that he had committed the offences in question.13.  the bill of indictment was first lodged with the augustów district court, which declared itself not competent to deal with the case on 14 april 2004. the case was then transferred to the lublin district court, where the trial commenced on 21 september 2004. the court held many hearings and heard witnesses.in his appeal he raised, inter alia, a breach of the applicant’s defence rights under article 6 of the convention and argued that the applicant had not had access to his lawyer in the presence of an interpreter and full access to the case file in his own language.moreover, throughout the proceedings the first-instance court provided him with copies of the requested documents...” 21.  a new lawyer allocated to the applicant at this stage of the proceedings, mr a.d., lodged a cassation appeal against the judgment.the requests for unsupervised meetings with the lawyer in the presence of the interpreter had been dismissed by both the trial court and the court of appeal.the translation into lithuanian of this judgment had been received by the applicant on 7 july 2012. as regards the arguments put forward in the cassation appeal, the court stated that the applicant had been detained on remand and had therefore had to be accompanied by guards during the meetings with the lawyer which had taken place during recesses in the trial court hearing.the court further noted that the requirements of article 6 of the convention had been fulfilled as the applicant had had translations of the most important documents necessary for his comprehension of the case, even if not the entire file.they further indicated that the security of all transfers of the applicant be strengthen “given the character and the manner in which the offences had been committed and the fact that [the applicant] had previously practiced box and combat techniques”.the commission stated that the main reason for the classification was the suspicion that the applicant had committed offences within an organised criminal group (article 212a § 3 and §4 (c) of the code of execution of criminal sentences).the relevant decisions were limited to short descriptions of the nature of the charges laid against him, and later offences of which he had been convicted which, together with his “personal situation”, justified the maintaining of the previous decisions.in the requests for extension of the regime issued prior to each decision of the commission, the director of the remand centre emphasised the violent nature of the crimes which the applicant had allegedly committed.in the requests of 19 october 2004 and 9 january 2005 the authorities referred to the applicant’s “personal circumstances (ruthless and cruel manner in which the crimes were committed taken together with the knowledge of box and combat techniques)”.in particular, he appealed against the decision of 2 april 2009, but this was dismissed by the lublin regional court on 8 june 2009. the applicant also appealed against the commission’s decision of 29 april 2011 and on 6 september 2011 the białystok regional court upheld it.in addition to that, the applicant submitted that he had appealed against the decision of 4 august 2011 which was dismissed on 11 october 2011. on 26 march 2012 the białystok regional court dismissed his appeal against the decision of the commission issued on 27 january 2012. the domestic courts examined the legality of the impugned decisions and found that they had been given in accordance with the law and after a thorough analysis of the case.32.  the government acknowledged that during the hearings before the lublin regional court the applicant had been held in a metal cage separating him from the judges and the public, and whilst in the cage, his hands had remained handcuffed.
the driver left the scene of the accident and took the applicant to hospital, where she was diagnosed with a fractured spine.12.  according to reports drafted by the investigating police officers, on 30 november 2002 and 16 january 2003 the applicant failed to attend the police station to take note of the objectives set for the expert report.13.  on 18 february 2004 the police requested the assistance of an expert to prepare the technical expert report in the case.14.  on 29 march 2004 the expert examined the scene of the accident in the presence of the driver and the applicant.15.  the technical expert report was finalised on 25 august 2004. it stated that the applicant was to blame for the accident because she had crossed the street in an unmarked place without paying attention.the expert appointed by the driver agreed with the report, while the expert appointed by the applicant drafted a dissenting opinion concluding that the fault lay entirely with the driver, who had turned his car without paying attention.17.  on 31 january 2005 the prosecutor’s office attached to the bucharest district court decided not to prosecute the driver, since the fault of the accident lay entirely with the applicant.19. on 29 december 2005 the applicant made enquiries with the prosecutor’s office about the status of the investigation.21.  a new expert report was requested by the prosecutor on 7 july 2006, and on 19 july 2006 the applicant informed the authorities that she would need additional time, until 9 september 2006, to decide whether to instruct a counter expert on her behalf.24. according to three reports drafted between 2 october and 29 november 2006 by the police officer in charge of the investigation, the applicant could not be contacted, or had failed to come to the police station to give the name of her counter expert.25.  on 23 january 2007, holding that a new expert report was not necessary, the prosecutor decided again not to prosecute the driver since the fault for the accident lay entirely with the applicant.26.  the applicant’s complaint against the prosecutors’ decisions was allowed by the bucharest district court on 8 may 2007. the court held that the investigative authorities had failed to follow the instructions given in the previous judgment of 4 august 2005. the judgment became final on 26 september 2007 when an appeal on points of law by the prosecutor was dismissed by the bucharest county court.27.  on 9 june 2008 the prosecutor’s office attached to the bucharest district court noted that the limitation period for the crime under investigation had expired on 24 april 2007 and decided to close the case.she considered that the prosecutor was liable for the excessive delays in the investigation which had triggered the expiry of the limitation period for the crime committed against her.the court held that because the limitation period for criminal responsibility in the case had expired it could not rule on the applicant’s claim for compensation.
when his partner died, the sister and only heir of the applicant’s partner gave the applicant, because of the relationship he had had with her brother, an apartment that had belonged to the applicant’s late partner and in which the couple had spent their holidays together since 1990.9.  on 22 september 2003 the national institute of social security (instituto nacional de la seguridad social, hereafter referred to as “inss”) refused to grant the applicant a survivor’s pension on the ground that since he had not been married to the deceased person, he could not legally be considered as his surviving spouse for the purposes of section 174 (1) of the general social security act.11.  on 5 july 2005 the applicant filed an administrative complaint against the decision of 22 september 2003. this complaint was dismissed by the inss on 11 august 2005. the inss noted that there was no provision in the legislation in force that allowed, for the purposes of social security rights, the person who had been cohabiting with the deceased to gain the status of a widower.the social tribunal firstly outlined that the facts of the case had to be assessed in the light of the newly enacted law no.as to the merits, the social tribunal observed that the issue at stake was whether the applicant, as the surviving partner of a same-sex relationship that ended (following his partner’s death) before the entry into force of law no.the social tribunal then reiterated that, according to the well-established domestic case-law, surviving partners of unmarried couples were not entitled to a survivor’s pension under section 174 of the general social security act, marriage being a constitutive element to access any such social-security benefit; that the applicant had been prevented from marrying his partner because same-sex marriage had not been recognised in domestic law at the time his partner died; that the social security administration had relied on the fact that the couple had not married to refuse the applicant a survivor’s pension; and that it was evident that after the entry into force of law no.30/1981 of 7 july 1981 amending the provisions of the civil code pertaining to marriage and the procedure to be followed for cases of annulment, judicial separation and divorce, recognised the right to obtain a survivor’s pension for individuals who had been prevented from marrying a person who later died by the legislation in force until then, provided that he or she had cohabited in a relationship similar to marriage with the deceased person and that the deceased had died before law no.16.  the social tribunal stressed that such a provision was included in order to provide a solution for those cohabiting couples consisting of a man and a woman who could not have married under the legislation in force until that time, and thus did not qualify for a survivor’s pension, because one or even both of them had still been married to another person whom they had been prevented from divorcing, divorce having been legally impossible in spain until the passing of law no.30/1981 in so far as: “- the claimant could not marry his partner because the legislation then in force prevented him from doing so; - the claimant had shared a marital life with his partner until the latter’s death; - the latter’s death had taken place before the entry into force of law no.13/2005 was aimed at protecting the rights of those who could not marry on account of their sexual orientation, and that this distinction was the main impediment to the recognition of the applicant’s right to a survivor’s pension.- the only method to apply it in a way which is consistent with the egalitarian intention of the legislature is to do so irrespective of the sexual orientation of the members of the cohabiting couple.30/1981, the right thereby recognised shall currently be interpreted as providing a solution to factual situations such as the one in the instant case in which the impediment to access to a survivor’s pension is no other than the sexual orientation [of the claimant].” 19.  as regards the administration’s submission that in the area of social security benefits the governing principle was that of non-retroactivity of laws and that according to the law in force at the time the applicant’s partner died the former did not qualify for a survivor’s pension because they were not married, the social tribunal was of the view that this general principle was not absolute and that it did not apply where there was a specific rule giving retroactive effect to laws more favourable to the citizens, as is true of the instant case.13/2005 to cover same-sex partnerships which had been ended by the death of one of the partners before said law had entered into force and that the lack of protection of these unions could not be considered discriminatory in the light of article 14 of the spanish constitution.the court referred to constitutional case-law dating from 1994 according to which the requisite of heterosexuality for the purposes of marriage was fully constitutional and that it was within the margin of appreciation of the public authorities to treat heterosexual marriages more favourably than homosexual partnerships.in a decision of 27 june 2007, the supreme court (social chamber) declared the appeal inadmissible on the ground that the decision produced for purposes of comparison, specifically a judgment of the high court of justice of the canary islands of 7 november 2003, was not relevant.
the latter article referred to the results of the survey and had the applicant’s name in the byline.9.  the table shown was based on the competition and consumer rights office report and consisted of four columns listing the town, the name of the company running the station and information on the quality of the diesel and petrol sold there.11.  on 30 august 2006 b.j., the owner of one of the stations listed in the table referred to above, asked the magazine’s editor to publish a retraction of the statement concerning his business.the facts of the case which the court had established on the basis of the case file of the civil proceedings were not in dispute between the parties.the editors of the magazine and the applicant had acted to protect the legitimate interests of car owners.it noted that the contested decision had been taken with the court referring to a civil case which had previously been lodged by the garage owner and which had been pending at that time.18.  the court noted concordant testimony from a number of witnesses that the problem of selling adulterated motor fuel had been a serious one and that it had given rise to an ongoing discussion and to measures being taken by the state authorities in order to prevent and penalise it.the applicant had failed to show proper diligence by publishing the results of the survey made by the competition and consumer rights office and by referring, in the title of the table referred to above, to “[s]tations selling adulterated fuel”.he argued, inter alia, that his conviction had been incompatible with article 10 of the convention in so far as the court had failed to address substantive issues arising under this provision in the case, including the case-law of the court; that the issues raised by him had been the subject of an ongoing public debate, a fact which had not been sufficiently taken into consideration by the court; that the information contained in the article had consisted merely of data relayed from an official document prepared by the state; that it had not been for the applicant to assess the veracity of this information; that he had therefore had a right to assume that it had been true and had therefore not been obliged to contact the owner of the station prior to the article’s publication.it further increased the legal costs to be paid to a total of pln 4,244. it shared the conclusions of the lower court as to the legal assessment of the facts of the case.25.  in so far as the applicant relied on article 10 of the convention and referred to the court’s case-law, the court noted that both this provision and the provisions of the constitution guaranteed a right to freedom of expression, but this freedom was not unlimited.in particular, it could not be accepted that the article had amounted to a mere retransmission of the information contained in the report of the competition and consumer rights office.26.  in so far as the applicant relied on the case-law of the court, the regional court observed that the polish courts, as in any other continental jurisdiction, were not bound by the judgments of the court as the polish legal system was not based on precedent.according to the appellate court, although it shared the applicant’s views based on the court’s case law on the freedom of expression presented in his appeal, those views were not relevant for the adjudication of the case (nie mają one znaczenia dla rozstrzygnięcia niniejszej sprawy) the applicant’s point in this matter had therefore been wholly erroneous (całkowicie chybiony).the appellate court was well aware of the role of the media in a pluralist and democratic society, but the press was obliged to present truthful or at least carefully verified information to the public and to show diligence and thoroughness.
1.  the case originated in an application (no.71256/11) against hungary lodged with the court under article 34 of the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (“the convention”) by six hungarian nationals, mr lászló haraszthy, mr györgy lászló márton, mr gábor horn, ms nóra siska, mr zoltán pintér and ms  mária  terézia  oszter (“the applicants”), on 11 november 2011.2.  the applicants were represented by mr i. p. horváth, a lawyer practising in budapest.the hungarian government (“the government”) were represented by mr z. tallódi, agent, ministry of justice.3.  on 31 august 2015 the applicants’ complaints under article 1 of protocol no.1 to the convention concerning the imposition of 98% tax on their severance payment were communicated to the government.4.  on 9 november 2015 and 4 january 2016 the court received friendly settlement declarations signed by the government and by five applicants under which these five applicants agreed to waive any further claims against hungary in respect of the facts giving rise to their complaints against an undertaking by the government to pay mr lászló haraszthy eur 12,800 (twelve thousand eight hundred euros), mr görgy lászló márton eur 3,200 (three thousand two hundred euros), mr gábor horn eur 1,000 (one thousand euros), ms nóra siska eur 5,300 (five thousand three hundred euros) and mr zoltán pintér eur 7,100 (seven thousand one hundred euros) to cover any pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage as well as costs and expenses, which will be converted into hungarian forints at the rate applicable on the date of payment, and will be free of any taxes that may be applicable.it will be payable within three months from the date of notification of the decision taken by the court.in the event of failure to pay this sum within the said three-month period, the government undertook to pay simple interest on it, from the expiry of that period until settlement, at a rate equal to the marginal lending rate of the european central bank during the default period plus three percentage points.the payment will constitute the final resolution of the case in respect of these five applicants.5.  the sixth applicant, ms mária terézia oszter was born in 1949 and lives in budakeszi.from 1 july 1997 she was employed at the state-owned national asset management ltd. her employment was terminated on 30 may 2011. a certain part of her severance payment was subject to special tax at a 98% rate.accordingly, special tax was levied on her severance payment in the amount of huf 2,195,835 (approximately eur 7,300).
the conception and planning of the crimes committed showed a well-set-up fraud which had dealt a blow to the prestige and credibility of the procedures of the department of lands and surveys and also to the image of the public service in general.the gravity of the offences was evident from the severity of the sentences applicable under the law, the substantial sum the applicant had secured through his unlawful actions, and the fact that eight more cases pending against him concerning similar offences had been taken into account by the nicosia assize court when imposing sentence.16.  the psc also noted that it had taken into consideration what had been said by the applicant’s counsel in mitigation, in particular, the applicant’s personal and family circumstances, as well as the fact that he had undertaken to compensate for the damage and/or part of the damage suffered by the republic as a consequence of his criminal acts.22.  on 26 august 2005 the applicant brought a recourse before the supreme court (revisional jurisdiction) under article 146 of the constitution, seeking the annulment of the psc’s decision to dismiss him from the public service and of the consequent forfeiture of his pension rights (recourse no.27.  at the same time, the serious consequences of the applicant’s punishment - a sentence of five years’ imprisonment and dismissal - had also to be considered, particularly the financial difficulties arising from the deprivation of the said rights as an additional “punishment” for the applicant and his family.moreover, there was also the fact that the applicant had to a great extent returned the money he had embezzled, a fact which, although the psc had said that it had taken it into account, did not appear to have affected its decision, since the punishment imposed on the applicant was, of the ten forms provided for, the extreme one of dismissal instead of choosing the second most serious form of punishment, that of compulsory retirement, which would not have entailed the loss of retirement rights.28.  in the end, however, the supreme court considered that the fact that the case in question arose and was heard on the basis of a different statutory regime from that in azinas as regards the consequences of dismissal entailing the loss of pension rights, tilted the scales, albeit slightly, in favour of the republic.29.  finally, the supreme court stressed that the competent bodies should seriously study the possibility of amending the statutory framework on the basis of the law in force in england, so that deprivation of retirement rights was not automatic but could be looked at with the help of enacted procedures and with the exercise of discretion in order that the psc might determine, by means of a reasoned decision, the extent to which it was just to forfeit, if at all, in any particular case, according to the individual’s special circumstances and needs.in this respect he argued that the first-instance court had applied the proportionality principle incorrectly during the examination of the penalty imposed by the psc, and therefore had been wrong when it decided that the measure was proportionate and in line with the convention.secondly, the applicant claimed that the finding of the first-instance court that the consequences of this decision were reduced because he was married and thus his wife and dependent children would receive a pension, was discriminatory on the ground of marital status and thus in violation of article 28 of the constitution.81/2007) challenging the first-instance findings (a) that in the present case the retirement benefits could be considered a “possession”; (b) that in the disciplinary dismissal of a public servant there was no enacted framework providing for the exercise of discretion as to whether the retirement benefits would be granted; and (c) that the payment of the pension to the applicant’s wife was the only essential factor which tilted the scales in favour of the republic.in this respect, the court noted that the psc had chosen the penalty of dismissal under section 79(7) of the public service law, after exercising its discretion and after considering the consequences and the fact that such a penalty was in the public interest.35.  it went on to agree with the first-instance court that the deprivation of the applicant’s retirement benefits had been justified in view of the seriousness of the offences, which had dealt a blow to the trustworthiness and credibility of the administration.it observed that the first-instance decision was to the effect that in the event of dismissal the law did not provide for a procedure concerning the exercise of discretion for forfeiting retirement rights, but it did not say that it was not possible to exercise discretion on the matter, since it recognised that there was a choice between dismissal entailing forfeiture of rights and compulsory retirement, which did not.finally, it pointed out that the first-instance court had set out in its decision all the facts which it had taken into account in deciding on the proportionality of the forfeiture, and had rightly concluded that the payment of the pension to the wife meant that the deprivation was not disproportionate.
6.  on 20 june 2005 at approximately 3.30 a.m. he was arrested by traffic police while driving a vehicle which had been declared stolen earlier in the evening, and was taken to the local police station.this document indicated that he had been apprehended at 6.00 p.m. by an investigator, mr s. 9.  on 22 june 2005 the yelizovskiy district court (“the district court”) authorised the first applicant’s detention.the court found that there were grounds to believe that he would abscond, because he was suspected of having committed an offence punishable by more than two years’ imprisonment, was unemployed and without any source of income, and did not reside at his official address.it further referred to the risk that the first applicant might continue his criminal activities on the grounds that, having been released on parole on 17 june 2005, he had been apprehended three days later on suspicion of an offence similar to that for which he already had a conviction.15.  a criminal investigation into the rape was opened at 12 noon on 11 april 2005 and the second applicant was apprehended on the same day.16.  according to the second applicant, at around 12 noon he was stopped in the street by police and escorted to the local police station.between 12.25 p.m and 12.33 p.m. he took part in an identification parade, as a result of which he was identified by the victim as one of the individuals who had raped her.a record of his arrest was not drawn up until 11.35 p.m. 17.  according to the government, the second applicant was taken to the police station as a witness.the government further claimed that the second applicant was interviewed as a witness between 3.10 p.m. and 4.20 p.m., and that the identification parade during which he was identified by the victim took place between 10.25 p.m. and 10.33 p.m. at 11.25 p.m. he was arrested as a criminal suspect and ten minutes later an arrest record was drawn up.had he tried to leave, he would have been stopped by the police officers who were standing guard at the doors of the offices.19.  at 6.25 p.m. on 13 april 2005 the gus-khrustalnyy town court of the vladimir region (hereinafter “the town court”) remanded the second applicant in custody on the basis of article 108 of the russian code of criminal procedure (hereinafter “the ccrp”) (see paragraph 34 below).it found that he was suspected of having committed a serious criminal offence, had been identified by the victim, had escaped from the scene of the crime, did not work and had a recent criminal record, and that for those reasons he might abscond, reoffend, influence the victim and the other parties to the proceedings, destroy evidence, or otherwise obstruct the proper administration of justice.among other things, he complained that his detention was unlawful, on the grounds that he had been brought before a judge more than forty-eight hours after his actual arrest and the town court had not established any “exceptional circumstances”, as required by the ccrp in order to place a suspect in detention (see paragraph 33 below).21.  on 16 may 2005 the vladimir regional court (“the regional court”) upheld the order of 13 april 2005. it considered that the second applicant had been apprehended as indicated in the arrest record.lastly, as regards his argument concerning the absence of “exceptional circumstances”, the regional court held as follows: “the exceptional nature of remanding a criminal suspect in custody implies that he must be charged not later than ten days from the time of his arrest.
6.  on 20 november 2006 the applicant began serving a prison sentence at the marijampolė correctional facility.the applicant signed to confirm that he had read and understood the rules.7.  on 4 october 2007 the applicant submitted a request to the prison department to allow him to grow a beard for health reasons.8.  on 17 october 2007 the applicant was examined by the correctional facility’s medical personnel.the subsequent medical report stated that no traces of irritation had been found on the applicant’s skin and that, according to the applicant himself, the main reason why he wanted to grow a beard was that his electric razor was almost broken and he could not afford to buy a new one.on 23 october 2007 the prison department denied the applicant’s request, based on the results of the examination.9.  the applicant later submitted another request to grow a beard to the prison department, and on 19 november 2007 it was denied on the same grounds.10.  on 5 december 2007 the applicant submitted a complaint to the vilnius regional administrative court.he argued that there was no law prohibiting beards in prison, so the marijampolė correctional facility did not have the right to establish such a prohibition in its internal regulations.however, it dismissed the prison department’s argument that the prohibition on beards was necessary for the purpose of the swift identification of prisoners, and held that such a restriction was contrary to the requirement to reintegrate prisoners into society.accordingly, the court concluded that the prohibition on the applicant having a beard was against the law and was neither necessary nor proportionate.firstly, the court noted that the applicant had not proven that he had been unable to shave regularly because of health reasons (see paragraph 8 above).the court also noted that although prisoners’ human rights and fundamental freedoms could only be restricted by laws and not by legal acts of a lower order, the desire to grow a beard could not be considered as such a right or freedom.lastly, the supreme administrative court considered that a prohibition on growing beards could be justified by the prison authorities’ need to swiftly identify prisoners, and thus it was necessary and proportionate.13.  on 15 december 2009 the applicant was released from the marijampolė correctional facility on probation.
4.  the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in kyiv.5.  on 30 june 2004 the darnytskyy district court of kyiv found that the applicant had committed the following crimes: appropriation of private property by means of fraud or abuse of trust, theft of property and theft of official documents.the court sentenced her to five years’ imprisonment suspended for three years with probation.6.  on 23 december 2004 the applicant’s conviction was upheld by the kyiv court of appeal.she appealed on points of law to the supreme court.7.  on 31 may 2005 a three-judge panel of the supreme court considered the applicant’s appeal on points of law in accordance with article 394 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure (by virtue of which it could either dismiss the appeal or assign the case for further consideration with the participation of all the parties).the supreme court did not notify the applicant or her lawyer of that hearing.the prosecutor was present and made oral representations during the hearing.having regard to his opinion and the material in the case file, the panel dismissed the appeal as unsubstantiated.8.  in a letter dated 12 september 2005 the supreme court notified the applicant, enclosing a copy of its decision.she received the letter on 16 september 2005.
prior to the assemblies, on 18 march 2011 and 15 october 2012 respectively the organisers, members of the opposition, gave notice to the relevant authority, the baku city executive authority (“the bcea”).6.  the bcea refused to authorise the demonstrations at the places indicated by the organisers and proposed a different location on the outskirts of baku – the yard of a driving school situated in the 20th habitable area of the sabail district.7.  the organisers nevertheless decided to hold the demonstrations in the centre of baku.the reports stated that by deliberately failing to comply with a lawful order of the police, the applicant had committed an administrative offence under article 310.1 of the code of administrative offences (“the cao”).11.  in the first case the applicant refused to sign the administrative offence report.13.  on the day of his arrest, namely 2 april 2011 in the first case and 20 october 2012 in the second case, the applicant was brought before a first-instance court, the nasimi district court and the binagadi district court respectively.members of the public, including human rights defenders and journalists, were not allowed inside the courtroom, even though the court had not taken a formal decision to close the hearing to the public.16.  at the hearing in the first case the applicant was not represented by a lawyer.17.  at the hearing in the second case a state-funded lawyer was invited to assist the applicant.18.  according to the transcript of the court hearing in the second case, in his oral submissions the state-funded lawyer briefly asked the court to impose on the applicant a light punishment in view of his young age.19.  the only witness questioned during the court hearing in the first case was a police officer who, according to official records, had arrested the applicant.21.  by decisions of 2 april 2011 and 20 october 2012, the courts convicted the applicant under article 310.1 of the cao and sentenced him to seven and ten days’ administrative detention respectively.22.  on unspecified dates the applicant lodged appeals with the baku court of appeal, arguing that his convictions were in violation of his rights because the demonstrations in which he had participated or attempted to participate had been peaceful.23.  in both cases the applicant was represented before the baku court of appeal by a lawyer of his own choosing.24.  on 11 april 2011 and 29 october 2012 respectively, the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeals and upheld the decision of the first-instance court.
5.  the applicants, who are husband and wife, were born in 1932 and 1926, respectively, and live in bat-yam, israel.6.  in 1990s the applicants emigrated from the ussr to israel and obtained israeli nationality.before emigrating, they were receiving old-age pensions from the soviet authorities.once the applicants left the ussr, the payments were discontinued in accordance with the ussr pension law in force at the material time.7.  on 4 august 2006 the applicants brought civil proceedings against the competent regional department of the pension fund of the russian federation (пенсионный фонд российской федерации) (hereinafter “the pension fund”) seeking reinstatement of their right to the pension payments.8.  on 4 december 2006 the kirovskiy district court of astrakhan found in the applicants’ favour and ordered the pension fund to set up monthly pension payments backdated to 15 june 1998.9.  on 12 january 2007 the astrakhan regional court upheld the judgment on appeal and it became binding and enforceable.10.  on 10 july 2007 the pension fund lodged an application for supervisory review, seeking to have the judgments quashed.the application was addressed to the president of the supreme court.11.  on 27 july 2007 a judge of the supreme court requested the case file from the district court and subsequently suspended enforcement of the judgment of 4 december 2006.12.  on 4 december 2007 another judge of the supreme court sent the case for supervisory review to the astrakhan regional court.13.  on 22 january 2008 the astrakhan regional court dismissed the supervisory review application and endorsed the judgment of 4 december 2006, as upheld on 12 january 2007.14.  on 8 april 2008 the pension fund lodged another application for supervisory review, again addressed to the president of the supreme court.15.  on 24 june 2008 a judge of the supreme court sent the case for supervisory review by the civil chamber of the supreme court.16.  on 1 august 2008 the civil chamber of supreme court quashed the judgment of 4 december 2006, as upheld on 12 january 2007, and rejected the applicants’ claims.
4.  the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in petrozavodsk, in the republic of kareliya.5.  avtokolonna 1126 was set up in accordance with a decision of the administration of the town of petrozavodsk (“the town administration”), and provided public transport services in the town on a commercial basis.in order to carry out its statutory activities, the company had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to it by the town administration (see liseytseva and maslov v. russia, nos.in accordance with several agreements between the company and the town administration, the company undertook to provide certain sections of the population with transport services free of charge, and the town administration was to reimburse it for the expenses incurred out of the budget allocated for that purpose by the ministry of finance of the republic of kareliya or the federal budget.a letter from the town administration to the applicant dated 19 march 2003 shows that at some point, owing to the relevant budgets lacking funds, the company was owed a significant amount of money.in 2004 the town administration asked the legislative body of the republic of kareliya to consider allocating additional funds to cover the company’s debt, but to no avail.6.  on an unspecified date the town administration ordered the restructuring of the company in the form of a spin-off as a new entity, and transferred the assets mentioned in paragraph 5 above to the newly created municipal unitary enterprise “avtokolonna 1126 plus”.the debt which had accumulated in respect of the unpaid salaries was not transferred, and remained with the applicant’s employer.on 6 july 2003 the commercial court of the republic of kareliya declared the debtor company “avtokolonna 1126” insolvent, and liquidation proceedings were commenced.according to a payment note on a writ of execution of 20 july 2006, at some point the company paid the applicant rub 9,206. the remainder of the judgment debt has remained unpaid.8.  on 10 april 2006 a justice of the peace of the 11th court circuit of petrozavodsk ordered the company to pay the applicant rub 614 in compensation for non-pecuniary damage.9.  on 4 october 2006 the commercial court of the republic of kareliya ordered the company’s liquidation.on 15 october 2006 the liquidation was recorded in the register of legal entities, and the company ceased to exist.10.  on 16 march 2005, in subsidiary liability proceedings, the petrozavodsk town court refused to hold the town administration liable for the company’s debts.the court found that the applicant had failed to adduce evidence to demonstrate that it had caused the company’s insolvency.
paragraph 23 of resolution 1483 (2003) reads as follows: “the security council ... decides that all member states in which there are: (a)  funds or other financial assets or economic resources of the previous government of iraq or its state bodies, corporations, or agencies, located outside iraq as of the date of this resolution, or (b)  funds or other financial assets or economic resources that have been removed from iraq, or acquired, by saddam hussein or other senior officials of the former iraqi regime and their immediate family members, including entities owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by them or by persons acting on their behalf or at their direction, shall freeze without delay those funds or other financial assets or economic resources and, unless these funds or other financial assets or economic resources are themselves the subject of a prior judicial, administrative, or arbitral lien or judgement, immediately shall cause their transfer to the development fund for iraq, it being understood that, unless otherwise addressed, claims made by private individuals or non-government entities on those transferred funds or other financial assets may be presented to the internationally recognized, representative government of iraq; and decides further that all such funds or other financial assets or economic resources shall enjoy the same privileges, immunities, and protections as provided under paragraph 22.”[1] 15.  the iraq ordinance of 7 august 1990 underwent numerous amendments, in particular on 30 october 2002, following the entry into force of the federal law of 22 march 2002 on the application of international sanctions (the embargo act, in force since 1 january 2003), and on 28 may 2003, to take account of resolution 1483 (2003).23.  in three decisions of 16 november 2006 the federal department for economic affairs ordered the confiscation of the following assets: (a)  the sum of 86,276.85 swiss francs (chf) belonging to the first applicant, representing the liquidation dividend of a company (not the second applicant) of which he had been the sole shareholder, and deposited in the “client” account of a swiss law firm which represented him; (b)  a total of chf 164,731,213 deposited in the applicant company’s name with bank x; (c)  a total of chf 104,739,882.57 deposited in the applicant company’s name with bank y.in support of their submissions, they argued that the confiscation of their assets breached the property right guaranteed by article 26 of the federal constitution and that the procedure leading to the addition of their names to the lists provided for by resolution 1483 (2003) and annexed to the iraq ordinance had breached the basic procedural safeguards enshrined in article 14 of the international covenant on civil and political rights (iccpr) of 16 december 1966, in articles 6 and 13 of the convention and in articles 29 to 32 of the federal constitution.the applicants took the view that the federal court, and before that the federal department for economic affairs, had jurisdiction to review the legality and the conformity with the convention and the iccpr of the 1518 sanctions committee’s decision to add their names to the list provided for in paragraph 23 (b) of resolution 1483 (2003).28.  on 18 january 2008 the applicants wrote to the federal court drawing its attention to the opinion delivered on 16 january 2008 by the advocate general in the case of yassin abdullah kadi, then pending before the court of justice of the european communities (“the cjec”, which on 1 december 2009 became known as the court of justice of the european union, “the cjeu”), and reiterating their request of 10 december 2007 to present oral argument.5.4  company s. sa and [the first applicant] appear on the lists of entities and individuals drawn up by the 1518 sanctions committee under number ... for the company and ... for the latter, on the ground that its managing director is [the first applicant], the head of finance, at the time, of the iraqi secret services, who also controls the companies h., k. sa and m. [the second applicant], three entities entrusted with the management of the assets of the former regime and its high-ranking members.the decision taken on 16 november 2006 by the federal department for economic affairs to confiscate the appellant’s assets pursuant to the iraq ordinance and the confiscation ordinance is thus based on resolution 1483 (2003).” the two judgments concerning the second applicant: “5.4  the [second applicant] appears on the lists of entities and individuals drawn up by the 1518 sanctions committee under number ..., on the ground that its managing director is [the first applicant], who also controls h. and k. sa, two entities entrusted with the management of the assets of the former regime and its high-ranking members.in this connection, the appellant is of the opinion that switzerland is required to apply resolution 1483 (2003), but also the provisions of the european convention on human rights and those of the international covenant on civil and political rights concerning procedural safeguards; he argues that there is no contradiction between those various obligations, and that for this reason the decision appealed against should be quashed and the matter referred back for fresh confiscation proceedings before the swiss courts, which would examine the merits of the measure in compliance with basic procedural safeguards.the primacy is granted not only to the obligations expressly laid down in the charter, but also, according to the international court of justice, to those that stem from binding decisions of united nations organs, in particular the binding decisions taken by the security council pursuant to article 25 of the charter (see the case concerning questions of interpretation and application of the 1971 montreal convention arising from the aerial incident at lockerbie, icj reports 1992, p. 15, paragraph 39; see also felipe paolillo in les conventions de vienne sur le droit des traités, commentaire article par article, olivier corten and pierre klein (eds.article 46 iccpr certainly provides that ‘[n]othing in the present covenant shall be interpreted as impairing the provisions of the charter of the united nations and of the constitutions of the specialized agencies which define the respective responsibilities of the various organs of the united nations and of the specialized agencies in regard to the matters dealt with in the present covenant’.8.4  consequently, contrary to what the appellant has claimed, neither the fundamental procedural safeguards, nor the right to an effective remedy, under articles 6 and 13 echr and article 14 iccpr, have per se the nature of peremptory norms of general international law (jus cogens), in particular in the context of the confiscation procedure affecting the appellant’s property (see, to the same effect, the judgment of the swiss federal court no.1a.45/2007 of 14 november 2007 in the case of nada v. dfe, point 7.3; judgment of the court of first instance of the european communities, 21 september 2005, yusuf and al barakaat international foundation v. council and commission, t-306/01 reports 2005 ii, p. 3533, paragraphs 307 and 341; judgment of the court of first instance of the european communities, 21 september 2005, kadi v. council and commission, t-315/01 reports 2005 ii p. 3649, paragraphs 268 and 286; judgment of the court of first instance of the european communities, 12 july 2006, ayadi v. council, t-253/02 reports 2006 ii p. 2139, paragraph 116; judgment of the court of first instance of the european communities, 12 july 2006, hassan v. council and commission, t-49/04 reports 2006 ii p. 52, paragraph 92).9.2  in those circumstances, contrary to what the appellant has claimed, the implementation of resolution 1483 (2003) requires switzerland to adhere strictly to the measures introduced and to the decisions of the 1518 sanctions committee, which, unless found by the security council to be in breach of jus cogens norms, does not leave any room, even on the grounds of ensuring the procedural safeguards provided for in the european convention on human rights, the international covenant on civil and political rights or the swiss constitution, for an examination of the procedure by which the appellant’s name was added to the list issued by the 1518 sanctions committee, or for verification of the justification for such addition.10.  the appellant further argued that article 4 of the confiscation ordinance granted the federal court full jurisdiction to deal with the various aspects of the matter, enabling it to find that the authority below had failed to ascertain the merits of the confiscation of his assets or, in other words, that the authority had wrongly accepted their confiscation solely on the basis that his name appeared on the list annexed to resolution 1483 (2003), without remedying the breach of his procedural rights under, inter alia, articles 29 et seq.the federal court finds, however, that, in the context of switzerland’s power and freedom of implementation (see point 10.2), the authority below should grant the appellant a brief and final period of time, before implementing the decision of 16 november 2006 – which enters into force with the dismissal of the present appeal – to allow him to apply, should he so wish, to the 1518 sanctions committee for a new delisting procedure in accordance with the improved arrangements of resolution 1730 (2006) of 19 december 2006, the appellant not having had the opportunity to make use of the latter because he wrongly placed all his hopes in the present administrative-law appeal.
it is clear from the case file that the applicant’s detention was extended on 16 march 2011, 17 may 2011 and 18 july 2011. the decisions of 17 may and 18 july 2011 are in the case file.472/11 of 17 may 2011. the three-judge panel (krivično vijeće) has, on its own motion, within the meaning of article 179 § 2 of the criminal procedure code, examined further detention of [the applicant] and found as follows: - the detention [of the applicant] should be extended pursuant to article 175 § 1 (1) and (4) of the criminal procedure code.notably, given that [the applicant] is indicted for an aggravated murder pursuant to article 144 § 1 (a) and (4) of the criminal code, and in view of the seriousness of the criminal offence for which he could be sentenced to between 10 and 40 years of imprisonment, and especially in view of the fact that the accused committed the said criminal offence on 17 february 2011 at around 21.30, after which he fled the crime scene, and that the authorised police officers of the police directorate – podgorica unit deprived him of liberty on 19 february 2011 at 13.00, these are the reasons, in view of the panel, justifying the extension of detention pursuant to article 175 § 1 (1) of the criminal procedure code.in the opinion of this panel [the applicant’s] detention should be extended also pursuant to the detention basis as provided in article 175 § 1 (4) of the criminal procedure code, given that [the applicant] is charged with aggravated murder under article 144 § 1 (1) and (4) of the criminal code, and having in mind that the provided sentence is between 10 and 40 years of imprisonment, the first condition for the extension of detention under article 175 § 1 (4) of the criminal procedure code is fulfilled, that is that the provided sentence for the criminal offence is 10 years or more.furthermore, in this particular case there are particularly qualifying circumstances of the criminal offence at issue due to the manner in which it was committed or its consequences, which are reflected in the fact that [the applicant], as it transpires from the case-file, [...] in an insidious manner and for material gain, deprived x of his life [...] by shooting him at close range in the chest and in the back with an automatic gun several times, inflicting on him numerous injuries and causing his immediate death, after which he fled, and according to this panel the aforementioned established facts and circumstances, in their entirety, represent extraordinary circumstances indicating that the [applicant’s] release would threaten public order and peace, which reasons justify the extension of detention.” 11.  on 26 september 2011 the applicant appealed, complaining about the manner in which the decision had been served on him and claiming that his detention had ended on 17 september 2011, that is two months as of the last extension of detention.it further considered that the applicant had been served with a decision bearing no signature or stamp by an obvious mistake, which did not make the decision unlawful or cause a violation of his human rights guaranteed by the constitution and the convention.15.  on 12 january 2012 the constitutional court (ustavni sud) in podgorica quashed the decision of the court of appeals and ordered that the case be re-examined.16.  on 25 january 2012 the court of appeals, upon the remittal by the constitutional court, dismissed the applicant’s appeals.from the subsequent decision of the constitutional court (see paragraph 18 below), however, it transpires that the court of appeals held, in particular, that: (a) the applicant’s detention had not ended on 17 september 2011, as the previous detention order had not specified how long the detention would last and the statutory time-limit of two months was not mandatory (see paragraphs 33 and 34 below); and (b) the absence of the stamp and signature on the detention order did not make it unlawful.17.  on 22 march 2012 the applicant filed a constitutional appeal complaining that his detention had not been extended within the statutory time-limit of two months, that the copy of the relevant decision had not been signed and stamped, and that the presumption of innocence had been violated by the high court’s decision.it considered in particular that the relevant legislation limited the duration of the detention to three years after the indictment, and that there was no other limitation in that regard.the court also held that the high court and the court of appeals had not stated that the applicant was guilty but that it transpired from the case-file and the disputed decisions that the applicant had been charged with the relevant criminal offence.the court did not address the complaint about the lack of a stamp and signature on the copy of the decision extending the detention on 22 september 2011.20.  on 22 march 2013, as submitted by the government, the high court issued a first-instance decision on the charges against the applicant.there is also no information in the case-file as to whether the criminal proceedings against the applicant have ended in the meantime and if so what the outcome was.
furthermore, relying on statements by a witness who had testified to having been approached by the applicant with a view to “discussing charges against him”, the court found that the applicant was prone to influencing witnesses and obstructing justice.14. the applicant submitted that after his admission to the detention facility the police officers who had allegedly beaten him up after the arrest had again driven him to the police station for questioning, had handcuffed him to a heating unit and had left him in that position until late evening.16.  in january 2006 the investigating authorities charged the applicant with a robbery committed on 25 november 2005. they also asked the district court to extend the applicant’s detention pending investigation, claiming that the case was complex and that more time was necessary to complete the investigation.19.  acting in response to the psychiatrists’ findings, the authorities appointed, on 16 march 2006, a legal guardian to assist the applicant in the proceedings.24.  having heard the parties, the court ordered the applicant’s detention pending trial and stated that the trial was to be held in his absence, as the personal participation of persons suffering from a mental disorder was not provided for by the russian code of criminal procedure for cases such as the one to be decided.26.  on 25 april 2006 the court held a trial hearing in the presence of a prosecutor, the victims, their lawyers, the applicant’s counsel and legal guardian.the court read out records of the statements made by the victims at the pre-trial stage and heard testimony from one of the victims.two days later the oktyabrskiy district court returned the applicant’s appeal against the judgment of 3 may 2006, informing him that his lawyer or legal guardian were the only ones with the authority to appeal.33.  in 2012 the belgorod regional prosecutor’s office applied to the presidium of the belgorod regional court for supervisory review of the case referring to the breach of the applicant’s right to defence.invoking article 6 § 3 (c) of the convention, the court held that the trial court’s decision to hold the hearings in the applicant’s absence had been unjustified.35.  on 11 october 2012 the presidium of the belgorod regional court acknowledged a violation of the applicant’s right to defence, quashed the judgment of 3 may 2006 and remitted the case to the oktyabrskiy regional court for a fresh examination on the merits.36.  the first hearing in the case was to be held on 19 november 2012, but the court was unable to summon the applicant.37.  on 6 december 2012 the district court held that it could not proceed with the examination of the criminal case in view of the lack of any knowledge of his whereabouts.43.  the applicant was detained in the following institutions: from 2 december 2005 to 11 june 2006 in the temporary detention facility; from 11 june 2006 to 4 december 2007 in oryol psychiatric hospital; from 4 december 2007 to 24 february 2009 in st petersburg high-security psychiatric hospital; and from 24 february to 31 august 2009 in kashchenko psychiatric hospital in st petersburg.when asked by the doctor about the possible causes of the infection, the applicant stated that he had shared his safety razor with inmates in the temporary detention facility.
13.  on 27 december 2006 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 14 march 2007. despite arguments by the defence that his health was fragile and that he was unable to receive the necessary care in the detention facility, which did not employ a proctologist, the court, after examining medical evidence submitted by the prosecution, found that his health condition did not call for his release.having cited the risks of the applicant absconding and obstructing justice, the court also noted that the case was complex and that the investigating authorities were proceeding with it with due promptness.17.  on 14 march 2007 the regional court upheld the detention order, stressing that the accused’s health was not the decisive factor in the assessment of the need for detention.18.  on 9 june 2007 the applicant’s detention was extended until 14 september 2007. the court endorsed its previous reasoning, namely the risks of absconding and influencing witnesses and the necessity to complete the investigation.25.  in the meantime, the pre-trial investigation was closed and the applicant was committed to stand trial before the russkaya polyana district court of the omsk region.26.  on 30 november 2007 the russkaya polyana district court held a preliminary hearing in the case in which it extended the applicant’s detention in view of the continued presence of the factors which had initially warranted his arrest.six days later, at the request of the applicant’s lawyer, the head of the colorectal department of the state regional civilian hospital, dr n., examined the applicant in the remand prison and found his condition to be moderately serious.37.  on 2 february 2007, again at the initiative of the applicant’s lawyer, a senior doctor from the state regional civilian hospital, dr z., visited him and recorded a further deterioration of his health in the form of an inflammation of the prolapsed part of his bowels.he stated that the penitentiary institutions were unable to perform a fibre endoscopic examination of the colon and a multislice computed tomography, the tests required for the correct diagnosis and treatment of the applicant’s condition.38.  on 22 march 2007 the applicant was admitted to the penitentiary hospital where, by means of an endoscopy, he was diagnosed with dysfunction of the sphincter, and prolapse and inflammation of the sigmoid colon.45.  on 16 august 2007 the applicant was examined by a surgeon from the penitentiary hospital who confirmed the necessity for colorectal surgery on the patient “in due course in the very near future”.50.  in the meantime, on 1 october 2007 he had lodged an application with the court and had also asked for the application of an interim measure under rule 39 of the rules of court.53.  on 23 november 2007, following receipt from the government of information on the applicant’s state of health, the court decided to apply rule 39 and to draw the russian government’s attention to the urgent necessity of the applicant having the following medical procedures: colorectal surgery in a specialist hospital, an x-ray computed tomography, as well as a surgical puncture of the space-occupying lesion of the liver.67.  in their statements, mr p., mr. s. and mr r. also confirmed the applicant’s submissions about the lack of any possibility for him to take regular showers and about the conditions in which he had had to perform the daily washes caused by his illness.the inmates described the insults that the applicant had had to endure as a result of the need to wash himself in front of his cellmates.
10.  in his letters to the court the applicant stated that he had been detained in overcrowded cells in rahova prison.the furniture and the ten beds in the cell had taken up part of the available living space.11.  the applicant stated that, even though he was a non-smoker and had been assigned to a non-smoking cell, the prison authorities had also detained inmates who smoked all the time in that cell.12. the applicant also stated that some of the detainees who had occasionally shared the cell with him had had contagious diseases, such as hepatitis and human immunodeficiency virus (hiv), or had been drug addicts.13.  the applicant further stated that warm water in the shower had only been available two days a week for ninety minutes for all ten detainees in the cell.also, during the summer, running water had only been available six hours a day and not at all during the night, even if the detainees had needed to use the toilet.14. the national prisons agency informed the government that the applicant had been detained in cells 2.31, 3.9, 3.10, 3.34, 3.44, 3.48, 5.36 and 6.9 during his incarceration in rahova prison.the applicant had had his own bed and at no time during his detention had the number of detainees exceeded the number of beds available in the cells.the toilets had natural ventilation, namely windows measuring 0.72 square metres, and were separated from the rest of the bathroom by a door.the operations carried out to disinfect and remove pests from the applicant’s cell were preventive, and neither he nor the other inmates sharing his cell had requested them.24.  the national prisons agency finally informed the government that, during his detention, the applicant had not raised complaints in respect of the conditions of detention.25.  in his letters to the court the applicant stated that, as a muslim, the prison authorities had not offered him an appropriate diet, namely food which did not contain pork.26.  the national prisons agency informed the government that, during his detention in rahova prison, the applicant had been provided with a diet appropriate for muslims, and any pork had been replaced with beef.27.  in rahova prison, a detainee of a particular faith could ask the prison administration to allow him to buy the food he wanted from the prison shop.29.  the applicant had been allowed to practise his religion in his cell, and had taken part in various religious activities organised by the prison’s orthodox chaplain.
4.  the applicant was born in 1970.5.  on 13 february 2009 the applicant was arrested and taken into custody on suspicion of using drugs and providing drugs to third persons.6.  on 16 february 2009 the applicant’s statement was taken by the istanbul assize court and she was released on the same day.on 19 february 2009 the public prosecutor lodged an objection to this decision and on 23 february 2009 the istanbul assize court issued an arrest warrant against the applicant.7.  on 24 february 2009 the applicant was placed in detention on remand.8.  on 4 april 2009 the public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment, charging the applicant with using drugs and providing drugs to third persons under articles 188 § 3, 188 § 4 and 191 § 1 of the criminal code.9.  on 15 may 2009 and 24 june 2009 respectively the istanbul assize court on the basis of the case file dismissed release requests lodged by the applicant.on 9 june 2009 and 21 july 2009 respectively the istanbul assize court further dismissed the objections lodged by the applicant against the above-mentioned decisions, without holding oral hearings.10.  on 1 october 2009 the istanbul assize court held its first hearing and the applicant appeared before the court.on the same day the trial court released the applicant.
7.  on 7 november 2009 the applicant sent an email to the general inspectorate of internal administration (inspecção-geral da administração interna) on the subject “suspected misuse of money”, in which he made reference to an alleged misuse of money by commander m.c.he asked the general inspectorate to investigate the alleged facts, stating as follows: “in the month of december 2008 the coimbra [national republican guard] territorial group distributed money to the territorial posts of its area of command ... for the christmas dinner ... the only members of the military [in arganil] who attended the dinner were the commander of the post and corporal m.; the total amount of money that had been given to the military from the [territorial] post [to pay for the dinner] was paid to the restaurant’s manager in exchange for a receipt ... it seems that the commander has since then been going with his family to the mentioned restaurant, where the cost of his meals is deducted from the money that was not spent [on the above dinner] ... note: i have just become aware of this matter through rumours within the military of the mentioned post, who claim that they have not reported the situation for fear of reprisals, and because of that [fear of reprisals] i ask you for secrecy during the investigation because i am also a member of the military ...” 8.  on an unknown date the general inspectorate of internal administration forwarded the email to the general command of the national republican guard (comando geral da guarda nacional republicana) and to the lousã public prosecutor’s office (ministério público).on 28 february 2010 the lousã public prosecutor’s office discontinued the proceedings on the grounds that, following investigations by the criminal investigation police (policía judiciária), it had found no evidence of the criminal offence denounced by the applicant.at the request of the official in charge of the inquiry on the grounds that the management of the cafeteria of the arganil territorial post showed signs of lack of transparency which required further investigation.the decision to discontinue the disciplinary proceedings also took into account the decision of the lousã public prosecutor’s office to discontinue the criminal proceedings against commander m.c.14.  on 7 july 2011 the public prosecutor brought charges (acusação) against the applicant for aggravated defamation on the grounds that the statements made in his email called into question commander m.c.’s honesty, honour and professional reputation, which the applicant had intentionally attacked.the court described its findings of fact and the manner in which it had assessed the evidence, and held as follows: “... since the existence of such a rumor has not been proved in any way, the court is fully convinced that the defendant’s intention was to undermine the honour of the offended party, once he knew that this was just a rumour and that therefore he was making an allegation that was not true.... the allegation made in the defendant’s complaint, by its content, put into question the offended party’s honesty, honour and professional reputation as commander of a territorial post of the national republican guard – which was well known to the defendant.... the disclosure of irregular situations has to be seen as a duty (as the performance of an obligation) when it falls within the competence and responsibilities of the whistle-blower and when it does not go beyond the facts which were effectively observed.indeed, by submitting that the offended party and his family were using the existing credit to have dinner at the mentioned restaurant, the defendant knew that he was accusing the offended party of a dishonorable deed, all the more because he knew that the offended party was in charge of the national republican guard’s arganil territorial post.through such conduct, the defendant acted of his own free will and in the knowledge that ... [his actions] were not allowed.” 17.  on an unknown date the applicant appealed against the judgment to the coimbra court of appeal.20.  on 20 february 2013 the official in charge of the inquiry within the disciplinary proceedings against the applicant submitted a final report in which he concluded that the applicant had breached his duties.the relevant passage of the report reads as follows: “... the defendant breached the duty of loyalty... as being on duty and being part of the góis territorial post in the quality of deputy commander of the post, he did not inform his hierarchical superiors, in clear disregard of the functional hierarchy principles, of the acts allegedly committed ...” 21.  in the report it was also taken into account that the applicant’s allegations had been investigated by different authorities, all of which had discontinued their investigations.22.  on 27 march 2013, at the request of the official responsible for the disciplinary proceedings, the general command imposed on the applicant a disciplinary sanction consisting of suspension from duty for six days, its enforcement being suspended for a period of twelve months.23.  according to the material submitted in the case file, it seems that the applicant did not lodge an appeal against the disciplinary sanction with the minister of home affairs.
at the time of the application they were being held in detention in buca f‑type prison in i̇zmir.5. on 23 july 2007 the i̇zmir assize court decided to restrict access to the investigation file, under article 153 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure (the “ccp”), law no.6.  on 24 july 2007 the applicants were arrested and taken into custody on suspicion of being members of a criminal organisation.7.  on 27 july 2007 the applicants were questioned by the investigating judge, in the presence of their lawyer.according to their statements to the judge, the applicants denied being involved with the criminal organisation.they did not deny that they had had telephone conversations that had been intercepted, or that they had accepted the transfer of parcels and had possessed firearms, all of which were deemed to be evidence of making threats, of fraud and of smuggling, the offences that they were suspected of having committed.8.  on 1 august 2007 the applicants’ representative objected to the order for the pre‑trial detention in respect of the first four applicants.those applications were dismissed by the i̇zmir assize court on 4 february 2008, 11 february 2008 and 14 february 2008 respectively based the nature of the criminal charges and the state of the evidence.9.  on 13 march 2008 the public prosecutor at the i̇zmir assize court filed an indictment, charging the first applicant with establishing a criminal organisation and the other applicants with being members of a criminal organisation.the applicants were further charged with committing fraud, making threats, and carrying out raids and smuggling, under article 220 and other related articles of the criminal code.10.  on 17 march 2008 the trial court held an interlocutory session and, in the absence of the applicants, decided to extend their pre-trial detention.11.  on 2 may 2008 the applicants’ representative objected to that decision in respect of the first four applicants and applied for them to be released.on 7 may 2008 the i̇zmir assize court dismissed the objection.12.  on 24 june 2008 i̇zmir assize court held the first hearing as planned and the applicants appeared before the court.the trial court decided to release the applicants from pre-trial detention on the same day.
9.  on 18 november 1993 the applicant enquired about his “exempt person status” (see paragraph 34 below) and on 23 november 1993 started the process to obtain maltese citizenship on the basis of his marriage to a maltese national.10.  the applicant’s exempt person status was confirmed on 2 march 1994. on 19 april 1994, following the processing of his application and consequent to the marriage, he was registered as a maltese citizen.it transpires from a letter issued by the consul of the embassy of the arab republic of egypt in malta that on 29 september 1994 the applicant’s request was approved and his egyptian passport withdrawn.following adversarial proceedings where both parties were represented by a lawyer, the applicant’s marriage was annulled by a judgment of 19 january 1998. the court delivering the judgment was satisfied (to the degree necessary in civil proceedings, namely on a balance of probabilities) that the applicant’s only reason for marrying had been to remain in malta and acquire citizenship; thus he was positively excluding marriage itself, and there had been a simulation of marriage.15.  the applicant did not inform the authorities of the judgment concerning the annulment of his marriage and he remained resident in malta and retained his maltese citizenship.the applicant enquired about the exempt person status of his russian wife and was asked to produce a copy of the judgment of annulment.on 4 july 2003 the applicant produced a copy of the judgment and it was only at that time that the authorities became aware of the reason for the annulment of his first marriage.according to the government, although this was contested by the applicant, attention was drawn to the fact that the benefit of such status would cease if the applicant lost his citizenship.18.  on 8 may 2006 the applicant was informed that an order was to be made to deprive him of his maltese citizenship (under article 14(1) of the citizenship act (“the act”) – see “relevant domestic law” below), which, according to the judgment of 19 january 1998, appeared to have been obtained by fraud.it appears from the documents available that the applicant contested the basis of the annulment decision and claimed that he had not been aware that he could have appealed against it.24.  by a letter dated 2 august 2007 from the director of the department of citizenship and expatriate affairs, the applicant was informed that the minister of justice and internal affairs had concluded that the applicant had obtained citizenship by fraudulent means and that therefore on 31 july 2007, in accordance with article 14(1) of the act, the minister had ordered that he be immediately divested of his citizenship.thus, the revocation of citizenship in the present case was in breach of article 8. consequently, the court annulled the order of 31 july 2007 and considered that it was not necessary to rule on any further complaints.in that connection, it rejected the applicant’s contention that the revocation of citizenship affected his right to a family life and therefore was civil in nature, as citizenship was a matter of public law and fell under the prerogatives of the state.it also reversed the part of the judgment in respect of article 8, commenting that it had not been established that the applicant had a family life in malta, and, even if this were so, the revocation of his citizenship would not necessarily result in his having to leave malta.28.  following the lodging of the application with the court, on 16 november 2012 the applicant’s lawyer wrote to the relevant authorities informing them that the case was pending before the court and that therefore no action should be taken on the basis of the order of 31 july 2007. no feedback, apart from an acknowledgment of receipt, was received concerning that letter.
5.  the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in iași.6.  on an unspecified date in 2006 the applicant brought proceedings against a third party, seeking the annulment of two sale/purchase agreements concerning an apartment.7.  by a judgment of 25 january 2007 the iaşi district court, acting as a court of first instance, allowed the applicant’s action on the merits and declared the two contracts null and void.the third party appealed against the judgment.8.  by a decision of 21 november 2007 the iaşi county court, sitting as a bench of two judges, allowed the third party’s appeal on the merits, quashed the judgment of 25 january 2007 and dismissed the applicant’s action.the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law (recurs) against that decision.9.  by a final decision of 2 june 2008 the iaşi court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law as inadmissible, without commenting on the merits of the case.it held that, under article 2811 of the romanian code of civil procedure, judgments delivered by first-instance courts in respect of disputes where the subject matter of the litigation had been valued at less than one billion romanian lei (ron) (approximately eur 27,000) were not subject to an ordinary appeal.the applicant had estimated the value of the disputed property to be ron 9,000. therefore, the judgment delivered by the district court could only be challenged by way of an appeal on points of law.moreover, the decision of the iaşi county court was final, even if the county court had erred and examined the applicant’s case in a composition of two rather than three judges.
(b)  the abduction of the applicants’ relative 7.  at about 1 p.m. on 2 may 2012 mr kamil mutayev and his twelve‑year old son muradis were driving in their vaz-21099 car in shamil street in the centre of the town of kizilyurt, dagestan, when they were blocked by two silver-coloured vaz priora cars with heavily tinted windows, one of which had an official registration number containing the digits “78”.the abduction took place approximately two hundred metres from the district police station (the department of the interior) and the public prosecutor’s office.dated 25 february 2013. according to both women, they did not see the abduction but both saw two priora cars speeding away from the vicinity of where the incident took place around the time of the abduction.10.  in reply to the court’s first request for a copy of the contents of the investigation file, the government provided documents from the file, amounting to 43 pages, which showed the steps taken by the investigators from 14 may to 27 june 2012.11.  in reply to the court’s second and third requests for a copy of the contents of the investigation file, the government submitted copies of its contents, some 688 pages long, which showed the steps taken by the investigators from the beginning of the proceedings to 15 august 2015. from the documents submitted, the investigation can be summarised as follows.12.  immediately after the abduction, on 2 may 2012 the applicants complained to the kizilyurt police station (отдел внутренних дел по г .кизилюрт) (hereinafter “the ovd”).13.  on 2 may 2012 the police questioned the second applicant who provided a detailed account of the events similar to the one submitted to the court and stated that she had learnt of mr kamil mutayev’s abduction from her nephew muradis.15.  on 2 and then on 10 may 2012 the police questioned mr kamil mutayev’s son muradis, whose account of the events was similar to that submitted by the applicants to the court.19.  on 19 may 2012 the investigators questioned mr kamil mutayev’s son muradis who reiterated his previous statements and added that he would not be able to identify any of the abductors as he had been scared.20.  on 19 may 2012 the investigators questioned the first applicant whose statement was similar to the applicants’ account submitted to the court.22.  on 23 may 2012 the dagestan forensic expert examinations bureau informed the investigators that they did not have matches in their database for the fingerprints found on mr kamil mutayev’s car.23.  on 24 may 2012 the investigators again questioned the second applicant whose statement was similar to the applicants’ account submitted to the court.28.  on 6 august 2012 the investigators examined the registration log of detainees of the ovd.all of them stated that on the date of the abduction they had been on duty at the police station and neither mr kamil mutayev nor his car had been brought in.30.  on various dates between june and november 2012 the investigators received the list of calls made from and to mr kamil mutayev’s mobile telephone as well as replies to their numerous information requests concerning mr kamil mutayev from hospitals, morgues, retirement homes, mosques and detention centres in various regions of russia.
6.  on 13 june 2000 the prosecutor’s office opened a criminal investigation against the applicants on suspicion of fraud and tobacco smuggling.8.  on 12 january 2004 the city court set a trial date of 19 january 2004. the court ordered that the applicants remain in custody pending trial.9.  on 3 february 2005 the jury delivered a verdict of not guilty in the applicants’ case.on 4 february 2005 the city court pronounced the judgment and ordered the applicants’ release.10.  on 22 july 2005 the supreme court quashed the judgment of 4 february 2005 on appeal and remitted the matter for fresh consideration.11.  on 29 july 2005 the city court ordered the applicants to be remanded in custody pending a new trial.the court reasoned as follows: “it can be seen in [the judgment of the supreme court] that the verdict was quashed in view of breaches of the rules of criminal procedure by both defendants, which influenced the opinion of the jury.therefore, the court considers that, if released, [the applicants] might interfere with the establishment of the truth and the administration of justice by putting pressure on witnesses.regard being had to the above, to the gravity of the charges and in order to ensure compliance with the objectives of the criminal proceedings, the court grants the prosecutor’s request to remand [the applicants] in custody.” 12.  on 20 september 2005 the supreme court upheld the decision of 29 july 2005 on appeal.13.  on 13 february 2006 the jury delivered a verdict of not guilty in the applicants’ case.on 16 february 2006 the city court pronounced the judgment and ordered the applicants’ release.in the operative part of the judgment, the court noted that the applicants had a right to rehabilitation and could apply for compensation in respect of pecuniary damage by bringing a claim to the court which delivered the judgment in their criminal case.15.  according to the official version of events, on 22 august 2002 the first applicant destroyed certain documents which had been admitted as evidence in the criminal case against him, and on 28 august 2002 he assaulted a trainee investigator.16.  on an unspecified date a criminal case was opened against the first applicant on multiple charges, including the use of violence against a law‑enforcement officer and the destruction of official documents.18.  on 19 november 2003 the city court upheld the first applicant’s conviction on appeal.
8.  according to the applicant, as soon as he learnt of the abduction, he went to the sunzhenskiy district police station and informed the duty officer of the abduction of his brother from the water-pumping station.at the same time, they pointed out the following: the applicant had not witnessed the incident and had learnt of its circumstances from third persons; the eyewitnesses’ statements were incomplete and imprecise, as the perpetrators had blindfolded them.in addition, the domestic authorities had found “not far from the water-pumping station [the crime scene] traces of the whereabouts of illegal armed groups.” in sum, the government submitted that was no evidence of state agents’ involvement in the abduction of the applicant’s brother.11.  in reply to the court’s requests for a copy of the contents of the investigation file, the government submitted partial copies of its contents, some 639 pages in total, which showed the steps taken by the investigators from march 2012 to october 2015. from the documents submitted, the investigation can be summarised as follows.12.  early in the morning of 23 march 2012 the applicant lodged an abduction complaint with the sunzhenskiy district department of the interior (сунженский районный отдел внутренних дел (ровд)) (hereinafter “the sunzhenskiy rovd”) and the sunzhenskiy district prosecutor.15.  on 24 march 2012 the investigative department in sunzhenskiy district (следственный отдел по сунженскому району) (hereinafter “the investigations department”) initiated a criminal investigation into the abduction under articles 126 § 2 of the criminal code (aggravated abduction) and the case file was given the number 12600026.20.  on 6 april 2012 the sunzhenskiy district court granted the investigators permission to obtain the phone records for the period between 1st and 30 march 2012 of the mobile telephones of the four employees of the water-pumping station, mr abubakar tsechoyev, mr a.a., mr k.kh and mr i.g.the decision stated that the investigation had four theories concerning the reasons for the abduction: the abduction had been perpetrated due to the hostile relationship between the perpetrators and mr abubakar tsechoyev; he had been arrested by state agents; he had become a member of an illegal armed group; his alleged abduction had been staged by his accomplices in that illegal armed group.then the men had bound the witness’ hands, blindfolded him with a piece of a blanket and adhesive tape and dragged him over to the control room, and then to the prayer room where the intruders had wrapped him in a rug and thrown him to the floor.the applicant had immediately gone to the sunzhenskiy rovd but the duty officer had refused to register the complaint; the applicant had returned to the police station with mr i.g.the applicant further stated that his relatives had previously been detained by the authorities – his elder brother mr islam tsechoyev had been detained and tortured by state agents on the suspicion of membership of an illegal armed group and subsequently had successfully complained of those events to the european court of human rights (see khadisov and tsechoyev v. russia, no.38.  on unspecified dates in 2012 (the pages with the dates and the names of the persons questioned were not furnished to the court) the investigators questioned twelve police officers who had been manning checkpoint assa situated between the settlement of nesterovskaya in ingushetia and the settlement of assinovskaya in chechnya between 11 p.m. on 22 march and 11 p.m. on 23 march 2012. all of the officers stated that they had checked each vehicle passing through and that on the night of the abduction they had not seen any vehicles of state agencies going through and had no information pertaining to the incident.42.  on 28 may 2012 the investigators questioned the former head of the security service of the water-pumping station, mr ya.g., who stated that he had learnt of the incident from mr i.g.the investigators also ignored the statement of the guard of the husbandry team who had seen that car at 5 p.m. on the day of the abduction ... i personally inspected the area and found the place where the car had pulled over leaving clear tyre tracks.based on the above ... i request that ... -  the decision to suspend the investigation of 25 december 2012 be found unsubstantiated; ... -  servicemen of the bodies responsible for my brother’s abduction be identified and prosecuted ...” 44.  on 22 april 2013 the district court rejected the applicant’s complaint as unsubstantiated having found that the impugned decision had been taken lawfully and on sufficient grounds.
the other accused were p., k., t. and v. 6.  on 16 may 2008 a prosecutor drew up a bill of indictment against the applicant, p., k., t. and v. according to the bill of indictment, it had been established in the criminal investigation that the applicant, contrary to her allegations, had not been at the scene of the alleged accident.it was established that the applicant together with the other accused had submitted false information to the insurance company concerning the occurrence of an insured event, the persons who had been involved in the traffic accident, and the circumstances of the accident.7.  on 2 and 3 december 2008 the tartu county court held a hearing in the criminal proceedings against the applicant, p., k., t. and v. at this hearing the prosecutor asked the court to discontinue the criminal proceedings against the applicant and p. under article 202 (1) of the code of criminal procedure (kriminaalmenetluse seadustik).according to the minutes of the hearing, the prosecutor stated that the applicant had committed offences of a less serious nature (“in the second degree”), that she had been involved in the commission of those offences at the instigation of the co-accused, thereby demonstrating that her guilt was less, and that she had no previous convictions.9.  the county court’s ruling contained a detailed description of the charges against the applicant and p. it further noted that the prosecutor had requested the discontinuance of the criminal proceedings in respect of the applicant and p. on the basis of article 202 of the code of criminal procedure since the offence in question had been an offence in the second degree, both the applicant and p. had been involved in it at the instigation of other persons, and neither of them had had a previous criminal record.the part of the ruling setting out the county court’s conclusion read as follows: “the criminal proceedings in respect of the charges against [the applicant] ... have to be discontinued on the basis of article 202 (1) and (2) of the [code of criminal procedure] as all the legal requirements have been fulfilled.on the basis of article 202 (2) points 1 and 2 of the [code of criminal procedure] the obligations requested by the prosecutor have to be imposed on the applicant ... ” 10.  by a judgment of 3 december 2008, in settlement proceedings concerning the same criminal case, the tartu county court convicted k., t. and v. of insurance fraud.in support of her insurance claim, the applicant submitted as evidence to the court the claims sent to the insurance company after the event in 2006, a copy of the 3 december 2008 ruling ordering discontinuance of the criminal proceedings, and documents proving the extent of the damage.the prosecutor requested ... the discontinuance of the criminal proceedings on the basis of article 202 of the [code of criminal procedure] since it was an offence in the second degree, the guilt of the accused was negligible, and there was no public interest in the continuation of the proceedings.article 202 § 1 [of the code of criminal procedure] provides that if the object of criminal proceedings is a criminal offence in the second degree and the guilt of the person suspected or accused of the offence is negligible, and he or she has remedied or has begun to remedy the damage caused by the criminal offence or has paid the expenses relating to the criminal proceedings, or has assumed the obligation to pay such expenses, and there is no public interest in the continuation of the criminal proceedings, the public prosecutor’s office may request discontinuance of the criminal proceedings by a court with the consent of the suspect or accused.it follows from this provision that the person’s guilt exists but it is negligible and that he or she has begun to remedy it or has assumed the obligation to pay the expenses relating to the criminal proceedings.” 15.  the applicant appealed, complaining, inter alia, about the breach of her right to the presumption of innocence by the county court.the county court has correctly found, relying on what was established by the tartu county court’s ruling and judgment of 3 december 2008, that the [applicant] took part ... in the staging of a traffic accident the aim of which was to cause an insured event to happen and to create the illusion of the occurrence of that insured event with the intention to obtain compensation from the insurer.the premise of the discontinuance of the criminal proceedings according to the provision referred to is that the object of the criminal proceedings is a criminal offence in the second degree and the guilt of the person suspected or accused of the offence is negligible, and that he or she has remedied or has begun to remedy the damage caused by the criminal offence or has paid the expenses relating to the criminal proceedings, or has assumed the obligation to pay such expenses, and that there is no public interest in the continuation of the criminal proceedings, but that the act as such was nevertheless committed.the court of appeal finds that the fact that the applicant committed the act consisting of causing the insured event to happen and creating the illusion of the occurrence of an insured event with the intention of obtaining compensation from the insurer was established by the tartu county court’s ruling of 3 december 2008. if the [applicant’s] position was that she did not commit the act, she would have submitted evidence to prove her argument, but she has not done so.... in the present case it is established that the [applicant] as the policyholder intentionally caused the insured event and the [insurance company] is therefore exempted from the obligation to satisfy the claim.” 17.  the applicant appealed to the supreme court repeating, inter alia, her complaint about a breach of her right to the presumption of innocence.
on 2 february 1996 the personnel office (personalamt) of the vienna municipality accepted the applicant’s resignation (entsagung), and held that she was entitled to severance pay (abfindung) amounting to three monthly salaries.on 18 march 1996 the same authority amended the aforementioned decision, stating that the applicant was not eligible for severance pay.6.  the applicant appealed on 1 april 1996. on 3 september 1996 the appeal panel of the vienna municipality (berufungssenat der stadt wien) dismissed her appeal as unfounded.7.  on 9 october 1996 the applicant lodged a complaint against the appeal decision with the administrative court (verwaltungsgerichtshof).on 17 october 2001 the administrative court set aside the appeal decision of 3 september 1996 due to lack of jurisdiction of the personnel office of the vienna municipality.8.  on 13 june 2002 the applicant filed a request for transfer of jurisdiction (devolutionsantrag), since the appeal panel had not rendered a fresh decision by then.however, on 7 august 2002, the appeal panel set aside the decision of 18 march 1996 and at the same time decided on the merits of the subject matter and stated that the applicant was not eligible for severance pay.9.  on 19 september 2002 the applicant lodged a complaint with the constitutional court (verfassungsgerichtshof).on 30 november 2004 the constitutional court set aside the appeal panel’s decision on the merits due to lack of jurisdiction of the panel with regard to the subject matter.10.  on 1 april 2005 the vienna municipal council (gemeinderat der stadt wien) rendered a decision declaring that the applicant was not eligible for severance pay.11.  the applicant lodged a complaint against that decision with the constitutional court on 17 may 2005. on 12 october 2005 the constitutional court declared that the applicant’s constitutionally guaranteed right to have proceedings determining her civil rights conducted within a reasonable time had been violated.however, it dismissed her request to set aside the decision of the municipal council and refused to deal with the remainder of the complaint.the constitutional court conceded that the proceedings had already had an overall duration of approximately nine years, which resulted entirely from the conduct of the authorities and courts involved.however, setting aside the decision (preliminarily) concluding those overly long proceedings would not be capable of remedying the violation of the applicant’s rights; on the contrary, it would again delay the termination of the proceedings.12.  on 16 december 2005 the applicant amended her complaint for the proceedings before the administrative court.
6.  by a final decision of 21 march 2001 the arad district court convicted the applicant of rape of a minor and sentenced him to thirteen years’ imprisonment.on 11 july 2013 the applicant was again detained, following a new conviction for the rape of two girls who were minors, and was incarcerated in colibaşi prison.7.  in his letters to the court, the applicant contended that in arad and timişoara prisons he had been kept in overcrowded cells.he lodged several complaints with the domestic authorities in this respect, claiming that he had health problems because of the smoke he had inhaled from his inmates’ cigarettes.by a final decision of 12 april 2005, the arad county court allowed one of the applicant’s complaints and ordered the placement of the applicant in a non-smoking cell.from the information submitted by the applicant it is not clear whether that decision was enforced, but based on his written observations it could be inferred that he had been placed in a non-smoking cell.the prison authorities took into account the fact that the applicant had been convicted of the rape of a minor and for most of his stay he had therefore been placed alone in an individual cell of 10.40 square metres.on these occasions he was detained in the medical unit of the prison or in cells used for transit.according to the information provided by the national prison administration and forwarded to the court by the government, the applicant was held in the following cells: - cell no.12 measuring 7.60 square metres containing three beds (that is 2.53 square metres per bed); - cell no 35 neasuring 20.84 square metres containing ten beds (that is 2.08 square metres per bed); - cell no.12.  the government did not provide any information concerning either the number of the detainees who had occupied the cells or the time spent by the applicant in each of the above-mentioned cells.13.  the government submitted that both prisons mentioned by the applicant had adequate natural and electric lighting and ventilation.all of the cells in which the applicant had been held had had the requisite furniture.15.  concerning the hygiene in the cell, the government submitted that prisoners had been responsible for cleaning the cells and were provided with cleaning products by the prison administration.16.  the applicant had been transferred between the prison facilities in vehicles fitted with windows, lights, heating and sunroofs.
9.  by a judgment dated 10 january 2003, delivered in the case of airzena georgian airlines ltd. v. parliament and the ministry for transport and communications, the constitutional court declared that it was unconstitutional to use the legal term “annual regulation fee for transport activities” (რეგულირების საფასური), which appeared in various relevant legal acts – the act of 20 july 2001 on the rules of state management and regulation of transport and communications (“the regulation act”), and the orders of 28 december 2001, nos.22.  on 20 july 2004 an accountancy expert from the crime detection department of the ministry of the interior, whose services had been solicited by the gppo as part of the investigation of the applicant’s case, drew up an audit of the caa’s regulatory activities (“the audit report of 20 july 2004”).he then distinguished three periods of activity: (i) the period between 1 january 2002 and 1 april 2003, corresponding to the imposition of “the annual regulation fee for transport activities” by the caa on the civil aviation companies concerned; (ii) the period between 1 april and 1 october 2003, corresponding to the regulation by the caa of the activities of the companies in question in accordance with conditions negotiated as part of the contracts it entered into; and (iii) the period between 1 october 2003 and 13 march 2004, when the caa had collected regulation fees on the basis of order no.23.  the expert noted that the adoption of the constitutional court’s judgment of 10 january 2003 had led to “the suppression of the imposition by the caa, in the form of an order, of the ‘annual regulation fee for transport activities’ on companies operating within civil aviation and the removal of the compulsory nature of the payment of that fee”.in particular, the investigation authorities had not explained how, within the meaning of article 332 of the criminal code, the acts committed had damaged the “interests of the civil service”; what unlawful “personal profit” he had derived; what unlawful personal profit had been derived by third parties and who those people actually were; which of the rights of the companies concerned had been breached by his action; what legal interests of the state had been disregarded; and in what way that “disregard” had been “substantial” (see article 332 of the criminal code, at paragraph 58 below).after 1 april 2003, the date of entry into force of that judgment, the applicant had continued to charge the regulation fee, referring to it as a “fee for services provided in the field of the regulation of activities” in order to conceal the nature of the activity.according to the investigator, even if most of the companies concerned had declared that they had not incurred any loss from the applicant’s activities, the charging by the caa of the disguised regulation fee in breach of the judgment of the constitutional court had damaged the legal interests of the state.without replying to the applicant’s complaint of 1 february 2005 of the unlawfulness of his pre-trial detention, the court upheld the restraint measure on the basis of the “nature of the charges” and the inability to conduct a comprehensive judicial assessment of his arguments for release at the admissibility stage.36.   when questioned by the tbilisi city court during the trial, the acting director and the chief accountant of sakaeronavigatsia confirmed that their company had paid the relevant fee to the caa even after the constitutional court’s judgment of 10 january 2003, either on the basis of a contract or on the basis of order no.38.  when questioned by the trial court, mr dj.k., the first deputy chairperson of the caa, explained that at the material time, a new law, which should have been passed following the judgment of the constitutional court of 10 january 2003, had been delayed and that, if the applicant had not decided to enter into contracts with companies whose activities were subject to regulation, the caa, which received no funding from the state, would have had to cease operations.42.  when questioned by the trial court, the accountancy expert from the ministry of the interior who had authored the audit report on the caa’s activities confirmed the conclusions in the report relating to the legality of the caa’s transactions between 1 april 2003 and 13 march 2004.46.  as for the other two episodes, the tbilisi city court considered that the applicant had unlawfully entered into the contracts of 28 march and 13 august 2003 with sakaeronavigatsia, tbilisi international airport and air‑bp‑georgia, in breach of the constitutional court’s judgment of 10 january 2003. thus, between 1 april and 1 october 2003, the caa had unlawfully received the sums of gel 425,000 (some eur 208,000), 180,000 (around eur 83,000) and 25,000 (some eur 11,000) respectively, from which the applicant had unlawfully paid his own salary and the salaries of his employees, and had financed the caa’s business trip and management expenses.50.  the applicant appealed, stating that the tbilisi city court had not established which of the impugned actions had breached the notion of public service requirements, within the meaning of article 332 § 1 of the criminal code, what exactly the criminal offence had consisted of, what had been the reasons for it, and what its objectives and consequences had been.the applicant complained that in examining the question of the existence of a loss to the aforementioned eight companies, the court of appeal had failed to consider the case from the same point of view concerning the other companies, especially sakaeronavigatsia, which had allegedly incurred the biggest loss.53.  on 14 september 2006 the supreme court of georgia dismissed the appeal on points of law by the applicant, stating that by continuing to charge the fees to the various private companies after 1 april 2003 the applicant had misapplied the judgment of the constitutional court of 10 january 2003 and had thus committed an abuse of power, infringing the rights of various legal entities and the general legal interests of the state.
shortly afterwards, a witness saw the applicant walking down a road with his arms around k. after that nobody saw k. 8.  r. told the police that in the morning on 28 june 2006 he had left k. with the applicant and had gone to work.police officer i. brought the applicant to the taxi stand and asked the taxi drivers whether they had seen him on 28 june 2006. the taxi drivers did not recognise the applicant and the applicant could not indicate the car and the driver who had allegedly driven him on 28 june 2006. he also could not provide any details about the appearances of the car or the driver.10.  after the applicant’s questioning as a witness and the visit to the taxi stand (see paragraph 9 above), on 8 july 2006 the police detained the applicant for an “offence of minor public disorder” and placed him in a cell at the novy sanzhary police station.the material in the case file (namely, a copy of the applicant’s indictment) contains reference to the statements of police officers i. and f. saying that on 8 or 9 july 2006, while the applicant was in the cell at the novy sanzhary police station, they questioned him without a lawyer in connection with k’.s disappearance.14.  some forty minutes later investigator g. carried out a reconstruction of events in the presence of the applicant, attesting witnesses b. and l., and a forensic medical expert, b. the applicant showed them the place where he had grabbed k. by the neck and her body lying in the bushes.16.  in his application form the applicant stated that for the first time he had been allowed to see a lawyer on 22 august 2006. however, from the material in the case file, the authenticity of which the applicant did not dispute before the court, it follows that on 11 july 2006 the investigator g. appointed lawyer v. to represent the applicant under the legal aid scheme and questioned the applicant in his presence.he described the clothes he had worn on the day of the murder and said that after the murder the clothes had been washed.25.  witnesses questioned during the pre-trial investigation stated that the pennant found on the crime scene looked exactly as the one which they had seen on the applicant in the morning on 28 june 2006 (see paragraph 7 above).on 23 october 2007 the poltava regional court of appeal rejected that request noting that although the applicant’s right to legal assistance had indeed been restricted on 10 july 2006, the situation had been remedied because starting from 11 july 2006 the applicant had been represented by a lawyer and confirmed his self-incriminating statements in his presence.the court referred to the statement which the applicant had made in the presence of his lawyer, the minutes of the inspection of the crime scene on 10 july 2006, the results of the forensic examination of k.’s body and other material evidence found on the crime scene, forensic expert’s statements made before the court, and statements of witnesses who on 28 june 2006 had first seen the applicant with r. and k. and then later with k. alone walking down the road.the court also noted that the pennant which the applicant had with him when he had been in the café (see paragraph 7 above) had been later found on the crime scene.the conclusion that k. had been raped was made having regard to the position of k.’s body when it had been discovered by the police and the fact that her clothes had been pulled down.however, in the operative part of the judgment the court ordered the police to return the clothes to the applicant’s mother.37.  on 27 march 2008 the supreme court upheld the judgment of 20 november 2007. it noted, in particular, that when convicting the applicant the trial court had mainly relied on the statements which he had made in the presence of the lawyer s. on 9 september 2006.40.  the government submitted that during his detention in the sizo, the applicant had been held in various cells and it was unclear which of them he had been referring to in his letter to the court.
the applicant alleged that, following his numerous complaints to a prosecutor’s office about the failure to investigate the above case, in 2000 the prosecutor’s office had requested his placement in a psychiatric facility.8.  according to case-file materials, on 18 march 2000 the principal of the severodonetsk territorial medical association (северодонецьке територіальне медичне об’єднання, hereinafter the “severodonetsk hospital”) received a letter from the severodonetsk town prosecutor’s office asking for an opinion on the state of the applicant’s mental health.and k. studied the applicant’s letters at the prosecutor’s office and decided that the applicant should be examined, since the letters contained evidence of a “high probability of socially dangerous behaviour”.according to the applicant’s testimonies given before the court in civil proceedings (see paragraph 29 below), he opened the door only after the police had threatened to break it.on the next day the applicant was examined by an assistant of the psychiatric medicine department of the lugansk state university hospital in the presence of ma., and was offered hospital treatment.the severodonetskyy district court issued a note on the progress of the applicant’s case stating that the applicant had instituted the proceedings on 2 october 2001. in october 2001 the applicant lodged a similar complaint against the lugansk hospital.19.  on 15 november 2001 the court stayed the proceedings in the case pending examination of the issue of the applicant’s legal capacity.the case file also contains a note on the progress of the applicant’s case issued by the severodonetskyy district court.according to the government, all of them took place; according to the domestic court record, ten of them did not take place because the defendants, the applicant or their representatives failed to appear.on 21 march 2000 the applicant was transferred to the lugansk hospital without his consent; he stayed there until 7 september 2000. he was then transferred to the svatove hospital, where he stayed until 4 december 2000. the applicant claimed that ma.29.  the court further noted that in a court hearing the applicant had submitted that he had not challenged his diagnosis but considered that the doctors’ actions had been unlawful.and g. testified that no pressure had been brought to bear on the applicant at the time of the visit to his home.31.  the court found that the visit to the applicant’s home on 19 march 2000 when the applicant had been examined and later taken to the severodonetsk hospital had been performed in compliance with paragraphs 1, 2, and 10 to 13 of instruction no.17. however, the applicant’s transfer to the svatove hospital on 7 september 2000 had been in breach of section 16 of the psychiatric medical assistance act, which was in force as of 4 april 2000. the applicant’s requests for access to information had been rejected as a result of a decision to limit his access to his medical file, which he had not challenged.33.  on 29 november 2007 the lugansk regional court of appeal upheld the decision of 13 august 2007. the court held that the first-instance court had correctly applied the law in force at the material time.
6.  the first applicant is the editor of a local online newspaper in the province of lecco.7.  in the course of their activities, the applicants used radio equipment to access frequencies used by the police or the carabinieri.9.  the carabinieri accordingly went to the location mentioned, and the second and third applicants arrived on the scene immediately afterwards.11.  the carabinieri then went to the two journalists’ editorial office and seized two fixed radio receivers, which were tuned to the frequencies used by the carabinieri.the third applicant was charged with accessing the aforementioned communications (articles 617 and 623 bis of the criminal code).it held that the relevant articles of the criminal code were to be interpreted in the light of article 15 of the constitution, which only protected communications of a confidential nature.14.  the district court observed that the radio device used by the law-enforcement agencies was unable to ensure the confidentiality of the information it transmitted.12655 of 23 january 2001) and that the communications in issue were clearly confidential, bearing in mind the aims of ensuring public safety and protecting public order.16.  the confidential nature of the communications was also obvious from the fact that the carabinieri used coded language for communications concerning the location and the type of intervention, clearly seeking to ensure that no third parties had knowledge of the information being exchanged.19.  in a judgment of 15 may 2007 the milan court of appeal found the first and second applicants guilty and sentenced them to one year and three months’ imprisonment.547 of 23 november 1993, had extended the scope of criminal responsibility to cover all remote data transmission, thus including the interception of conversations between the law-enforcement agencies’ operations centres and patrols.reiterating all the arguments put forward by the milan and lecco public prosecutors, particularly regarding the aims of ensuring public safety and protecting public order, the court of appeal held that article 329 of the code of criminal procedure was also at issue in the present case.furthermore, they had been acting in a professional capacity as journalists, and their actions were therefore justified under article 51 of the criminal code and in terms of freedom of the press.23.  in a judgment of 28 october 2008 the court of cassation found against the applicants, upholding the court of appeal’s position as to the confidential nature of the communications and reiterating that this interpretation was consistent with its own approach in similar cases, particularly in judgments no.24.  addressing the applicants’ argument concerning freedom of the press, the court of cassation stated that the right to impart information, which they had relied on, might have prevailed over the public interests protected by criminal law in a case of alleged defamation.
11.  later the same day, the applicant and v.z., unaccompanied by lawyers, were taken to the centre of the village where they lived and were asked by the police to give video-recorded testimonies about the circumstances of the deaths of l.g.according to the record of the crime reconstruction, which referred to the applicant as the “suspect”, the latter –having been informed of his rights to defence and his right not to incriminate himself – agreed to give testimony and acknowledged that he had fatally hit l.g.14.  on 31 august 2001 the applicant was informed in writing of his right to defence and was questioned, in the presence of his defense counsel, as a suspect in the premeditated murder of a.g. he repeated the statement he had made on 23 august 2001.21.  on 25 july 2002 the dnipropetrovsk regional court of appeal (hereafter “the court of appeal”) upheld the conviction of 11 february 2002 with respect to the applicant’s co-defendants, quashed the conviction with respect to the applicant and remitted his case to the district court for retrial.the court of appeal noted, in particular, that the district court, having admitted the case for trial on both the charges of theft and causing a fatal traffic accident, had reached a verdict only on the theft charge.26.  on 7 july 2003, following a request by the applicant and his lawyer, the district court remitted the theft case to the magdalynivsky district prosecutors’ office, instructing it to join the proceedings to those concerning the traffic accident and the murder.on the same date, without being released, the applicant was re-arrested on suspicion of the premeditated murder of a.g. 29.  on 26 september 2003 the prosecutor’s office asked the district court to remand the applicant in custody in connection with the murder proceedings.31.  on 29 september 2003 the district court refused the prosecutor’s request to remand the applicant in custody in the murder proceedings, having found that the prosecutor’s decision to cancel the applicant’s detention on remand of 25 september 2003 had been unlawful.it noted, in particular, that the investigation of the murder case had featured artificial suspensions and other delays and that by joining and disjoining the various charges against the applicant, the investigation had been sidestepping the proper procedure for extending the term for the pre-trial investigation.36.  on 14 october 2003 the district court granted the prosecution’s request to remand the applicant in custody in the context of the murder proceedings.44.  on 19 april 2004 the applicant was committed for trial before the court of appeal, acting as a first-instance court, on charges of having caused the traffic accident which resulted in l.g.’s death and of the aggravated murder of a.g. 45.  during the trial the applicant acknowledged that he had fatally hit l.g.47.  on 21 may 2004 the court of appeal found the applicant guilty of causing the traffic accident which resulted in l.g.’s death and of the aggravated murder of a.g. the conviction for murder was based on the testimony of v.z., which the trial court found to be corroborated by the statements made by the applicant’s wife, the results of the crime-scene inspection and the forensic expert’s examination of the victim’s body.51.  on numerous occasions the applicant complained to the court of appeal and other state authorities that his term of imprisonment had been calculated incorrectly in the judgment of 21 may 2004, and that the starting point should have been the date of his first arrest in connection with the theft charges, i.e. 15 august 2001, rather than 10 october 2003. in reply, the applicant was informed that the term of imprisonment had been properly calculated, because prior to october 2003 the applicant had been detained in relation to charges that were not linked to the murder charge for which he was convicted.given the applicant’s conviction under the judgment of 21 may 2004, the trial court applied the rule of absorption of sentences, as provided by domestic legislation, and defined the final sentence for all his crimes as fifteen years’ imprisonment combined with the confiscation of his property and the three-year driving ban.the district court included the length of the applicant’s pre-trial detention in the overall term of imprisonment and ruled that the latter had started running on 15 august 2001, when the applicant had been detained for the first time in the context of the theft proceedings.
since there had previously been thefts at the factory premises, during which scrap metal had been thrown over the fence into the applicant’s yard, the latter decided to enter the factory yard to chase after the young men.the applicant’s mother-in-law appeared and asked the police officer not to beat the applicant, whereupon he grabbed the applicant by the sleeve and took him to the police station.8. the applicant also submitted that, at the police station, l., in the presence of two other police officers, had kicked him in the kidneys, at which point the applicant fell to the ground.two of them had stayed outside while the others, accompanied by l., had entered the building and had seen aluminium sheets from the ceiling piled on the floor and a man trying to escape through the conveyor belt opening.the internal police investigation concluded that since the submissions of the applicant, the police officers and the witnesses were contradictory, the case-file of material should be sent to a prosecutor’s office.the deputy prosecutor noted that the applicant had stated that he had not intended to steal aluminium but had entered the factory premises out of curiosity and had run away out of fear of being accused of theft, that l. and p. had denied using physical force on the applicant and that the factory employees said that they had not seen l. beat the applicant.26.  between 15 june 2003 and 27 october 2004 the following investigative steps were taken:  on 30 august 2004 the applicant’s mother-in-law testified that she had seen l. kicking the applicant whilst he was lying on the ground;  on 30 august-1 september 2004 the applicant, his wife and the factory employees were questioned;  on 30 august 2004 a forensic expert concluded that the applicant had sustained bodily injuries of medium seriousness and that those injuries could have been inflicted by blunt objects or by several falls from different heights;  on 6-8 september 2004 police officers p. and l. were questioned;  on 27 september 2004 the factory premises were examined;  according to a forensic medical report dated 6 october 2004, the applicant could have sustained his injuries between 30 december 2002 and 2 january 2003 by being beaten or by falling from a height.28.  on 30 november 2004 the applicant was questioned and he reiterated his version of events (see paragraphs 6-10 above), submitting, in particular, that in the police station ‒ in the presence of two police officers ‒ l. had struck him on the chest; p. had hit him several times on the head; p. and l. had kicked him on various parts of his body and p. had struck him on the chest and on the abdomen and had then beaten him in the presence of a police officer.34.  on 26 may 2005 the vinnytsya regional prosecutor’s office asked the head of the internal security department of the vinnytsya region, which is part of the ministry of the internal affairs of ukraine (начальник увб у вінницькій області двб губоз мвс україни), to identify and question witnesses who had seen or talked to the applicant at the time of the events in question.the court found that the investigating officer had failed to check whether an ambulance had been called for the applicant when he had been at the police station, and had failed to question the witnesses to the applicant’s arrest.the applicant’s family members and some factory employees were to be additionally questioned and the evidential material from the administrative case-file against the applicant was to be included in the file.44.  between 13 april 2006 and 19 october 2008 the proceedings were terminated three times for absence of corpus delicti and re-opened, in particular, in the light of the failure to obtain the applicant’s medical file from the hospital or to conduct a reconstruction of events with the participation of l., witnesses and a forensic medical expert in order to establish where the applicant had fallen and the circumstances in which the applicant had suffered his injuries.45.  by letters of 7 july 2006 and 7 february 2007 the shargorodskyy district prosecutor’s office informed the vinnytsya regional prosecutor’s office, inter alia, that the applicant’s mother-in-law, wife and sister-in-law had refused to testify, that a factory guard who had been on duty on 30 december 2002 had moved to russia, and that “it had been impossible to question doctors at shargorod hospital since there was no information about any medical assistance that might have been provided to the applicant”.the forensic medical expert who participated in the reconstruction of events testified that the applicant’s injuries had most probably been caused as a result of his having fallen down several times, bearing in mind the frozen ground, the height of the conveyor belt and the fence, and the body’s acceleration when running.55.  on 5 november 2010, in response to complaints by the applicant’s representative about alleged breaches of the law in the course of the search and seizure, the vinnytsya city prosecutor’s office issued a decision refusing to institute criminal proceedings.
in his professional capacity as president of the supreme court and the national council of justice, the applicant expressed his views on different aspects of the legislative reforms affecting the judiciary, notably the nullification bill, the retirement age of judges, the amendments to the code of criminal procedure, and the new organisation and administration of the courts bill.18.  on 24 march 2011, in a speech delivered to parliament in the course of the debate on the bill on the fundamental law of hungary (the new constitution), the applicant expressed his opinion on certain aspects of the proposed constitutional reform which concerned the judiciary, notably the new name given to the supreme court – kúria –, the new powers attributed to the kúria in the field of ensuring consistency in the case-law, the management of the judiciary and the functioning of the national council of justice, as well as the introduction of a constitutional appeal against judicial decisions.19.  on 7 april 2011, in relation to the proposal to reduce the mandatory retirement age of judges (from seventy years to the general retirement age of sixty-two) in article 26 (2) of the fundamental law of hungary, the applicant, together with other court presidents, addressed a letter to various actors in the constitutional process (the president of the republic, the prime minister, the speaker of parliament) in which they pointed out the possible risks to the judiciary posed by the given proposal.20.  on the morning of 11 april 2011 (the day of the vote on the proposals to amend the retirement age of judges), the applicant addressed a letter to the prime minister, in which he stressed that the proposal was humiliating and professionally unjustifiable; it infringed the fundamental principles of the independence, status and irremovability of judges; and it was also discriminatory, since only the judiciary was concerned.the proposed reform sought to concentrate the tasks of judicial management in the hands of the president of the new national judicial office, while leaving the responsibility for overseeing the uniform administration of justice with the president of the supreme court (renamed with the historical appellation “kúria”).he said that it did not address the structural problems of the judiciary, but left them to “the discretion of the executive of an external administration (the president of the proposed national judicial office, which would replace the national council of justice in managing the courts), who [would be] assigned excessive and, in europe, unprecedented powers, with no adequate accountability”.in this regard, he stated: “this unrestricted, non-transparent and uncontrollable power is unparalleled in contemporary europe ... the extent and uncontrollability of such centralised authority is without precedent, even in countries where the administration of the judiciary lies with the ministry of justice and even if we think of the socialist dictatorship, in the last years of which kálmán kulcsár, member of the hungarian academy of sciences and minister of justice responsible for the administration of the judiciary, declared that he would appoint only persons recommended by the professional organs of the judiciary.” finally, the applicant again raised in his speech the issue of the new retirement age for judges, saying that it would have a severe effect on the supreme court and that the need to have enough judges at the kúria had not yet been addressed.26.  on 6 july 2011, in the “position of the government of hungary on the opinion on the fundamental law of hungary adopted by the venice commission at its 87th plenary session (venice, 17-18 june 2011, cdl‑ad(2011)016)”, transmitted by the minister for foreign affairs of hungary, the government assured the venice commission that the drafting of the transitional provisions of the fundamental law would not be used to unduly put an end to the terms of office of persons elected under the previous legal regime.the reasoning of the bill reads as follows: “in view of the fundamental law of hungary and of the modifications to the court system resulting from that law, in compliance with the bill on the transitional provisions of the fundamental law of hungary, and with a view to ensuring a smooth transition and continuity in the fulfilment of the tasks of the kúria as from 1 january 2012, this bill provides that parliament must elect, by 31 december 2011 and according to the rules laid down in the fundamental law, the president of the kúria who is to take office on 1 january 2012.” 29.  on 20 november 2011 two members of the parliamentary majority submitted a bill (no.under section 11 of the transitional provisions of the fundamental law of hungary bill, the legal successors of the supreme court and the national council of justice would be the kúria, for the administration of justice, and the president of the national judicial office, for the administration of the courts.pursuant to section 11(2), the mandates of the president of the supreme court and of the president and members of the national council of justice would be terminated upon the entry into force of the fundamental law.having regard to the modifications to the court system, the bill provides that the term of office of the president of the supreme court currently in office, and that of the president and the members of the national council of justice, shall be terminated upon the entry into force of the fundamental law.” 30.  on 23 november 2011 another member of parliament submitted a proposal for an amendment to sections 185 and 187 of the organisation and administration of the courts bill.t/5005 on the transitional provisions of the fundamental law of hungary, both submitted to parliament.” 31.  on 28 november 2011 parliament adopted both the organisation and administration of the courts bill (as act clxi) and the constitution of the republic of hungary (amendment) bill (as act clix), with the content described above.35.  in order for a new president to be elected to the kúria in due time, the constitution of the republic of hungary (amendment) act (act clix of 2011, adopted on 28 november 2011, see paragraph 31 above) entered into force on 2 december 2011. on 9 november 2011 the organisation and administration of the courts bill was amended, and an additional criterion for the election of the new president of the kúria was introduced.37.  secondly, the legislation dealing with certain post-term benefits for outgoing presidents of the supreme court (remuneration and allowances act 2000) was repealed as from 1 january 2012. section 227(1) of the legal status and remuneration of judges act 2011 (as amended on 28 november 2011, in force from 1 january 2012) supplemented this abrogation, and stipulated that the repealed legislation would be applied to any former president of the supreme court only to the extent that he or she was entitled to the allowance specified in sections 26(1) and 22(1) (pension supplement for life), had reached retirement age at the time of the entry of force of the act and had requested the allowance.
20/10-33 of 9 january 2000 issued by the kherson regional department of the ministry of the interior (управління міністерства внутрішніх справ в херсонській області) (“the kherson regional department”) and pursuant to an order from a senior traffic police officer, kos., drafted a training exercise for traffic police officers in the city of kherson and the village of antonivka in the context of operation sirena.the scenario was approved on 13 january 2000 by a deputy head of the kherson regional department, s. 10.  senior traffic police officer kos., who on 14 january 2000 was the acting head of the traffic police department, later stated in the course of the criminal investigation that traffic police officers had been given prior notice of the training exercise on the day that it was held.17.  on 15 january 2000 the kherson regional board of the ministry of the interior adopted a decision by which it was concluded that the “extraordinary event” («надзвичайна подія») of 14 january 2000 had taken place because of low professional standards on the part of the police; k.’s failure to assess properly the “extraordinary circumstances” («екстремальні умови»), ignorance of the steps to be taken when arresting a suspect and failure to properly handle his weapon; and the irresponsible attitude of senior police officers towards the organisation of the training exercise.the procedure for the conduct of the training was not comprehensively set out; [failures included]: - the failure to stipulate an itinerary for the car containing the “criminals”; - the failure to provide for the necessary number of observers ... in their turn, the senior officers of the kherson regional traffic police ... acted in a perfunctory and irresponsible manner ..., did not properly study the scenario and did not correct its shortcomings... moreover, no training instructor was appointed and the heads of services and subdivisions involved in the training were not informed of the details of the scenario.so., a lieutenant-colonel, ... briefed those police officers who were due to participate in the training but failed to notify the head of the department of the time of the training and did not personally supervise the progress of the training ... 20.  as a result, it was concluded that police officers k., o., p., os.21.  on 17 january 2000 the ministry of the interior issued an order which noted that even though safety and the prevention of death and injury in respect of police officers were priorities in police activities, there had been a number of serious shortcomings in the organisation and conduct of the training exercise, which had led to the incident in question.26.  the testimony of different police officers involved in the organisation and conduct of the training exercise included, inter alia, the following: - p. testified that the “orders in force” had not required that information about the training be circulated; - the head of the police unit on duty at the kherson regional department (начальник чергової частини штабу управління мвс), g., testified that he had instructed p. to “comply with the sirena plan, in accordance with the existing instructions”.it had been impossible to involve only the traffic police in the training since operation sirena had required joint action, involving both the police and the traffic police; - s., a deputy head of the kherson regional department, testified that there had been no legal instruments governing the conduct of police training under operation sirena.s. stated that the training scenario had been discussed with kos., who had told s. that the scenario had been approved by the head of the kherson regional department; - police officer o. testified that the district police stations must have been aware of the training exercise.29.  on 13 july 2000 the dniprovskyy district court (“the dniprovskyy court”), in the absence of the applicants, terminated the criminal proceedings against k. under the amnesty act, since he was the father of a minor and should thus not be liable to serve a punishment.38.  on 12 february 2001 the kherson regional prosecutor’s office quashed that decision, citing the failure to fully comply with the decision of 28 november 2000. the recommenced proceedings were again terminated on 29 march 2001. it was noted in the latter decision that the constituent elements of a crime (“negligence”) under article 167 of the criminal code included failure to perform properly or at all certain duties.45.  after the forensic medical examination of the body of the applicants’ son, a forensic expert concluded that the crack in the skull of the applicants’ son had appeared during the initial forensic medical examination.49.  on 14 november 2006 the kherson regional court of appeal quashed the decision of 8 september 2006 and upheld the decision of 10 february 2006. the court concluded that the circumstances of the case had been investigated comprehensively and that the suvorovskyy district court had, in particular, failed to specify which facts had not been examined by an investigating officer.she stated that the court of appeal had failed to examine the factual circumstances of the case and that many aspects of the case remained unclear (whether there had been an obligation to inform the police officers about the training, what did the “near-reality” conditions mean etc.61.  in february 2009 the second applicant instituted administrative proceedings in the kherson regional administrative court against the ministry of the interior and the kherson regional department, complaining that their conduct relating to the organisation of the police training of 14 january 2000 had been unlawful.
7.  on the same day, the investigator arrested the applicant and drew up an arrest report, the relevant parts of which read as follows: “on 22 january 2004 at 1.40 p.m., investigator ya., in accordance with article 115 of the criminal procedure code of ukraine detained kleutin denis vasyliyovych ... on suspicion of commission of the crime provided for by article 186 of the criminal code of ukraine.he noted that the applicant had been suspected in having committed a serious crime and, if released, might abscond in order to avoid the investigation and prevent the establishment of the truth in the case.9.  on 24 january 2004, in the presence of the prosecutor and in the absence of the applicant, the district court remanded the applicant in custody without setting its maximum duration.the court’s order referred to the investigator’s statements as to the gravity of charges, the applicant’s previous convictions, and the risk of his committing another crime, absconding, impairing the establishment of truth and obstructing the course of justice.10.  on 18 march 2004, in the presence of the prosecutor and in the absence of the applicant, the district court allowed the investigator’s request and extended the applicant’s detention for one month in view of the need to carry out certain investigative steps to complete the investigation.it noted that no applications had been lodged by the parties to the proceedings and found “no violations of the requirements of article 237 of the code of criminal procedure of ukraine (“the ccp”) in the course of the preliminary investigation of the case”.on 5 june 2008 the applicant submitted that on 22 january 2004, k. ‒ who was the brother of the applicant’s alleged accomplice in the said crime ‒ and his colleagues had unlawfully broken into his apartment and had severely beaten him while trying to make him confess.25.  the government submitted that no pressure or physical force had been used on the applicant whilst being apprehended and that the latter had voluntarily agreed to go with the officers to the police station.27.  by the aforementioned ruling of 29 march 2005, the district court ordered the prosecutor’s office to identify, by 11 april 2005, the persons who had apprehended the applicant and to question them and the applicant’s sister in relation to the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment.the applicant further submitted that the police officers had left the apartment after he had stated, in his sister’s presence, that those officers had no authority to take him to the police station.k., who knew the applicant and his home address, happened to be in the vicinity of the police station at the time and volunteered to show them the applicant’s place of residence.33.  on the same day, on the basis of the above-mentioned statements by the police officer, the prosecutor refused to institute criminal proceedings against the police officer, having found that no physical force had been applied to the applicant and that he had voluntarily agreed to go to the police station.35.  the case file suggests that in 2006 the applicant’s lawyer had made inquiries to the sizo authorities and the city hospital about the applicant’s possible injuries following the alleged ill-treatment.the sizo administration had provided the lawyer with a record of the applicant’s state of health upon his admission to the sizo and the medical treatment provided to him in detention.in his reply to the government’s observations, the applicant specified that the cells had not afforded enough living space, that the sanitary conditions had been poor, and that he had been detained in those conditions for the most of the day, with no outdoor activity allowed.
on 14 september 1998 the police sought authorisation for the release of the applicants from hmp peterhead into their custody so that they could be interviewed with regard to the disappearance and suspected murder of a.m. 10.  on 17 september 1998, while serving their sentence at hmp peterhead, the applicants were detained by the police under section 14 of the criminal procedure (scotland) act 1995 and removed to queen street police office in aberdeen.15.  between 1 and 4 april 2005 a decision was made by the procurator fiscal, following consultation with crown counsel, to place both applicants on petition in relation to the murder of a.m. the crown’s position was that a.m. had threatened to report the applicants to the police after discovering that they were sexually abusing her son.18.  on 6 june 2005 the crown office provisionally fixed a preliminary hearing date for 12 september 2005. that hearing date was set aside as the first applicant lodged a “devolution minute” (see paragraphs 51-52 below) relating to a potential violation of the reasonable time guarantee contained within article 6 § 1 of the convention.on 7 december 2005 the high court dismissed the first applicant’s appeal against that decision and refused him leave to appeal to the judicial committee of the privy council.although the evidence against the first applicant was stronger, the understanding that the applicants had acted together would have made a trial against the first applicant only very difficult.22.  pursuant to sections 65(1)(a) and (1a) of the criminal procedure (scotland) act 1995, a trial had to take place within twelve months of the accused’s first appearance on petition in respect of the offence, although this period could be extended either within the twelve-month period or retrospectively (see paragraph 48 below).furthermore, central scotland police formed “operation aspen”, the objective of which was to look for evidence both of further sexual offending by the applicants, and of their involvement in the disappearance of a.m. 25.  as a result of operation aspen, new evidence came to light concerning the circumstances of a.m.’s disappearance and the applicants’ sexual offending.the high court found that the crown had acted properly in investigating and reviewing the evidence between 1997 and 2008; that the expiry of the section 65 time-limit had come about through a positive decision rather than through inadvertence; and that new evidence had since come to light so as to allow the crown to proceed against both applicants.however, the court refused to dismiss the charge, finding, inter alia, that proceedings had begun on 5 april 2005; that the “reasonable time” permitted by article 6 had not been exceeded; that the fairness of the upcoming trial had not been jeopardised; and that there was no other compelling reason why it would be unfair to proceed to trial.33.  both appeals were dismissed on 26 november 2009. in dismissing the first applicant’s appeal, the appeal court accepted that the police had interrogated him “robustly” in 1998, but agreed with the high court that he was not “charged” until 5 april 2005. the court considered that the crown had acted without fault since that time, and, in the particular circumstances of the case, it could not be said that the matter would not be determined within a reasonable time.the high court dismissed the minute as the arguments advanced by the second applicant related to unreasonable delay and not to missing evidence (which was the argument raised in the original minute).41.  the applicants subsequently applied under section 107(8) of the criminal procedure (scotland) act 1995 (“the 1995 act”) for leave to reinstate grounds which the sifting judges had found to be unarguable, including those relating to the length of proceedings.43.  the applicants sought leave to appeal to the supreme court against the appeal court’s refusal to grant leave to appeal on the additional grounds.45.  a hearing took place on 29 and 30 april 2013 before the supreme court, which gave judgment on 13 june 2013. the main issue before the supreme court was whether the applicants could be said to have been “charged” on 17 september 1998 or whether the appropriate “starting point” for the purposes of article 6 § 1 was 5 april 2005. the court assessed the evidence in light of the relevant case-law of the domestic courts and of this court.the court concluded that the correct “starting point” in the applicants’ proceedings was 5 april 2005 and the case was remitted to the appeal court.
5.  the applicant was born in 1948 and lives in belgrade.6.  the applicant was employed by “pim – bagerovanje i vodni transport”, a socially-owned company based in belgrade (“the debtor”).7.  on 30 march 2005 the belgrade second municipal court (drugi opštinski sud u beogradu) ordered the debtor to pay the applicant specified sums in respect of salary arrears, social security contributions and procedural costs.this judgment became final on the same date.8.  on 22 june 2005 the belgrade fourth municipal court (četvrti opštinski sud u beogradu) issued an enforcement order with regard to the said judgement.9.  on 29 march 2012, acting upon the applicant’s constitutional appeal, the constitutional court held that the applicant had suffered a breach of the “right to a trial within a reasonable time” with regard to the enforcement proceedings.the court ordered the acceleration of the proceedings and declared that the applicant was entitled to compensation for the non-pecuniary damage suffered in the amount of eur 700, converted into the national currency at the rate applicable at the date of settlement.10.  the enforcement proceedings instituted on the basis of the judgment rendered by the belgrade second municipal court on 30 march 2005 continued and are still pending.
according to the applicant, he read the contents of the registration document aloud to the officers.as established by the domestic courts in the set of proceedings against the police officers, when one of the police officers had told the applicant that he would be arrested, the applicant pushed the police officer and started to run away.11.  as established by the domestic courts in the set of proceedings against the applicant, on the basis of the testimony of the policemen, after the comment made by the applicant the police officers tried to apprehend him, however he resisted arrest and moved a few steps back.chemical burn to the right eye.” 15.  a document dated 27 january 2009 confirming the applicant’s release from the myślenice hospital read: “he claims that yesterday he was beaten up by the police officers who used pepper spray on him.skin bruising on the right hand, chemical burn to the right eye, reddish conjunctivitis in the right eye.” 16.  the applicant also submitted a copy of a medical certificate requesting that he be examined by an ophthalmologist, because of “burns from pepper spray”.he had had to walk until he had found a taxi driver who had agreed to give him a lift and call his wife, who had apparently been waiting at the police station since 10 a.m. and had had no idea that he had been released and let out by the back door.it found that in his complaint he had presented “his own version of events” and that his arrest had been lawful because “although there was no fear that he might go into hiding there was a reasonable suspicion that he might influence the testimony of a witness to the events in question”.the court also considered that at the moment of the arrest there were grounds to suspect the applicant of having committed the offence referred to in article 226 § 1 of the criminal code and there were grounds to bring proceedings against him in an expedited manner.on 8 april 2009 in his reply to the bill of indictment, when describing the “kicking” he stated that these could have been involuntary movements as he had been pushed to the ground and pressed down on with a police officer’s knee and pepper spray had been directed into his face.the court held that in his statements the applicant had not actually denied kicking the police officer j.b. as he could not rule out that he had made the movements with his legs involuntarily, without the intention of hitting anybody.22.  on 8 september 2009 the nowy sącz regional court quashed the first-instance judgment and discontinued the proceedings, finding that the prohibited acts committed by the applicant had not constituted offences because the resulting harm to the public was insignificant (znikoma szkodliwość społeczna czynu).referring to the relevant provisions of domestic law, in particular the 1990 police act, the prosecutor found that the police had had the right to use force because “the applicant had not obeyed their orders, had behaved nervously and had tried to run away”.he further submitted that the officers had used excessive force, inappropriate in the circumstances; they had put him onto the ground with his face down and had sat on his back and used pepper spray to incapacitate him.he also referred to the circumstances of his release from the police station and the fact that his wife, who had been waiting there for him, had not been informed that he had left by the back door.it found that the “circumstances of the applicant’s arrest [had already been] examined because the applicant had complained about his arrest and his complaint [had been] dismissed”.
14.  the applicant submitted that for the whole of 2008 he had not been able to attend sunday mass at the remand centre.17.  the domestic courts established that three years before his detention the applicant had been admitted to hospital because of inflammation of the testicles, prostatic hyperplasia, pneumonia and an unspecified skin condition, for which he had received treatment similar to that usually prescribed for dermatitis (zapalenie skóry).it was also established that the first symptoms of that disorder had appeared prior to the applicant’s detention, in 2004. an expert in dermatology, appointed by the domestic court, excluded the possibility that the applicant had developed the illness because of contact with an allegedly dirty and mouldy mattress.21.  in 2007 and 2009 the applicant lodged a number of complaints with the ombudsman, the ministry of justice and the relevant penitentiary court, informing them of the allegedly deplorable conditions of his detention, his inadequate medical care and of unreasonable restrictions on the practice of his religion during his detention in koszalin remand centre.in particular, the remand centre had administered prostamol and the other drug, doxar, had been obtained with the authorities’ permission from the applicant’s relatives.23.  in letters of 11 may and 15 june 2009, the authorities informed the applicant that he had had unrestricted access to religious services in koszalin remand centre, in accordance with the special schedule.moreover, the applicant’s placement in overcrowded cells had been in compliance with the law, namely article 248 of the code of the execution of criminal sentences.24.  the applicant, who was represented by a lawyer, also brought a civil action for infringement of his personal rights on account of overcrowding, inadequate medical care and unreasonable restrictions on the practice of his religion in koszalin remand centre by means of attendance of sunday mass.25.  on 14 december 2010 the koszalin district court (sąd rejonowy) held that the applicant’s placement in overcrowded cells for a period of 309 days during his detention constituted degrading and inhuman treatment within the meaning of domestic law and the convention.27.  the evidence which was obtained by the civil court, inter alia, the applicant’s medical history, witness testimony and the report of an expert in dermatology, had disproved the applicant’s allegations that he had contracted his skin condition in the remand centre because his mattress had been dirty and damp and that his illness had been inadequately treated.28.  the domestic court considered that in view of the fact that the applicant had been authorised to attend sunday mass a total of four times in september and november 2008 and in the light of the testimony of the prison chaplain that the applicant had been free to request attendance in sunday mass, it could not be said that his access to religious services had been unreasonably restricted.30.  in view of the above, the koszalin district court awarded the applicant pln 5,000 (approximately eur 1,200) in non-pecuniary compensation on account of the suffering caused by his detention in overcrowded cells.the domestic court also ordered the applicant to pay pln 1,200 (eur 300) towards the costs of the proceedings.31.  the applicant submitted a hand-written appeal against the above-mentioned judgment, dated 24 january 2011. the document does not bear any stamps but is accompanied by an official note, confirming that on 24 january 2011 the applicant wished to send his appeal to the koszalin district court from żytkowice prison.33.  an appeal by the applicant against the judgment of the appellate court was rejected as no such appeal was available under the applicable law.
7.  on 1 december 2010 the regional court reviewed the measure and decided not to terminate it, because it was deemed that there was still a high risk of the applicant reoffending.8.  on 19 may 2011 g.d., the applicant’s personal case officer, issued a progress report about the applicant, containing, amongst other things, the following: “[the applicant] is currently residing in fpa de cederborg.to lower the risk of reoffending the measure should be continued.” 9.  on 9 june 2011 the regional court decided to prolong the measure further, holding that there was a considerable likelihood that the applicant would reoffend after his release.10.  the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision on 15 june 2011. on 8 november 2011 counsel for the applicant made inquiries with the court of appeal about the progress of the appeal and requested that its examination be given priority.prior to the hearing before the court of appeal, counsel for the applicant requested in a letter of 18 november 2011 that, for the benefit of the applicant, an interpreter be present who spoke aramaic or assyrian, and he gave the name of an interpreter who spoke the correct language.with the applicant’s agreement, the case was adjourned for a maximum period of three months to allow counsel for the applicant to put written questions to certain of the applicant’s counsellors.12.  after a period of three months had elapsed, counsel for the applicant inquired with the court of appeal into the progress of the proceedings on 13 march and again on 2 april 2012. the proceedings were resumed on 10 may 2012, when a hearing took place.the clinical features of [the applicant] play an important role in this, but cederborg [the institution] could have signalled earlier that there were no further possibilities to treat [the applicant].the measure has contributed to the protection of society since [the applicant] is no longer addicted, thus reducing the risk of him reoffending.[the applicant] is now residing in a halfway house and has been placed on the waiting list for sheltered accommodation.” 13.  it would appear that sheltered accommodation became available for the applicant on 11 may 2012.14.  on 16 may 2012 the court of appeal delivered its decision, holding, amongst other things, the following: “no violation of article 6 echr the court of appeal considers that in the present case it cannot be said that the appeal was dealt with speedily within the meaning of article 6 of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.unlike counsel [for the applicant], the court is of the opinion that the decision to accept that a violation of the convention has occurred in itself constitutes sufficient satisfaction for the outrage to his sense of justice.termination the court of appeal has held that the execution of the measure has not been sufficiently expeditious in all stages.the court of appeal deems that the difficult progress of the measure cannot only be attributed to [the applicant] and finds that fpa de cederborg could have signalled the difficult progress of the measure earlier.having regard to the fact that [the applicant] currently has accommodation where he can stay as well as a prospect of placement in appropriate sheltered accommodation where he can also stay if the measure is terminated, and the fact that partly due to this the risk that the termination of the measure will lead to endangerment, nuisance and degradation of society is small, the court of appeal considers that continuation of the measure is no longer necessary.”
7.  the applicants are the owners of land situated in the cadastral area of závodie on the territory of the municipality of žilina.10.  in the context of the political changes in the former czechoslovakia, the land ownership act (law 229/1991 coll.)was enacted in 1991. under section 22(2) thereof, in the absence of any agreement to the contrary with the applicants, the gardeners acquired a tenancy right in respect of the land in question with effect from the date of the act’s entry into force.this provision, as applicable at that time, referred to other pieces of legislation which set the annual rent at ten per cent of the value of the property ‒ calculated on the basis of the then applicable price regulations ‒ the minimum being equivalent to 0.01 euro (eur) per square metre and per year.13.  in the applicants’ case, with the exception mentioned below, no such separate agreement had been reached between the parties, and the annual rent payable by the gardeners to the applicants was thus determined under the statutory rules at the lowest limit of the applicable scale, that is to say at a rate of eur 0.01 per square metre.by virtue of the statutory amendment, the amount of the rent was to be determined under the regulation of the ministry of justice on determination of the general value of property (no.this regulation uses the term “general value” ‒ which is understood to mean the expert assessment of the most likely price at a given place and time on the market in conditions of free competition and honest sale ‒ and lays down formulae for the determination thereof in relation to land and the rent payable for that land, the latter being linked to the former.254/2010 coll., which took effect from 1 july 2010. the latter regulation introduced a special gsi ranging from 0.50 to 0.70 to be applied when determining the “general value” of land and the “general value” of the rent for the land in allotment colonies.such proceedings are also provided for under the act, their aim being to have the ownership and use of the land in the allotment area consolidated, principally by transferring title to the land to the gardeners and having the former owners compensated by means regulated under the act, the details of such consolidation being defined in what is known as a “land consolidation project”.16.  in the applicants’ case, the gardeners initiated the requisite land consolidation proceedings on 7 december 1998. within the framework thereof, the order had been given for implementation of a “land consolidation project”, but the proceedings changed course on 7 august 2013 when the constitutional court held that the applicants’ inability to have that order reviewed by the courts violated their right of access to a court and their property rights.169/13 dated 5 november 2013 by another sworn expert, b, according to which the general value of monthly rent for a plot in the stated area belonging to the applicant mr leščinský was eur 0.773 in 2013, eur 0.782 in 2012, eur 0.789 in 2011 and eur 0.752 in 2010. these figures had been estimated on the basis of regulation no.20.  the government for their part submitted the following documents: ‒ a letter from the forensic engineering institute in žilina dated 17 december 2012, in which the institute pointed out what they considered to be methodological flaws in the calculations of expert a. on the basis of their pro forma recalculation of the available data, the value of the annual general rent would be eur 0.239 per square metre.‒ a letter from the slovak real estate fund dated 24 april 2013 stating that, at that time, expert valuations of the general value of the land had been obtained for fourteen allotment colonies in the district of žilina.492/2004, the institute calculated the general value of the annual rent payable for the property in question as of 31 march 2014 as eur 0.718 per square metre.in these cases, the institute assessed the general value of the annual rent for previous years ‒ on the basis of the results for the year 2014, but taking into account the general development of real estate prices in the given region and other economic criteria during those years ‒ as follows: in 2013 eur 0.716, in 2012 eur 0.746, in 2011 eur 0.732, in 2010 eur 0.745, in 2009 eur 0.790, in 2008 eur 1.084, and in 2007 eur 0.804. lastly, the institute reiterated the objections concerning the methodology used in the valuation produced by expert a and expressed the view that he had lacked the requisite qualifications for conducting the particular type of valuation obtaining in the present case, since his qualifications pertained only to agricultural land, and did not extend to include the type of land concerned in the present case.
no material evidence was introduced during the trial and, apart from the statement by the alleged victim ‒ who maintained that the press worked and had been kept in a locked yard ‒ the statements of two witnesses supported the applicants’ defence.8.  on 8 april 2008 the prosecution lodged an appeal against this judgment, emphasising, in particular, that the first-instance court had failed to take into account a statement given to the police by s.k.on 26 january 2006 (albeit in the absence of the applicants and their counsel, who had not been invited to attend).9.  on 12 may 2008 the subotica district court quashed the impugned judgment and ordered a retrial.the court explained that the statement referred to by the prosecution was particularly important because on this occasion s.k.had confessed ‒ in the presence of his counsel ‒ that he had stolen the press together with the applicants.had subsequently revoked this confession claiming that it had been given under the influence of alcohol and then refused to answer any further questions, and all of these circumstances needed to be reconsidered by the municipal court, even though the prosecution itself had initially failed to request that s.k.’s statement of 26 january 2006 be admitted as evidence.the court found this failure by the municipal court to be “unclear and inexplicable”.11.  on 19 february 2009 the municipal court, having held a hearing and read out s.k.’s statement of 26 january 2006 before the parties, found the applicants guilty.the first applicant was sentenced to an effective prison term of six months while the second applicant was sentenced to six months’ imprisonment, suspended for a period of two years.in its reasoning the court primarily relied on s.k.’s statement of 26 january 2006. no evidence different from that admitted during the first trial was introduced during the retrial.12.  on 29 july 2009 the district court upheld this judgment on appeal, and on 7 october 2010 the supreme court rejected the applicants’ further appeal on points of law (zahtev za ispitivanje zakonitosti pravosnažne presude).13.  in the meantime, on 11 september 2009, the applicants lodged a constitutional appeal with the constitutional court, alleging that their conviction had been based on the testimony of a person whom they had never had a chance to cross-examine and who had, in any event, revoked it subsequently.14.  on 14 october 2010 the constitutional court rejected the applicants’ appeal as manifestly ill-founded, adding that ‒ as a consequence of the death of s.k.‒ the lower courts had had no choice but to accept his prior statement given to the police and, clearly, could no longer accommodate the applicants’ objection regarding his cross-examination.
8.  the applicant did not attend the hearing of 17 december 2009, at which the court made a decision to suspend the proceedings (mirovanje postupka) in accordance with section 216(1) of the civil procedure act (see paragraph 18 below).10.  he explained that he had been unable to attend the hearing owing to a vehicle malfunction, and that he had tried to contact the court and the defendant’s representative, with a view to informing them of the reason for his absence.he further stated that, after the hearing, he had spoken by telephone with the defendant’s representative, who had told him that, despite his (the representative’s) suggestion to proceed and hear the defendant’s testimony, the court had decided to adjourn the hearing and suspend the proceedings.the parties’ representatives and the defendant attended the hearing held on 16 november 2009. the plaintiff did not attend because no testimonies from the parties were scheduled, he is of low income, and he resides in pula.[1] since the plaintiff’s representative has no reason to doubt the defendant’s representative’s statement that he had suggested hearing the defendant’s testimony at the hearing in question [the hearing of 17 december 2009], that statement indicates that the court could not have issued the contested decision.the relevant part of that decision reads: “... the advocate in the appeal ... first admitted not having attended the hearing scheduled for 17 december 2009 ... owing to a vehicle malfunction ... instead of asking for the proceedings to be restored to the status quo ante [restitutio in integrum ob terminem elapsum, povrat u prijašnje stanje] as a result of objective reasons and force majeure, the advocate in question, for no reason whatsoever, states on the second page of the appeal, ‘such conduct from the judge is absolutely unacceptable.in behaving in this way, he seeks to give the impression that he is proceeding with the case [i.e. that the case is being dealt with], whereas, essentially, hearings are being held which are devoid of substance.’ [t]hat statement is certainly offensive to the court and the judge [concerned], and as such constitutes unacceptable communication between the court and the advocate representing one of the parties.by making that offensive statement, the advocate in question implies that the judge hearing the case proceeds pointlessly, and most likely proceeds pointlessly with all other cases, which represents a serious insult to both the court and the judge.for that insult, the court fined the advocate hrk 1,500. such a fine will most likely [discourage] the advocate from insulting the court and judge hearing the case in future, in his appeals and [other] submissions, and encourage him to pay them due respect in all circumstances.” 12.  the applicant appealed against that decision, arguing that his statement had not been offensive or demeaning.in particular, in his appeal, the applicant wrote, inter alia, the following: “the operative provisions [of the contested decision] indicate that the fine was imposed for offending the court in the appeal of 31 december 2009 by stating, ‘such conduct from the judge is absolutely unacceptable.the statements quoted in the contested decision ... cannot in themselves, and especially having regard to the behaviour of the judge hearing the case, [be regarded as] disrespectful, which would justify the need to issue a decision on the fine.... in addition to the plaintiff’s representative, the defendant and [her] representative attended the hearing scheduled for 16 november 2009. the record [of that hearing] states that [the plaintiff] reaffirmed his action and the submissions of 30 march 2009, and that the defendant maintained the arguments expressed in [her] response ... of 11 march 2009. beside this, nothing else happened at that hearing.in the reasoning [of the contested decision], it is stated that the representative implies that the judge hearing the case ‘most likely proceeds pointlessly with all other cases’.the relevant part of that decision, which was served on the applicant on 16 july 2010, reads: “when deciding to fine the representative for contempt of court ... the first-instance court correctly held – and gave valid reasons for its view – that such statements constituted unacceptable communication between the court and an advocate ..., the assessment of which is within the discretion of the court before which the proceedings are pending.those statements ... go beyond the limits of an advocate’s role in the proceedings ... and may be legally characterised as abuse of process on account of inappropriate communication.” 14.  on 17 august 2010 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint against the decisions of the ordinary courts.
the aim of such proceedings is to reorganise the ownership and use of land in the given area so as to correspond to the requirements of protection of the environment and rational agriculture.12.  the bone of contention in the present case is whether or not the existing road network comprised a three-metre-wide makeshift field track (nespevnená poľná cesta), running parallel to the railway, across the land assigned to the applicant’s father, connecting the plots assigned to the other individuals with the road passing around the applicant’s property.the exact formulation of the relief sought evolved in the course of the proceedings; the action ultimately sought to obtain an injunction ordering the applicant to (i) remove the fence, gate, vegetation and anything else obstructing passage over the property in question; (ii) re-establish the original track; and (iii) allow and not hinder the claimants’ passage by that track.15.  on the merits, the action was examined twice by both the district court as the first-instance court and the regional court as the court of appeal.in so far as the applicant had argued to the contrary, relying on his own witnesses, the courts considered to be conclusive photo documentation submitted by the claimant and the in situ findings of the first-instance judge.upon the expiry of the grace period accorded to the applicant for compliance with the judgment on the merits, the respective ruling became enforceable on 10 april 2010.20.  together with the above rulings, the applicant was ordered to pay the claimant the amount that the latter had previously paid to the court as an advance on the fees of the court-appointed expert.24.  on 4 february 2010 the district court ordered the applicant to pay some eur 475 as costs of the in situ inspections and for the remainder of the expert’s fees previously paid by the court.after that ruling was served on the parties, the costs order against the applicant became final and binding on 31 may 2010. on the expiry of the grace period accorded for compliance with the costs order, it became enforceable on 4 june 2010.the complaint was against the district court and the regional court and challenged specifically their judgments and decisions on the merits of his neighbour’s action (11 february 2009 and 27 january 2010) and on the fees of the expert (24 october 2008 and 27 january 2010).30.  as can be seen from the constitutional court’s decision (see the following paragraph), it had obtained observations in reply to the applicant’s complaint from the presidents of the district court and the regional court.in the constitutional court’s decision, those observations were reflected as follows: the president of the district court observed that the claimant and others involved had long been using the disputed track and that the state of affairs had been accepted by the applicant and his father until the applicant had arbitrarily barred the track in 2000, apparently guided by the mistaken belief that his title to the property concerned was absolute.the president of the regional court (i) recapitulated the course of the proceedings, (ii) summarised the applicant’s complaint, and (iii) submitted that no position could be taken as regards some of the applicant’s claims relating to the first-instance court, that there had been no undue delays in the proceedings before the court of appeal, and that one of the applicant’s submissions before that court could not have been taken into account because it had been belated.lastly, referring to its established practice to that effect, the constitutional court held that, in view of the conclusion reached under article 6 of the convention, the ordinary courts could not be held liable for any breach of the applicant’s rights under article 1 of protocol no.32.  on 16 july 2010 the applicant lodged a fresh constitutional complaint against the district court and the regional court, challenging the costs order against him (4 february and 16 april 2010), and alleging a violation of article 6 § 1 of the convention on the grounds that the courts had disregarded his arguments and had decided arbitrarily.
the guardian concluded that the access arrangements should be speedily determined by the court in order to minimise the negative consequences of the divorce on n. the child should stay with the mother and the father should be allowed frequent visits.the guardian submitted her report on 16 december 2011. she established that contact visits with n. had taken place as agreed by the parents after their separation, with the exception of the period between january-may 2010 (when the applicant had been detained on remand on corruption charges).the court ordered that in the period up to 30 june 2012 the applicant could see his daughter every thursday between 3 p.m. and 7 p.m.; every second saturday and sunday between 11 a.m. and 7 p.m.; as well as on easter sunday between 11 a.m. and 7 p.m. from 1 july 2012, the applicant could see his daughter every second weekend from 3 p.m. on friday until 5 p.m. on sunday; every wednesday from 3 p.m. until thursday 3 p.m.; for the whole of the period between 1 and 21 july; the first week of the winter holidays; the first day of easter; and on christmas day.33.  on 8 august 2012 the court imposed another fine of 1,000 pln on e. however, on 22 november 2012 the kraków district court discontinued the proceedings on the grounds that the interim contact order of 22 november 2010 was no longer in force.the kraków district court issued orders for a forcible removal of the child by the guardian on 15 may 2012 (for 1 july 2012), on 13 december 2012 (for 23 december 2012) and on 6 march 2013. in the latter decision, the court stressed that under no circumstances should physical force be used when collecting n. as that would be against her best interests.36.  on the first occasion, the guardian found that e. was not living at the address she had submitted to the court and he was therefore unable to collect the applicant’s daughter.on the two later occasions, the guardian tried to mediate between the parents and talk to the child in order to make her change her mind, but the child refused to go with the father.38.  on 20 february 2012 the applicant complained to the kraków-nowa huta district court that the mother had failed to comply with the interim contact order and asked the court to order her to give an undertaking related to her behaviour (odebranie przyrzeczenia określonego zachowania).that decision was quashed on appeal on 30 january 2013. the kraków regional court held that the district court had focused on the application to fine e. and had failed to consider the applicant’s other requests.41.  on 28 february 2013 the kraków-nowa huta district court again discontinued the proceedings relating to the applicant’s application to impose a fine on the mother because the interim contact order was no longer in force after the divorce judgment had become final.as of the date of the submission of the government’s observations to the court, the remainder of the applicant’s request (proceedings for the mother to give an undertaking) was still pending.the court ruled that the applicant could meet his daughter every other sunday between 2 p.m. and 6 p.m. the court held that the modification of the access arrangements was in the best interests of the child at that moment and that it was essential to rebuild the emotional ties between n. and the applicant.those were, in particular, the applicant’s arrest in n.’s presence and his subsequent detention on remand; the applicant’s new relationship and new child; the applicant’s attempt to enforce the contact order, without any regard to n.’s needs; and the escalation in the conflict between e. and the applicant.47.  on 11 january 2013 the kraków regional court allowed the applicant’s appeal against the interim order of 1 october 2012. it considered that the access arrangements specified in the district court’s contact order had gone beyond what the mother had requested in her application.according to that decision, the applicant could meet n. every second sunday between 3 p.m. and 6 p.m., with the exception of the first week of the winter school holidays and the period between 15 july and 15 august.
8.  the applicants have formed a same-sex couple since 1999. they lived in new zealand, with the status of unmarried couple, until december 2003, when they decided to settle in italy on grounds of the first applicant’s poor health.10.  on 18 october 2004 the chief of the livorno police rejected his application on the ground that the statutory criteria were not satisfied.13.  the court observed that the applicants were recognised as a couple in new zealand, the first applicant having been issued with a residence permit in that country for family reasons in his capacity as an unmarried partner.286 of 1998 ... had to be interpreted in conformity with the principles established by the constitution, which meant that a same-sex cohabiting partner should be regarded as a “member of the family” of the italian national and thus entitled to obtain a residence permit.14.  the court found that the right asserted by the second applicant also derived from articles 3 and 10 of directive 2004/38/ec of 29 may 2004 of the european parliament and of the council ..., which recognised the right of the partner of a citizen of the european union (eu) to obtain a residence permit where the existence of a durable relationship was duly attested.it observed that the new zealand authorities had recognised that the applicants had the status of “unmarried cohabiting partners” and not that of “members of the same family”.286 of 1998, according to which the “cohabiting partner” was regarded as a “member of the family”, was not compatible with the italian legal system, which, according to the court, ascribed a different scope and meaning to those two legal concepts.secondly, the court of appeal pointed out that the constitutional court had repeatedly held that a relationship based on cohabitation alone, and lacking stability and legal certainty, could not in any circumstances be regarded as a legitimate family based on marriage.18.  the court of appeal found that new zealand law was not compatible with italian public policy on the grounds, firstly, that it regarded persons of the same sex as “cohabiting partners” and, furthermore, that it could be construed as conferring the status of “family members” on them for the purposes of granting them a residence permit.20.  in a judgment of 30 september 2008, the text of which was deposited with the registry on 17 march 2009, the court of cassation dismissed the applicants’ appeal.it pointed out that as the constitutional court had, moreover, ruled out the possibility of extending to cohabiting partners the protection granted to members of a legitimate family, the constitution did not require an extensive interpretation of article 29 cited above.in its view, those provisions left a wide margin of appreciation to the states regarding the choice of means of exercising the rights they guaranteed, particularly in the area of immigration control.the court of cassation added that there had been no discrimination on grounds of the applicants’ sexual orientation in the present case.23.  lastly, it held that european directive 2004/38/ec ..., which concerned the right of eu citizens to move freely within the territory of the member states other than their state of origin, did not apply to the present case, which concerned family reunification with an italian national resident in his own country.24.  after being notified of the court of cassation’s judgment, the applicants left italy in july 2009. they moved to the netherlands, where the second applicant was issued with a five-year residence permit on 25 august 2009 as a de facto partner in a long-term relationship with an eu national.
4.  the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in mingachevir.5.  the applicant worked as the executive director at the “mingachevir technical rubber” joint stock company, which was an enterprise under the control of the department for privatization and management of state property (“the dpmsp”) of the ministry of the economic development.on 15 march 2005 the applicant was dismissed from his job by an order of the dpmsp of the ministry of the economic development.6.  the applicant lodged an action against the dpmsp, seeking reinstatement in his previous job and payment of his unpaid salaries.7.  on 25 august 2005 the sabayil district court granted the applicant’s claim, ordering his reinstatement in his previous job.the court also ordered the dpmsp to pay the applicant his unpaid salary for the period from 15 march 2005 (date of dismissal) until the date of his reinstatement, without specifying the due amount.8.  on 25 november 2005 the court of appeal upheld the judgment of 25 august 2005, dismissing the dpmsp’s appeal.the judgment became enforceable immediately after its delivery.on 13 december 2005 a writ of execution was issued and sent to the dpmsp.9.  on 12 april 2006 the supreme court upheld the court of appeal’s judgment and dismissed the cassation appeal lodged by the state committee for management of state property (“the scmsp”), which was the legal successor of the former dpmsp.10.  it appears from the documents in the case file that in spite of the issuance of the writ of execution and numerous letters of the enforcement officers requesting the execution of the judgment, the scmsp took no action to comply with the judgment in question.11.  following the scmsp’s continuous failure to comply with the judgment, on 14 july 2006 the sabayil district court decided to refer the case to the sabayil district prosecutor’s office for institution of criminal proceedings against the scmsp’s responsible official for non-execution of an enforceable judgment.however, it transpires from the case file that on an unspecified date the prosecuting authorities returned the case to the enforcement officers without taking any formal decision as regards the institution of criminal proceedings.12.  at the time of the latest communication with the parties in june 2011, the judgment delivered in the applicant’s favour remained unenforced.
7.  on 21 april 2003 the applicant instituted proceedings in the zhovtnevyy district court of dnipro (“the district court”) against the local council and three private persons, challenging the company’s liquidation, claiming back his shares and seeking compensation.8.  in the course of the proceedings, about twenty of the approximately fifty hearings were adjourned at the request of one or more of the parties, or owing to their failure to appear.between may 2007 and july 2008 courts at three levels of jurisdiction examined the question of whether the case should be considered within the framework of civil or commercial proceedings.9.  overall, the proceedings lasted for over seven years and eight months, the final decision being taken by the supreme court on 29 december 2010. that court upheld decisions of the district court of 30 june 2010 and of the dnipro regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) of 16 september 2010 rejecting the applicant’s claims as unsubstantiated.10.  in january 2005 the applicant brought a civil claim with the district court against the local council and a number of private persons, challenging the liquidation of company l. and the authorities’ decisions in that regard.he also sought the restoration of the company as a legal entity, recovery of his shareholding and an order to declare the minutes of the shareholders’ general assembly invalid.11.  on 2 june 2006, the court decided, in the applicant’s presence, to leave his claim without examination, finding that it concerned essentially the same issue as one which it had examined in proceedings concerning the applicant’s administrative claim (see paragraph 15 and 16 below).12.  on 7 june 2006 the applicant lodged a statement of intent with the court of appeal to appeal against the decision of 2 june 2006. on 16 june 2006 he lodged an appeal, stating, inter alia, that that decision had been incorrect, as his administrative claim had concerned only a part of the issues raised in the civil claim.13.  on 25 july 2006 the court of appeal left the applicant’s appeal without examination, finding that the statement of intent to appeal had been lodged outside the five-day time-limit envisaged by article 294 § 2 of the code of civil procedure of 2004 (see paragraph 20 below).according to the appeal decision, the time-limit in question had started to run from the date of the pronouncement of the contested decision.14.  on 9 october 2006 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal in cassation, finding no fault on the part of the lower courts.15.  in november 2005 the applicant brought an administrative claim in the district court against the head of the local council, seeking the annulment of the decision striking l. out of the list of legal entities.16.  on 17 april 2006 the court, having examined the case pursuant to the code of administrative justice of 2005, rejected the applicant’s claim as unsubstantiated, finding that the contested decision had been lawful.the court further noted that the applicant had made allegations of the unlawfulness of the shareholders’ decision to liquidate the company, which could not be examined in the framework of administrative proceedings.18.  on 28 october 2008 the higher administrative court quashed the decisions of the lower courts and terminated the proceedings.
prior to the assemblies, on 15 october and 12 november 2012 respectively the organisers, members of the opposition, gave notice to the relevant authority, the baku city executive authority (“the bcea”).6.  the bcea refused to authorise the demonstration of 20 october 2012 at the place indicated by the organisers and proposed another location on the outskirts of baku  the yard of a driving school situated in the 20th habitable area of the sabail district.7.  the bcea also refused to authorise the demonstration of 17 november 2012. it noted in general terms that that assembly would not be in accordance with the law on freedom of assembly.the bcea further noted that the square where the organisers proposed to hold the assembly was a designated public leisure area and that the assembly itself would be impractical.12.  on the day of each applicant’s arrest administrative offence reports (inzibati xəta haqqında protokol) were issued on them, which stated that by deliberately failing to comply with a lawful order of the police, the applicants had committed an administrative offence under article 310.1 of the code of administrative offences (“the cao”).members of the public were not allowed inside the courtroom, even though the court had not taken a formal decision to close the hearing to the public.according to the transcripts of the respective court hearings, the applicants in application nos.18.  the applicants stated in the respective courts that they had participated or attempted to participate in the demonstrations of 20 october 2012 or 17 october 2012, exercising their right to freedom of assembly and/or that they were not guilty of failing to comply with a lawful order of the police.19.  according to the transcripts of the hearings, in their oral submissions the state-funded lawyers stated in general terms that the applicants were not guilty or briefly asked the respective courts to adopt a fair decision.20.  the only witnesses questioned during the respective court hearings were police officers who, according to official records, had arrested the applicants or issued administrative offence reports on them.22.  in most of the cases the respective first-instance courts found that the applicants had failed to stop participating in an unauthorised demonstration.23.  the courts convicted the applicants under article 310.1 of the cao and sentenced them to a period of administrative detention, varying from five to thirteen days (see appendix).24.  on various dates the applicants lodged appeals with the baku court of appeal, arguing that their convictions were in violation of their rights because the demonstrations in which they had participated or attempted to participate had been peaceful.the applicants also complained that their arrests had been unlawful and that the hearings before the respective first‑instance courts had not been fair.26.  on various dates the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicants’ appeals and upheld the decisions of the respective first-instance courts (see appendix).
6.  on 18 february 2008, in the course of a first set of criminal proceedings against the applicant for fraud in relation to means of payment, the riga regional court decided to relieve him of criminal liability, and imposed on him a compulsory measure: outpatient medical treatment.7.  on 7 may 2009 the applicant signed an information sheet – drawn up and certified by the riga psychiatric hospital (vsia “rīgas psihiatrijas un narkoloģijas centrs”, hereafter “the psychiatric hospital”) – regarding the rights and obligations of people receiving compulsory outpatient medical treatment.8.  the necessity of continuing the applicant’s compulsory treatment was reviewed on several occasions, and on 8 april 2013 the vidzeme district court, having examined the medical panel’s conclusion of 25 february 2013 in relation to his state of health, decided to continue the treatment.10.  on 20 august 2008, in the course of a second set of criminal proceedings against the applicant for social benefit fraud, the riga regional court decided to relieve him of criminal liability, and imposed on him a compulsory measure: inpatient psychiatric treatment in a psychiatric hospital, which on 13 april 2010 was changed to compulsory outpatient medical treatment.12.  on 10 may 2013 the riga regional court, relying on section 607(4) of the criminal procedure law (see paragraph 22 below), asked the psychiatric hospital to send a report on the applicant’s state of health, so that the court could decide whether it was necessary to continue the compulsory medical treatment.13.  according to the information the riga psychiatric hospital submitted to the government, since 2005 the applicant had been admitted to the psychiatric hospital for inpatient treatment on eight occasions, including on an emergency basis.on 28 may 2013 the applicant’s doctor at the psychiatric hospital had telephoned him to ask the applicant to comply with the compulsory treatment measure, and had warned him that police assistance would be sought.observing that the applicant had not attended a doctor’s appointment, and considering that a longer period without treatment could cause his health to deteriorate, on 10 june 2013 the head of unit at the psychiatric hospital asked the police to bring the applicant to the outpatient section of the hospital, relying on section 11 of the law on police.15.  according to information submitted by the riga psychiatric hospital, on 17 june 2013, in the outpatient section of the riga psychiatric hospital the applicant declared that he would only visit a doctor if given a written summons.the applicant, accompanied by police officers, was taken to the inpatient section of the hospital, where he displayed dissatisfaction and anger and refused to admit himself to hospital voluntarily.17.  on 19 june 2013 the medical commission informed the relevant court that the applicant was not completely well, but his condition was stable and he was not socially dangerous, therefore it was recommended that the court revoke the compulsory outpatient treatment measure which had been imposed on him.18.  having examined the above report, on 20 august 2013 the riga regional court and, at a later date the vidzeme district court, revoked the compulsory outpatient treatment measures which had been imposed on the applicant in both sets of criminal proceedings.19.  on 19 july 2013 the internal security office of the state police (valsts policijas iekšējās drošības birojs) dismissed a complaint by the applicant that police officers had taken him to the psychiatric hospital unlawfully.in its decision, it stated that the police officers in question had acted in accordance with section 11 of the law on police following the request received from the psychiatric hospital.20.  the applicant appealed that decision to the office of the prosecutor general, which on 16 august 2013 upheld it, stating that on 28 may 2012 the riga regional court had decided to continue the applicant’s compulsory medical treatment.
6.  on 12 july 2002 the applicant, in his position of insolvency administrator of the company, took legal action against ms b., a former limited partner (kommanditist) of the kg, to seek the reimbursement of close to 56,000 euros (eur), which had been paid to her as advance payment on profits (vorauszahlungen auf gewinne) by the kg.the applicant claimed that, in addition, he had also made telephone calls to the regional court on 10 june 2005 and on 14 november 2005 to find out whether he had been granted legal aid and that, both times, he had been informed by the registry that the file was at the judge’s office and that, therefore, no information could be given.it stated that the statutory time-limit for these claims was 31 december 2004 and that submitting the request for legal aid on 30 december 2004 had not been sufficient to suspend the running of time for purposes of limitation, because domestic law also required that the court arrange for notice to be given to the defendant (see relevant domestic law and practice paragraphs 25 to 27 below).according to that exception, the running of time for the purposes of limitation was suspended with effect from the day a request for legal aid was lodged, if the notification of that request was arranged “shortly after” (demnächst).the regional court noted that, according to the constant case-law of the domestic courts, the term “shortly after” was interpreted in a way that required the litigant to act with the necessary diligence to effect the immediate notice or service.it found that the applicant – who, as a lawyer, must have known that arranging for notice to be given to the defendant of his request for legal aid “shortly after” its submission was required to prevent his claim from becoming time‑barred – had in a reproachable manner contributed to the delay and thus not acted with the necessary diligence required.it observed that the regional court had arranged for notice to be given to ms b. of the applicant’s request for legal aid at the earliest in 2007 and argued that notice two and a half years after the request’s introduction could not be considered as having taken place “shortly after” that introduction.the interests of the defendant, who had no knowledge of the submission of the request for legal aid, in the protection of her legal positions and the clarification of the legal situation, had to be taken into account.18.  the court of appeal pointed out that it was constant case-law of the domestic courts that the term “shortly after” was to be interpreted in such a way that the risk of a delayed notification was distributed fairly between both parties to the dispute and, therefore, the litigant concerned must have acted with the necessary diligence to effect the immediate notification.it underlined that the applicant would have had to alert the regional court about the imminent expiry of the limitation period and to ask to arrange for the immediate notification of the defendant in order to suspend the running of time for the purposes of limitation.in fact the applicant had to take into account that the regional court also had the possibility to refuse his request for legal aid without hearing, and hence without notifying, the defendant if it considered the claim to be ill‑founded or the applicant to have the necessary means (decision a limine).it found that the period of processing the request for legal aid and the delay in arranging for notice to be given to the defendant constituted gross negligence (grob fehlerhaft) by the regional court.nonetheless, it considered that the decision of the court of appeal was in conformity with the case-law of the federal court of justice, according to which a notification could only be “shortly after” the submission of a request for legal aid if the applicant concerned acted with the necessary diligence to effect the immediate notification, and if there were no legitimate interests of the defendant that conflicted with such retroactive effect (see relevant domestic law and practice paragraph 26 below).referring to the case-law of the federal court of justice (see relevant domestic law and practice paragraph 28 below), it considered that a litigant with sufficient financial means must not limit himself to submitting a lawsuit, but rather had to remind the court to ask him to pay the necessary court fees or even to pay the fees on his own initiative, if the court had failed to ask him, in order to effect the service of the legal action.the federal constitutional court found that such obligations on the part of a litigant with sufficient financial means were comparable to those of the applicant, namely his obligation to ask the court concerned to notify immediately the defendant of the request for legal aid, and to remind the court to arrange for notice to be given.
8.  during the programme the applicant took out a copy of gazeta wyborcza, a polish daily newspaper and, pointing to particular pages, said: “i would like to show you the nature of the relationship between this media agreement (“uklad”) ... and the attacks on law and justice.this is [about] financing mass propaganda against law and justice through an agreement which has been threatened by law and justice, so that such dubious deals (geszefty) ... the point is that law and justice has interfered with extremely serious connections, which have been draining ... just one sentence ... but the jokes are over, and this structure (układ) understood that there will be no early elections, there will be no minority government, this is a chance for an institutional construction ...” 9.  during the applicant’s statement one of the journalists interrupted him by saying: “but this would be more appropriate if someone from gazeta wyborcza was here.” however, the applicant continued with his statement.it claimed that the applicant’s statements during the television programme on 8 may 2006 had harmed its good name and credibility and asked that the applicant be made to have an apology published in gazeta wyborcza and broadcast on tvp2 and to pay 25,000 polish zlotys (pln) to a charity.12.  the text of the apology to be published by the applicant was as follows: “i declare that the public statement i made during the programme warto rozmawiać, broadcast on 8 may 2006 on tvp2, included untrue, defamatory allegations and suspicions about agora s.a., a company registered in warsaw, and about its publishing activity regarding gazeta wyborcza.it could be seen from the applicant’s statement that he had wished to point out to the audience that the plaintiff and gazeta wyborcza had had some kind of media/business agreement, whereby articles against law and justice had been published in gazeta wyborcza and financed via advertisements.furthermore, there had been no reason to believe that the income obtained from the j&s s.a. advertisement had been connected with any particular articles in gazeta wyborcza, particularly the ones that the applicant had referred to as “a frenzied attack on law and justice”.the court pointed out that a publisher could not refuse to publish an advertisement unless one of the grounds set out in the press law existed, which had not been the situation in the present case.on the contrary, it was in the public interest that public figures such as the applicant, a member of parliament, should base the opinions they expressed in the media on verified facts and did not breach the rights of others.22.  the court of appeal considered that the first-instance judgment had not related to the part of the applicant’s statement concerning articles about himself and law and justice, even though he had called them “frenzied attacks”, because it was well known that gazeta wyborcza was critical of law and justice and that was not something which needed to be proved.however, the applicant’s allegations that j&s s.a. had conducted unclear or even suspicious dealings under the cover of placing advertisements in gazeta wyborcza, and had in fact financed them only to destroy law and justice, which, for its part, had been fighting against the “agreement” between the company in question and gazeta wyborcza, had been statements of fact.nevertheless, the applicant had not proved the truthfulness of his statements about the connections between the plaintiff and the j&s s.a. company.24.  as regards the pln 10,000 (about eur 2,500) to be paid to a charity, the court considered that to be a modest sum and the costs of publishing an apology a normal consequence of the applicant’s wrongdoing.the applicant had spoken of suspicious links between gazeta wyborcza and the publisher of the advertisement and the creation of fictional reasons for receiving funds from that publisher, which was all aimed at allowing gazeta wyborcza to oppose law and justice.in the present case, the defendant had not even attempted to prove the accuracy of his statements about the alleged connections of which he had accused the plaintiff.since the applicant failed to comply with that order, on 26 february 2010 the warsaw district court allowed agora s.a. to publish the apology in gazeta wyborcza in the applicant’s name and ordered him to cover the costs of publication of pln 34,897.36 (about eur 8,700).
according to the police report, on 11 and 12 december 2009 the security forces had intervened in several areas in the city where demonstrators had blocked the traffic, chanted slogans in favour of the pkk and its leader, and burned tyres or attacked cars, shops and administrative buildings.according to the report on the applicant’s arrest, he had been apprehended after the police had moved against a group of 50-60 people who had been chanting slogans in favour of the pkk and its leader in the cemetery of the biçer neighbourhood.14.  on the same day, the applicant’s legal representative applied to the hakkari magistrate’s court and requested that the decision to restrict his and his client’s access to the investigation file be annulled and his client be released from police custody.a forensic doctor, mentioning the findings of the previous medical reports, noted an old yellow-green ecchymosis in the right (sic) periorbital area and a mucosal tear of 0.5 cm and oedema on the right side of the upper lip.the applicant’s legal representative noted that his client had been beaten during his arrest and that he had not sustained the injuries noted in the medical reports as the result of a fall.in the application, the lawyer noted that the applicant had not sustained the injuries noted in the medical reports as the result a fall, but had been beaten by police officers.19.  also on that day, the applicant’s legal representative requested that the hakkari public prosecutor provide him with copies of the documents in the investigation file, which he was authorised to receive despite the restriction order.according to the applicant’s submissions, his lawyer was only provided with the medical reports of 12 and 13 december 2009; the public prosecutor’s office failed to provide him with the report of 14 december 2009, which had been issued at the end of the applicant’s detention in police custody.he claimed that the applicant had been beaten by the police officers and that he had been taken to a hill and ordered to run towards the police officers, who had stood further down the hill and had then thrown him to the ground.it was further alleged in the complaint that during their consultation in police custody, the lawyer had observed bruises around the applicant’s left eye and damage to his gums, which could have been the result of being hit on the face.the public prosecutor then noted that the applicant had acted with groups of people who had blocked traffic, burned tyres, chanted slogans praising the pkk, carried out attacks with stones and molotov cocktails, and that he had resisted the police by throwing stones when they tried to arrest him, and that he had fallen.according to the public prosecutor, acts of “social terrorism” led supporters of terrorism to resist or attack the security forces, in some cases with weapons, and so members of the security forces were obliged to use force within the limits of the law.2559 on the duties and powers of the police, the police officers had the authority to use force against pkk supporters, the public prosecutor considered that the police had used proportionate force against the applicant.24.  on 31 march 2010 the applicant’s legal representative lodged an appeal against the decision of 17 march 2010. he noted, in particular, that the hakkari public prosecutor’s assessment had been based on incorrect facts such as the “minor nature” of the applicant’s injuries and his involvement in violent acts during the events of 12 december 2009. the lawyer also noted that the public prosecutor had failed to take a statement from the applicant, to collect evidence in relation to his allegations or to identify and question the arresting police officers and potential witnesses.the lawyer also noted that the medical reports had complied with neither domestic legislation nor the “istanbul protocol” since they lacked details such as the applicant’s medical history, the applicant’s own account of how the injuries had been caused and an assessment regarding the cause of the injuries.
6.  the applicants were born in 1952, 1947, 1973 and 1980 respectively and live in bratislava.the house was built in 1929 by their familial predecessors, who during the previous regime donated it to the state under circumstances that would later be accepted as constituting duress.the ownership of the house was restored to the first and second applicants on 10 december 1991 under special legislation on restitution.consequently, each of them acquired a 4/12 share of the ownership of the house.the third and fourth applicants each acquired a 2/12 share of the ownership of the house on 25 january 1995 and 29 march 1999 respectively.8.  at the time the applicants acquired the ownership of the house five flats were inhabited by tenants with regulated rent.under the relevant legislation this meant that (i) the applicants had to accept that their flats were occupied by these tenants, (ii) they could charge them no more than the maximum amount of rent fixed by the state, (iii) they could not unilaterally terminate the leases, and (iv) they could not sell the flats other than to the tenants (“the rent-control scheme”).9.  the rent-control scheme applies, or has applied, to the flats in question, as follows: a four-room flat with a surface area of 129 sq.m which had been subject to rent control until january 2006 (“the first flat”); a four-room flat with a surface area of 130 sq.m which had been subject to rent control until september 2008 (“the second flat”); a two-room flat with a surface area of 87 sq.m each (“the third, fourth and fifth flats”), to which rent control still applies.10.  the monthly rent chargeable for the flats under the applicable legislation was equivalent to some 10 to 17.5 euros (eur) between 1992 and 1999. after several increases in the regulated rent, in june 2007 the applicants were able to charge some eur 73.5 monthly in respect of the two-room flat and approximately eur 125 monthly in respect of the four‑room flats.according to the government’s calculations the regulated rent reached eur 236 and eur 400 respectively in 2014.11.  the parties provided differing figures as to the market rent.the applicants relied on data from the national association of real estate agencies (“the narea”) and claimed that the monthly market rent for comparable two‑room flats in the area reached around eur 662 and for comparable four‑room flats some eur 1,296 between 2004 and 2007. the government submitted an expert valuation according to which the monthly market rent for the applicants’ flats in 2010 amounted to eur 561 and eur 772 to eur 797 respectively.
4.  the applicant was born in 1959 and is currently detained in chișinău.5.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.6.  on 23 december 2013 the applicant was arrested and charged with embezzlement and organising the attempted murder of two businessmen.7.  according to the applicant, he has been detained in a cell measuring 6 square metres with five other inmates, which left very little space for each detainee.the squat toilet was not separated from the rest of the cell and gave off a foul odour.8.  the applicant asserted that he had been detained with inmates diagnosed with tuberculosis, hiv/aids and other infectious diseases.as a result of being held in inhuman conditions of detention, he had been ill with mycosis, gastritis and a respiratory infection.9.  the applicant complained of inhuman conditions of detention to the chișinău prosecutor’s office and court of appeal.10.  the government submitted that the applicant’s cell (no.the applicant was provided with bedding, hygiene products tailored to his needs and hot food three times a day, in accordance with government decision no.the government contended that the cell in question had not accommodated people with infectious diseases.they added that the applicant had been provided with medical assistance and submitted evidence of various medical check-ups.11.  the court refers to the relevant material cited in its previous case‑law concerning the republic of moldova (see, for instance, shishanov v. the republic of moldova, no.13, the centre for human rights in moldova (“the human rights centre”, which also acts as the moldovan ombudsman) found serious problems, notably concerning overcrowding, food quality, ventilation and access to daylight.13 be closed or if that was not possible, that the conditions of detention there be urgently improved.
according to the accusation, instead of purchasing gas directly from the producers, he had called on the services of intermediary companies, resulting in a significant increase in the price of the gas.on the same date, the prosecutor in charge of the case applied to the buiucani district court for a thirty-day detention warrant on the following grounds: the seriousness of the offence, the risk of influencing witnesses and the risk of reoffending.[the court] takes into account the nature and seriousness of the offence and the complexity of the case, and considers that at this incipient stage of the investigation there are reasonable grounds to believe that the accused could collude with others (his sons, who have not been questioned) in order to take a common position.17.  on 8 may 2007 the chişinău court of appeal upheld the decision of 5 may 2007, essentially repeating the grounds given by the lower court without giving any reasons for dismissing the arguments put forward by the applicant.18.  on 11 may 2007 the prosecutor in charge of the case applied to the court for the prolongation of the applicant’s detention on remand by thirty days.he relied on such reasons as the gravity of the offence, the risk of influencing witnesses, the risk of reoffending and the risk of absconding.after recapitulating the parties’ positions and citing the applicable provisions of the law, the court found that: “... the grounds relied on when applying the preventive measure [of detention] remain valid, the majority of the investigative actions have been carried out, but a number of additional measures requiring [the applicant’s] participation are still necessary in order to send the case to the trial court.the court considers that the application on the part of the defence to replace the preventive measure is premature, taking into account the seriousness and complexity of the case and the need to protect public order and the public interest, as well as to ensure the smooth and objective course of the investigation.” 21.  the applicant appealed, relying on essentially the same arguments as he had done previously.22.  on 22 may 2007 the chişinău court of appeal upheld the decision of 16 may 2007. the court gave essentially the same reasons as it had done in its decision of 8 may 2007, namely the gravity and the complexity of the case, the risk of absconding or influencing witnesses and the risk of destroying documentary evidence which have not yet been collected by the prosecutors.as on previous occasions, the prosecutor argued that the extension of the detention was necessary in order to avoid the risk of the applicant’s influencing witnesses and reoffending.26.  the applicant appealed, submitting inter alia that the complexity of the case invoked by the prosecutor had been deliberately generated by the latter’s refusal to conduct an audit of the company or to question the witnesses cited by the applicant.the court found that: “... the applicant has been detained for fifty-five days and has participated in all the necessary investigative actions; ... article 5 § 3 of the convention imposes a presumption that an accused be freed while he awaits his trial; ... certain evidence, which may have been sufficient earlier to justify [detention] or to render alternative preventive measures inadequate, could become less convincing with the passage of time; ... it is for the prosecutor to prove the existence of a risk of absconding, and such a risk cannot be proved only by reference to the severity of the potential punishment; [the court referred to the applicant’s medical problems and his age, the lack of a criminal record, his permanent residence and married status]; the [european court’s] case-law provides that detention pending trial should be exceptional, always objectively reasoned and must correspond to the public interest; the court finds that it is implausible that [the applicant] will abscond, influence witnesses or destroy evidence, and that the normal course of the criminal investigation is possible while the accused is under house arrest.” the court set the following conditions for the applicant’s house arrest: prohibition from leaving his house; prohibition of using the telephone; prohibition from discussing his case with any other person.however, the prosecutor lodged an appeal against the above-mentioned decision and invoked as one of the reasons for the applicant’s continued detention in custody the fact that the applicant refused to confess to having committed the offence imputed to him.the court found that: “... the lower court did not take into account the complexity of the case and the seriousness of the offence with which [the applicant] is charged; the court considers that while under house arrest [the applicant] could communicate with the other accomplices, who are not under arrest and who are, moreover, his sons; he could abscond by fleeing to the [self-proclaimed and unrecognised “moldovan republic of transdniestria”], which is not under the control of the moldovan authorities; he could influence witnesses, in order to make them change their statements; the applicant has received visits from doctors and can obtain medical assistance in prison.” 33.  on 11 july 2007 the prosecutor in charge of the case applied again to the court for an extension of the applicant’s detention on remand.the court found that: “the prosecutor did not provide any evidence confirming the continued need to detain [the applicant], did not submit additional materials confirming the probability that he could exert influence on witnesses who have already been heard; [the applicant] promises to appear before the investigating authorities whenever summoned; there is no specific information concerning any risk of absconding”.
7.  on 25 july 2003 the applicant entered the netherlands where on 19 august 2003 he applied for asylum, fearing persecution within the meaning of the 1951 geneva convention relating to the status of refugees (“the refugee convention”) and/or treatment in breach of article 3 of the convention.the minister found it established, given his consistent and detailed statements, that the applicant had worked for the revolutionary guard and hezb-e wahdat but also found that, in his account to the netherlands authorities, he had in part misrepresented the facts, had sought to trivialise his activities for hezb-e wahdat and had withheld important information.15.  the nature of the applicant’s work, and the contents of an official report (ambtsbericht), drawn up on 29 february 2000 by the netherlands ministry of foreign affairs, entitled “security services in communist afghanistan (1978-1992), agsa, kam, khad and wad” (“veiligheidsdiensten in communistisch afghanistan (1978-1992), agsa, kam, khad en wad”; dpc/am 663896) and an official report, drawn up on 23 june 2000 by the ministry of foreign affairs, on hezb-e wahdat (dpc/am-681499), had given cause to consider whether article 1f of the 1951 convention was applicable to the applicant’s asylum claim.16.  in her notice of intention, the minister analysed, on the basis of elaborate argumentation based on various international materials and on the prescribed and so-called “knowing and personal participation” test, the nature of the acts imputed to the applicant in the framework of article 1f of the 1951 refugee convention, as well as his individual responsibility under that convention.the minister noted, inter alia, that the applicant had worked for a part of the pdpa government, the revolutionary guard, which had collaborated with the khad and found that it was justified to conclude that the applicant had known or should have known about the criminal character of the khad and that its crimes had formed part of a widespread or targeted attack aimed against the civilian population.relying on the official report of 23 june 2000 (see paragraph 15 above), the minister underlined that hezb-e wahdat had been considered during the afghan civil war to be one of the most violent groups, not only because of its militia’s actions on the battle field and merciless liquidation of its political opponents, but in particular because of its militia’s crimes against the civil population of afghanistan and for having instilled a true climate of terror in the country.the minister lastly found it established that the applicant himself had committed acts of torture on the person of mr s. 17.  as regards article 3 of the convention, the minister did not find it established that the applicant, if returned to afghanistan, would be exposed to a real risk of being subjected to treatment prohibited by this provision.in reaching this finding, the minister took into account, inter alia, that the applicant had stayed for about three months in pakistan and about eight months in iran without having sought assistance in these countries from, for instance, the united nations high commissioner for refugees (“unhcr”), that he had not applied for asylum when he had been apprehended by the police in germany, and that he had not reported immediately to the immigration authorities after his arrival in the netherlands.it further held that it had not been established that the applicant – if expelled to afghanistan – would be exposed to a risk of being subjected to treatment proscribed by article 3 of the convention from the side of jamiat-e islami on the basis of the general security situation in afghanistan, or on the basis of his hazara ethnic origin.21.  on 25 may 2007 the applicant was informed by the deputy minister of justice (staatssecretaris van justitie) of the intention (voornemen) to declare him an undesirable alien entailing the imposition of an exclusion order (ongewenstverklaring) in accordance with section 67 § 1 (e) of the aliens act 2000 (vreemdelingenwet 2000), following the decision to hold article 1f of the refugee convention against him in the asylum procedure.further noting that the applicant did not have any relatives or other persons in the netherlands with whom he had a family life within the meaning of article 8 of the convention, the deputy minister further found that the exclusion order did not constitute an interference with the rights guaranteed by this provision.it noted that, in its ruling of 25 january 2007, which had obtained the force of res iudicata, the regional court of the hague, sitting in roermond, had concluded that there existed serious reasons for assuming that the applicant had been involved in acts referred to in article 1f of the refugee convention.in view of the reasons given in the impugned decision and the applicant’s submissions, the regional court of the hague, sitting in maastricht, accepted the deputy minister’s decision that the applicant’s personal interests were outweighed by the general public’s interests pursued by the exclusion order.24.  in so far as the applicant had invoked article 3 of the convention, the regional court noted that in its ruling of 25 january 2007 it had already found that the applicant had not demonstrated that his expulsion to afghanistan would expose him to a risk of a violation of his rights under that provision.as regards article 8, the regional court noted that it appeared from the applicant’s notice of appeal (beroepschrift) that it was not in dispute between the parties that the applicant could not claim a right of residence on the basis of article 8 of the convention and that it was thus not necessary to consider this point any further.
19.  on 30 april 2008 the government submitted the following unilateral declaration: “the government of the republic of latvia (hereinafter – the government) represented by [their] agent inga reine admit that the physical treatment of viktors jeronovičs (hereinafter – the applicant) by the police officers, as well as the effectiveness of the investigation of the respective applicant’s complaints, the access to legal aid and effective remedies to apply for the compensation of damages, the length of criminal proceedings [against the applicant], as well as the lack of effective remedy did not meet the standards enshrined in article 3, article [5 § 5], article [6 § 1], article 13 and article 14 of the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (hereinafter – the convention).taking into account that the parties have failed to reach a friendly settlement in this case, the government declare that they offer to pay ex gratia to the applicant compensation in the amount of 4,500 eur ([approximately] 3,163 lvl]), this amount being the global sum and covering any pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage together with any costs and expenses incurred, free of any taxes that may be applicable, with a view to terminat[ing] the proceedings pending before the european court of human rights (hereinafter – the court) in the case [of] jeronovičs v. latvia (application no.... this payment will constitute the final resolution of the case.” 20.  on 10 february 2009 the chamber of the court’s third section to which the case had been allocated adopted a decision in which, inter alia, it took note of the terms of the government’s declaration and, by virtue of article 37 § 1 of the convention, struck out the complaints mentioned in the unilateral declaration.in accordance with article 38 § 2 of the convention and rule 62 § 2 of the rules of court, the court will proceed on the basis of the government’s unilateral declaration and the parties’ observations submitted outside the framework of the friendly-settlement negotiations, and will disregard the parties’ statements made in the context of exploring the possibilities for a friendly settlement of the case and the reasons why the parties were unable to agree on the terms of a friendly settlement (see tahsin acar v. turkey (preliminary objection) [gc], no.the court may at any stage of the proceedings decide to strike an application out of its list of cases where the circumstances lead to the conclusion that ... (c)  for any other reason established by the court, it is no longer justified to continue the examination of the application.however, the court shall continue the examination of the application if respect for human rights as defined in the convention and the protocols thereto so requires.’ 50.  the court reiterates that in certain circumstances it may be appropriate to strike an application out of the list under article 37 § 1 (c) of the convention on the basis of a unilateral declaration by the respondent government even though the applicant wishes the examination of the case to be continued.in each instance, it is the specific circumstances of the case which will determine whether the unilateral declaration offers a sufficient basis for finding that respect for human rights as defined in the convention does not require the court to continue its examination of the case (see tahsin acar, cited above, § 75; see also, for example, van houten v. the netherlands (striking out), no.... 52.  as to the ill-treatment to which the applicant was allegedly subjected in police custody and the effectiveness of the investigations carried out, although the court has not to date found a violation of article 3 by the latvian police in that specific context, it nevertheless points to its clear and very extensive case-law in this regard (see, among many other authorities, selmouni v. france [gc], no.53.  in their declaration in the present case the government have recognised that the treatment to which the applicant was subjected by the police officers while in police custody, the manner in which the investigations were carried out in that regard, the handling of the applicant’s claims for compensation and in particular the refusal of his applications for legal aid in order to gain access to the compensation procedure, as well as the length of the criminal proceedings against him, infringed articles 3, 5 § 5, 6 § 1, 13 and 14 of the convention.54.  in view of the nature of the undertakings contained in the government’s declaration, the court considers that it is no longer justified to continue the examination of the complaints in question.55.  accordingly, the case should be struck out of the list in so far as it concerns the complaints referred to in paragraphs 28, 37 and 38 of this decision.” 21.  in the same decision, the court declared admissible the complaints concerning the applicant’s conditions of detention (article 3) and the refusal to grant him leave to attend the supreme court hearing (article 6), and dismissed all the other complaints, including the complaint that the criminal proceedings had been unfair owing to the admission of evidence obtained under duress (article 6).... 84.  the court, having regard to all the evidence in its possession and in so far as it has jurisdiction to examine the allegations made, finds no appearance of a violation of the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the provisions on which the applicant relies.it cannot be concluded from the judgment of 1 december 2009 adopted by the european court of human rights that the court examined and assessed any activities carried out by the law-enforcement officers during the pre-trial investigation in the criminal proceedings ... accordingly, the conclusions reached in [the court’s] judgment of 1 december 2009 and the government’s unilateral declaration of 30 april 2008 cannot be applied or connected to the criminal proceedings...” 25.  in an appeal lodged on 9 december 2010 the applicant reiterated that there was a legal basis for reopening the criminal proceedings concerning his ill-treatment, on account of the fact that the government’s unilateral declaration had expressly recognised the violation of article 3 of the convention, a circumstance which had led the court to strike out that complaint.the prosecutor further found as follows: “having examined the foregoing, i find that the conclusion of the prosecutor in her decision of 17 november 2010 is valid and well-founded, to the effect that your application dated 11 october 2010 requesting the reopening of the criminal proceedings in cases nos.06725198 and 50207598 should be reopened in connection with the unilateral declaration of the government of the republic of latvia mentioned by the latvian republic government agent on 30 april 2008, in which the government of the republic of latvia recognised that the physical treatment of viktors jeronovičs by police officers, the effectiveness of the investigation into the applicant’s complaints, his access to legal aid and to effective remedies by which to apply for compensation for damage, the length of the criminal proceedings, and the lack of an effective remedy, did not meet the standards enshrined in articles 3, 5 § 5, 6 § 1, 13 and 14 of the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
7.  the applicant crossed the hungarian border from serbia clandestinely in the evening of 24 june 2014. apprehended by a border guard patrol, he was taken into custody, since he was unable to show documentary evidence of his identity or right to stay in the country.10.  after the hearing, the asylum authority, a department of the office of immigration and nationality, ordered that the applicant be detained (menekültügyi őrizet), with effect from 7 p.m. on 25 june 2014, in debrecen, relying on section 31/a (1) a) and c) of act no.it held that there were grounds for the presumption that if left at large, he would delay or frustrate the asylum proceedings and would present a risk of absconding, given that he had arrived unlawfully in hungary and had no connections in the country or resources to subsist on.on the basis of section 31/c (3) of the asylum act and section 36/c (1) of the relevant government decree (see in paragraph 22 below), the applicant could have submitted an objection to the ordering of his asylum detention.to justify its application, it referred to the fact that the applicant’s stay in hungary was unlawful, that he had no connection to the country, and that he lacked any resources to subsist on.12.  on 27 june 2014 the court appointed a legal representative for the applicant; on the same date – that is, before the expiry of the 72-hour period referred to in paragraph 10 above – it held a hearing.the hearing lasted from 9.40 to 9.45 a.m. in its ensuing decision the court dismissed the applicant’s application to be released and extended the asylum detention by a maximum of 60 days.without referring to other individual circumstances or the applicant’s sexual orientation, the court held that less stringent measures – such as an obligation to check in regularly with the authorities, to stay at a designated place of residence, or to pay asylum bail (menekültügyi óvadék) – were not suitable in the case to secure the applicant’s availability to the authorities.15.  on 25 july 2014 the asylum authority stated that the applicant’s asylum request was neither inadmissible nor manifestly ill-founded and thus it ordered the examination of the case on the merits.16.  on 11 august 2014 the asylum authority again sought extension of the asylum detention by another maximum of 60 days, relying on section 31/a (1) a) and c) of the asylum act.17.  in her submission of 12 august 2014 to the asylum authority, the applicant’s legal-aid lawyer requested the termination of the asylum detention and the designation of a place of residence for the applicant with measures securing his availability during the proceedings.in her submission of the same day to the debrecen district court, the lawyer asked the court to hear the applicant and not to extend the asylum detention.relying on section 31/a (1) a) of the asylum act, the district court stated that the delay caused by the acts of the authority for which the asylum seeker could not be held responsible did not provide grounds for the extension of the detention.referring to section 31/a (1) c), the court further stated that the asylum authority had not given any specific reasoning for the view it had taken, namely that the applicant would abscond and frustrate the asylum proceedings.19.  on 22 august 2014 the asylum authority terminated the asylum detention and ordered a designated place of residence for the applicant in debrecen with measures securing his availability during the proceedings.
5.  on 10 july 2001 the applicant applied to the regional governor (landeshauptmann) of upper austria (oberösterreich) for the granting of a licence to run a pharmacy in leonding.6.  on 14 june 2002 the applicant lodged an appeal with the federal minister for health and women (bundesministerin für gesundheit und frauen, “the minister”).on 14 june 2004 he filed a complaint with the administrative court (verwaltungsgerichtshof) against the minister’s failure to give a decision (säumnisbeschwerde).on 30 september 2004 the administrative court set a time-limit of 31 march 2005 for the minister to make a decision.7.  on 24 march 2005 the minister dismissed the applicant’s appeal.8.  on 11 may 2005 the applicant filed a complaint with the constitutional court (verfassungsgerichtshof) against that decision.on 12 october 2005 the constitutional court refused to deal with the complaint and, upon the applicant’s request, referred the case to the administrative court.9.  already on 22 april 2005 the applicant lodged a request for re‑opening of the proceedings with the minister, who allowed the request on 10 may 2005.10.  thereupon, a number of owners of other pharmacies in the area, who had been parties to the administrative proceedings, lodged a complaint with the administrative court challenging the minister’s decision.while the complaints against the minister’s decision of 24 march 2005 and concerning the re-opening decision of 10 may 2005 were still pending before the administrative court, the minister granted the applicant a licence to run a pharmacy on 5 december 2005.11.  the applicant challenged parts of the minister’s decision before the constitutional court, which dismissed his complaint on 27 february 2007. a request to transfer his complaint to the administrative court was dismissed.12.  on 16 july 2009 the administrative court, dealing with the complaints of the first and the second sets of proceedings at the same time, decided that neither of the minister’s decisions of 24 march and 10 may 2005 had been lawful, and quashed them.as a consequence, the administrative court also had to quash the minister’s decision of 5 december 2005. the proceedings were thus referred back to the minister.13.  on 19 march 2010 the minister granted the applicant’s appeal against the decision of the regional governor of upper austria of 25 september 2002. the applicant was granted a licence to establish and run a new public pharmacy in leonding.14.  the complaint against that decision raised by the owners of an existing pharmacy was dismissed by the administrative court on 28 may 2013 and the applicant was awarded compensation for costs in the amount of 1,106.40 euros (eur).
6.  the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in zvolen.7.  in 1929 the applicant’s grandfather built a house in piešťany.ownership was transferred to the applicant from his mother on 21 december 1998.m each in size, while the other two measure 123 sq.9.  at the time the application was lodged, the flats were inhabited by tenants with a regulated rent.their or their predecessors’ right to use the flats had been established by decisions taken by the municipal authorities between 1953 and 1986. after 1 january 1992 their right of use had been transformed into tenancies with regulated rent for an indefinite period.10.  under the relevant legislation, the applicant had to accept that his flats were occupied by those tenants and that he could charge them no more than the maximum amount of rent fixed by the state (“the rent-control scheme”).the applicant had no possibility of unilaterally terminating the leases on his flats.11.  under the applicable legislation, the maximum monthly rent chargeable for the flats in 1999 was the equivalent of some 13 to 33 euros (eur).after several increases in the regulated rent, in 2004 the applicant was able to charge eur 115 monthly in respect of each of the smaller flats and eur 124 monthly in respect of the larger ones.12.  the applicant contended that he, in fact, received from the tenants less than the maximum amount of rent set by the applicable legislation.13.  the parties provided differing figures as to the market rent.the applicant relied on data from the national association of real estate agencies (“the narea”) and claimed that the monthly market rent for similar flats reached eur 600 to 800 between 2004 and 2007. the government submitted an expert valuation according to which the monthly market rent for the applicant’s flats in 2010 amounted to eur 265.50 and eur 325 respectively.14.  in submissions made on 16 june 2014 the applicant informed the court that the rent control in respect of his four flats had been terminated.the first flat had been subject to rent control until may 2007, the second and third flats until august 2007, and the fourth flat until april 2008.
6.  the applicant was born in 1946 and lives in bratislava.7.  the applicant’s parents built a house in bratislava-ružinov in 1937. in the second half of the 1950s they were compelled to donate the house to the state.on 31 july 1992 it was restored to the applicant’s mother (a three-quarters share) and the applicant (a one-quarter share) under the special legislation on restitution.since 30 september 1996 the applicant has been its sole owner.8.  at the time of its restitution to the applicant and his mother, the house comprised nine flats subject to rent control.m and the remaining eight measure 70 sq.under the relevant legislation (i) the applicant had to accept that his flats were occupied by the tenants, (ii) he could charge them no more than the maximum amount of rent fixed by the state, (iii) he could not unilaterally terminate the leases, and (iv) he could not sell the flats to anyone other than the tenants (“the rent-control scheme”).9.  in 1996 and 2000 two of the bigger flats became vacant, as a result of which the rent‑control scheme ceased to apply to them.the rent control ceased to apply in respect of another two 70 sq.currently, five flats are under the rent control regime.10.  under the applicable legislation, between 1992 and 1999 the maximum permissible monthly rent chargeable for the flats was equivalent of some 3 to 8 euros (eur).after several increases in the regulated rent, in 2007 the applicant could charge some eur 35 for the smaller flat and eur 65 for each of the larger ones.11.  the parties provided differing figures as to the market rent: the applicant relied on data from the national association of real estate agencies (“narea”) and claimed that in 2007 the monthly market rent for similar flats with a surface area of 70 sq.m reached eur 553 and for flats measuring 30 sq.m some eur 375. the government submitted an expert valuation according to which the monthly market rent for the applicant’s flats in 2010 amounted to eur 330 and eur 160.50 respectively.
the prosecutor heard the applicant, the victim c., the bus driver d., a witness who had been sitting in the applicant’s vehicle and another two witnesses who had been passengers on the bus (s. and v.).according to the applicant, he had completed the manoeuvre around the stationary bus and taken the lane in front of it after making sure the bus was still stationary.12.  during the course of the proceedings the botanica district court heard the same witnesses as the prosecutor.the court considered that none of them had seen any of the events themselves and that their impression that the applicant was guilty was because the bus driver blamed him.the court also noted that the site investigation report and the sketch map had not been drawn up immediately after the incident, that the police had gone to the scene several hours later and had been joined only by d., that the applicant’s objections had not been reflected in the documents, and that the sketch map did not correspond to the statements given by all the witnesses shortly after the incident.it concluded that the prosecution had failed to provide reliable evidence in support of the contention that the applicant’s actions had obliged d. to suddenly stop the bus.it noted that the first-instance court had correctly scrutinised all the evidence and had provided reasons supporting the findings about the unreliability of the witness statements, referring to the testimony of the two passengers.the court upheld the prosecutor’s appeal on points of law, quashed the appellate judgment and ordered a rehearing of the case in accordance with the provisions of article 436 of the code of criminal procedure, namely that any examination had to be in accordance with the rules applicable in proceedings before the first-instance court.the court found that the appellate court had not thoroughly stated its position on the assessment of the statements made by c., d. and the two passengers, but had merely relied on evidence in the applicant’s favour.17.  after rehearing the case, on 28 december 2006 the chișinău court of appeal dismissed the prosecutor’s appeal and upheld the first-instance judgment.the court analysed the witness testimony and the site investigation report and the sketch map, providing reasons why the evidence was unreliable.19.  pursuant to the verbatim record of the appellate hearing of 25 october 2007 the applicant and his lawyer did not object to the court continuing to examine the case without recalling the victim and did not request the recalling of witnesses.on the same day, the chișinău court of appeal upheld the prosecutor’s appeal, quashed the judgment of the botanica district court of 27 march 2006, found the applicant guilty and ordered him to pay an administrative fine of 3,000 moldovan lei (mdl – approximately 194 euros (eur)) and damages to c. in the amount of mdl 2,500 (approximately eur 162).20.  the applicant appealed and outlined, inter alia, the discrepancies in the witness statements, which had been identified by the first-instance court after hearing them and which had not been clarified by the appellate court.on 13 february 2008 the supreme court of justice examined the applicant’s appeal in the absence of the parties and declared it inadmissible.
8.  on 1 june 2012 the tatabánya police department issued a warrant for the arrest of the applicant in connection with the ongoing criminal proceedings, since the applicant was unreachable at his permanent address.apparently, at the time the arrest warrant was issued the applicant had a lawyer appointed for him, as required by article 527 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure.he also stated that he had steady employment and a permanent address, that the alleged offence of which he was suspected was of a minor nature, that he had voluntarily appeared before the investigation authorities, and that he had given a detailed account of events.the complaint was dismissed by the tatabánya district prosecutor’s office on 14 june 2012. in those and the ensuing proceedings the applicant was represented by a lawyer of his choice.the application specified that the applicant had submitted false personal information (name and id card number) when receiving the goods, which were supposed to be transported by the applicant to a specific place but had gone missing following their hand-over.it argued that the applicant was suspected of committing aggravated fraud as he had been the driver of the truck containing the missing goods and had used false information to identify himself when the goods in question had been handed over to him.referring to the arrest warrant, the court also held that there were grounds to believe that the applicant would abscond, obstruct the investigations or commit further offences.furthermore, his personal circumstances, that is, the fact that his mother and brother were ill, his permanent employment and residence, which had been the same for forty years, also excluded the risk of his absconding.16.  on 3 july 2012, on the application of the public prosecutor’s office, the applicant’s detention was extended until 9 september 2012 by the district court.finally, there was a risk of collusion given the ongoing investigations and the need to question further witnesses, and the applicant’s denial of the offence.the application of the prosecutor’s office for a prolongation of the applicant’s pre-trial detention, dated 2 july 2012, was served on the applicant following the first-instance decision.he further pointed out that the evidence obtained by the police supported his version of the events, thus there were no grounds to believe that he would have obstructed the investigations.a request by the prosecutor’s office, dated 5 july 2012, seeking the maintenance of the coercive measure was not served on the applicant at all.19.  the applicant’s application for release was dismissed by the district court on 9 july 2012. it reiterated in essence the same reasoning as in its decision of 3 july 2012 without any consideration for the application of a less restrictive measure.on appeal, on 9 august 2012, the tatabánya high court partly upheld the applicant’s appeal, finding that there was no risk of his absconding owing to his personal circumstances, namely his mother’s fragile health and his brother’s illness, and the fact that he had voluntarily appeared before the police following the issuing of the arrest warrant.
i remember when, not so long ago, the author of the proposal to develop a quail farm as a panacea against rural unemployment had a go at me in an accommodating local newspaper, accusing me of malice, a willingness to discredit every good idea, and mindlessness leading to nasty mental disease and many other irreversible disorders of the mind.and he actually sells it.” 9.  on 8 march 2005 m.d., the mayor of the radomsko district (starosta), g.d., the head and spokesperson of the district’s marketing department, and k.h., an employee of that department, lodged a private bill of indictment against the applicant with the radomsko district court.11.  the radomsko district court ruled that it did not have jurisdiction in the case, and transmitted the private bill of indictment to the piotrków trybunalski district court.it held that the use of the words “numbskull”, “poser” and “dim‑witted official” in respect of k.h., and the use of the words “dull bosses” in respect of m.d.13.  as to the facts, the court observed that, since march 2004, the applicant’s newspaper had been publishing articles which were critical of m.d., the mayor of the radomsko district, and his officials.they had not been mentioned by name, but they had been easily identifiable on account of the publicity generated by the quail farming project and the earlier articles published by the applicant’s newspaper.and g.d. 16.  with regard to the applicant’s criminal responsibility, the trial court noted that a journalist had the right to criticise the actions of public officials, but was not entitled to use media in a manipulative way to wage private wars.the trial court further held: “the fair criticism and objective coverage, free from personal emotions, which is desired in journalism, gave way to the private interest of the defendant, pursued through expressions which, in common understanding, remain offensive and disrespectful.it is difficult not to agree with the position that the word “numbskull” (“palant”) in the analysed context, although its literal meaning is legally irrelevant, fulfils all the criteria of insult within the meaning of article 216 of the criminal code.incidentally, it should also be noted that the word “dung” used in the title of the article has a cruder equivalent, and undoubtedly that equivalent was meant to describe k.h.’s contribution to the development of local entrepreneurship, which was accepted without reservation by his “dull bosses”.however, the court found no grounds to hold that the impugned words had the effect of lowering the private prosecutors in public esteem, or undermining the public confidence necessary for the discharge of their duties as local government officials.by doing so in a newspaper, he fell within the scope of article 216 § 2 of the criminal code, acting unlawfully, reprehensibly, and, in the absence of circumstances capable of precluding or mitigating his guilt, also culpably.” 17.  the trial court noted that the present case involved a conflict between constitutionally guaranteed freedom of speech and the right of each citizen to have his reputation protected.18.  as regards sentence, the court found that, having regard to the circumstances of the case, it would be disproportionate to impose a prison sentence, and that a fine would be the most appropriate penalty.it imposed a fine of pln 10,000, which it considered proportionate to the gravity of the offence and the degree of the applicant’s guilt.it endorsed the trial court’s findings that the words used in the article had been insulting and harmful to the private prosecutors’ dignity.
the seizure was documented on three standardised forms (one for each site inspected), which included the following pre-filled printed text: deed of inspection and seizure “beginning of the inspection: _______ [time, date] end of the inspection: _________ [time, date] i (we), ______ of the kecu on the premises of ______ [site] ... inspected and seized from _________ [name, address, place of work of the person whose possessions were subject to seizure] the following ________ [list of seized items]....” 9.  it appears from the forms that the inspection of the office started at 7.30 p.m. and ended at 7.30 a.m. the following morning, 21 august 2002. other sites were inspected at the same time – the car from 7.30 p.m. until 1.34 a.m. and the garage between10.25 and 11.45 p.m. 10.  according to the applicant, for the whole night the police officers questioned him, his wife and the members of their extended family who were on the premises.in his decision, he referred to the search of the office of the applicant and his wife and the seizure of their belongings on 20 august 2002. he further noted that they had been found not to have a license agreement with the law firm s., the official representative of the microsoft corporation, whose software they had used in their business, thereby causing damage to the software copyright owner.on various dates (in particular 24 february 2003, 11 august 2003 and 13 may 2005) the respective authorities rejected his requests, notifying him that his seized property constituted physical evidence in a criminal case, that keeping it in the possession of the authorities was justified by the need to carry out expert assessments and that, more generally, in accordance with article 81 of the code of criminal procedure 1960 (“the ccp”), the fate of the items had to be determined upon the final resolution of the case.23.  in their subsequent submissions – the last correspondence from the applicant’s lawyer and the government was received in march and june 2013 respectively – the parties did not provide any further information concerning the outcome or status of the aforementioned criminal proceedings and the fate of the seized items.the inspection had been lawful, as it had been carried out in the police officers’ competence to carry out investigative and operational activities for the purpose of crime detection within the meaning of the law of ukraine “on operational and investigative activities” and with the applicant’s and his wife’s consent.initially referring to article 248 of the code of civil procedure 1963 in force at the material time, he alleged, in particular, that the inspection of his office and search and seizure of his property in august 2002, as well as the institution of criminal proceedings on 15 november 2002 had been unlawful.the applicant argued that there was no reason to suspect that a crime had been committed justifying the search and seizure of his belongings; that, in breach of the applicable law, the measures had been taken at night-time; that the same people had been appointed as lay witnesses for all three sites, which had been inspected all at the same time; and that following the institution of the criminal proceedings he had not been summoned to participate in any investigative activities.as regards his complaints concerning the allegedly unlawful actions of the police, in accordance with article 234 of the code of criminal procedure, these complaints could be brought only within the framework of the above-mentioned criminal case and fell to be examined by the court which would try that case, during either the preliminary hearing or trial.like the lower court, it considered that the applicant had no standing to bring the proceedings at issue and, more generally, that the actions of the police authority complained of could only be challenged before the court examining the criminal case, after the relevant investigation had been completed and the case transferred to the court for examination.the supreme court further noted that there was sufficient evidence to suggest that the applicant had been substantially affected by the criminal proceedings at issue – in particular, with regard to the search of his premises and the seizure and retention of his belongings.38.  on 14 october 2004 the district court allowed the applicant’s complaint and revoked the decision of 15 november 2002. regard being had to the grounds for taking that decision, the proceedings should have been instituted against the applicant, who had been a de facto suspect in relation to breach of copyright.the police officers’ actions which had led to the institution of the proceedings had been tainted by procedural breaches, regard being had, in particular, to the unjustified inspection of the premises at night-time in the absence of the flat owner (the applicant’s mother ), as well as various other procedural violations.it further found that by instituting the criminal proceedings “into the matter” rather than “against the applicant”, the police had not caused irreparable damage to the applicant’s constitutional rights such as would necessitate the setting aside of their decision by way of judicial proceedings.of the supreme court refused to consider the applicant’s request for leave to appeal on points of law, stating that the supreme court lacked jurisdiction over the decisions taken by the court of appeal in the relevant matters, unless they concerned the termination of proceedings.
having examined the findings of the child protection agency and the prosecuting authorities in relation to mrs marinova’s complaints, the court concluded that her allegations, the first of which had become known to the school’s headmaster and a pedagogical counsellor in the school, had been false and therefore defamatory.it found that mrs marinova’s allegations that the teacher had ill-treated her son were not supported by the findings of the child protection agency or her son’s or the headmaster’s testimony, and held that information was “disseminated” within the meaning of article 147 § 1 of the criminal code even if only one person had become privy to it.it agreed that the statements in this respect in mrs marinova’s complaint to the police had amounted to a false accusation, and that the lower court had been wrong to characterise them as defamation.the court examined in detail the results of the internal inquiry carried out pursuant to mr zlatanov’s allegations, tests carried out several hours after the incident on 28 july 2008 and showing that the officer had not consumed alcohol, and the oral evidence of the other officer present at the scene and the officers’ superior.it went on to find that mr zlatanov had not been certain of the truthfulness of his allegations, but had nevertheless chosen to make them, both in the record drawn up by the officer in the course of the incident on 28 july 2008 and in his subsequent written explanations.he argued, inter alia, that his statements, made in the exercise of his constitutional rights and only addressed to the officer’s superior, had not amounted to “dissemination” within the meaning of the article 147 § 1 of the criminal code (see paragraph 49 below).it found it established that the officer had not displayed any signs of inebriation, which in the court’s view meant that mr zlatanov had been fully aware that the officer had not been drunk but had nevertheless chosen to make his allegations, thus acting with a direct intent to discredit the officer.those allegations, whose purpose had been to smear the officer and at the same time exonerate mr zlatanov from liability for the road traffic offence recorded by the officer, could not be justified by the right to defend oneself against administrative-penal charges or the right to freedom of expression.23.  on 23 july and 3 and 14 august 2009 mr findulov made complaints to the inspectorate of the ministry of internal affairs, the ombudsman of the republic and the minister of internal affairs, alleging that one of the officers who had stopped him, whose identity was not known to him, had requested a bribe and had withheld his documents.26.  in a decision of 12 august 2009, the road traffic police department of the burgas regional directorate of the ministry of internal affairs found, on the basis of a report by the two traffic police officers issued in mr findulov’s absence, that he had not used a seatbelt, that one of the tyres of his lorry had been worn out, that he had refused a breathalyser test, and that he had driven away in an unknown direction.it quashed the remainder of the decision of 12 august 2009, finding that the report of the traffic police officers had not been communicated to mr findulov.35.  on 17 november 2009 mr and mrs dinchevi complained to the head of the lovech district police directorate against the officers, alleging that they had shown no interest in the incident and had failed to protect them, instead inviting the aggressors in the patrol car and “muttering with them”.mr and mrs dinchevi sent copies of the complaint to the lovech district prosecutor’s office, the head of the lovech fire brigade, and the minister of internal affairs.), the supreme court of cassation allowed the request, reopened the proceedings, set the two judgments aside, acquitted mr and mrs dinchevi, and dismissed the claims for damages against them.the statements in their complaints had been an expression of their disapproval of the way in which the officers had carried out their duties, and an exercise of their constitutional rights to make complaints to the authorities, express their opinion, and defend their rights.
the detention orders in respect of the first two applicants read as follows: “whereas the immediate enforcement of the [order to leave france] is not possible on account of the organisation of [their] departure for [their] country of origin.whereas [the applicants] [have] not presented sufficient guarantees that [they] will not abscond, not having a valid passport, [having] neither a fixed abode nor sufficient resources, not [having] complied with the previous removal directions issued to [them] and [having] formally opposed, when interviewed, [their] return to [their] country of origin.” 11.  the first two applicants challenged their detention orders and in parallel lodged an urgent application for a stay of execution.12.  on 21 february 2012 the president of the toulouse administrative court dismissed the urgent application without a hearing, finding as follows: “under the [domestic statutory] provisions, the legality of decisions ordering administrative detention in connection with removal measures can be challenged fully through a specific procedure, which itself has the nature of an urgent procedure, separately from the remit of the urgent applications judge ...; it follows therefrom that the applicants’ request for that judge to order ... the stay of execution of the detention orders made for the purpose of enforcing the removal directions, a stay which would in fact have an equivalent effect to that of the annulment of the same decision on the merits, is inadmissible.” 13.  on the same day, the toulouse administrative court dismissed the application lodged by the first two applicants for the annulment of the administrative detention order, on the following grounds: “it is not in dispute that [the applicants] cannot present any valid identity or travel document; although [they claim] that [they] have a fixed address in an asylum-seekers’ reception centre, it can be seen from the evidence in the file that this centre asked [them] to vacate the premises, where [they have] unduly remained since june 2011; nor [have] the [applicants] adduced evidence of lawful income; lastly, since the notification of the judgment of the orléans administrative court of 18 october 2011 dismissing [their] application against the order of the prefect of loiret of 2 may 2011, [the applicants] [have] avoided the said removal measure; under those circumstances, the choice of the administrative authority to place [them] in administrative detention instead of ordering a measure of restricted residence ... is not vitiated by a manifest error of judgment.” responding more specifically to the argument raised by the applicants concerning the child’s best interests, the administrative court found it to be inapplicable, as the decisions appealed against pertained only to the parents’ personal situation.14.  the prefect asked the liberties and detention judge of the toulouse tribunal de grande instance to extend the detention, after which the first two applicants tried to obtain the third applicant’s voluntary intervention in the proceedings.on 22 february 2012 that judge authorised the extension of the applicants’ detention for a period of twenty days, after finding inadmissible the request for voluntary intervention on behalf of the child, and having dismissed the argument that the conditions of detention were incompatible with the presence of a minor child, on the following grounds: “it is not for the judicial authority to interfere in the running of an administrative detention centre”.15.  that decision was upheld on 24 february 2012 by the president of the toulouse court of appeal, who found in particular as follows: “... the administrative detention centre of cornebarrieu, where the child is held, has been authorised to receive families and contains all the necessary facilities to ensure the comfort of a family with children.the convention provisions, especially article 8, do not therefore appear to have been breached.” 16.  on 24 february 2012 the applicants submitted to the court, under rule 39 of the rules of court, a request for the suspension of the detention orders concerning them.article l. 561-2 of the entry and residence of aliens and right of asylum code provides, by way of exception to the cases where a foreign national may be placed in detention, the possibility of ordering a measure of restricted residence (assignation à résidence) if the alien can present guarantees to allay the risk of non-compliance with his or her obligation to leave france.the finding by the administrative authority of facts falling within provision 3o of part ii of article l. 511-1, while it is such as to create a presumption of a risk that the alien might fail to comply with his or her obligation to leave france, does not dispense that authority, before any decision to place him or her in detention, from specifically examining the circumstances of the case.as regards aliens who are the parents of minor children and who do not have sufficient guarantees of compliance, such aliens being provided for by article l. 562-1 of the said code, and in accordance with the aims of article 17 of directive 2008/115/ec, recourse to placement in detention can only constitute an exceptional measure in cases where the alien does not have a stable place of abode at the time when the prefectoral authority takes the necessary measures to prepare for the removal.2011‑672 of 16 june 2011, provides: ‘in the cases provided for in article l. 551‑1, where the alien is the parent of a minor child residing in france and has effectively contributed to the raising and education of that child in the conditions prescribed in article 371-2 of the civil code since the birth of the child or at least for the past two years, and where the conditions for a restricted residence measure under article l. 561-2 of the present code are not fulfilled, the administrative authority can decide on a measure of curfew with electronic tagging, with the agreement of the alien concerned.the measure may be extended by the liberties and detention judge under the same conditions as the extension of the administrative detention provided for in chapter ii of title v of the present book.’ 6.  it can be seen from the evidence in the file that on the date of the decision appealed against, mr [a.b.was apprehended on 16 february 2012 in that hostel, where the family had remained unlawfully, even though they had been requested to leave the premises by the centre’s administration, following the rejection of their requests for a review of their asylum situation by a decision of 28 july 2011 of the french office for the protection of refugees and stateless persons.it does not appear from the decision appealed against that the prefect had considered, having regard to the presence of a child, whether a less coercive measure than detention was possible for the necessarily short duration of the removal procedure.is justified in submitting that the judge appointed by the president of the toulouse administrative court, in the judgment appealed against, had been wrong to reject his request for the annulment of the decision of 17 february 2012 placing him in administrative detention.” ...
6.  on 17 february 2010 the šakiai police arrested the applicant’s son, v.ž., on suspicion of unlawful possession of narcotic substances with the purpose of distributing them under article 260 § 1 of the criminal code.the record of the provisional arrest, drawn up at the time of the arrest, stated that the applicant had been explained her rights, including the right to a lawyer, and that she had refused to sign the record.the notice stated that in february 2010 she had allegedly acquired drugs from unidentified persons, kept them in her daughter v.b.’s apartment with the purpose of distribution, and subsequently distributed them, thereby committing the act proscribed in article 260 § 1 of the criminal code.15.  on the same day the applicant’s lawyer submitted a request to the šakiai district prosecutor to release the applicant from provisional arrest.the decision to release her stated that all the necessary investigative actions concerning the applicant had been conducted, and that there were no grounds to believe that she would interfere with the investigation upon her release.18.  on 30 september 2010 the šakiai district prosecutor discontinued the pre-trial investigation against the applicant on the grounds of insufficient evidence that she had committed the crime outlined in article 260 § 1 of the criminal code.the applicant also argued that her arrest had been unnecessary because at the time she had been almost seventy years old, ailing and had had difficulties walking; she had had no prior convictions, had been retired and had had a place of residence with her husband.the applicant noted that the investigation against her son had been instituted on 17 february 2010, and there had been no indication from that day until her arrest that the police suspected that she had committed any crimes or attempted to interfere with the investigation ‑ on the contrary, she had voluntarily come to the police station to see her son.22.  the applicant further submitted that she had suffered pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage because of the provisional arrest: her blood pressure had risen and as a result she had had to seek medical help and take medication; she had become irritable, had started having nightmares and was scared of police officers; she felt humiliated in front of her son who had been detained in a nearby cell, as well as other inhabitants of her village, who subsequently thought of her as a criminal.23.  at the hearing before the šakiai district court the applicant also submitted that, after arresting her, the police officers had searched her purse and tried to strip search her, but she had resisted.the court noted that the termination of the pre-trial investigation against the applicant did not make the investigation unlawful ab initio, and found that there had been sufficient grounds for suspicions against her: plastic bags had been found in the apartment where she lived together with her son v.ž., and remnants of drugs had been found in the applicant’s daughter v.b.’s apartment.had unlawfully been in possession of a mobile phone, and the police officers had had grounds to believe that he had warned the applicant to hide the drugs which had been stored in v.b.’s apartment.the court also noted that the applicant had not appealed against the district prosecutor’s decision of 5 march 2010 to refuse her release (see paragraph 17 above), which meant that the decision to arrest her had not been declared unlawful.lastly, the court held that the medical documents submitted by the applicant did not prove that the deterioration of her health had been caused by the provisional arrest.it upheld the findings of the first-instance court that at the time of the arrest there had been sufficient evidence to suspect the applicant of having committed a crime, and that the subsequent discontinuation of the pre-trial investigation did not make the arrest unlawful.
6.  on 30 may 2001 the užice department of the central employment office (republicki zavod za tržiste rada – nacionalna služba za zapošljavanje – organizaciona jedinica užice, hereinafter “the employment office”) granted unemployment benefits to the applicant until he found a new job or became eligible for retirement (novčana naknada do zaposlenja ili ispunjavanja uslova za starosnu penziju).7.  on 1 june 2001 the law on changes and amendments to the law on employment and rights of unemployed persons (“the 2001 law”) came into force.it also provided, in article 20, that any administrative proceedings which had not been concluded by the date on which the new law came into force were to be finalised in accordance with the new law (article 17 of the 2001 law provided that article 20 was applicable as of 1 september 2001).8.  the applicant was receiving the full amount of the benefits he was entitled to until october 2001. from that date the benefits were decreased to 70-80% of the amount he had initially been awarded, although the decision of 30 may 2001 had not been amended or superseded by a new decision.9.  consequently, on 12 november 2007 the applicant brought a civil claim against the employment office in the užice municipal court (opštinski sud u užicu), seeking payment of the difference between the benefits he had received and those he had been granted by the employment office and which had been due from 1 november 2004 (a claim for any earlier sum was statute-barred), plus statutory interest and legal costs.it found that his benefits had been correctly calculated, in accordance with the 2001 law, as the employment office’s decision in his case had not yet been final on the date on which the relevant law had come into force.13.  on 22 november 2007 the same municipal court ruled in favour of m.ð., one of the plaintiffs, whose claim was factually and legally identical to that of the applicant (m.ð.’s administrative decision had also been delivered on 30 may 2001).14.  the municipal court ruled in favour of several of the plaintiffs in nine judgments delivered between 24 august 2007 and 17 april 2008, although it appears that the dates on which the respective administrative decisions had come into force differed.15.  on 26 february 2008 and 19 may 2008 the arilje municipal court delivered two judgments in which it ruled against plaintiffs whose claims were identical to the applicant’s.16.  a number of plaintiffs who were in an identical situation to that of the applicant lodged constitutional appeals with the constitutional court of serbia.between 4 november 2010 and 1 march 2012 the constitutional court adopted a number of decisions in those cases, finding a violation of the right to a fair trial.it quashed the civil judgments and ordered the reopening of the civil proceedings.17.  acting upon the decisions of the constitutional court, the kragujevac court of appeal (which became the competent court of second instance for the applicant’s case after a reorganisation of courts in serbia in 2010, instead of the užice district court) and the belgrade court of appeal reopened proceedings in cases in which the constitutional court had made such an order and ruled in favour of the plaintiffs.18.  on 1 april 2014 the supreme court of cassation adopted a detailed action plan aimed at ensuring the general harmonisation of case-law throughout the serbian judicial system.the plan contained a series of measures to be taken at various levels of jurisdiction, and, inter alia, included the following: (i) the adoption of guiding legal opinions based on the principles developed in the case-law of the european court of human rights; (ii) the dissemination of such opinions; (iii) regular information sharing between the courts; (iv) an increased number of thematic discussions and training programmes; (v) the adoption of specific action plans by the courts at various levels; and (vi) the development of various it tools and related intranet databases.
the applicant alleged that the results of the tests had been falsified by m. he referred to the testimony of two staff members of the hospital, who later testified that he had not been drunk.it appears from the report of the examination that the car had dents on the right side of the bonnet and on the front right windscreen support.the applicant alleged that the investigator in charge of the case, m., had been a schoolmate and close friend of p. he also alleged that the date the decision was taken to open an investigation was incorrect, as the case had in fact been opened on 18 july 2002.29.  on 1 august 2002 a forensic expert drew up a report examining the nature of the applicant’s injuries and making conclusions as to the speed and direction p.’s car had been travelling, the position of the applicant’s body at the time of the accident, and other relevant factors.30.  on 2 august 2002 the investigator questioned p.’s father who explained, among other things, that the dent on the bonnet of the car was not related to the accident involving the applicant.34.  on 9 september 2002 the investigator organised a reconstruction of the accident in the presence of the applicant, p. and g. 35.  on 17 september 2002 the investigator questioned m. she denied falsifying the results of the blood test.38.  on 27 september 2002 the investigator questioned an expert, who explained the difference between the results of the two tests of the blood samples taken from the applicant and p. 39.  on 2 october 2002 the investigator questioned the applicant’s father.46.  on 14 may 2003 the applicant obtained an expert report from the volgograd forensics bureau, in which the events of 9 july 2002 were reconstructed on the basis of the material of the case file.on 29 january 2004 the sholokhovskiy district court dismissed his complaint; it held that the courts had no jurisdiction to review the decisions of the investigator in so far as they concerned the legal classification of a criminal charge, since such a decision did not interfere with the applicant’s constitutional rights and freedoms.60.  in the course of the second round of the trial the court examined documentary evidence in the case file and heard over twenty witnesses, including the applicant, p., m., the applicant’s parents, several people who had seen the accident, police officers who had been involved in the initial inquiry, two expert witnesses, attesting witnesses and a number of hearsay witnesses.68.  since all the judges working in the sholokhovskiy district court had participated in the earlier proceedings, the case was transferred to a court in an adjacent district, the verkhnedonskoy district court, situated 50 kilometres from the applicant’s village.71.  as to non-pecuniary damages, the applicant claimed rub 4,320,000 under this head, referring mostly to the same facts and the suffering caused by the accident, the subsequent surgery, his participation in the proceedings, and lost opportunities related to his disability.73.  on an unspecified date the court obtained (through the applicant or otherwise) a letter from an employment assistance agency, panigo, dated 28 march 2003. it said that the agency had an opening for the applicant on an overseas voyage on a six-month contract basis, with a salary of usd 2,500. a letter from another shipping company, valmars ltd, which had the applicant’s name on a waiting list for an offer of employment at the time of the accident, said that he could have earned usd 550 working as an operator mechanic on a ship in 2003. it also indicated that on overseas voyages on foreign ships, the pay of operator mechanics varied between usd 700 and 2,300.as a result, the court calculated the applicant’s loss of earnings as five times the minimum wage and took into consideration the “minimum subsistence level” which existed at the relevant time in the area where the applicant lived.79.  the applicant also sought to initiate a criminal investigation into the alleged falsification of the results of the blood tests by m. however, the prosecutor decided not to open a case, a decision which was upheld by the courts.
it was stipulated that unless the applicants and their company paid their outstanding debts by 1 may 2009, the creditors were entitled to institute enforcement proceedings for payment of the debt through the sale of the applicants’ house.10.  on 11 december 2009 the poreč municipal court registered the enforcement order on the applicants’ house in the land register.in the former proceedings an enforcement order had been issued against the applicants at the request of the poreč municipality on 12 may 2010, in respect of a claim of hrk 24,352.94 (approximately 3,200 euros).17.  a further set of enforcement proceedings against the applicants was joined to the proceedings at issue on 13 may 2011. in those proceedings, an enforcement order had been issued against the applicants at the request of bank p. on 24 january 2011, in respect of an unpaid loan of 14 february 2006 in the amount of 159,688.87 swiss francs.they also argued that the municipal court had failed to comply with the provisions of the enforcement act, which stated that courts should respect the dignity of debtors subject to enforcement and should make the enforcement process as humane as possible.furthermore, the value of the house had been set by the poreč municipal court on 25 october 2010 and the applicants had not objected to it.25.  on 20 february 2013 the applicants lodged an appeal on points of law against the decision of the pula county court, relying on section 382(2) of the civil procedure act.27.  on 22 february 2013 the poreč municipal court declared the applicants’ appeal on points of law inadmissible on the grounds that such an appeal was allowed in enforcement proceedings only if based on section 382(2) of the civil procedure act, which was not the case.28.  on the same day the poreč municipal court declared the applicants’ request for a stay of enforcement inadmissible, finding that they had failed to meet the statutory conditions for such a request.from having the electricity and water cut off and from making alterations to the house, ordering hep to reconnect the electricity, and authorising them to keep the house until the enforcement proceedings were complete.31.  on 26 july 2013 the poreč municipal court held a hearing on the division of the proceeds (dioba kupovnine) from the sale of the house.33.  on 21 october 2013 the municipal court scheduled the eviction of the applicants for 13 december 2013, ordering the court bailiff to carry out the eviction.36.  on 20 january 2014 the pula county court dismissed the applicants’ appeal against the decision of 17 september 2013 (see paragraph 32 above), finding that the municipal court had acted in accordance with the law, namely the provisions of the enforcement act.37.  on 23 january 2014 the pula county court accepted the applicants’ appeal against the decision of 22 february 2013 (see paragraph 27 above) and remitted the applicants’ appeal on points of law to the municipal court.38.  on the same day the pula county court, in a different decision, dismissed the applicants’ appeal against the decision of 22 february 2013 by which their request for a stay of the enforcement proceedings had been dismissed (see paragraph 28 above).
from 1998 to 1999, after the expiry of the previous licence agreements, the applicant organisation and certain broadcasting organisations in latvia could not reach an agreement on the terms of the future licence agreements, especially with regard to the remuneration to be paid for the broadcasting of music.by relying on the authors’ exclusive rights to control the use of their musical works, the applicant organisation asked the court to apply an injunction precluding the defendant from using the authors’ works before a valid licence agreement between the parties had come into effect.8.  the defendant lodged a counterclaim arguing that the applicant organisation had abused its dominant position and had fixed an unreasonably high royalty rate, which was six times the rate which had been applicable for the period from 1995 to 1998. they asked the court to order the applicant organisation to conclude a licence agreement with the defendant organisation and to lay down an equitable royalty rate.9.  during the first-instance court’s hearing, the applicant organisation admitted that the parties had a dispute over the royalty rate in the draft licence agreement negotiated by the parties, but that the court was precluded under section 41 of the copyright law from setting the rate as long as there was no licence agreement concluded between the parties (see paragraph 26 below).12.  lastly, by relying on the preamble of the wipo copyright treaty and articles 11 and 11bis of the berne convention (see paragraph 37 below), the first-instance court dismissed the applicant organisation’s application to have an injunction granted to prohibit the defendant from broadcasting works of the rightsholders represented by the applicant organisation.14.  on the issue of ordering the conclusion of a licence agreement, the appellate court observed that both parties had expressed their intention to enter into a such an agreement, as attested by a draft licence agreement of 7 october 2003 in which the parties had agreed on certain terms and conditions such as the duration of the licence and the income from which royalties should be calculated.the appellate court accordingly recognised that the licence agreement was to be considered concluded in the wording as agreed by the parties on 7 october 2003. on the question of remuneration, the appellate court established that in the negotiation process the applicant organisation had changed the royalty rate from 6% to 4% and then to 3.5%, whereas the defendant had insisted on 1.6% of the income from which royalties should be calculated.15.  on 11 february 2004, following an appeal on points of law, the senate of the supreme court upheld the appellate court’s findings that after the expiry of the earlier licence agreement on 31 december 1998 the de facto contractual relationship between the parties had continued mainly owing to the fact that the applicant organisation had failed to reach an agreement with the defendant on the terms of the licence agreement.the senate of the supreme court further observed that the parties did not contest that the authors had a right to receive equitable remuneration, but that to that day the parties had not reached an agreement on the rate of the royalty payments.given that there was no other authority responsible to decide on this matter, the senate of the supreme court concluded that pursuant to article 11bis of the berne convention and section 5 of the civil law, it was within the court’s competence to set the royalty rate.the senate of the supreme court also dismissed the allegations that the appellate court’s judgment had infringed the intellectual property rights protected under the constitution of the republic of latvia.16.  in their claim against latvijas radio, a state-owned limited liability company, the applicant organisation asked the riga regional court, acting as a first-instance court, to find that by broadcasting the rightsholders’ musical works without a valid licence agreement between 1 january 2000 and 31 december 2001, the defendant had violated economic interests of the authors represented by the applicant organisation.by relying on the authors’ exclusive rights to control the use of their musical works, the applicant organisation asked the court to apply an injunction precluding the defendant from using the authors’ works before a valid licence agreement between the parties had come into effect.the court established that even though the licence agreement concluded between the parties with the royalty rate set at 3.2% of the defendant’s annual income had expired in 1999, the applicant organisation had continued receiving royalty payments from the defendant, which continued to pay at a lower rate.as the parties had not asked the court to decide on the exact terms and conditions of a licence agreement, the appellate court decided to impose on the parties a general obligation to conclude a licence agreement by 1 march 2004. given that the parties had been unable to agree on a royalty rate, the appellate court set the rate at 3% of the defendant’s net turnover.
everything is being decided on the basis of power and connections, not on the basis of laws.” 8.  the judge‑rapporteur at the kazanlak district court became aware of that statement when processing the appeal, which, in accordance with the applicable rules of procedure, had been filed with that court with a view to being sent to the higher court for examination.9.  in the course of the appeal hearing before the stara zagora regional court the applicant said, inter alia, the following: “the [judgment against me] was given by a judge who is a former pupil of mine.my request was however turned down and my fate was left in the hands of the court.” 10.  on 16 may 2007 the stara zagora regional court quashed the lower court’s judgment and remitted the case for re-examination, citing a number of breaches of the rules of procedure.in particular, it found that the lower court had not given reasons why it had accepted that the applicant had committed the offences and had in effect reversed the burden of proof, placing it on the applicant.concerning the grounds for recusal of the judge‑rapporteur, the court noted as follows: “in relation to the arguments that there existed grounds for the [judge‑rapporteur] to recuse himself, it is well-established case-law that the refusal of the court to accede to a recusal request is reviewable on appeal.in this case, the request was based on personal relations between the [applicant] and the [judge-rapporteur] that pre-dated the opening of the criminal proceedings against the [applicant].bearing in mind the effective sentence – which corresponds neither to the gravity of the offence nor to the dangerousness of the offender –, the reasons given for its imposition – to protect other members of society and the judicial authorities from future civil claims brought by the [applicant] –, and the unwarranted emotionality of the [lower court’s] reasoning, this court finds that the judgment under appeal does not demonstrate the requisite subjective or objective impartiality.the bias displayed by the judge‑rapporteur constituted grounds for him to recuse himself.” 11.  on 4 june 2007 the judge-rapporteur in the criminal case against the applicant brought a private criminal prosecution against him in relation to the written and the oral statements made by the applicant in the appeal proceedings (see paragraphs 7 and 9 above).it noted that he had repeated the allegations twice and that, as evident from a psychiatric expert report obtained in the course of the defamation proceedings, he had been fully aware of the meaning of the statements and capable of controlling himself in spite of his emotional state.in his brief, he submitted that his first statement had been read out of context; that the lower court had not taken due account of his perturbed emotional state, resulting from his having to spend time in custody pursuant to an unlawful conviction and sentence; that his statements had only been addressed to the appellate court and not intended for publication; and that he had not acted wilfully or recklessly.in an additional brief, the applicant’s counsel submitted, inter alia, that the lower court had failed to explain why it had found that the applicant’s statements had been “disseminated”, given that the appellate judges to whom they had been addressed had been under the duty not to disclose professional secrets and that no third parties had access to the file containing the statements.14.  in a final judgment of 17 march 2008, the stara zagora regional court upheld the applicant’s conviction in relation to the first statement (see paragraph 7 above), but acquitted him with respect to the second statement (see paragraph 9 above), and accordingly reduced the fine to bgn 2,500 (eur 1,278).without attempting to verify whether the first statement had a factual basis, the court found that it had amounted to an allegation that the judge was vindictive and had used his office to seek revenge, had been disparaging for the judge in his professional capacity, and had impinged on his office.there was nothing discrediting in the fact that the judge had been a pupil of the applicant, and the applicant’s view that the judge should have therefore recused himself was a personal opinion, which could not give rise to criminal liability because it could not be proved.bearing in mind the applicant’s clean criminal record and the fact that he was experiencing financial difficulties because he was unemployed, the court found that it had to opt for a sentence below the statutory minimum and reduce the applicant’s fine to bgn 2,500.
11.  that same day the applicant submitted the following statement to the jonava district prosecutor (hereinafter “the prosecutor”): “on the night of 22-23 april 2008 i was on duty at the garage complex ... around 4.30 a.m. three police officers came onto the premises.he stated: “on the night of 23 april 2008 ... i went to the jewellery shop in jonava ... a police dog followed traces to [the garage complex] and lost them by the car ... the car was examined by officers of the jonava police department.it was identified as belonging to [the applicant] who, it emerged later, was a security guard at the garage complex ... he refused to give any statements and refused to go to the police station, so the officers asked him to identify himself, which he also refused to do, and therefore the officers tried to take him into custody and put him into the police car ... [the applicant] resisted the officers, punched one of them in the face, pushed and jostled them to try to avoid being apprehended, used various russian swear words ... and threatened the officers ... he mentioned that he had friends in high-level positions.the police officers used combat wrestling methods (kovinių imtynių veiksmus) and [the applicant] was apprehended, handcuffed and taken to the jonava police station to clarify the circumstances of the incident.” 18.  on 30 july 2008 the applicant was granted victim status in the investigation and questioned.also stated that after the applicant had gone to the guard booth to get his car keys he had attempted to lock himself inside the booth, but the officers had prevented the door from closing and had entered the booth as well.then i immediately left, whereas the officers, the dog handler and [the applicant] stayed there ... i can confirm that the handler with the dog was present when i arrived, it was impossible for [the applicant] not to have seen him.insisted that he had been present: “i was at the scene of the incident, i was with a dog, i saw [the applicant’s] arrest and i helped two police officers to twist [the applicant’s] arms (padėjau užlaužti rankas) ... i went to the guard booth with the officers.the court held that the investigation had not been thorough because it had not determined whether the use of force by the police officers had been within the limits provided by the police activity act (see paragraph 49 below), and it had not established the circumstances surrounding the injury to the applicant’s abdomen.on the other hand, the prosecutor considered that the applicant’s statements had been inconsistent: during one questioning he had said that the officers had hit him inside the guard booth and during another he had said that they had hit him outside; he had also stated that officer l.b., who had arrived on the scene later, had been wearing a uniform, but l.b.he stated: “[w]hen i was on my way to the garage complex, fifteen to twenty metres from the guard booth, i saw a police car and stopped by the corner of the garage wall ... next to [the applicant’s] car there were two officers in police uniforms and [the applicant] ... i heard one of the officers ask [the applicant] to whom the car belonged ... [the applicant] said that the car was his and that he would get the keys so that the officers could examine the car ... i saw [the applicant] turn round to go to the guard booth and then the larger police officer with a moustache grabbed him by the shoulder ... twisted his arm ... and the other officer twisted his other arm.outside [the applicant] asked the officers, “guys, why did you hit me in the stomach?”... i didn’t see the officers hit [the applicant], i only heard him scream inside the booth ... i saw everything well because the area around the booth was lit.he essentially repeated his previous statements (see paragraphs 17 and 21 above), and added: “i didn’t go inside the guard booth, i stayed near the door, and that’s why during previous questioning i said that nothing happened inside the booth and that i didn’t see if there had been an attempt to punch an officer in the booth, because i couldn’t see it from the outside.when [the applicant] was led out of the booth, he was handcuffed ... my dog was further away the whole time, tied to the garage wall ... as for the punch ... i can only say that it appeared to me that [the applicant] had attempted to punch an officer.during the first questioning i said that he had punched an officer, but i may have been wrong because i didn’t consider this an important circumstance; also, during that questioning i wasn’t asked exactly whether there had been a punch or just an attempt to punch – as i said before, [the applicant] was jostling the officers, so it seemed to me that he had punched an officer.” 42.  on 7 june 2010 the prosecutor discontinued the pre‑trial investigation, relying on essentially the same grounds as in the previous decisions (see paragraphs 23, 35 and 39 above), and a senior prosecutor dismissed the applicant’s appeal.the prosecutor relied on essentially the same grounds as the jonava district prosecutor in its earlier decisions (see paragraphs 23, 35, 39 and 42 above), and concluded that the applicant’s statements had been inconsistent, whereas the consistent statements of all the police officers had shown that the use of force had been a lawful and proportionate response to the applicant’s resistance and his refusal to comply with the officers’ lawful orders.
4.  the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in chita.5.  on 2 september 2004 the applicant was arrested on the charges of fraud and forgery of official documents.on 4 september 2004 the tsentralnyy district court of chita authorised the applicant’s pre-trial detention.the court reasoned as follows: “the evidence collected ... incriminated [the applicant] ... in a serious crime which entails a custodial sentence exceeding ten years.... the court takes note of the [applicant’s] character.however, ... it considers that, if at large, [the applicant] might put pressure on victims and witnesses or otherwise interfere with administration of justice or continue criminal activities, accordingly, ... the court considers it necessary to remand [the applicant] in custody.” 6.  on 11 november 2004 the chita regional court upheld the decision of 2 september 2004 on appeal.7.  the applicant remained in custody pending investigation and trial.the court extended his pre-trial detention on several occasions reiterating, in substance, the reasoning employed by the district court on 2 september 2004.8.  on 4 june 2007 the district court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to eight years’ imprisonment.
the investigating judge instructed (a) the belgrade police’s expert team and the factory experts to continue looking for those involved who had died or survived; (b) the crime-scene technician to collect and register all traces, objects and details which might help to elucidate the account of the events and to make an appropriate file in that respect; (c) the removal of all the corpses to the institute for forensic medicine for post-mortem examinations to determine the cause of death; and (d) the transfer of all the survivors to the appropriate medical centres.and p.p., submitted their report to the ddpo on 9 august 1995. as regards the cause and origin of the accident, the experts stated (a) that the explosion appeared to have been initially caused by the heat generated by the mill’s rollers during the production of composite fuel; (b) that static electricity could not have ignited the composite fuel, premix or fuel sheet; (c) that the primary blast of the premix or the composite fuel sheet on the mill’s two counter-rotating rollers had most probably been caused by the presence of a mechanical object in the premix, which had ended up between the rollers; and (d) that the initial blast had led to two secondary explosions of the premix, which was stored in two aluminum bins next to the mill.previously, on 3 july 1995 the ministry had informed the prosecutor that on 24 and 26 june 1995 they had been refused access to the factory and to documentation for inspection, and that grmeč had not informed them to that date about the fatal incident, as required by the relevant law.he questioned, inter alia, the expert commission’s authorisation to investigate the case, the fact that it had focussed on the cause of the explosion without establishing whether the appropriate safety precautions had been taken, and the experts’ conclusions, which were pure presumption.in their reply of 15 april 1997, the experts clarified that (a) on 23 june 1995 at the scene of the incident, where they had gone ex officio, the investigating judge had instructed them orally to establish the cause of the explosion; (b) they had not made any plan or programme for the expert report; (c) they had not had sufficient information (for example, on the original premix or the final product) to examine and determine the cause of the blast, but they had found traces of ap at the accident scene and had been provided with the formulae of the premix by jpl; (d) they could not say whether the fire had started on the rollers, the fuel or the rocket-fuel sheet; (e) they had not found any documentation about the planning or technology programme of the production of rocket fuel which had led to the blast; and that (f) their task had been to establish the cause of, and not the responsibility for, the explosion.the expert stated that the collected data were incomplete and did not contain quantitative figures of the samples examined to allow any deeper analysis of the collected evidence or its compliance with the account of the events that had allegedly led to the explosion.while not excluding the possibility that the cause of the explosion might have been the one suggested by the police experts, the expert observed that the possible exposure of ap to humidity could have made it sensitive to an organic compound and the explosion could have been caused by a piece of paper, wood or engine oil, especially in the presence of unwanted metal or soot particles.31.  the expert also noted the following issues as relevant: (a) although explosive, carcinogenic and other dangerous substances were used during the production process, no technical-technological documentation and certificates for them had been found; (b) the purity of the components, especially of ap, was questionable (it was described as light pink powder, whereas it was a white, crystalline substance); (c) the samples revealed, unusually, included the presence of phosphates, which were not components of composite fuel, or equipment for the maintenance of the mill or the building itself; (d) the production process and technology did not seem to have been accurately specified and followed, as certain components had been added and mixed on the mill in the course of the production process; and (e) an unacceptably high number of individuals present had indicated that they did not know what had been produced and that other safety measures had probably not been taken.she confirmed in principle, and further elaborated on, the findings of the chemistry faculty’s expert and itemised the numerous failures of the two companies to comply with the relevant provisions of the explosive substances, flammable liquids and gases act concerning transporting and working with explosive materials (see paragraphs 84-86 below).47.  on 29 october 2002 the investigating judge again appointed the military technical academy to draw up a report establishing in a clear and conclusive manner the cause of the explosion and which irregularities in the production process had led to the blast.in a short report drawn up in december 2002, the academy stated this time that their task was apparently to examine the cause of the explosion, not the possible failure of any of the suspects to protect those involved from the risk of explosion.55.  on 6 february 2007 the applicant requested the district court to re-examine whether the classification of the testimonies of two intelligence service executives as state secret had been in accordance with the law, and to add them to the case file if appropriate.67.  on 14 july 2011 the constitutional court held that the applicant had suffered a breach of his “right to a trial within a reasonable time” in respect of the ineffective, inadequate and lengthy criminal proceedings before the first-instance court, and ordered the latter to bring the impugned proceedings to a conclusion as soon as possible.the court stated that the payment of the original award would be contrary to the purpose of compensation and that the state could not be responsible for the omissions of third parties.74.  despite the court’s request to the government to provide it with the information indicating the ownership structure of grmeč and jpl as of june 1995, the documents provided by the government concerned only the legal status of grmeč as of 1997, when it was incorporated as a limited liability company (društvo sa ograničenom odgovornošću).
6.  on 13 august 1996 the voznesensk local prosecutor’s office in the mykolayiv region started an investigation into the murder of four persons on 12 august 1996.7.  on 18 october 1999 the donetsk regional prosecutor’s office started investigating the murder of a.8.  on 10 november 1999 the slavyansk police department of the donetsk region started an investigation into hooliganism concerning r. 9.  on 22 november 1999 the above three investigations were joined.several persons were suspected of committing the above crimes as a group, one of them being the applicant.10.  on 14 december 1999 the donetsk regional prosecutor’s office formally charged the applicant in absentia with the above crimes.the same day the investigation in respect of the applicant was suspended until he was apprehended; the criminal proceedings continued in respect of the other suspects.11.  on 23 december 2002, the donetsk regional court of appeal convicted and sentenced g., p. and f. for the above mentioned crimes.13.  on 28 june 2007 the applicant was apprehended by the yartsevo prosecutor’s office in the smolensk region, russia.14.  on 31 march 2008 the investigation was resumed after the applicant had been extradited to ukraine.the same day the applicant was formally charged with participation in an organised criminal group together with g., p., f. and two other persons, who had died in the intervening time.the applicant was accused of strangling a., of killing four persons together with g. in 1996 and inflicting grievous bodily harm on r. in a murder attempt, the latter crime in the context of the extortion of r’s brother.15.  on 22 may 2008 the investigation was completed and on 26 june 2008 the case was transferred to the donetsk regional court of appeal.16.  on 10 july 2009 the court of appeal, acting as a first-instance court, found the applicant guilty of aggravated murder and banditry and sentenced him to life imprisonment.17.  the applicant and his lawyer appealed, considering that the applicant’s guilt had not been proved.18.  on 15 july 2010 the supreme court of ukraine upheld the judgment of 10 july 2009. on that day the applicant’s lawyer submitted an additional appeal claiming that the court of appeal had to apply the most favourable wording of the relevant provisions of the criminal code, which was that between 29 december 1999 and 29 march 2000 when the death penalty had already been abolished and life imprisonment had not yet been introduced.
10.  on 25 may 2010 the dzerzhinskiy district court of perm found that the applicant could not be held responsible for the murder of his wife which had been committed owing to a temporary psychiatric disorder in the form of an acute reaction to stress.14.  on 10 march 2011 the applicant applied to the ministry of social development for the perm region (“the childcare authority”) in order to have the child returned to him.16.  the childcare authority and v. instituted court proceedings seeking to deprive the applicant of his parental responsibility over n. the applicant brought a counterclaim, challenging the childcare authority’s refusal to return the child to him and seeking the termination of v.’s guardianship over n. 17.  on 16 august 2012 the dzerzhinskiy district court dismissed the application by the childcare authority and v. to deprive the applicant of his parental responsibility over n. it also dismissed the applicant’s counterclaim to end v.’s guardianship over n. and to return n. to him.based on the report the court found that n. had been living with and had been brought up by v. from the age of three, that he had not seen his father for over a year, since summer 2011, that the applicant had been working on shifts and was out of town every two months out of four, that n. was going to start primary school and that v. had already chosen a school near the boy’s place of residence.19.  on 22 may 2012 the justice of the peace of the 5th court circuit of the dzerzhinskiy district of perm ordered the applicant to pay child maintenance to v. in an amount that was equal to a quarter of his income, starting from 28 april 2012 until the child’s coming of age.26.  according to the government, on the same day a court clerk notified the applicant of the hearing of 14 may 2013 by calling him on his mobile telephone, and on 7 may 2013 by sending him a letter by registered mail, which was, however, returned undelivered on 23 may 2013.the record of the hearing reads as follows: “the secretary reported on the appearance [of the parties at the hearing].the district court took the following factual elements into consideration: -  the applicant was the father of n., a minor, aged seven years old at the time; -  the child’s mother had died on 15 february 2009 from multiple stab and cut wounds inflicted on her by the child’s father, the applicant; -  pursuant to the decision of 25 may 2010 the applicant had been exempted from criminal responsibility for the murder of his wife and ordered to have compulsory psychiatric treatment in a psychiatric hospital; -  the murder had been committed in the presence of the child; -  on 25 february 2011 the compulsory psychiatric measures in respect of the applicant had been lifted; -  on 3 april 2009 the child’s maternal grandmother v. had been appointed the child’s guardian; -  the child resided with v., his housing conditions were adequate and he had been provided with the necessary clothing, a place for play and rest, as well as toys and books; -  the applicant wished to see the child on a weekly basis, on saturdays or sundays, by taking him out to the cinema, theatre and other places for children and by being afforded an opportunity to stay with the child at his paternal grandparents’ house; -  on 16 august 2012 the dzerzhinskiy district court had dismissed the claims of the childcare authority and v. to deprive the applicant of his parental responsibility over n. and had dismissed the applicant’s counterclaim to end v.’s guardianship over n. and to return n. to him; -  the applicant’s housing conditions were adequate; -  the childcare authority had expressed a view that the applicant’s claim should be dismissed as being contrary to the child’s interests; -  that according to the report of 2 may 2009 issued by the municipal centre for children’s psychological, medical and social adaptation, presented by v.: “during the examination n. behaved restlessly, he wandered from room to room and performed chaotic movements with the keys.[the psychologist] therefore came to the conclusion that n. needed timely psychological or psychotherapeutic assistance to overcome the consequences of a psychological trauma.” -  reports from n.’s nursery school, dated november 2008, and from his current kindergarten; -  the carrying out of a psychological examination of the child, as ordered by the court on 5 september 2012, had been impossible owing to v.’s refusal to allow the experts to have access to the boy, meaning the case material was returned to the court by the expert without enforcement.the district court noted, in particular, that the applicant had not submitted any information about the current state of his mental health, and he had not shown that his mental health had improved or that he did not present a danger to n. furthermore, the district court took into account the fact that n. had been brought up by his grandparents from the age of three, that he had an established way of life and that he had not seen his father for a long time.he also complained that neither he nor his counsel had been informed of the date of the hearing of 14 may 2013. lastly, he enclosed an expert opinion of 17 may 2013, which read as follows: “conclusions: 1.  in view of the incompleteness of the data [failure to examine n. in view of v.’s refusal to give the experts access to n.], the experts consider that at the present time only short meetings between [the applicant] and the child are possible (not more than two hours 2-3 times per month) in public places on condition that the child has a positive or neutral attitude towards the father.2.  an assessment of whether contact between the child and his father could damage the child’s health or psychological development is impossible given the absence of any data on the child’s psychological stability, his attitude to his father at the present time, or the influence of relatives on the child’s attitude to his father.” 31.  on 26 june 2013 the applicant complained to the perm regional judicial department that the judge had included a false statement in the case file that he had been informed of the date of the hearing by mobile telephone.34.  on 24 december 2013 a judge of the regional court refused to refer the applicant’s cassation appeal to the presidium of the regional court for examination, finding that the judgment of 14 may 2013 had been lawful, sufficiently reasoned and justified.she noted, in particular, that the expert opinion of 17 may 2013 could not lead the court to change its findings because the experts had not been able to examine n. 35.  on 13 february 2014 a judge of the supreme court of the russian federation also refused to refer the applicant’s cassation appeal to the civil chamber of the supreme court for examination, finding that no significant violations of substantive or procedural law had influenced the outcome of the proceedings.44.  having therefore taken into consideration n.’s age, the fact that he had been living with v. from the age of three, was attached to her, loved her and had expressed a wish to continue living with her, and that the applicant’s working schedule required long absences, the district court held that the child’s interests required that he continue to live with his grandmother, which would be more favourable to his development.
6.  at about 2.30 p.m. on 21 january 2012 sirazhudin aliyev and gazimagomed abdullayev were driving on an errand in the latter’s vaz car (the lada kalina model) with the registration number e261kp 05 rus in the centre of makhachkala, dagestan, when they were stopped by a group of several armed men in the uniforms of the state traffic police (государственная инспекция безопасности дорожного движения министерства внутренних дел российской федерации) (hereinafter “the traffic police”), who were driving in a white toyota and a black vaz car (the lada priora model).in their complaints they stated, amongst other things, the following: “today, that is to say 21 january [2012], at about lunch time, sirazhudin aliyev, who was born in 1988, and gazimagomed abdullayev, who was born in 1988, left home in a lada kalina automobile with the registration numbers e261kp 05 rus and drove in the direction of the eastern market [in makahchkala] ... however, when they were in their car in the vicinity of the eastern market, seven or eight unidentified persons carrying firearms and wearing masks and camouflage uniforms forced them out of their car and took them away in two [one white, one black] lada priora cars.on the basis of the above, we request that this complaint be examined ... and that a criminal case be opened ... [and that] the perpetrators be identified and prosecuted ...” 13.  on 21 january 2012 an operational search officer from the leninskiy district police station reported to the head of the station that the duty officers had received a telephone call concerning an abduction.when the first applicant had gone to the meeting, he had spoken with an unidentified man who had told him that for two days after the abduction sirazhudin aliyev and gazimagomed abdullayev had been detained at the ctc and that then they had been transferred to the north caucasus headquarters of the ctc in the stavropol region under the command of general chenchik.on 28 january 2012 she had gone to the parents of her husband and discovered that at least six law-enforcement officers had been conducting a search of their house and that the head of the group had been a certain mr a.g. the latter had then told the second applicant that she had to go with them to the police station to provide a statement concerning someone who had allegedly been hiding in her flat, as he was wanted by the authorities for the murder of an fss officer.explaining the decision to overrule the suspension of the investigation the deputy head of the dagestan investigations department stated, inter alia, the following: “... the decision to suspend the investigation was taken in violation of article 208 § 5 of the criminal procedure code – that is to say prematurely, – given that all possible steps had not been taken ... in connection with the above, the decision should be overruled as unlawful and the investigation should be resumed.it is necessary that the investigators take the following steps: -  take additional measures to establish the whereabouts and question [the applicants] and the persons with whom on 3 february 2012 [the first applicant] had a meeting concerning the abduction of sirazhudin aliyev and gazimagomed abdullayev; -  question sirazhudin aliyev’s friends, mr t., mr s. and mr d.; -  [(after obtaining court authorisation),] examine the list of mobile telephone calls made by sirazhudin aliyev and gazimagomed abdullayev ...” 33.  on 30 september 2012 the investigation was suspended again.34.  on 1 october 2012 the investigation was resumed again after criticism from the deputy head of the dagestan investigations department, who stated, inter alia, the following: “... in violation of part 5 of article 208 of the criminal procedure code the investigation failed to take all the investigative steps possible to establish the [identity of the perpetrators]; therefore, the decision to suspend the proceedings should be overruled as unlawful.it is necessary that the investigation take the following steps: 1. question sirazhudin aliyev and gazimagomed abdullayev’s close relatives to find out whether ... they received any [conditions to be met in respect of] their return; ... 4. ask the russian federal service for the execution of sentences whether the abducted men are being detained in their facilities; ... 35.  on 5 november 2012 the investigation was again suspended without any of the supervisory authorities’ orders given on 1 october 2012 being carried out, except for the forwarding of requests for information to various state authorities.36.  on 28 january 2013 the investigation was again resumed following criticism from the supervisory authorities (this time the leninskiy district prosecutor in makhachkala), who pointed out the following: “... the investigation of the criminal case has been suspended on three occasions for failure to establish the identity of the perpetrators.for instance, prior to the suspension of the proceedings, the investigator should have taken all the steps possible in the absence of the suspect or accused and taken all the steps necessary to establish the identity of the perpetrator.however, the investigation [in the present case] failed to question close relatives of sirazhudin aliyev and gazimagomed abdullayev ... the list of mobile telephone calls [made by the abducted men] has not been examined; replies to ten requests for information forwarded to the law-enforcement agencies and state bodies have not been received ...” 37.  on 4 february 2013 the investigators were ordered to comply with the above instructions within one month and the investigation of the criminal case was forwarded to the investigations department of the leninskiy district prosecutor’s office in makhachkala.the decision stated, amongst other things, the following: “... the decision to suspend the investigation is premature and unsubstantiated for the following reasons: the investigators failed to carry out in full the [supervisory authorities’] orders of 12 august 2013 ... [they] failed to question ms z.a., who organised the [first applicant’s] meeting with the persons who had pointed out that the abduction had been perpetrated by officers of law-enforcement agencies ... the witness statement of ms m.a.the relevant decision stated that the suspension was premature and unlawful and that the investigators had failed to take a number of necessary steps; moreover, they had “failed to correct numerous shortcomings in the investigation.” 63.  on various dates in march 2014 the investigators questioned the abducted men’s neighbours, mr o.g., mr m.m., mr s.g. and mr b.the reasoning for the decision to order the resumption of the investigation decision stated that the suspension had been premature and unlawful and that the investigators had failed to re‑qualify the crime from that of abduction under article 126 of the criminal code to that of murder under article 105 of the criminal code.
5.  on 9 december 2010 the applicant was charged in absentia with accessory to murder and his name was put on the wanted list.6.  on 16 december 2010 the kushchevskiy district court of the krasnodar region issued a detention order against the applicant in absentia.7.  on 21 january 2011 the applicant reported to the police station where he was arrested.8.  on 29 march 2011 the district court remanded the applicant in custody.in particular the court held, as follows: “... [the applicant] is suspected of having committed an extremely serious offence entailing 8 to 20 years’ custodial sentence or life imprisonment.as it has been established that during investigation [the applicant] stated that he intended to leave russia and talked on the phone with a person living in geneva ..., if released, [the applicant] might abscond, commit another offence, and threaten witnesses or other parties to criminal proceedings, destroy evidence or in any other way interfere with the investigation...”.9.  on 19 april 2011 the district court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention on the following grounds: “[the applicant] is accused of an extremely serious offence entailing 10 years’ imprisonment.these circumstances existed as of the date of [the applicant’s] placement into custody and have not changed at the present time.... taking into account that it is necessary to conduct numerous investigative activities, the court shall grant the investigator’s request [to extend the applicant’s detention]”.the courts referred also to the applicant’s family status, personality, state of health, possibility to put pressure on witnesses and interfere with the investigation, absence of job.in particular, on 25 january 2012 the court held as follows: “... taking into account the personality of the accused, his family status, state of health and other circumstances, the court shall grant the investigator’s request and extend [the applicant’s] detention”.13.  in october 2012 the applicant, along with two co-defendants, was committed to stand trial before the krasnodar regional court.15.  on 19 june 2013 the krasnodar regional court acquitted the applicant of all charges and held that the applicant be informed of the right to rehabilitation.16.  on 30 september 2013 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the judgment of 19 june 2013 on appeal.18.  on 3 june 2014, the regional court awarded the applicant 680,600 russian roubles as reimbursement of legal fees.
6.  the company was set up in 2003 in accordance with a decision of head of the troitsko-pechorskiy district (“the district administration”) as a commercial organisation performing the following activities, among others: renovation and maintenance of the municipal housing stock; heating and water supply to the district population and enterprises; maintenance of the sewage systems; maintenance services in respect of municipal housing and adjacent territories; and providing real estate registration services in the troitsko-pechorskiy district.in order to carry out its statutory activities, the company had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to it by the town administration (see liseytseva and maslov v. russia, nos.7.  in 2004-2006 the district administration withdrew the company’s several assets, including “housing and objects of the engineering infrastructure” and transferred them to the municipal district treasury.8.  on the dates tabulated in the appendix below the justice of the peace of the troitsko‑pechorskiy court circuit of the komi republic by separate judgments and court writs ordered the company to pay the applicants salary arrears.on 14 may 2007 the commercial court of the komi republic declared the company insolvent and the liquidation proceedings commenced.12.  at some point before 9 november 2007 the prosecutor’s office conducted an inquiry and, having analysed the manner of the assets’ withdrawal and transfer by the owner, concluded that the owner’s actions contained elements of deliberate bankruptcy.it appears that at some point the prosecutor’s office refused to open criminal proceedings on account of the alleged deliberate bankruptcy of the company.14.  at some point the liquidator lodged an action on the company’s behalf against the district administration under article 56 § 3 (subsidiary liability) of the civil code of the russian federation.he submitted that, as a result of a series of the asset transfers in 2004-2006, the company had become unable to meet the creditors’ claims and to continue to carry out its statutory goals.15.  on 3 march 2010 the federal commercial court of the volgo‑vyatskiy circuit rejected the claim in the cassation instance, and on 12 july 2010 the supreme commercial court refused to accept for examination a request for supervisory review of that judgment.the domestic courts at all instances accepted that the assets had indeed been transferred from the company’s economic control to the district treasury.the housing and objects of the engineering infrastructure on 30 january 2006 had been withdrawn “in order to apply the housing policy” and to “reduce the company’s expenses for the maintenance of the infrastructure objects”.in particular, the ministry of architecture and communal services of the komi republic had recommended the municipalities to withdraw objects of housing and engineering infrastructure from unitary enterprises in order to optimise taxes of housing and communal services providers.finally, even though at the insolvency stage the company proved unable to meet the creditors’ claims, the claimant had failed to demonstrate that the owner “knew or ought to have known that [the transfer of the assets] would have led to the company’s insolvency”.on the same date the liquidation was recorded in the register of legal entities, and the company ceased to exist.
7.  by a judgment of 17 january 2008 the županja municipal court (općinski sud u županji) found the applicant guilty of the criminal offence of embezzlement committed against his former employer, the debtor company.9.  the next day, on 15 april 2008, that court issued a writ of execution (rješenje o ovrsi) whereby it ordered the seizure of funds in the debtor company’s bank account in order to satisfy the applicant’s claim.10.  the debtor company lodged an appeal, and on 28 august 2008 the osijek county court (županijski sud u osijeku) quashed the writ of execution and remitted the case to the first-instance court.11.  in the new proceedings before the đakovo municipal court the applicant submitted on 25 september 2008 a copy of the judgment that he was seeking to enforce stamped with a certificate of enforceability.it ordered the debtor company to pay the applicant, within a grace period of eight days (a) the sums it had been ordered to pay under the judgment of 1 june 2006 (that is to say the main debt, together with accrued statutory default interest, and the costs of the civil proceedings, see paragraph 6 above), (b) the statutory default interest accrued on the costs of the civil proceedings from the date of delivery of that judgment, and (c) the costs of enforcement proceedings, together with the statutory default interest accrued on those costs from the date of issuance of the writ of execution.14.  upon receiving, on 27 february 2009, the final judgment of the criminal court of 17 january 2008 (see paragraph 7 above), the debtor company on 9 march 2009 sent a letter containing a set-off statement to the applicant’s legal representative whereby it set off (prijeboj) its claim for compensation against the applicant stemming from that judgment with his claim for payment of overtime work against the debtor company stemming from the judgment he was seeking to enforce.15.  on the same day, 9 march 2009, the debtor company informed the court that it had received the above-mentioned final judgment of the criminal court and that it had executed the set-off described above (see the preceding paragraph).16.  by a decision of 27 march 2009 the đakovo municipal court decided on the debtor company’s motion for postponement, instructing the debtor company to institute separate civil proceedings for the enforcement to be declared inadmissible (in full or in part).17.  the debtor company instituted those civil proceedings on 14 april 2009. they ended on 31 march 2011, when the osijek county court upheld the first-instance judgment of the đakovo municipal court of 21 october 2010, whereby the enforcement of up to hrk 20,095.30[4] was declared inadmissible.18.  following an appeal lodged by the applicant, on 21 january 2010 the osijek county court quashed the first-instance decision of 27 march 2009 (see paragraph 16 above) in so far as it allowed the postponement of the enforcement and in this respect remitted the case.21.  on 24 may 2011 the applicant informed the đakovo municipal court that the judgment declaring the enforcement inadmissible in part had become final (see paragraph 17 above) and asked it to continue with the enforcement in the remaining part.by another decision of the same date that court ordered the debtor company to pay the applicant: (a) hrk 599.40[5] for unpaid overtime work, together with statutory default interest accrued since 11 march 2009, (b) hrk 19,495.90[6] in costs of civil proceedings, together with statutory default interest accrued since 1 june 2006, and (c) hrk 2,606.25[7] in costs of enforcement proceedings, together with statutory default interest accrued since 7 november 2008. this decision became final on 17 june 2011.in the execution of that decision the agency on 21 july 2011 transferred hrk 38,306.87[8] from the debtor company’s bank account to those of the applicant and his legal representative.24.  meanwhile, on 9 october 2009 the applicant lodged a request for protection of the right to a hearing within a reasonable time (zahtjev za zaštitu prava na suđenje u razumnom roku) with the osijek county court, complaining about the length of the above enforcement proceedings.it held that, while the case was indeed important for the applicant, the proceedings complained of were complex and he had contributed to their length in that he had not initially submitted a copy of the judgment he was seeking to enforce stamped with a certificate of enforceability (see paragraphs 8-11 above).
6.  the applicant, the father of a child, has been involved in domestic litigation concerning numerous claims on upbringing and maintenance of the child since 1993.7.  the present application concerns three interrelated claims brought before the čadca district court on 12 march 2003 and subsequently on 3 july and 16 december 2003. these claims were all registered under the same case file no.the action of 3 july 2003 related to child maintenance and had been brought by the national authority, acting as a guardian ad litem for the child.this included the assessment of several reports from the appointed guardian ad litem, an opinion from a psychology expert seeking to establish the circumstances of the relationship between the applicant and the child, personal and financial circumstances of the applicant, his medical condition as well as the medical reports of the child.the district court held nine hearings on the merits, out of which the applicant attended two.it also decided on an interim measure in relation to the contact between the applicant and the child, which was challenged and quashed on appeal twice.he also lodged seven motions, by which he had challenged the judges of the district court as well as the regional court for bias.when he had challenged the judges of the latter court on ground of bias, the supreme court dealt with those motions.9.  the district court twice ruled on the merits of the case, on 20 august 2008 and 31 march 2011 respectively.it also stayed the proceedings in respect of the applicant’s right to contact with his child because the child had reached the age of majority in the meantime.11.  on 6 october 2011 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s constitutional complaint in respect of the length of the proceedings on the ground that the matter at stake was complicated due to the three aforesaid interrelated claims.the constitutional court took into account the sensitive nature of the case and the district court’s repeated requests for an expert opinion in order to assess the best interest of the child.it also considered the applicant’s behaviour during the proceedings, his seven absences during the nine scheduled hearings, as well as his seven challenges of the domestic courts’ judges for bias, which protracted the proceedings by three years and eight months.in the light of the above, the constitutional court found no unreasonable delays in the district court’s procedure.12.  subsequently, on 21 march 2012, the žilina regional court dealt with the applicant’s second appeal and delivered the judgment on the merits of the case, which became final on 2 april 2012. it partly upheld the district court’s judgment and partly amended it.
5.  the applicants were prosecuted in russia for various crimes.they were arrested and detained while the crimes were investigated and pending trial.their detention was ordered and extended by the courts.the detention orders were essentially based on the gravity of the charges, the primary grounds being the risk of the applicants’ absconding and interfering with the course of justice.the detention and extension orders used stereotypical formulae, without addressing specific facts or considering alternative preventive measures.6.  the first applicant was born in 1982 and was detained in irkutsk.7.  on 23 december 2008 the first applicant, a police officer at the material time, was arrested and placed in pre-trial detention.on an unspecified date he was formally charged with banditry, kidnapping, abuse of power, robbery (four counts), preparing to commit robbery, intentionally damaging another’s property, and stealing and damaging official documents.on 19 april 2010 he, along with thirteen co-defendants, was committed for trial before the irkutsk regional court.on 7 november 2011 the irkutsk regional court convicted him of abuse of power, and sentenced him to three years’ imprisonment and disqualification from holding public office for one year.he was released on parole.8.  the second applicant was born in 1967 and was detained in penza.9.  on 14 february 2009 a criminal case was opened into an incident of fraud involving an apartment, which had caused damage in the amount of 440,000 russian roubles (rub).on 24 june 2009 the second applicant was arrested.on 8 june 2010 the leninskiy district court of penza found him guilty as charged and sentenced him to eleven months’ imprisonment.
they stopped the car on the side of the road, expelled the aunt from the car and then returned to bulgaria, taking the child with them without the knowledge or consent of the applicant or her family.11.  on 30 january 2009 the district court awarded custody of the child to the applicant, on the basis of the evidence in the case file, including the witness evidence and a report made by the child protection agency following a visit in the applicant’s home.the latter investigation was ordered by the court on 18 march 2010; the court order arrived at r.e.n.’s counsel’s office on 17 may 2010 and the latter added to the case file the final report of that investigation in both bulgarian and romanian on 2 september 2010.on the merits, the court considered that while the living conditions offered by the father and paternal grandparents were superior to the ones available in the applicant’s home, the father and the paternal grandparents did not set the child a satisfactory moral example.after the applicant’s visit to bulgaria, the child was brought before the court on 17 october 2011. the child told the court in a private hearing, with the help of a bulgarian translator, that she would prefer to stay with her father and paternal grandparents in bulgaria; that she spoke on the phone with her mother occasionally; that she could not remember her maternal grandmother; and that she did not like being in romania.16.  on 21 october 2011 the county court granted custody of the child to the father on the grounds that the child was already integrated into her environment in bulgaria, where she had lived for the past four years, and that she did not speak romanian.on 26 july 2011 her application was rejected by the district court on the ground that as at that time the child had already been living with her paternal grandparents in bulgaria for over three years, it would not be in her interests to temporarily remove her from her usual environment and place her with her mother until the end of the custody proceedings.22.  on 28 january 2011 the enforcement officer scheduled the handover of the child to the applicant for 9 february 2011 and asked the police and the social services to assist him on that day.25.  following the suspension of the enforcement proceedings brought by the applicant in bulgaria (see the preceding paragraph), on 12 january 2012, within the context of the reopening of the proceedings for recognition of the romanian judgment, the supreme court of cassation quashed the decision of the sofia court appeal of 16 april 2010 (see paragraph 20 above).29.  following a telephone conversation between the applicant and an employee of the romanian ministry of justice, the applicant was invited to lodge a request for the return of her daughter under the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction of 25 october 1980 (“the hague convention”; see paragraph 43 below).accordingly, on 1 july 2011 the applicant lodged a request for the return of the child with the romanian ministry of justice, the central authority for the purpose of the hague convention.on 26 july the ministry of justice further informed the applicant that she could request the return of her child either under the terms of the hague convention or under the terms of the brussels ii bis regulation (see paragraph 46 below).31.  on 17 august 2011 the applicant’s initial request was transmitted by the romanian ministry of justice to the bulgarian ministry of justice, the central authority for the purpose of the hague convention.they advised the applicant to apply directly to the bulgarian courts (under article 29 of the hague convention) or to the bulgarian ministry of justice (either directly or through the romanian ministry of justice, under the provisions of the european convention on recognition and enforcement of decisions concerning custody of children and on restoration of custody of children – “the luxembourg convention” – see paragraph 45 below).his request for interim measures, namely for the child to live with his parents in bulgaria and for him to have custody of her, as well as for the suspension of the enforcement proceedings brought in 2010 in bulgaria by the applicant, was refused by the same court in april 2011. the court suspended the proceedings on 2 december 2011 as it had determined that another set of proceedings – between the same parties concerning the same issue – was pending in romania (see paragraphs 9 to 17 above).
5.  in the morning of 14 june 2007 policemen came to the applicant’s flat and took him to the police station in pospelikha village in the altay region (“the police station”) for an interview.6.  during the questioning the investigator had to answer a telephone call and stepped out of the office.according to the government, the applicant came to the police station voluntarily and stayed there for no longer than forty minutes.7.  on 18 june 2007 the investigators charged the applicant with theft but dropped the charges one month later.9.  on 20 october 2009 the pospelikhinskiy district court of the altay region examined the case in the applicant’s absence.the court noted that the applicant had been informed about the date and place of the hearing but, as he was serving a term of imprisonment, his presence in person could not be ensured.on the merits, the court held that the applicant was entitled to compensation for the unlawful criminal prosecution.10.  the applicant appealed against the judgment, arguing that the court award was too low and that it did not take into account the deprivation of liberty.on 10 february 2009 the altay regional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal in his absence, endorsing the district court’s reasoning.on 5 july 2007 the justice of the peace of the pospelikhinskiy district of the altay region examined the case in the applicant’s absence.the judgment indicated that the applicant was serving a term of imprisonment and that he had been informed in a timely way about the date and place of the hearing.the justice of the peace granted the claim and ordered the applicant to pay rub 11,311 to ms i.13.  the applicant appealed to the pospelikhinskiy district court and sought leave to appear before the appeal court.by an interim decision of 12 september 2007, the district court refused the applicant leave to appear, finding that the code of civil procedure did not provide for escorting detained litigants to courts hearing civil cases.on 10 october 2007 the pospelikhinskiy district court upheld the judgment on appeal, endorsing the findings of the justice of the peace.
6.  on 28 april 2010 the applicant brought an enforcement action before the smederevo court of first instance (osnovni sud u smederevu) against a socially/state-owned company “fžv želvoz a.d. smederevo” (the debtor).7.  on 15 december 2010 that court ordered direct enforcement of the outstanding invoice (izvršenje na osnovu verodostojne isprave).8.  on 15 june 2011 the privatisation agency ordered the restructuring of the debtor as part of privatisation process.9.  on 25 october 2011 the enforcement proceedings were stayed because the debtor was undergoing restructuring.10.  on 3 november 2011 the applicant appealed the decision to stay the enforcement proceedings.11.  on 10 february 2012 the applicant’s appeal was rejected by the enforcement court.12.  on 21 march 2013 the applicant urged the court to continue the enforcement proceedings.13.  on 7 june 2013 the court informed the applicant that the debtor was still undergoing restructuring and that therefore the enforcement proceedings could not be continued.15.  on 11 january 2010 the applicant brought an enforcement action before the niš commercial court (privredni sud u nišu) against a socially/state-owned company “vagonka a.d. niš” (the debtor).16.  on 29 january 2010 that court ordered direct enforcement of the outstanding invoice.17.  on 4 november 2009 the privatisation agency ordered the restructuring of the debtor as part of privatisation process.18.  on 4 february 2010 the enforcement proceedings were stayed because the debtor was undergoing restructuring.19.  the applicant did not appeal against this decision which became final on 17 february 2010.20.  on 20 march 2013 the applicant urged the court to continue the enforcement proceedings.21.  on 22 march 2013 the court informed the applicant that the debtor was still undergoing restructuring and that therefore the enforcement proceedings could not be continued.
were invited to appear at an interview at the rodk which was scheduled for 30 november 2012. it appears that the domestic court’s decision to order the rodk report contained an instruction that the examination should go ahead whether or not the applicant was present.as a result, the report was based only on the statements of the child and his mother and on four volumes of the domestic court’s case file.11.  in their report, the rodk experts took notice of the fact that for the past year and a half the child (who was two years old at the time of the psychological examination) had lived away from and almost without any contact with his father.in view of the above, moving the child to his father’s care [posed] a grave risk to his emotional [and] social development, [and] could cause a situation [which] for a two-year-old child [would be] difficult to bear.” 13.  apart from the rodk report, the domestic court obtained the following evidence: testimony from the applicant, e.n.it also considered that, in line with article 17 of the hague convention, the interim orders concerning the issues of custody over the child and his residence which had been granted by the canadian and polish family courts (see paragraphs 33, 34 and 36 below) were viewed as irrelevant to the case at hand.relying on the report and the remaining evidence, the family court established that since his birth the child had been under the constant good care of his mother (who had not worked in canada).17.  in view of the above it was ultimately held that separating the two-year-old boy from the mother and returning him to his father in canada would be traumatic and hard to bear for the child.18.  the applicant appealed, arguing that the first-instance court had erred in that, inter alia, it had given a broad and not restrictive interpretation of article 13 (b) of the hague convention and had dismissed his application even though it had not been established that the child was at a grave risk of physical or psychological harm if returned to canada.20.  the appellate court observed that international and domestic practice required that article 13 (b) be given a restrictive reading to the effect that, in principle, any unfavourable consequences of the child’s separation stemming from the order to surrender the child by the abducting parent did not give rise to a grave risk of physical or psychological harm within the meaning of that provision.if no objective obstacles to the abducting parent’s return were present, it could be inferred that the parent was refusing to return and was acting in his or her own interest and not the interest of the child.it also protected (under article 12) very young children from possible harmful effects of the return if it was shown that the parent seeking the return had not taken care of the child before the abduction or that the child had already adapted to the new environment.22.  the appellate court held that the utmost importance had to be attached to the child’s contact with his mother and his separation from her would place the boy in an intolerable situation.the domestic court relied on the following elements of the case: the applicant’s son had arrived in poland with both parents at the age of six and a half months, in april 2011; since then the child had been taken care of solely by his mother; the most important element in his life was his contact with the mother; he did not have any memories of his life in canada; and the applicant had not considered the child’s remaining in poland illegal prior to october 2011. the appellate court also observed that by not appearing at the rodk interview, the applicant had waived his right to demonstrate that he could establish adequate contact with his young child and that the applicant had only seen his child once since the latter’s departure from canada.34.  on 27 october 2011 the ontario superior court of justice in canada held that the child’s retention in poland was wrongful and issued an interim order granting full custody of the child to the applicant, authorising him and the law-enforcement authorities to apprehend the child and ordering e.n.the canadian court also requested the assistance of the polish courts in securing the immediate apprehension and return of the child pursuant to the hague convention.
4.  at the material time all the applicants were detained in russian penal facilities.5.  while in detention, the applicants mr baban, mr barkov and mr bogatyrev sought compensation for inadequate conditions of their detention and substandard medical care; the applicants mr davydov, mr pflyaum and mr yakovlev were involved in contract disputes; mr fedchenko was the respondent in a divorce claim; mr starodubtsev challenged the decision by which he had lost the status of a disabled person; and mr shavayev was the defendant in an action for damages brought by the federal customs service.6.  none of the applicants, apart from mr yakovlev, were able to attend the hearings before the courts of first instance.the domestic courts refused the applicants leave to be present at the hearings, on the ground that there was no domestic legal provision for bringing detainees to courts.in some of the cases they quoted article 77.1 of the code on the execution of sentences (see paragraph 10 below) and the relevant provisions of the code of civil procedure.in the other cases the issue of the applicants’ presence was left unaddressed.in the first-instance proceedings mr shavayev and mr starodubtsev were represented by their relatives.mr barkov and mr davydov were interviewed at courts located near the places of their detention.7.  the applicants appealed, raising the question of their appearance in court in their appeal statements.some submitted separate requests seeking leave to appear before the appeal court.the appeal courts either dismissed their arguments and endorsed the findings of the first-instance courts or concluded that their absence from court was in line with the legislation and did not contravene the principle of fairness.none of the applicants were present or represented at the appellate hearings.8.  the dates of the final judgments are set out in appendix i.
6.  the applicant had been employed by the national security service as a system operator since 1981. she submitted that, on account of the nature of her duties, she had held a security clearance permitting her access to classified information constituting state secrets.according to the applicant’s job description, being in a possession of such a security clearance had been a prerequisite to her holding her post.7.  on 30 april 2002 the classified information protection act (hereinafter “the act”) was promulgated in the state gazette.under the classified information protection act, permits granting access to classified information that had been issued under the legal provisions existing before the entry into force of the act were to remain valid until their replacement by security clearance allowing access to classified information.the heads of organisational units employing persons who possessed an access permit and whose positions required that they have access to classified information were to request the issuance of security clearance, in accordance with the requirements of the act.8.  on 3 june 2003, in compliance with that obligation, the director of the national security service issued a decision refusing the applicant security clearance allowing access to classified information.the decision did not contain any reasoning in respect of the refusal, apart from a reference to section 57 of the classified information protection act.9.  the applicant lodged an appeal against the refusal with the state commission for information security.10.  on 27 april 2004, the director of the national security service ordered that the applicant be dismissed.the reason given for the termination of her employment was the refusal to grant her security clearance, possession of which was an indispensable condition of her being able to perform her duties.she contested the objectivity and the lawfulness of the dismissal procedure, arguing that she had fulfilled all conditions for the issuance of security clearance and that she had been dismissed on account of the negative personal relationship between her and her direct supervisor.in the applicant’s view, the clearance had probably been refused because she had suffered from depressive neurosis in 1995, a condition which according to her was no longer relevant.the applicant’s request that a report by a psychiatric expert be commissioned was refused by the sofia district court.12.  by its judgment of 11 may 2005 the sofia district court rejected the applicant’s claims, reasoning that the refusal of the director of the national security service to grant security clearance to the applicant was a final and valid administrative act, and it rendered the applicant’s dismissal inevitable because she was no longer able to perform her duties.the court added that the refusal was not amenable to any judicial review; therefore, the court was not competent to examine, within the framework of the dismissal proceedings, any substantial or procedural questions related to its lawfulness.
6.  the applicants were born in 1950 and 1957 respectively and live in sofia.7.  on 19 february 1993 the applicants, at the time a married couple, bought a plot of land of 1,000 square metres in the village of kranevo, on the black sea coast.the seller, mr o., had acquired the property in 1967 from the agricultural co-operative that existed at the time, in exchange for another plot of land of his.8.  the applicants’ possession of the land remained undisturbed until 2003, when other persons took possession of it.the applicants discovered then that the land had been collectivised after 1945 and that in 1991 the heirs of the pre-collectivisation owner, mr k., had instituted restitution proceedings under the relevant provisions of the agricultural land act (“the ala”, see paragraph 13 below).their restitution request had been allowed in a court judgment of 7 december 1995 and in a decision issued by the competent administrative body ‒ the local agricultural land commission ‒ on 4 april 1996. thereafter, the heirs of mr k. had transferred the land to the persons who had later taken possession of the plot.9.  on an unspecified date in 2003 the applicants brought a rei vindicatio action against these individuals.10.  in a judgment of 25 may 2005 the balchik district court dismissed their claim.it relied on the provision of section 10(13) of the ala (see paragraph 15 below), holding on its basis that of the two rival claims to the same land the law gave priority to the one based on restitution.11.  upon appeal, on 25 january 2007 the dobrich regional court reversed that decision and allowed the applicants’ action.it considered in particular that section 10(13) of the ala was not applicable to the case as it had only been introduced in 1997, that is to say after the restitution decision in favour of mr k.’s heirs and after the applicants had bought the plot of land.12.  upon further appeal, in a final judgment of 12 december 2008, the supreme court of cassation quashed the regional court’s judgment and dismissed the applicants’ rei vindicatio claim.it took the view that section 10(13) of the ala, introduced in 1997, had to be considered to be applicable with effect from the ala’s entry into force in 1991 because it was merely clarifying its general restitution provisions.as to the exception contained in section 18z(3) of the regulations for the ala’s implementation, also introduced in 1997 (see paragraph 16 below), the supreme court considered it inapplicable to the case; in its view, section 18z(3) only precluded the restitution of properties which had been the subject of transactions prior to the ala’s entry into force in 1991, whereas the applicants had bought their plot in 1993.
in the complaints he stated, inter alia, that another inmate in his ward, x, was bragging that two prison officers, y and z, were relatives of his; was threatening and intimidating the other inmates and fomenting intrigues and tension among them; was often making unwarranted complaints to get special attention and treatment; and was planning to escape from prison with the help of his relatives.10.  in a letter of 28 november 2011, the head of the chief directorate for the execution of sentences informed the governor of plovdiv prison that the inquiry had not found familial relationships or improper contacts between x and any of the prison officers, or a risk for mr shahanov.the letter went on to say that the governor should advise all inmates that making defamatory statements about, or false allegations against, prison officers was a disciplinary offence under section 100(2)(7) of the execution of sentences and pre-trial detention act 2009 (see paragraph 27 below).11.  the next day, 29 november 2011, the governor of plovdiv prison ordered that mr shahanov be placed in solitary confinement for ten days for making defamatory statements and false allegations against prison officers, contrary to the above-mentioned provision.it held that it was lawful and that, in view of the results of the inquiry carried out pursuant to mr shahanov’s complaints and the evidence gathered in the proceedings before it, the prison governor had been correct to find that mr shahanov had made defamatory statements and false allegations against prison officers.for their part, the government submitted a letter from the administration of plovdiv prison according to which mr shahanov’s correspondence was being controlled in the manner envisaged in the applicable regulations, which meant that the prison authorities only checked the physical content of the letters, not their text.the stamp “checked” affixed on the back of an envelope only meant that the letter had been physically inspected for the presence of prohibited items.after the visits, mr palfreeman learned that his visitors had been treated rudely, and that his fellow inmate’s visitor had had personal items stolen from lockers in the prison where he had left them during the visit.16.  the next day, 24 may 2012, with the help of another inmate who knew bulgarian, mr palfreeman wrote the following complaint to the governor of sofia prison: “on 23 may 2012, during the midday visit, personal items of visitors were stolen from the visitors’ lockers, which are only accessible to the guards.could you please carry out an inquiry into the conduct of that shift, and take measures to ensure that the guards work in a disciplined way and with respect towards inmates and others.” 17.  disciplinary proceedings were opened against mr palfreeman in relation to that complaint.18.  in an order of 12 june 2012, the governor of sofia prison noted that an inquiry carried out pursuant to mr palfreeman’s complaint had shown that the two persons who had visited him had not left any items in the visitors’ lockers, and had not made any complaints about missing items on their way out of the prison.the nature and the gravity of the offence, mr palfreeman’s attitude towards his act, and his overall conduct and state of health militated in favour of punishing him with three months’ deprivation of the right to receive food parcels from outside prison.he argued, inter alia, that his disciplinary punishment was in breach of section 90(5) of the 2009 act (see paragraph 25 below) and this court’s case-law, that deprivation of the right to receive food parcels was a serious sanction in view of the insufficient quantity of food provided by the prison, and that it was an attempt to cow him into not making complaints against the prison administration.20.  on 14 august 2012 the head of the chief directorate for the execution of sentences dismissed the appeal.noting that the inquiry into mr palfreeman’s allegations had not confirmed any of them, he found that, by deliberately making false allegations, the applicant had committed the disciplinary offence under section 100(2)(7) of the 2009 act.
6.  the applicant was employed by the state intelligence agency (агенција за разузнавање, “the employer”).7.  on 28 february 2001 she was dismissed from work as redundant given that internal regulations (правилник за систематизација на работните места, “the regulations”) of 27 february 2001 provided for reduced number of employees for posts such as the post held by the applicant.8.  on 9 april 2001 the applicant challenged her dismissal before the skopje court of first instance (“the first-instance court”).9.  after three remittal orders, on 29 november 2005 the first-instance court dismissed the applicant’s claim, finding that she had been dismissed on 28 february 2001 on the basis of the regulations, which had been adopted by the employer and approved by the government on 27 february 2001. it further found that the government’s approval had been received by the employer on 2 march 2001, but that had been irrelevant given that it was only the date when approval had been given by the government that was important for the entry into force of the regulations.10.  on 14 december 2005 the applicant appealed, arguing inter alia that the regulations could not have applied to her case, as it could only be adopted after the employer had received the government’s approval.the applicant relied on another final judgment of the skopje court of appeal (“the appellate court”) in a similar case concerning a former colleague of the applicant, in which it had been established that the regulations had not entered into force at the time of the dismissal (see paragraph 17 below).she contended that under the relevant law (see paragraph 16 below) the regulations could only be adopted after the government’s approval had been obtained.11.  on 23 february 2006 the appellate court dismissed the applicant’s appeal.it found that the government had approved the regulations on 27 february 2001, that they had entered into force the same day, and that the applicant’s dismissal of 28 february 2001 was therefore lawful.12.  on 7 april 2006 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law with the supreme court.in it she argued, inter alia, that the regulations could only be adopted after the government’s approval had been obtained, and that they had thus not entered into force at the time of her dismissal.she referred to the earlier judgment of the appellate court (see paragraph 17 below), and argued that it had deviated from its established practice on the matter without providing any reasons.she further contended that the dismissal of her former colleagues, which had been based on the same grounds, had been quashed and they had been reinstated to their posts.13.  on 25 october 2007 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law.it found that on 27 february 2001 the government had approved the regulations, which had thus entered into force the same day.
the government relied on entries in the county police logbook for the relevant night and on a note on the record drawn up by the county police dated 18 december 2010 indicating that the suspects had resisted arrest and attempted to flee.12.  the public prosecution service (“the pps”) was informed of the arrest and, at 11.10 p.m. the case file, along with the responsibility for the detention of the young men, was passed on to an investigator from the local district police.19.  on 21 december 2010, acting through the intermediary of his lawyer, the applicant lodged an interlocutory appeal against the charge, arguing that he himself had not been involved in the mugging, which had been perpetrated by his minor associate alone and to which the latter had confessed.21.  in the applicant’s submission, meanwhile, in the days that followed his release, his mother presented herself at the county police station and contacted the ministry of the interior by telephone to complain about the treatment to which her son had been subjected while detained.according to the government, however, the heads of the county police and the district police, who were the only persons entitled to receive complaints in matters such as those obtaining in the present case, did not receive any complaint from the applicant’s mother.23.  the applicant submitted a medical report dated 19 december 2010. the doctor who issued the report observed that the applicant had “allege[d] that he had been beaten by police officers the day before” and “had received a slap on the right half of a cheek”.subsequently, the part of the complaint concerning the failure to notify the applicant’s legal guardians of his arrest and detention, to provide him with food and water during his detention, and to hear him immediately after his arrest was sent to the district police (see paragraph 29 below).in doing so it observed that the applicant had not raised any complaint of ill-treatment during his interview with the investigator on 19 december 2010, and held that this could not be explained by his proclaimed fear of the officers involved since, in that interview, the applicant had been assisted by his mother and lawyer (see paragraph 15 above).28.  the interlocutory appeal and the requests for review were eventually dismissed by the office of the prosecutor general (“the opg”), which communicated its decision to the applicant in a letter of 29 september 2011. the pps fully endorsed the findings of cis, considering as crucial the fact that before the doctor on 19 december 2010 the applicant had only alleged slapping, that the doctor’s observations on the applicant’s injury did not correspond to the applicant’s subsequent allegation of sustained beating, and that the applicant had not raised any ill-treatment allegation with the investigator on 19 december 2010. without any explanation, the pps also concluded that there was no indication of any racial motive behind the treatment complained of by the applicant.29.  as to the part of the applicant’s criminal complaint concerning the alleged failure to notify his legal guardians of his arrest and detention, to provide him with food and water during his detention, and to hear him immediately after his arrest (see paragraph 24 above), the district police informed the applicant in a letter of 8 june 2011, without any explanation at all, that “in the investigation of the given matter, no error had been committed by the investigative organs”.30.  on 2 december 2011 the applicant lodged a complaint, under article 127 of the constitution, with the constitutional court against the opg and the regional office of the pps involved in his case.on the last point, the applicant argued that there had been many known incidents of police violence against the roma in the course of arrest and detention in slovakia, and that his treatment by the police had been influenced by his romani origin.... the most famous example with extensive media coverage concerns a group of roma boys who were allegedly subjected to degrading treatment while detained by police officers in košice in march 2009. although the racist motivation of the crime was included in the indictment of 10 policemen in spring 2010 to date the case is still pending.allegedly, in the course of the actual apprehension and subsequent detention, several individuals were ill-treated by the police.... 17.  in its report on the 2009 visit, the cpt referred to the incident of 21 march 2009, concerning the case of six roma juveniles who had allegedly been forced, under threat of physical assault by police officers, to strip naked in a police station in košice and to slap each other.the committee is concerned to note that, according to the information provided by the slovak authorities during the 2013 visit, i.e. four-and‑a-half years after the alleged incident, the criminal case was still pending before the first instance court.... ...” 3.  un committee against torture (cat): concluding observations on the third periodic report of slovakia (2007-2013) of 8 september 2015 (cat/c/svk/co/3) 35.  in paragraph 11 of its report, the committee expressed its concern: “... (d) that no charges were brought against police officers who participated in the raid on 19 june 2013 on the roma settlement of moldava nad bodvou in eastern slovakia, which resulted in the apprehension of 15 persons, a number of whom reportedly were seriously ill-treated by the police during their apprehension and subsequent detention; (e) that all 10 policemen who physically abused and inflicted degrading treatment on six roma juveniles in the city of košice on 21 march 2009 were acquitted in the first instance judgement by the košice ii district court on 27 february 2015, since the court refused to admit the video recording of the incriminating act as a legally obtained piece of evidence.
9.  on 9 july 2010 the kyrgyz authorities charged the applicant in absentia with violent crimes related to these clashes, including the kidnapping and murder of two law-enforcement officers.13.  shortly after his arrest, the applicant gave an explanation (объяснение) in which he admitted having participated in the beating of one of the law-enforcement officers in june 2010 but denied his involvement in other crimes for which he was to be prosecuted in kyrgyzstan.he also indicated that although he had not been directly informed about the charges being brought against him in kyrgyzstan, he knew that his father had been sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of the same law-enforcement officers and suspected that he was himself also wanted by the kyrgyz authorities.16.  on 16 january 2015 a judge of the primorsk regional court extended the applicant’s detention until 23 july 2015. the applicant’s lawyer appealed, arguing that the applicant would be deprived of judicial review of his detention for a long period of time.22.  on 12 december 2014 the primorsk regional court rejected his appeal in the light of the diplomatic assurances given by the kyrgyz authorities and the improvement of the situation in kyrgyzstan.as to the non‑refoulement principle, the regional court noted that the applicant’s application for refugee status had been refused by the migration authority.it noted in particular that in addition to the diplomatic assurances provided in writing by the kyrgyz authorities, the representatives of the general consulate of the russian federation in this country were able to monitor the situation of persons already extradited to kyrgyzstan, including those held in relation to the mass disorders.in the supreme court’s view, such a monitoring mechanism was effective in observing compliance by the kyrgyz authorities with their obligations to ensure the rights of the extradited persons, including the right not to be subjected to torture and inhuman treatment.it considered, however, that in the absence of specific evidence submitted by the applicant that he would personally be subjected to torture or inhuman and degrading treatment, these circumstances were not in themselves enough to reject an extradition request, since he had been charged with ordinary criminal offences to some of which he had confessed on 23 january 2014.25.  on 7 february 2014 the applicant applied to the primorsk region department of the federal migration service (управление федеральной миграционной службы по приморскому краю) (hereinafter the “primorsk region fms”) seeking refugee status.although it referred in its decision to inter‑ethnic conflicts existing in kyrgyzstan, it considered that the applicant’s arrival in russia had rather been motivated by the unemployment situation existing in his country of origin and his wish to escape from criminal prosecution.28.  on 18 july 2014 the fms dismissed his appeal on account of his prolonged failure to apply for refugee status and in view of the opportunity offered to the russian diplomats to monitor the compliance by the kyrgyz authorities with international standards as regards persons extradited from russia.29.  on 13 november 2014 the basmannyy district court of moscow upheld the refusal of the fms to grant the applicant refugee status, referring in particular to his protracted failure to apply for refugee status.it also indicated that the applicant was not a member of any political, religious, military or public organisation, had neither served in the army nor taken part in any military activities, had never been prosecuted or threatened by the authorities, and had not been involved in any violent incidents.the city court endorsed the reasoning of the district court, referring in addition to several international sources demonstrating positive developments in the human rights situation in kyrgyzstan during the period 2011-2012.
5.  at about 1.30 p.m. on 27 august 2003 the applicant’s daughter (two years old at that time) was admitted in a critical condition to the infectious diseases ward of the kovel city hospital.6.  on 9 september 2003 the applicant complained to the kovel inter‑district prosecutor’s office (“the prosecutor’s office”) about the death of his daughter in hospital.7.  on 19 september 2003 the prosecutor’s office, having conducted a pre-investigation inquiry, decided not to institute criminal proceedings against the doctors of the hospital for lack of corpus delicti.8.  on 10 october 2003 the prosecutor’s office instituted criminal proceedings to investigate the allegations of medical negligence and failure to ensure the right of the applicant’s daughter to free medical aid.the experts considered that the principal cause of death was the nature and seriousness of the illnesses, which had caused the patient’s brain to swell.10.  on 24 june 2005 the volyn regional prosecutor’s office informed the applicant that the investigation had been delayed and that instructions had been given to investigate the case properly.11.  on 16 september 2006 the forensic medical experts issued an additional report stating, inter alia, that the applicant’s daughter had been admitted to hospital five days after the first symptoms of the pathological process.12.  on 3 december 2007 the investigators in charge of the criminal case were disciplined for causing delays and for failure to take all the necessary measures during the investigations.13.  on 24 july 2008 dr g. was charged with the offences of failure to provide medical aid to a patient by a medical practitioner and violation of the right to free medical aid.15.  on 5 november 2008 the turiysk district court returned the case to the prosecutor’s office stating that the prosecutor had not complied with procedural requirements when submitting the case file to the court.18.  on 26 october 2009 the turiysk district court found that on 27 august 2003 dr g. had committed the offence of failing to provide the applicant’s daughter with medical aid.the court of appeal therefore quashed the judgment in that part and remitted the case to the trial court for fresh consideration.it found that between 3.45 p.m. and 4 p.m. on 27 august 2003 she had failed to carry out artificial respiration and cardiac massage and that those failures had reduced the chances of success of the resuscitation measures carried out subsequently by the other doctors.23.  on 7 march 2012 the starovyzhivskyy district court found that the applicant had sustained non-pecuniary damage on account of the professional misconduct of dr g. the court awarded the applicant 20,000[1] ukrainian hryvnias in respect of non-pecuniary damage.in its reasons the court referred to the findings of the domestic court dealing with the criminal case against dr g. the court further found that, in accordance with the statutory documents of the kovel inter-district territorial medical association, that legal entity was obliged to pay the amount awarded.
during interrogation, the perpetrator confessed that he had been paid by al-qaeda to kill the first applicant and disclosed the names of sixteen people who had been designated to watch the applicants.the applicants had never asked the domestic authorities for protection, fearing that the authorities lacked the ability to protect them and might disclose their address, on account of al‑qaeda’s collaboration with the authorities.15.  on 25 august 2011 the first applicant applied anew for asylum and a residence permit in sweden, as did the other applicants on 19 september 2011. as to their state of health, the first applicant still had an open and infected wound on his stomach where he had been shot in 2004. they submitted several documents, including identity papers, a death certificate for the first and second applicants’ daughter and a medical certificate for the first applicant’s injury....” regarding the assessment of the applicants’ refugee status, as well as their need for alternative protection, the agency held as follows: “... the migration agency notes that [the first applicant] had a contract with the americans until 2008. for this reason [the first applicant] has been exposed to two murder attempts, his brother has been kidnapped and [the first and second applicant]’s daughter has been killed.in accordance with the principle that it is for an asylum-seeker to justify his or her need for protection and that it is primarily for the applicant to provide relevant information for the assessment in the case, the onus must be on the applicant to plead that he or she cannot or, owing to a severe fear of the consequences, for example, will not avail himself or herself of the protection of the authorities available in iraq.in those cases in which the alleged risk of persecution or other abuses does not emanate from the authorities, which as a rule is the case in iraq, the applicant must show what efforts he or she has made to be afforded protection by the authorities.when assessing the authorities’ ability to protect against threats of violence emanating from terrorist groups or unknown perpetrators in a specific case, the individual’s situation, as well as the severity of the violence or threats, their nature and their local reach, must be assessed individually (see migration agency, legal opinion on protection by the authorities in iraq, 5 april 2011, lifos 24948).against the background of the fact that [the first and second applicants] have not even tried to seek the protection of the iraqi authorities, the migration agency considers that they have not made a plausible case that they would not have access to protection by the authorities in the event of potential threats from al-qaeda upon returning to iraq.against this background, the migration agency finds that [the first and second applicants] have not made a plausible case that the iraqi authorities lack the capacity and the will to protect the family from being exposed to persecution within the meaning of chapter 4, section 1, of the aliens act or to abuses within the meaning of chapter 4, section 2, first subsection, first point, first line, of the aliens act.the migration agency therefore finds that the family are not to be regarded as refugees or as being in need of alternative or other protection, for which reason the family do not have the right to refugee status or alternative protection status.nevertheless, against the background of the above reasoning, the migration agency finds that the family also cannot be regarded as being otherwise in need of protection, within the meaning of chapter 4, section 2a, first subsection, of the aliens act.they had contacted the police following the fire to their home and the first applicant’s business stock in 2006 and 2008 and the murder of the first and second applicants’ daughter in 2008, but thereafter they had not dared to contact the authorities owing to the risk of disclosing their residence.the applicants also submitted a translated residence certificate/police report allegedly certifying that their house had been burned down by a terrorist group on 12 november 2011. furthermore, the applicants submitted a dvd containing an audiovisual recording of a public debate on television concerning corruption and the infiltration of al-qaeda members within the iraqi administration.the applicants mentioned in that connection that the first applicant had participated in the public debate, which had been broadcast on the alhurra channel in iraq on 12 february 2008, that is to say, four years earlier.the applicants have alleged that they are in need of protection upon returning to iraq as they risk being exposed to ill-treatment by al-qaeda because [the first applicant]’s company did contract-based work for the americans in iraq until 2008. the migration court considers that the alleged events took place in the distant past, that it is difficult to see why there would still be a threat as [the first applicant] no longer performs such work, and that, in the event that some threats should still exist, it appears likely [framstår som troligt] that the iraqi law-enforcement authorities are both willing and able to offer the applicants the necessary protection.
20.  on the same day, the investigator took a statement from a.p., who had been held in the police station’s sobering-up cell until 9 p.m. on 29 april 2009. he explained that he had looked through the eyehole of his cell door and had seen that a young man, with his hands cuffed behind his back, had been taken to the room in front of the sobering-up cells.21.  on 15 may 2009 the applicant’s legal representative sent a letter to the police requesting, among other measures, that the two police officers who had arrested the applicant, taken him to the police department and used force against him at the police station be shown to the applicant for identification.22.  on 15 may 2009 the police investigator took a statement from m.s., who had been held at the police station’s sobering-up cell on 29 april 2009. he said that while he had heard that somebody in the neighbouring room had at one point shouted for help and that the police officers had shouted back at him, he had not seen police officers beating anybody when he had from time to time looked through the eyehole.37.  that day, 8 june 2009, the police investigator ordered a forensic medical assessment of the injuries on the basis of the available documentary evidence (the ambulance cards, patient registration card and the statements of the applicant, the suspects in the case and two other police officers as witnesses).he stated that the police had not taken the investigative measures he had requested on 15 may 2009 (including the presentation of the police officers for identification; a formal confrontation between the applicant and m.z., who had allegedly witnessed him committing a breach of the peace; a comparison of the applicant’s statements with the circumstances at the scene of the alleged offence; a forensic medical examination of the applicant’s injuries; and interviews with the children that the applicant’s representative had identified and about whom he had informed the police investigator on 27 may 2009).he also stated in relation to a question about the cause of the injuries that since the documents had not contained detailed descriptions of the injuries, it was not possible to establish the exact nature of the object which had caused the traumas.she concluded in substance that the use of force against the applicant during his arrest had been justified by the applicant’s breach of the peace while being in a state of alcoholic intoxication; his refusal to obey the officers’ lawful orders; and his attempt to leave the scene without the officers’ consent.and e.v., and on the statements of m.z., who had said during the presentation of the identification photos that there had been no beating at the playground, that the applicant’s hands had simply been forced behind his back and that he had been forced to the ground.four other police officers involved in the arrest and the transportation of the applicant, as well as one police officer who had been present at the police station during the applicant’s detention, had also stated that the applicant had not been beaten.regarding the haematoma around the left eye, first documented at the hospital on 1 may 2009, the investigator referred to the forensic expert’s opinion that it could have been caused on 29 april, 30 april or 1 may 2009 and that on the basis of the documents it was impossible to establish its cause.turning to the applicant’s allegations that he had vomited and that there had been blood on his clothing, the investigator viewed them as being disproven by the statements of the police officers as well as those of the ambulance doctor and the nurse who had not seen any blood on the applicant’s clothes or witnessed any vomiting.he submitted among other things that the investigation had not been objective, that the statements of witnesses had been selectively cited and distorted, that some of the witnesses (such as y.b., who had seen the applicant’s arrest, and a.d., who had been detained in the police station at the same time as the applicant) had not been questioned, that he himself had not had a forensic medical examination; and that formal confrontations to eliminate any contradictions in statements in the case had not been arranged.the court also stated that there was no need to express an opinion with regard to the restoration of the deadline for the appeal, because the applicant had not believed that he had breached the deadline and had not sought its restoration.58.  the court, pointing to the fact that it was unlawfully obtained evidence, set aside the applicant’s statements given on 30 april 2009 at 2.15 a.m. in the hospital, and which had been contained in the misdemeanour report drafted the same night at 2.40 a.m. it noted that the evidence had been gathered more than eight hours after the offence had allegedly been committed and after the person had in the meantime been taken to sober up, at 7.45 p.m. 59.  the court considered that the witness m.z.61.  the court further stated that there had been a material violation of the provisions governing misdemeanour proceedings because the applicant had been arrested at 5.40 p.m. and transported immediately to the police station, but had not been taken to sober up until 7.45 p.m.; also, his statement had only been taken at the hospital at 2.15 a.m. and the misdemeanour report not drafted at the hospital until 2.40 a.m. 62.  the east police prefecture did not appeal against that judgment.
7.  at 2.30 a.m. on 15 october 2008 two gendarme officers from the crime scene investigation unit of the menemen provincial gendarmerie command arrived at the site of the incident, which was located by a farm by the name of “dürüs” (“the dürüs farm”), to carry out a preliminary investigation and to prepare a scene-of-incident report (on the instructions of the foça public prosecutor).the gendarme officers indicated in their report that there were two shooting ranges within the said military compound: one located 1,780 metres to the north of the dürüs farm, at an altitude of fifty metres (“the first shooting range”); and the other 1,050 metres to the east, at an altitude of ninety metres (“the second shooting range”).according to a sketch map prepared by the gendarme officers, the site of the incident was approximately 15 degrees to the east of the assumed trajectory of bullets fired from the first shooting range.10.  according to the information in the case file, the applicant was still in a critical condition on the morning of 15 october 2008. nevertheless, at 3 p.m. on that day, he was interviewed by two gendarme officers in the office of the security team commander (asayiş tim komutanı) of the local gendarmerie.when the gendarme officers asked the applicant whether he had been in ongoing conflict with anyone and whether he had heard any gunshots at the time of the incident, he replied that he had not been in any conflict and that the only shots he had heard had been those coming from the military compound, which he had been hearing for the past week.having regard to the witness statements, and to the absence of any other factors that might explain the applicant’s injury, the police expert opined that the injury had probably been caused by a bullet that had ricocheted during the firing practice at the military compound.the public prosecutor found firstly that, in view of the statements of the applicant and of the witnesses and the manner in which the incident had occurred, the applicant had not been shot intentionally.he noted secondly that the forensic examination conducted on the applicant’s jacket had revealed that the shot had been fired from a long distance; however, the source of the shot had not been identified, as the bullet had for medical reasons not yet been extracted from the applicant’s body.nevertheless, having regard to all the information in the case file and to the fact that a military firing practice had been underway a few kilometres away at the time of the incident, the public prosecutor found that the applicant had probably been hit by a stray bullet that had ricocheted during the firing practice.the applicant’s lawyer stated that the decision to close the investigation had been taken prematurely, before the investigation process had been completed and the gun from which the bullet had been fired and the identity of the shooter had been identified.it held that while it was not disputed that the applicant had been wounded by a bullet, there was no tangible evidence to prove that the bullet in question had in any way been connected to the firing practice held by the 7th gendarmerie commando regiment in foça on the date in question.the criminal investigation into the incident had been closed on account of the applicant’s decision not to bring an official complaint, and the bullet extracted from his body after the closing of the investigation had therefore not been subjected to a ballistic examination.the officers stated, in virtually identical words, that a firing practice had been held on 14 october 2008 between 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. with g3 rifles, that all necessary security measures had been taken at the shooting range prior to the commencement of the practice, in line with the applicable laws and instructions, that all rifles had been fired under the supervision of senior officers, that no firing had been permitted outside the designated shooting areas, and that, in view of the security measures in place and the distance of the applicant from the shooting range, the applicant should not have been affected by bullets fired during the practice.according to this report, all requisite safety measures had been implemented at the shooting range on the date in question, in compliance with the relevant security regulations, and no fault or negligence had been found on the part of the military officers who had participated in the firing practice.the report indicated that additional security precautions had nevertheless been taken on the shooting range in the aftermath of the incident, such as adding to the sand bags and barrels behind the target boards, and building barriers in order to reduce the incidence of ricochets, and surrounding the gun-target line with additional barrels.
according to the findings of the police, the driver of the other vehicle involved in the accident, p.c., had changed lanes without paying attention to the applicant’s bus, which had been overtaking it in the other lane.the applicant had not had enough time to brake and had hit p.c.’s car on the rear left side.on the same date the chief inspector of the traffic police issued a decision finding p.c.responsible for the accident under article 242 § 1 of the traffic code (see paragraph 12 below), fined him 800 moldovan lei (mdl) (the equivalent of 50 euros (eur)) and gave him five penalty points.8.  by a judgment of 29 september 2009 the anenii noi district court dismissed p.c.’s objection and upheld the decision of the chief inspector of the traffic police.the applicant was not involved in the proceedings.and the police officer who had been present at the site of the accident were present and the latter opposed p.c.’s objection.9.  on 19 november 2009, the bender court of appeal reversed the decision of the first-instance court, finding the applicant guilty of causing the accident.the court found that the applicant had not kept a safe distance between his bus and the vehicle in front of him and stated as follows: “... according to article 49 of the route code, the driver of a vehicle shall keep a safe distance between his vehicle and the vehicle in front of him, in such a manner as to avoid collision in case of sudden braking by the foregoing vehicle.these rules were not observed by the driver of the vehicle which was behind, namely by the driver of the bus [...], mr igor pascani, and by no means by mr p.c.” the applicant was again not involved in the proceedings and only found out about them at a later date.under domestic law he was not able to challenge the court of appeal’s decision.10.  as a result of the above judgment and based on its conclusions, on 22 january 2010 the chief inspector of the traffic police issued a new decision by which he found the applicant guilty of the breach of article 49 of the traffic code causing the accident of 14 august 2009. the operative part of the decision stated as follows: “...pascari igor is declared guilty of having committed the offence provided by article 242 § 1 of the code of administrative offences (cao), however, according to article 30 § 3 of the cao no sanction shall be applied in view of the statutory limitation period.” 11.  it appears from the documents submitted by the parties that following the accident the owner of the bus recovered the cost of its repairs from p.c.’s insurance company.after the judicial proceedings in which the applicant was found responsible, p.c.attempted to recover the cost of the repairs of his car from the other party’s insurance company.however, it appears from the case file that the company suspended payment until the case has been finally determined by the court.
4.  the applicant is a company limited by shares registered under hungarian law.5.  on 31 may 2000 a property claim was brought against the applicant requesting it to pay mandate fees in the amount of 275 million hungarian forints (huf) (approximately 1,057,000 euros (eur) at the time).6.  on 6 june 2000 the budapest regional court ordered the applicant, under section 187(1) of act no.liii of 1994 on court execution, to deposit on the bailiff’s trust account a security in the amount of huf 275 million.the applicant appealed against the decision but this was to no avail.the money was deposited on the bailiff’s trust account on 27 march 2001.8.  the applicant requested to have the money released arguing that its financial situation was satisfactory, there was no need for such a deposit and that this measure contradicted the principle of economic rationality.9.  the applicant’s request was dismissed on 8 may 2001. the supreme court as second-instance court upheld the decision on 8 november 2001. the applicant’s subsequent requests to have the money released, in exchange for other securities offered, were also turned down.10.  after remittals on 27 november 2002 and 8 june 2007, on 16 october 2008 the regional court adopted a judgment, partly found for the plaintiff and ordered the applicant to pay huf 137,280,000 (eur 514,000 at the actual rate) plus interest accrued as of 6 january 2000. on 16 october 2009 and 29 april 2010, respectively, the budapest court of appeal and the kúria upheld this judgment.11.  although the plaintiff succeeded only partly in the litigation, the amount actually payable by the applicant exceeded the amount of the entire deposit.this outcome was the consequence of the fact that whilst the applicant was ordered to pay accrued interest on the money due to the plaintiff in the amount of approximately huf 189,500,000 (eur 700,000 at the actual rate), its own money deposited on the bailiff’s trust account had yielded no interest.ultimately, the applicant had to surrender the whole deposit and pay about another huf 90 million (eur 330,000).12.  the applicant challenged the impugned provisions of act no.liii of 1994 on court execution before the constitutional court; but its constitutional complaint was dismissed on 7 june 2011. this court held that ‘interest’ as such was consideration for the ‘use’ of another person’s money; however, the authorities had not in any way ‘used’ the deposited amount.furthermore, the constitution did not provide any safeguards against the depreciation of an asset, including a deposit of money subject to inflation, and that such depreciation for economical or other reasons did not amount to a deprivation of property.
had left the property and given the keys back to the authorities, and that the property had then become occupied by a certain c.c., who had no title to it (since it had not been allocated to him by the authorities).in so far as relevant, paragraph three of his application concerning the facts of the case reads as follows: “in 1987, after the applicant had inherited the property, he discovered that a certain ps had left the property ...”.12.  according to the government, when giving evidence in court on 30 november 2009, the applicant mentioned the deed of partition of 30 april 1980. at the same time he acknowledged that he did not contest the requisition order issued in 1976 (no record of this has been provided).according to a report of 21 january 2010 the expert considered that the annual rental value of the property on the market in 1987 was mtl 249 (approximately eur 580), and that in 2010 it was mtl 1,223.50 (approximately eur 2,850).it held that although the measure was lawful and pursued a legitimate aim, the applicant had suffered a breach of his property rights on account of the lack of proportionality of the measure, in so far as it made the applicant bear a disproportionate burden, given the low amount of rent applicable compared to the market rental value of the property.referring to domestic case-law, it held: “... while this [constitutional] court has a wide latitude in giving any order it may consider relevant in order for it to safeguard articles 33 to 45 of the constitution and human rights and fundamental freedoms as defined in the convention, such latitude was not unlimited and was circumscribed by the judicial system of the country, which did not allow this court [of constitutional jurisdiction] to amend national laws, nor could it make mandatory an action which according to domestic law was discretionary, nor could it order the housing authority to pay rent or compensation of a higher value than that provided for by the relevant law.compensation, if any, which may be paid by this court [of constitutional jurisdiction] is that for the violation found.” 17.  the court awarded the applicant eur 21,000. it considered the compensation fair and just in the circumstances of the case and on the basis of the evidence produced, having taken account in particular of the following factors: that the property had been subject to a requisition order since 1976 but it had affected the applicant since 1988 when he had inherited the property (sic.that the rent had been increased to mtl 80; that the applicant had only received payment up until 2003; that the rental value of the property on the market in 1987 was mtl 249 (approximately eur 580), and in 2010 it was mtl 1,223.50 (approximately eur 2,850); and lastly, that the requisition order had been issued in the public interest to procure accommodation for those in need, and thus the compensation payable could be less than the full market value.it does not transpire from the written pleadings that the applicant explicitly raised the issue of compensation in relation to the years before 1988, during which he had already been an owner of the property.21.  by a judgment of 24 february 2012 the constitutional court reduced the amount of compensation to eur 16,000. it, too, considered that the applicant should be penalised for the delay (of twenty years since coming into possession of the property) in instituting proceedings, as had been done in other domestic cases.it considered that the first‑instance court had been free to make an award equitably, and correct to make no award for the time prior to 1988, the date when the applicant had become the owner of the property (sic.)it considered that in such circumstances it was not appropriate (mhux indikat) to release the property and to evict the tenant (as also held in previous cases, namely carmen cassar vs director of social accommodation, constitutional court judgment of 12 july 2011 and gatt vs attorney general, constitutional court judgment of 5 july 2011), nor could it impose a higher rent for the future, when such rent was not provided for by law (as also held in cassar, cited above).22.  the constitutional court further confirmed that the proper defendant was solely the housing authority, and not the attorney general, as the applicant was not contesting the constitutional validity of the law itself, but solely the requisition order issued in respect of his property.the constitutional court upheld the first-instance court’s order for the payment of costs and ordered the applicant to pay the costs of all the parties related to the appeal.23.  as a result of this judgment, the applicant had to pay his share of the costs of the proceedings as well as those of the attorney general at first instance, and those of all the parties on appeal.
according to the government, the tenant deposited the rent in court; however, according to the applicants, from a search of the relevant court registry, no such schedules of deposit had ever been filed.the estimate was, however, based on the premise that the expert had only seen the property from the outside and had relied on the applicants’ descriptions.they further asked the court to order the release of the property free and unencumbered or, if that were not possible, to establish fair conditions in respect of the property and a fair rent for the future.with reference to the preliminary pleas raised, it considered that it had not been necessary also to notify the attorney general – such a requirement had been intended to ensure that a representative of a government department would not fail to appear, a risk eliminated if the attorney general, who had to provide lawyers for the department’s defence, was notified.it awarded the applicants the sum of eur 8,000 in compensation based on equity (arbitrio boni viri) and ordered the return of the property free and unencumbered to the applicants within three months.the court considered that it had the power and the duty to take such action under article 4 (2) of the european convention act (see relevant domestic law), in order to bring an end to the consequences of the violation suffered by the applicants.the attorney general also appealed on the same lines, thus joining the proceedings at the appeal stage as a third party on the basis of his interest in the case (appell ta’ terz).22.  according to the applicants, before the constitutional court they orally invited the president of the constitutional court to withdraw from hearing the case (on the basis of article 734 of the code of organisation and civil procedure).at the time when the proceedings were instituted, he had been the attorney general and therefore the senior legal officer responsible for the defence of the two co-defendants in the applicants’ case.he had also been the legal officer advising the government on the drafting and introduction of act x of 2009. however, according to the applicants, the president of the constitutional court refused to withdraw.25.  as to redress, the constitutional court increased the compensation to eur 14,000, but revoked the part of the judgment ordering the release of the property.it considered that since the requisition had been lawful and in the public interest, it was for the court to redress the lack of a fair balance but it was not required to annul the requisition order.referring to domestic case-law, it held as follows: “... while this [constitutional] court has a wide latitude in giving any order it may consider relevant in order for it to safeguard articles 33 to 45 of the constitution and human rights and fundamental freedoms as defined in the convention, such latitude was not unlimited and was circumscribed by the judicial system of the country which did not allow this court [of constitutional jurisdiction] to amend national laws, nor could it make mandatory an action which according to domestic law was discretionary, nor could it order the housing authority to pay rent or compensation of a higher value than that provided for by the relevant law.in the present case the court bore in mind the sums usually awarded by the european court of human rights, the low amount of rent due, the relevant period from 1988 to date, the unavailability of an expert valuation of the rental value of the property, the fact that the applicants had brought proceedings in 2008 and that the more favourable order of the first-instance court was being revoked.28.  the applicants claimed that the above information had come to their attention in january 2014. their requests to the authorities (copies submitted to the court) for official documents explaining in detail the above course of events had remained unanswered.
by a judgment of 12 january 2005, amended by the varaždin county court (županijski sud u varaždinu – hereinafter “the county court”) on 15 november 2005, the municipal court judicially admonished (sudska opomena) the applicant and ordered him to pay i.m.11.  on 5 november 2007 and 4 january 2008 respectively the court issued two writs of execution (rješenja o ovrsi) ordering the seizure and sale of the applicant’s share in the property.14.  at a hearing on 8 april 2010 the court, on the basis of information provided by the tax authorities, determined that the value of the applicant’s share in the property was hrk 131,200[7].15.  by a ruling of 27 july 2010 the court ordered the sale of the applicant’s share in the property (zaključak o prodaji, see paragraph 48 below) and scheduled a public auction for 14 october 2010 at which, in accordance with the law, the property (or share of it) could not be sold for less than two-thirds of its value (see paragraph 50 below).18.  on 17 january 2011 the applicant submitted another certificate confirming that on 14 january 2011 he had paid hrk 7,340[9] of the debt, and asked the court not to schedule a second auction because he would gradually pay the rest of the debt.20.  by a decision of 3 february 2011 the court scheduled the second public auction for 17 march 2011 at which, in accordance with the law, the property (or share of it) could not be sold for less than one-third of its value (see paragraph 50 below).the applicant’s representative asked the court to postpone the auction and promised that the applicant would pay the rest of the debt within three months.23.  on 2 may 2011 he informed the court that earlier that day he had paid a further hrk 15,225.75[12], and had thereby settled the debt of hrk 58,415.75[13] in full (consisting of the principal amount of hrk 34,128.43 and hrk 24,287.32 of statutory default interest).the court found the fact that the applicant had paid the debt in full on 2 may 2011 irrelevant, since the decision on the sale of the applicant’s share in the property to i.m.had made the best bid and had offered [to pay] hrk 43,734, and thereby met the conditions to be awarded the property, the court adopted [the present] award decision ... regardless of the fact that the enforcement debtor on 2 may 2011 settled the debt in respect of the principal amount and the interest.when settling the enforcement creditor’s claim, the court will deliver a distribution decision whereby it will take into account the fact that the enforcement debtor had settled the debt in respect of the principal amount and the interest.” 26.  on 5 december 2011 the applicant appealed against that decision.in particular, that court held as follows: “having regard to the fact that on 17 march 2011 the second public auction was held at which the enforcement creditor appeared as a bidder and made the best (the only) bid, and given that after the auction the court established that the enforcement creditor had offered the highest price and had met the conditions to be awarded the property in accordance with section 98(3) of the enforcement act, the first-instance court was, pursuant to section 98(4) of [that] act, entitled (and obliged to) adopt the contested [award] decision ... the fact that the enforcement debtor after the [second public] auction, on 2 may 2011 settled the creditor’s claim in full is of no relevance for the validity of the contested decision, regardless of the unjustified (time) gap between the auction and the adoption of the impugned decision.[that is because] at the auction of 17 march 2011, which was held in line with the [relevant] provisions of the enforcement act, it was established that the enforcement creditor offered the highest price and that he met the conditions to be awarded the property.[therefore] the events that occurred subsequently cannot call into question the award of the property, nor can the said event constitute grounds for discontinuation of enforcement under the enforcement act.” 28.  on 27 february 2012 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint against the county court’s decision, alleging a violation of his constitutional right to fair procedure.39.  by a judgment of 6 november 2014 the municipal court ruled for the plaintiff and ordered a partition by sale and distribution of the proceeds to the co-owners.
12.  on 27 july 2002 the president of ukraine set up a special commission (the government commission for the investigation of the causes of the catastrophe of the military aircraft of the air force of ukraine; “the special commission”) with a specific mandate to investigate the circumstances of the accident and coordinate assistance to its victims.the commission noted, in particular, as follows: “the serious consequences of the aviation catastrophe ... were the result of irresponsibility, negligence, lack of discipline, official neglect and breach of applicable regulations ... on the part of many leading officers of the armed forces, in particular, the generals and officers of the air force headquarters.... in the course of the preparation and staging of the demonstration flights ... the military establishments, the specialised central state aviation facilities and departments, the municipal authorities and their particular officers failed to comply with a number of provisions of the current law, governing the procedure of preparation and staging the events of such a scale, which failures, to various extents, resulted in the catastrophe and such a major loss of human life ...” 23.  the commission concluded that the local authorities had played an ancillary role in the organisation of the air show.according to the commission, the municipal authority had been completely disengaged from any safety-related decision-making and its overall performance had been marked by “...a certain confusion and lack of clear understanding by the higher officers of the scope of their responsibilities.” in view of this, the commission recommended that the city council evaluate the performance of the mayor and other municipal officers and clarify its policy concerning the distribution of functions between them.24.  the commission next concluded that the negligence of the city authority had not been a direct cause of the accident, and attributed the primary responsibility for it to the military authorities, having provided the following overall political assessment of the accident: “[the accident is] ... a consequence of the generally irresponsible policy of the national government, which has neglected reformation of the army and the navy, leading to a loss unprecedented for a civilised country... of military efficiency and patriotic spirit, criminally negligent performance of their official duties by the military command at all levels, loss of pride in the military service and marginalisation of the material and technical procurement of the armed forces and military servicemen ... “... [the accident] ... demonstrated the inadequacy of the current legal framework, the inadequacy of the state control system in respect of flight safety; irresponsible and negligent performance by officers at all levels of their duties under the law in force; the need to establish civilian control over the activities of the army; and the need to modernise and effectively reform the armed forces of ukraine ...” 25.  on 1 october 2003 the sknyliv tragedy lviv-based ngo founded by the relatives of the accident victims and its survivors published its own investigation report based on interviews and other information collected from public and private sources.26.  similarly to the reports produced by the governmental authorities, the authors of this report concluded that the immediate cause of the crash was error by the first pilot in performing a manoeuvre, which had been neither envisaged by his mission order nor practised by him before the show, while the second pilot and ground crew did not take the opportunity to intervene in respect of the first pilot’s conduct.in addition to that, in the opinion of the authors of the report, the air force commander-in-chief and the 14th corps commander, who had been watching the performance from the vip lounge, had also failed to act to prevent the accident, as they had had direct radio connection with the ground crew and could have intervened at any moment.the responsibility for it had to be borne by numerous entities, including the ministry of defence, the air force headquarters, the authorities of the 14th air force corps, the lviv city and regional authorities, and the civil aviation authorities (the ukraviatrans state aviation transport department and the ukraerorukh state company), which had given permission for the aerobatic performance without checking its terms of reference.in addition to the shortcomings pointed in the earlier special commission’s report, they concluded that the aerobatics zone was too small; the boundaries of the zone were not clearly marked on site so as to be visible from the aircraft, which factor impaired the pilots’ ability to orient themselves; the location of the aerobatics zone was potentially dangerous in case of any unforeseen situation; the airfield’s preparation for the show was carried out without any account being taken of the possibility of pilot error or any other emergency; the crew did not receive a single mission order defining its mission according to all applicable standards; various documents defining its flight parameters were not comprehensive and not fully consistent with each other; the officers of the flight safety service failed to reveal the above shortcomings; the pilots were allowed to take off without g-suits and their preparedness being checked by any competent authority; the position of “air show flights director” assigned to major-general a.t., which did not feature in any military training documents, appeared to be redundant; it paralleled that of the ordinary aerodrome flights director, with a lack of clarity as to the distribution of authority between the two officers; neither major-general a.t. nor colonel y.ya., who directed the flight, had the proper clearance, experience, and qualifications; and there was no assessment of the quality of the first pilot’s piloting technique during the training flight in ozerne on 24 july 2002. in practice, the pilots’ training was coordinated and supervised only by colonel o.d., stationed at the ozerne aerodrome, who had neither the authority nor the qualifications to assess their preparedness.similarly to the findings contained in other reports, the experts concluded, in particular, as follows: “... one of the reasons for the emergence of the ... incident ... was the existence of significant shortcomings in the ... preparation and staging of the ... air show and lack of clear distribution of duties between the officers ... which, in turn, led to lack of coordination between ... the persons engaged in the preparation, as well as to the absence of effective control over their activity.” if the foregoing normative acts had been unconditionally complied with, the breaches in the organisation of the demonstration flight could have been detected and remedied, and the grave consequences avoided ...” 39.  the investigation ended on 10 august 2004. ten officers, including both pilots and their ground support crew; the air force commander-in-chief (o.s.their conclusion, insofar as relevant, read as follows: “the only reason for the crash of the su-27 aircraft was the execution by the pilot of an unplanned piloting manoeuvre, in the course of which he committed grave errors in piloting technique, which caused the falling of the aircraft and the catastrophic consequences.” 44.  on 11 may 2005 the two civilian experts also produced a report, which largely replicated the findings and the language of the report issued by their military counterparts.the relevant excerpts of the court judgment read as follows: “... the members of the [special commission] concluded that the immediate cause of the catastrophe ... derived from mistakes in the piloting technique ... outside the designated aerobatics zone ... the same conclusion was adopted by the court, which examined the criminal case concerning [v.t.]all other circumstances connected to the organisation of the show in the court’s view did not in any way affect the wrongdoings by [the first pilot] and, moreover, they could not have been foreseen or taken into account by the organisers of the show ... ... as far as the size of the aerobatics zone was concerned, which, according to the experts, was insufficient for the performance of the mission ... this breach was not the cause of the catastrophic situation, since the su-27 aircraft was practically never within its boundaries ... reports on the crew’s readiness for the flight were produced properly, and it was following their receipt that [v.s.]with a view to preparation of the festivities and organisation of the flight by su-27, the 14th corps command jointly with the air force headquarters took a number of relevant measures: orders were issued; show plans were drafted; agendas were put in place; and air and static display schemes were developed ... the 14th corps commander performed his duties with respect to the preparation of the show in accordance with the applicable law, having properly distributed duties among his subordinates ... issues concerning preparation of the show and supervision over the performance of the delegated tasks were discussed at meetings organised by [s.o.](b)  other civil claims 65.  when submitting their observations on the case in response to those of the government, the applicants additionally submitted copies of the judgments of the lviv sykhivskyy and zaliznychnyy district courts dated 19 april and 7 december 2006, awarding the second applicant monthly allowances of uah 830 and uah 400 in connection with the loss of the financial support of her mother and father respectively.
6.  in the summer of 2007 a book called “kitchen of litigation” (tiesāšanās kā ķēķis) was published, which contained transcripts of allegedly authentic telephone conversations between the lawyers of a well‑known law office in latvia and judges working in various courts, including the senate of the supreme court.the working group was tasked with carrying out an assessment of whether “the judges of the supreme court who were purportedly involved in the telephone tapping scandal, which raises doubts about the independence of the judiciary and the honesty of judges” had violated the code of ethics of judges.8.  on 7 november 2007, during the annual conference of judges, the chairman of the supreme court made a speech about the effects of the book and the public debate which followed.that event further confirmed the conviction of at least some people in society that doubts about the impartiality and the independence of courts, and therefore the lawfulness of their judgments, are justified.society sees the information that was published as credible, irrespective of whether it was obtained lawfully or unlawfully and no matter what the result of the investigation carried out by the prosecutor’s office will be, and it undermines trust in the judiciary.... ... i think that the information about the alleged conversations between judges and the lawyer [...] should be treated as a signal or a call to look at the problems in the judiciary in a wider context ... ... in relation to this particular situation, i think it was caused by the attitude to the rule of law and the code of ethics which regulate judges’ behaviour.the superficial, irresponsible and perhaps even the unlawful behaviour of certain judges has fundamentally affected trust in the judiciary ... therefore [we] should also talk about the responsibility of judges, [we] should be conscious of the fact that a lack of self-criticism and an inability to apply ethical standards properly pose a threat to the independence of the judiciary ....” 9.  on an unknown date the inquiry carried out by the prosecutor general’s office concluded that the alleged telephone conversations had taken place between november 1998 and april 2000. as there were no audio records of the conversations, the authenticity of the content of the transcripts could not be established.in the course of the inquiry the prosecutor general’s office questioned several judges mentioned in the book.10.  with regard to judge o.d.j., a judge of the senate of the supreme court, the prosecutor general’s office observed that the book had referred to a brief telephone conversation of 24 november 1999 in which the lawyer a.g. had arranged a meeting in the judge o.d.j.’s office.the working group identified that two of the fifteen judges, whose conduct had been assessed, had violated the code of ethics of judges, but that judge o.d.j., whose conversation with the lawyer had been published in the book, had not.did not deny that he might have had conversations [with the lawyer] but that they had only concerned german compensation claims, however in those cases [the lawyer] had not been representing any of the parties, and therefore the working group concluded that o.d.j.on 25 january 2005 the riga regional court, as a first‑instance court, dismissed the claim and on 21 november 2006 the supreme court, acting as an appellate court, dismissed an appeal by the applicant.the applicant’s representative raised objections to o.d.j., arguing that the applicant had reasonable doubts as to his impartiality on the grounds that the judge was under several inquiries at the time for allegedly unethical or unlawful behavior.they noted that the applicant’s doubts were based only on an assumption and that the objection did not contain evidence allowing to conclude that the applicant’s doubts about the impartiality of judge o.d.j.on the same day the senate of the supreme court upheld the appellate court’s judgment on the merits by which the applicant’s claim was dismissed and it became final in that part, but referred the case back for reconsideration in part on the implementation of the judgment.
8.  when the judgment was delivered in the presence of the applicant, his court‑appointed defence counsel and the applicant’s custodian (gesetzlicher betreuer), the applicant became agitated.9.  on friday 21 december 2012 the applicant received a letter from the court‑appointed lawyer, dated 19 december 2012, who advised him as follows: “... you already announced immediately after the hearing that you wanted to appeal against the court’s decision and also to mandate new defence counsel.regarding the remedy you wished for, we give the following advice: you may appeal on points of law against the decision of the münster regional court (bocholt chamber) within one week after the judgment was delivered, thus until 27 december 2012 at the latest.this means that you can make statements relating to appellate remedies to the record of the registry of the district court in whose district the institution is located.according to article 299 § 2 of the ccp, in order to meet the time-limit it suffices if the record is taken within the time-limit.for the sake of completeness we refer to article 345 of the ccp which prescribes that the specific grounds of the appeal shall be submitted to the court whose judgment is being contested no later than one month after expiry of the time‑limit for seeking the appellate remedy.in your case this may only be done in the form of a notice signed by defence counsel or by an attorney, or to be recorded by the court registry.” 10.  still, on 21 december 2012 the applicant typed and signed an appeal letter to the rheine district court and asked the clinic’s staff to post it.11.  on friday 28 december 2012 the applicant’s appeal letter reached the rheine district court, and was forwarded to the münster regional court where it was received on 3 january 2013.it underlined that the applicant had been instructed after the judgment’s delivery that an appeal could only be recorded by the registry of the district court but could not be lodged in writing.13.  on 14 january 2013 the court‑appointed lawyer, who had resumed his activity for the applicant, requested a reinstatement of the proceedings in accordance with article 44 of the code of criminal procedure (wiedereinsetzung in den vorherigen stand - see paragraph 19 below) and lodged an appeal on points of law.the applicant had believed that he was able to choose whether he wanted to lodge the appeal in writing or have it recorded by the registry either at the rheine district court or the münster regional court.14.  on 11 march 2013 the federal prosecutor general observed, inter alia, that: “he [defence counsel] referred to article 299 of the code of criminal procedure by using wording which was not per se wrong but potentially misleading because it could be understood that the appeal on points of law might be lodged either (by the applicant himself) with the record of the rheine district court’s registry or in writing with the same court.” however, according to the federal prosecutor general, the oral instruction on the day of the hearing was sufficient.it may be that the oral instructions on the right to appeal given after the delivery of the judgment were correct and complete.in such a situation, taking into account the applicant’s psychiatric illness, it must be assumed that he had not understood the oral instructions on the right to appeal which were given immediately after the delivery of the judgment.” 16.  on 24 april 2013 the federal court of justice rejected the applicant’s request for reinstatement and consequently dismissed his appeal on points of law as inadmissible because it had been lodged out of time.it held that it was not necessary to examine whether, with regard to the christmas holidays, the applicant should have expected his letter to be delivered only on 28 december 2012. rather, it found decisive that the applicant had been expressly instructed on the day of the judgment’s delivery that an appeal could only be lodged with the rheine district court to the record of the registry, but not in writing.
however, at the date of the report her depressive and psychotic symptoms were being managed with medication and therapy, with the result that her mental illness was not considered to be of a nature or degree to warrant treatment either in the prison healthcare wing or in hospital.18.  on 5 december 2008 the asylum and immigration tribunal dismissed her appeal but found that it would be proportionate to allow her to remain in the united kingdom for the short period that it would take to complete the care proceedings in respect of m. 19.  the applicant was refused bail on 12 january 2009 and again on 17 march 2009 on the grounds that she could not be relied on to comply with bail conditions, she offered no sureties and she represented a danger to herself and to others.in these representations the applicant claimed that she faced a real risk of treatment contrary to articles 3 and 8 of the convention if she were deported to nigeria due to her mental health status and the poor standard of treatment facilities in the destination country.23.  on 25 june 2009 a judge in the family court made a care and placement order in respect of m. in concluding that the threshold criteria were met, he stated that: “i am satisfied the evidence supports a finding of likelihood, that is to say a real possibility, of harm to [m], founded on [s’s] grave injuries; the previous court’s findings in respect of those; the mother’s mental history; her plea to a seriously abusive offence against [s]; her absenting herself from the care and the criminal processes; the social and practical vulnerability produced by the parties’ lack of immigration status; and their criminal offending, with its practical consequences for their availability to [m].38.  on 13 august 2010 the judicial review application was dismissed by a high court judge, who found that while the secretary of state had failed to take into account paragraph 55.10 of her own policy, enforcement instructions and guidance (see paragraphs 58-63 below), when considering the justification for the applicant’s detention between 8 august 2008 and 28 april 2010 (“the first period of detention”), that failure had not caused any damage since the decision to detain would have been the same even had the policy been correctly considered and applied.in this regard, he noted that, taking an analytical approach to each of the periods of detention following 8 august 2008, the applicant’s detention was explicable by steps she had taken, or failed to take (for example, cooperation in relation to emergency travel documents, and the conflicting advice in the hands of the authorities as to the effect of detention on her mental condition and the possibility of treating it while in detention).in relation to the applicant’s own conduct, the judge noted that: “it is clear from the hardial singh principles that obstacles to the claimant’s removal caused by the claimant’s conduct do not count in the formula.she appealed asylum and deportation decisions, engaged at some stages in the family proceedings and issued a purported fresh claim and judicial review.” 40.  with regard to the secretary of state’s refusal to accept the applicant’s representations as a fresh claim, the judge found that the further representations were not “significantly different” from material that had already been considered.41.  the applicant appealed to the court of appeal against the dismissal of her judicial review claim on 13 august 2010. permission was granted in light of the recent judgment of 23 march 2011 by the supreme court in r (walumba lumba and kadian mighty) v. secretary of state for the home department [2011] uksc 12 (“lumba and mighty”) (see paragraphs 64-65 below), in which the application by the secretary of state of a “secret policy” in respect of immigration detention was held to be unlawful in violation of public law principles.42.   on 31 august 2010 the applicant applied for assisted return to nigeria under the facilitated reintegration scheme (a scheme under which financial incentives are provided for a voluntary return by an individual to his or her country of nationality) but the application was refused in all the circumstances of the case.45.  at the court hearing, the secretary of state conceded that following the decision of the supreme court in lumba and mighty the applicant’s detention between 8 august 2008 and 28 april 2010 had been unlawful on account of a failure to consider the guidance on detention of mentally ill persons in the published policy on immigration detention (see paragraphs 58‑63 below).however, as the secretary of state had continued to detain the applicant after the relevant policy had been taken into account (from 29 april 2010 onwards), the court was satisfied that she would have been detained during the earlier period even if the policy had been considered.moreover, having assessed all the evidence in the case – in particular, the risk of the applicant reoffending, self-harming, or absconding – the court concluded that it had been open to a reasonable decision-maker to detain the applicant in all the circumstances of the case.46.  with regard to the hardial singh principles, the court did not consider that the period of detention had become unreasonable by the date of the hearing before the judge, either on account of its length or because it should have been apparent that it would not be possible to effect deportation within a reasonable period.49.  the applicant succeeded in quashing the decision not to give her a further statutory appeal right in relation to the decision to refuse to revoke the deportation order in light of the second set of representations for a further fresh claim (see paragraph 43 above).
6.  the applicant has been continuously addicted to heroin since 1973, when he was aged 17. he has also been suffering from hepatitis c since 1975 and has been hiv-positive since 1988. he has been considered 100% disabled and has been receiving an employment disability pension since 2001. he has tried to overcome his addiction to heroin with various types of treatment (including five courses of in-house drug rehabilitation therapy), all of which failed.having regard, in particular, to the views expressed by the applicant’s treating doctors, the court considered that it could no longer be expected with sufficient probability that the applicant could be cured from his drug addiction or could be prevented for a considerable time from relapsing into drug abuse.10.  the applicant was examined by an external doctor for internal medicine, h., on the prison authorities’ request in october 2010. h. did not consider any changes in the treatment of the applicant’s hiv and hepatitis c infections necessary.dated 27 july 2011, on the basis of the written findings of doctor h. and the kaisheim prison doctor’s and authorities’ findings and statements, but without having been able to examine the applicant in person.under the relevant guidelines of the federal medical association for the substitution treatment of opiate addicts, drug substitution treatment, which he had received prior to his detention, was the required standard treatment for his condition and had to be continued during his detention.16.  after the prison authorities’ first decision dismissing the applicant’s application was quashed by the augsburg regional court on 4 october 2011 for lack of sufficient reasoning, the prison authorities, on 16 january 2012, again dismissed the applicant’s request.with regard to the medical necessity of drug substitution therapy, the prison authorities, relying on prison doctor s.’s statement, considered that drug substitution therapy was not a necessary treatment for the purposes of section 60 of the bavarian execution of sentences act (see paragraph 27 below).18.  with regard to the applicant’s social rehabilitation and treatment (sections 2 and 3 of the bavarian execution of sentences act, see paragraph 27 below), the prison authorities added that the main reason for which addicts underwent drug substitution therapy was to prevent them from becoming impoverished and from becoming involved in drug-related criminality.19.  on 26 january 2012 the applicant, relying on the reasons he had submitted to the prison authorities, appealed against the decision of the prison authorities to the augsburg regional court.he further submitted that the authorities of kaisheim prison, where no substitution treatment had ever been provided, had omitted to examine the medical necessity of drug substitution therapy under the relevant criteria laid down, in particular, in the federal medical association’s guidelines for the substitution treatment of opiate addicts, which were clearly met in his case.he further argued that under the applicable administrative rules for substitution treatment in prison in the land of baden-württemberg, he would be provided with drug substitution therapy, which is carried out in the prisons of the majority of the german länder.the prison doctors of kaisheim prison had sufficient training to decide on the medical necessity of drug substitution therapy, irrespective of the fact that drug substitution therapies might never have been used in that prison.he submitted that the regional court’s failure to investigate sufficiently whether drug substitution treatment was necessary, under the applicable federal medical association’s guidelines and with the help of an independent doctor specialised in drug addiction treatment, had breached section 60 of the bavarian execution of sentences act and article 3 of the convention.he complained that his right to respect for his physical integrity under the basic law had been breached because he was denied drug substitution therapy, the only suitable therapy to treat his chronic pain, which would make interferon therapy possible and allow him to reduce his craving for heroin and lead a “normal” everyday prison life without isolation.he further complained that his right to be heard under the basic law had been violated as the domestic courts had not taken into consideration the medical opinions he had submitted to show that a substitution treatment was necessary and had failed to consult an independent specialised expert.
18.  on 27 july 2002 the president of ukraine set up a special commission (the government commission for the investigation of the causes of the catastrophe of the military aircraft of the air force of ukraine; “the special commission”) with a specific mandate to investigate the circumstances of the accident and coordinate assistance to its victims.the commission noted, in particular, as follows: “the serious consequences of the aviation catastrophe ... were the result of irresponsibility, negligence, lack of discipline, official neglect and breach of applicable regulations ... on the part of many leading officers of the armed forces, in particular, the generals and officers of the air force headquarters.... in the course of the preparation and staging of the demonstration flights ... the military establishments, the specialised central state aviation facilities and departments, the municipal authorities and their particular officers failed to comply with a number of provisions of the current law, governing the procedure of preparation and staging the events of such a scale, which failures, to various extents, resulted in the catastrophe and such a major loss of human life ...” 29.  the commission concluded that the local authorities had played an ancillary role in the organisation of the air show.according to the commission, the municipal authority had been completely disengaged from any safety-related decision-making and its overall performance had been marked by “...a certain confusion and lack of clear understanding by the higher officers of the scope of their responsibilities.” in view of this, the commission recommended that the city council evaluate the performance of the mayor and other municipal officers and clarify its policy concerning the distribution of functions between them.30.  the commission next concluded that the negligence of the city authority had not been a direct cause of the accident, and attributed the primary responsibility for it to the military authorities, having provided the following overall political assessment of the accident: “[the accident is] ... a consequence of the generally irresponsible policy of the national government, which has neglected reformation of the army and the navy, leading to a loss unprecedented for a civilised country... of military efficiency and patriotic spirit, criminally negligent performance of their official duties by the military command at all levels, loss of pride in the military service and marginalisation of the material and technical procurement of the armed forces and military servicemen ... “... [the accident] ... demonstrated the inadequacy of the current legal framework, the inadequacy of the state control system in respect of flight safety; irresponsible and negligent performance by officers at all levels of their duties under the law in force; the need to establish civilian control over the activities of the army; and the need to modernise and effectively reform the armed forces of ukraine ...” 31.  on 1 october 2003 the sknyliv tragedy lviv-based ngo founded by the relatives of the accident victims and its survivors published its own investigation report based on interviews and other information collected from public and private sources.32.  similarly to the reports produced by the governmental authorities, the authors of this report concluded that the immediate cause of the crash was error by the first pilot in performing a manoeuvre, which had been neither envisaged by his mission order nor practised by him before the show, while the second pilot and ground crew did not take the opportunity to intervene in respect of the first pilot’s conduct.in addition to that, in the opinion of the authors of the report, the air force commander-in-chief and the 14th corps commander, who had been watching the performance from the vip lounge, had also failed to act to prevent the accident, as they had had direct radio connection with the ground crew and could have intervened at any moment.the responsibility for it had to be borne by numerous entities, including the ministry of defence, the air force headquarters, the authorities of the 14th air force corps, the lviv city and regional authorities, and the civil aviation authorities (the ukraviatrans state aviation transport department and the ukraerorukh state company), which had given permission for the aerobatic performance without checking its terms of reference.in addition to the shortcomings pointed in the earlier special commission’s report, they concluded that the aerobatics zone was too small; the boundaries of the zone were not clearly marked on site so as to be visible from the aircraft, which factor impaired the pilots’ ability to orient themselves; the location of the aerobatics zone was potentially dangerous in case of any unforeseen situation; the airfield’s preparation for the show was carried out without any account being taken of the possibility of pilot error or any other emergency; the crew did not receive a single mission order defining its mission according to all applicable standards; various documents defining its flight parameters were not comprehensive and not fully consistent with each other; the officers of the flight safety service failed to reveal the above shortcomings; the pilots were allowed to take off without g-suits and their preparedness being checked by any competent authority; the position of “air show flights director” assigned to major-general a.t., which did not feature in any military training documents, appeared to be redundant; it paralleled that of the ordinary aerodrome flights director, with a lack of clarity as to the distribution of authority between the two officers; neither major-general a.t. nor colonel y.ya., who directed the flight, had the proper clearance, experience, and qualifications; and there was no assessment of the quality of the first pilot’s piloting technique during the training flight in ozerne on 24 july 2002. in practice, the pilots’ training was coordinated and supervised only by colonel o.d., stationed at the ozerne aerodrome, who had neither the authority nor the qualifications to assess their preparedness.similarly to the findings contained in other reports, the experts concluded, in particular, as follows: “... one of the reasons for the emergence of the ... incident ... was the existence of significant shortcomings in the ... preparation and staging of the ... air show and lack of clear distribution of duties between the officers ... which, in turn, led to lack of coordination between ... the persons engaged in the preparation, as well as to the absence of effective control over their activity.” if the foregoing normative acts had been unconditionally complied with, the breaches in the organisation of the demonstration flight could have been detected and remedied, and the grave consequences avoided ...” 45.  the investigation ended on 10 august 2004. ten officers, including both pilots and their ground support crew; the air force commander-in-chief (o.s.their conclusion, insofar as relevant, read as follows: “the only reason for the crash of the su-27 aircraft was the execution by the pilot of an unplanned piloting manoeuvre, in the course of which he committed grave errors in piloting technique, which caused the falling of the aircraft and the catastrophic consequences.” 50.  on 11 may 2005 the two civilian experts also produced a report, which largely replicated the findings and the language of the report issued by their military counterparts.the relevant excerpts of the court judgment read as follows: “... the members of the [special commission] concluded that the immediate cause of the catastrophe ... derived from mistakes in the piloting technique ... outside the designated aerobatics zone ... the same conclusion was adopted by the court, which examined the criminal case concerning [v.t.]all other circumstances connected to the organisation of the show in the court’s view did not in any way affect the wrongdoings by [the first pilot] and, moreover, they could not have been foreseen or taken into account by the organisers of the show ... ... as far as the size of the aerobatics zone was concerned, which, according to the experts, was insufficient for the performance of the mission ... this breach was not the cause of the catastrophic situation, since the su-27 aircraft was practically never within its boundaries ... reports on the crew’s readiness for the flight were produced properly, and it was following their receipt that [v.s.]with a view to preparation of the festivities and organisation of the flight by su-27, the 14th corps command jointly with the air force headquarters took a number of relevant measures: orders were issued; show plans were drafted; agendas were put in place; and air and static display schemes were developed ... the 14th corps commander performed his duties with respect to the preparation of the show in accordance with the applicable law, having properly distributed duties among his subordinates ... issues concerning preparation of the show and supervision over the performance of the delegated tasks were discussed at meetings organised by [s.o.]the first applicant claimed 36,000,000 ukrainian hryvnias (uah) in compensation for non-pecuniary damage for the deaths of her daughter, granddaughters and son-in-law; the second applicant claimed uah 2,000 in compensation for pecuniary damage and uah 6,000,000 for non-pecuniary damage for the deaths of her niece and her family; the third applicant claimed uah 1,000 for pecuniary damage and uah 3,000,000 for non‑pecuniary damage for the deaths of her cousin and her family; and the fourth applicant claimed uah 6,000,000 in compensation for non‑pecuniary damage for the deaths of her granddaughter and her family.
9.  on 6 january 1992 two unknown men took the applicants’ parents, s.c. and p.c., from their home in a. on 7 january 1992 the bodies of the applicants’ parents were driven by municipal employees in a truck to the front of their house.told him that he had not had the time to fully examine the vehicle but that he had seen that the driver and the person in the front passenger seat were dressed in the uniforms of the civil police.21.  on 16 april 1996 the a police interviewed m.c., the brother of the late s.c., who told them that his brother and his brother’s wife had been killed on 6 january 1992. their bodies had been given to him by the police of the “serbian autonomous region of krajina” and he had been allowed to bury them.23.  on 21 september 2000 the c police interviewed the applicants, who had learned from b.ž., who lived with their parents during the relevant period, that x and y had been charged with the killing of the applicants’ parents.26.  on 14 january 2005 interpol in washington informed the croatian authorities that the department of homeland security in cleveland, ohio, had a valid location for y. on 19 january 2005 the ministry of the interior informed the ministry of justice, asking the latter to institute proceedings for y’s extradition.30.  in april 2009 the us department of homeland security asked the croatian ministry of justice for legal assistance in connection with the criminal investigation pending against y in the united states on charges of attempted procurement of united states citizenship by fraud, and fraud and misuse of visas, permits and other official documents.34.  on 13 august 2008 the croatian ministry of justice sent a note to the serbian ministry of justice to the effect that, according to an agreement between the two states, each state party had the right to communicate in its own language and to submit documents in that language without the need for translations.36.  on 16 march 2006 the applicants brought a civil action against the state in the c municipal court (općinski sud u c), seeking non-pecuniary damages in the amount of 500,000 croatian kuna (hrk) each (about 65,500 euros (eur)), in connection with the killing of their parents.the relevant part of that judgment reads as follows: “the plaintiffs in the first-instance proceedings based their claim for damages on the provisions of the 2003 liability act .... it is necessary to point to the content of section 3 of that act, which provides that the obligation to compensate for damage exists irrespective of whether the person responsible has been identified, criminally prosecuted or found guilty.however, having regard to the correct establishment of the facts by the first-instance court, which found that the events at issue had occurred on 7 january 1992 in the village of j, in the then occupied territory of the republic of croatia which at that time was under the control of illegal formations of the “serbian republic of krajina” and outside the control of the republic of croatia and its lawful bodies, the appellant’s submission that [the killing of the plaintiffs’ parents] ... amounted to war-related damage is well-founded.section 2 of the act on the assessment of war-related damage ... provides that war-related damage is damage caused by enemy or illegal groups, or legal bodies of the republic of croatia, as well as accomplices of these groups and bodies, where that damage occurred directly or indirectly at the time specified in section 1 of that act (from 15 august 1990 until the end of hostilities and war operations conducted against the republic of croatia).therefore, given the nature, place and time of the events at issue (the killing of innocent civilians in the occupied territory of the republic of croatia during the homeland war), it is to be concluded that the events at issue are to be legally classified as war-related damage and that the appellant is not responsible for them or for the damage thus caused....” 38.  this judgment was upheld by the supreme court on 19 june 2012. the court endorsed the county court’s finding that the killing of the applicants’ parents amounted to war-related damage and added, in so far as relevant, the following: “even though the act giving rise to the plaintiffs’ claim for damages presents certain similarities with a terrorist act since [both] imply [an act of] violence, the act of damage [in the present case] differs significantly from terrorist acts in its features since it contains additional elements and amounts to war-related damage for which the defendant is not liable.this is because the damage did not occur in the territory under the de facto sovereignty of the republic of croatia but in the then occupied territory, where there was no possibility for lawful action by the bodies of the republic of croatia; this circumstance excludes the otherwise objective liability of the defendant.furthermore, the act of damage in the present case was not carried out with the sole aim of seriously disturbing public order (this being the aim characteristic of an act of terror) but also involved the use of force, killing and expulsion of the civilian population on that territory with the aim of destroying the internal security and stability of the republic of croatia and preventing its lawful bodies from functioning.
the applicant’s wife was granted a residence permit in the city of gaziantep pending her asylum request, but the applicant was not able to obtain one as he could not pay the requisite fee for the permit.10.  on 13 may 2012 the ministry of the interior (“the ministry”) requested the offices of the istanbul and gaziantep governors to notify the applicant that he would be accommodated at the airport detention facility pending a decision on his asylum request.the applicant was notified of this decision on 31 may 2012. he was also informed on that date that he could lodge an objection to the ministry’s decision within seventy-two hours, that he would be deported in the event of the dismissal of his objection and that he would continue to be accommodated in the airport detention facility in the meantime.16.  the applicant claimed that the detention facility at sabiha gökçen airport where he had been kept for sixty-eight days between 4 may and 10 july 2012 had been a room of about 20 square metres and that, while the numbers had fluctuated, the room had accommodated up to fifteen people at times.(b)  kumkapı removal centre 17.  the applicant claimed that the kumkapı removal centre had been severely overcrowded at the time of his detention.18.  the government claimed that the room in which the applicant had been held at sabiha gökçen airport had measured 53.73 square metres.they did not, however, submit any documents in support of that submission, such as a list of the detainees kept in the detention facility during the relevant period.(b)  kumkapı removal centre 19.  the government stated that the kumkapı removal centre’s capacity had been reduced from 560 to 300, in line with recommendations made by the european committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment (“the cpt”), following its visit in june 2009. accordingly, the number of detainees during the period of the applicant’s detention had never exceeded 300. they did not, however, submit the registers recording the occupation rates during the period in question.20.  the government stated that the detainees had been accommodated on three floors at the removal centre: the first two floors had been reserved for male detainees, and the third floor for females.while the government claimed in their observations that there had been five dormitory rooms on each floor, measuring 50, 69, 76 and 84 square metres respectively, the information note prepared by the ministry and appended to their observations indicated that there had been only four rooms on the first floor, measuring 50, 58, 76 and 84 square metres, and five rooms on both the second and third floors, measuring 50, 58, 69, 76 and 84 square metres.the government stated that they were not able to provide information as to the exact number of people that the applicant had shared a room with, because detainees had been left to make their own choice of rooms.the detainees had had the right to outdoor exercise in suitable weather conditions, as well as the right to engage in sports and watch television.as for hygiene standards in the facility, there had been six cleaning staff working full time at the removal centre, and the building had been disinfected at certain times.22.  in support of their claims, the government submitted, inter alia, photographs of two of the dormitory rooms, both of which appeared well-lit and fairly clean, as well as of the hallway and the cafeteria on one of the floors reserved for male detainees.no other furniture, such as tables and chairs, was present in the rooms; there were blankets on the beds in only one of the rooms and the other room had no bedding at all.
5.  the applicant was born in 1972. he was detained at the gaziantep foreigners’ removal centre (“the gaziantep removal centre”) at the time of the events giving rise to this application.6.  in 2000 the applicant fled to turkey because he was being searched for by the russian authorities.7.  subsequent to his departure from russia, criminal proceedings were brought against the applicant by the russian authorities before the cerkessk city court on the following charges: (i) participation in an armed insurrection and membership of an armed organisation with the purpose of overthrowing the constitutional order and violating the territorial integrity of the russian federation and (ii) possessing firearms and ammunition.it appears that the cerkessk city court issued a detention order in respect of the applicant in his absence.8.  on 24 january 2008 the applicant was taken into police custody in istanbul in the context of an operation against al-qaeda.he was subsequently taken to gaziantep, where he was placed in pre-trial detention at the gaziantep h-type prison upon the order of the gaziantep magistrate’s court.10.  on 28 january 2009 the adana assize court ordered the applicant’s release from the gaziantep h-type prison.there is no further information in the case file as regards the outcome of the criminal proceedings.11.  following his release from prison on 28 january 2009, the applicant was placed in detention at the gaziantep removal centre, which is attached to the gaziantep security directorate.12.  on an unspecified date the russian authorities requested the extradition of the applicant.on 3 april 2009 the gaziantep assize court refused that request, holding that the offences in question were of a political nature and that under international and national laws, alleged perpetrators of such offences could not be extradited.14.  in the meantime, on 8 april 2010 the applicant submitted a petition to the ministry of the interior (“the ministry”), where he requested to be released and to be granted a residence permit.the applicant’s objection to that decision was further dismissed by the ministry on 10 june 2010.15.  on 24 july 2010 the applicant was released from the gaziantep removal centre, on the condition that he leave turkey within fifteen days.16.  according to the information in the case file, the applicant met with his lawyer a total of nine times between 3 march 2009 and 27 july 2010 during his detention at the gaziantep removal centre.
7.  on 17 february 1998 the novi sad municipal court (hereinafter “the municipal court”) ruled in favour of the applicant, ordering vojvodina bfc (hereinafter “the debtor”) to pay him, within fifteen days, the sum of 110,550 dinars (rsd – approximately 10,000 euros (eur) at the time) and rsd 8,500 (approximately eur 730) in costs, together with statutory interest.9.  on 25 december 1998 the applicant informed the court that the debtor did not have sufficient funds in its bank account and proposed that the judgment be enforced by the sale of the debtor’s immovable assets situated on the premises of the vojvodina sports and business centre.11.  on 25 december 2002 the central bank in novi sad informed the court that the debtor’s bank account had been frozen.12.  on 14 march 2003 the applicant informed the court of another bank account in the debtor’s name.on 9 may 2003 he asked the court not to carry out the enforcement by sale of the debtor’s immovable assets as he had asked previously, because it appeared that assets did not belong to the debtor, but to the basketball club nis-vojvodina.14.  on 25 june 2003 the central bank in novi sad informed the court that the account details the applicant had provided did not concern the debtor but the basketball club nis-vojvodina, and that the debtor’s account was still frozen.16.  on 1 april 2004 a three judge panel of the municipal court (hereinafter “the panel”) refused to hear the appeal until the enforcement judge determined the debtor’s liabilities.18.  on 19 october 2004 the municipal court asked the applicant to comment on nis-vojvodina’s submission and propose another method of enforcement.19.  as the applicant failed to do so, on 11 january 2005 the municipal court suspended (obustavio) the enforcement against nis-vojvodina.20.  on 14 february 2005 the panel instructed the enforcement judge to establish if there was any relationship between the debtor and nis‑vojvodina before transferring the file back to it again.21.  on 30 may 2005 the ministry of education and sport informed the municipal court that the applicant’s debtor had appeared on their register of sports organisations since 3 august 1999, while nis-vojvodina had never been registered.22.  in the proceedings that followed, the enforcement judge, relying on the ministry’s information note of 30 may 2005, found that nis-vojvodina was not the debtor’s legal successor and transferred the case file to the panel on 1 september 2005.24.  on 1 september 2011 the novi sad commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor and adopted the restructuring plan it had devised.according to the plan, the debtor would pay the applicant rsd 1,229,332.42 (approximately eur 10,000) over five years, paying him one fifth of the total amount each year.on 17 september 2012 the debtor paid the applicant one fifth of the above-mentioned sum, that is to say rsd 245,866.48 (approximately eur 2,000).
on 25 december 2003 the privatisation transaction and un.’s title to the flat were registered by the moscow city committee for registration of real estate transactions (the “city registration committee”).9.  on an unspecified date the prosecutor’s office opened a criminal investigation into un.’s activities in respect of the flat and on 5 may 2005 the golovinskiy district court of moscow found him guilty of fraud and sentenced him to a term of imprisonment.the flat was transferred to the department for housing of the city of moscow (the “housing department”).10.  on 30 august 2005 the district court granted claims lodged by the prosecutor on behalf of the city authorities and ordered the annulment of un.’s marriage certificate and the privatisation agreement, and the revocation of his title to the flat.was released in 2011, having served a prison sentence for fraud, the city authorities had not yet informed the city registration committee of the judgments of 5 may and 30 august 2005. un.was therefore still officially registered as the flat’s owner and on 28 october 2011 he sold the flat to s. on 8 november 2011 the city registration committee registered the sale agreement and s.’s title to the flat.the sale agreement was registered by the city registration committee on 29 december 2011. the applicant moved in and resided in the flat with his girlfriend.13.  on an unspecified date the housing department brought a civil claim against the applicant seeking, inter alia, (1) the revocation of the applicant’s title to the flat and his eviction; and (2) restitution of the flat to the city of moscow.nevertheless, relying on article 302 of the russian civil code, the court granted the housing department’s claims, pointing out that it remained open to the applicant to sue s. in order to have his rights protected.16.  on 3 june 2013 the city court refused to grant the applicant leave to lodge a cassation appeal against the judgments of 30 october and 12 march 2013.17.  on 12 february 2014 the supreme court of the russian federation, in a single-judge formation, dismissed a cassation appeal lodged by the applicant against the judgments of 30 october and 12 march 2013.18.  on 26 july 2013 the district bailiff’s service instituted enforcement proceedings in respect of the judgment of 30 october 2012. according to the applicant, he was evicted on 18 november 2013.19.  on 22 january 2014 the sergiyev posad town court of the moscow region granted a claim for damages against s. lodged by the applicant and awarded him 4,330,000 russian roubles (rub).20.  on an unspecified date the bailiff instituted enforcement proceedings in respect of the judgment of 22 january 2014. on 17 june 2014 the proceedings were discontinued as it had been impossible to establish s.’s whereabouts.21.  according to the government, on 14 august 2014 the bailiff’s superior quashed the decision of 17 june 2014 and the enforcement proceedings are still pending.
4.  the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in diyarbakır.5.  at the time of the events in question the applicant was the vice‑president of hak-par (hak ve özgürlükler partisi – the rights and freedoms party).6.  on 4 january 2004 the party held its first ordinary congress at a restaurant in ankara, where the applicant was elected by the delegates to act as the meeting’s chairman.7.  on 28 february 2005 a public prosecutor at the ankara public prosecutor’s office filed an indictment with the ankara criminal court of first instance against thirteen members of hak-par, including the applicant, for acting in violation of section 81 (c) of law no.2820 during the congress on the grounds, inter alia, that there had been banners in kurdish and that most of the speeches given by the delegates had been in kurdish.8.  the applicant acknowledged before the first-instance court that he had not intervened as the chairman when certain delegates had spoken in kurdish.in this connection, he submitted that, as a founder member of hak‑par, he believed that kurdish should be used in all areas of life; that those who spoke kurdish were speaking in their mother tongue; and that he believed that it was neither legal nor ethical for him to intervene to force people to speak in a language other than their mother tongue.he maintained that such speeches could not have constituted an offence, when taking into account laws that had been enacted in compliance with the conditions for membership of the european union, and the provisions of the european convention on human rights.in this connection, the applicant also submitted that the relevant provisions of law no.9.  on 7 december 2005 the first-instance court dismissed an application from the defendants to suspend the proceedings and transfer the case to the constitutional court for examination of the compatibility of the relevant provisions with the constitution.10.  on 14 february 2007 the ankara criminal court of first instance convicted the applicant of the charges.in particular, the court considered that the applicant had, despite warnings from a government superintendent present at the congress, continued to allow certain delegates to give their speeches in kurdish, in breach of section 81 (c) of law no.2820. the applicant was sentenced to one year’s imprisonment.11.  on 23 march 2011 the court of cassation quashed the judgment of the first-instance court on the ground that the latter had failed to give any consideration to whether the conditions for suspending the delivery of the judgment against the defendants, pursuant to article 231 of the code of criminal procedure, had been met.12.  on 6 december 2011 the ankara criminal court of first instance ordered that the criminal proceedings against the applicant and the other defendants be terminated, on the ground that the statutory time-limit prescribed under domestic law had expired.
on 8 february 2010 the simonovskiy district court of moscow granted her claim and recognised her title to f.’s flat.8.  on 14 may 2010 n. sold the flat to k. the transaction was registered by the federal registration service.9.  on 24 june 2010 the moscow city court quashed the judgment of 8 february 2010 on appeal and dismissed n.’s claims.10.  on 6 july 2010 k. sold the flat to the applicant.on 21 july 2010 the federal registration service registered the sale agreement and the transfer of the title to the flat to the applicant.11.  on an unspecified date the housing department brought a civil action claiming that n. had been erroneously recognised as f.’s heir-at-law and that the city of moscow should inherit his property instead.12.  on 8 november 2012 the district court granted the housing department’s claims.it ordered the transfer of title to the flat to the city and the requisition of the flat from the applicant.the court also considered that the applicant had not demonstrated due diligence when buying the flat from k. and could not be recognised as a bona fide purchaser.13.  on 4 february 2013, following an appeal by the applicant, the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 8 november 2012.14.  on 15 april 2015 the district court granted the housing department’s claims against the applicant and ordered her eviction.15.  according to the government, the applicant has not been evicted and continues to reside in the flat.16.  on 9 december 2013 the perovskiy district court of moscow granted a claim by the applicant for damages against k. and awarded her, inter alia, 4,060,006 russian roubles (rub).k. appealed.17.  on 20 march 2014 the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 9 december 2013 on appeal.
5.  at the time of the events giving rise to the present application, the applicant’s daughter, serpil i̇mren, worked as a secretary for a private company engaged in the trade of mineral oil, namely kros petrol madeni yağ turizm i̇nşaat emlak i̇th.6.  upon being informed of the fire, three police officers arrived at the scene of the incident at approximately 9.30 a.m. on 18 december 2002. they prepared a report describing the state of the premises in the aftermath of the fire and a sketch map of the scene of the incident.8.  at 11 a.m. the police interrogated two suspects in relation to the fire, namely m.y., serpil i̇mren’s colleague who had apparently started the fire, and k.n.y., who was the owner of the company for which serpil i̇mren was working.13.  relying on the inspectors’ findings regarding the lack of precautions necessary for the prevention of fires in the deceased’s workplace, on 18 april 2003 the applicant lodged a new complaint with the ankara public prosecutor’s office against the owner of the company, k.n.y.20.  in the meantime, on 6 may 2004 the ankara assize court ordered the employer’s insurance company to provide the accident report prepared in the aftermath of the incident, along with photographs and any other documents relevant to the incident.21.  relying mainly on the reports issued by the court-appointed experts and the inspectors of the ministry, as well as the report of the forensic medicine institute, on 29 april 2005 the ankara assize court convicted the defendants as charged and sentenced each of them to ten months’ imprisonment and a fine.22.  on 1 may 2006 the public prosecutor’s office attached to the court of cassation remitted the case to the ankara assize court for reassessment of the sentence in the light of the new criminal code (law no.24. on 13 october 2008 the court of cassation quashed the ankara assize court’s judgment of 17 november 2006. it found that the first‑instance court had to consider whether the procedure of suspension of pronouncement of judgments (hükmün açıklanmasının geri bırakılması) provided for in section 231 of the code of criminal procedure (law no.it held that the pronouncement of the judgment could not be suspended having regard, inter alia, to the nature of the offence and the gravity of the incident.26.  on 27 december 2010 the court of cassation held that the criminal proceedings should be discontinued on the grounds that the prosecution of the offence in question had become time-barred.27.  on 18 july 2003 the applicant initiated proceedings against k.n.y., the owner of the company for which her daughter had worked, before the ankara 13th labour court (“the labour court”) requesting compensation in respect of pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage following her daughter’s death.30.  it appears from the information in the case file that during the three hearings held in april, june and october 2004, the labour court heard the parties’ witnesses (four witnesses in total).35.  at its first hearing following the termination of the criminal proceedings, which was held on 3 may 2011, the labour court ordered the appointment of an expert to determine the applicant’s pecuniary damage as a result of her daughter’s death.36.  on 26 november 2012 the court-appointed expert delivered the report on the extent of the damage suffered by the applicant.it also appears from the applicant’s undisputed allegations that during the time it took to reach a decision on her civil claim, the company had closed down and the damages ordered by the court against that company could therefore not be collected.
having regard to the written submissions the applicant had made on the charges to the prosecution, the court found the applicant guilty of withholding and embezzlement of employee salaries and sentenced her to a fine of 100 daily rates of eur 50.7.  according to the record of service, a form containing several options as to the way in which court mail was served, which was issued by a courier and returned to the district court, the courier had attempted to hand over the penal order to the applicant at her residence on 7 november 2008 at 2.10 p.m. as this had not been possible, the courier had served the penal order on the applicant by placing it in the mailbox appurtenant to her residence (article 180 of the code of civil procedure, see paragraph 29 below).she argued that her objection was not time-barred as the penal order had not been served on her on 7 november 2008. she had only learnt about the existence of a penal order issued against her on 20 december 2008 when she had found in her mailbox a bill of the court cashier requesting her to pay the fine imposed in the penal order.he claimed that he, the applicant, the applicant’s mother who was living in the same house as the applicant and the applicant’s husband who lived in london had all been at the applicant’s house at the time the penal order had allegedly been served.the applicant’s mother stated, in particular, that she had paid special attention when her daughter took the mail out of the mailbox as, owing to the fact that they lived in the same house, part of her mail was sometimes put into her daughter’s mailbox.15.  the district court was also of the view that there was no reason to grant the applicant reinstatement of the proceedings, as it was not apparent why the applicant had been prevented, through no fault of her own, from submitting her objection against the penal order within the two-week time‑limit after the delivery of 7 november 2008.16.  the court found that the record of service had probative value for the fact that the penal order had been put into the applicant’s mailbox by the courier on 7 november 2008 (article 418 of the code of civil procedure, see paragraph 29 below).17.  in its assessment of evidence, the frankfurt am main district court had regard to the written statement of the courier who had delivered the applicant’s penal order, whom it had had interviewed by the police as a witness.the courier had explained that she had been registered with j. company to help her husband with the delivery of the court mail since october 2008. when asked by the police to describe how she had delivered official court letters she had stated that official court letters had always been in yellow envelopes.she confirmed that the signature on the record of service concerning the applicant was hers, the date and the time had been filled in by her husband.as it had been proved by the record of service that the penal order had been put into the applicant’s mailbox, potential shortcomings by the courier’s failure to ring the doorbell first – which according to the applicant would have resulted in her dogs barking, which they allegedly had not done at the relevant time – would, in any event, have been remedied by the actual service.she claimed, in particular, that according to articles in a national newspaper, the unreliability of the postal service company j. had been revealed, inter alia, by the oldenburg court of appeal and the kiel regional court and that an aachen local newspaper had reported that court mail had been found in a refuse shed.the courier had described the service of the penal order by way of putting a written notice into the addressee’s mailbox, which constituted a substituted service in accordance with article 181 of the code of civil procedure (see paragraph 29 below).the court, essentially endorsing the reasons given by the district court, confirmed the district court’s finding that the penal order had effectively been served on the applicant on 7 november when placed in the applicant’s mailbox (article 37 of the code of criminal procedure, read in conjunction with article 180 of the code of civil procedure, see paragraphs 28-29 below).the affirmations in lieu of oaths could not prove that the penal order had not been in the mailbox on 7 november 2008. the affirming persons had not testified that they had constantly paid special attention to a possible ringing of the doorbell.
he was charged, inter alia, with assisting in the commission outside the united kingdom of an offence punishable under the law of guyana (the export of drugs from that country), contrary to section 20 of the misuse of drugs act 1971, and with the attempted importation of drugs to the united kingdom.therefore, before the trial the prosecution applied to the court for the following security measures:  the assignment of a security team to chaperone the jury at all times;  the identification of the jury by number and not by name;  the verification by police of the identity of anyone wishing to enter the courtroom’s public gallery;  the search of members of the public entering the building;  the retention of all visitors’ mobile telephones during the trial;  the erection of protective screens to shield the jury and the applicant from the public gallery; and  the covering of the glass panels in the doors to the court room to prevent people seeing into the room.12.  it was accepted by the prosecution and the defence that the main issue in the case was whether or not the applicant had intended to import drugs into the united kingdom.13.  it was the prosecution’s case that the applicant had purchased the cocaine in guyana under the assumed name of “david keen”, the manager of a company called premier molasses, and that he had intended to import the cocaine into the united kingdom.although there was one witness in guyana who stated that the drums containing the cocaine were to be offloaded in antwerp and transported to the netherlands (see paragraph 31 below), the prosecution argued that this had been an attempt by the applicant to set up a defence should he be caught.he further claimed that, as a consequence, the “discrepancy” between the evidence of bt and vo could not be further investigated as the prosecution indicated that there was a danger that the prohibition on the disclosure of intercept evidence (including telephone intercept evidence) might be compromised (see sections 17 and 18 of the regulation of investigatory powers act 2000 (“ripa”) at paragraphs 55-56 below).in the course of the discussion, the defence argued that, since they could not seek disclosure of intercept evidence, when any such issue arose the prosecution should be obliged to satisfy themselves that there was nothing in the material to which they had or could have access which would either undermine their case or assist the defence case.34.  on the measures taken to ensure the safety of the jury, the trial judge said: “let me remind you of what i said at the beginning of the case about the special security measures taken during the trial.it just demonstrates how careful we must be and assumptions can often be wrong.” 35.  in relation to the reading of vo’s statements, the trial judge directed the jury: “[a]s you know the general rule in the courts is that unless evidence is agreed it has to be given orally from the witness box, unless there is an admission, or there is an agreement on both sides.on the contrary, the prosecution have been allowed to adduce the evidence; the defence do not accept a word of it - they say that he is on it and that he has acted in a thoroughly dishonest way.” 36.  he then considered the practical difficulties that arose in relation to vo’s evidence: “[a]s he did not come to court, his evidence does have certain limitations and i want to draw them to your attention.so you must, therefore, consider the evidence of [vo] in the light of those limitations and you should only act upon it if, having taken those matters into account, you are, nevertheless, sure that it is reliable.” 37.  the trial judge gave a similar warning as to the limitations of vo’s evidence in the absence of cross-examination just before he summarised vo’s evidence.38.  after this, and having reviewed the efforts made to oblige vo to attend court, the trial judge stated: “what i seek to emphasise, in fairness to the defendant is that when you assess the evidence of [vo], you look at all the circumstances, throw it all into the melting pot, all the warnings that i have given you, take it all into account and then decide the weight you can properly attach to it; it is a matter for you.” 39.  whilst they were considering their verdict, the jury asked for – but was refused – copies of the transcripts of vo’s statements.44.  first, it was argued that the admission of vo’s statements had violated article 6 of the convention and, in particular, that the trial judge would never have allowed the statements to be read had he been aware that bt’s evidence regarding the “n” telephone call would cast doubt on vo’s reliability.while the statement by him that the container was intended for the united kingdom was damaging to the applicant’s case, the applicant had the evidence that was available before the jury to the effect that he had identified particular pallets that were to come out of the container at antwerp [the evidence of the guyana shipping agent aa].it was of assistance to the applicant to have the evidence of [vo] about the instructions that the cargo had been sold to a dutch company.” 50.  the court was therefore not satisfied that there would have been any positive advantage to the defence in calling vo and thus concluded that there was no arguable basis for criticising the admission of his statements.
6.  on various dates, criminal proceedings were instituted against the applicants in uzbekistan on suspicion of sedition; of creating, leading and of being members of a religious fundamentalist, extremist, separatist or other prohibited organisation; and, in respect of the first applicant, of the distribution of material threatening public order and causing incitement to ethnic or religious hatred.11.  on 16 june 2010 the police applied to the irpin town court (“the town court”) for the applicant’s arrest under provisions of the code of criminal procedure concerning arrest of people suspected of criminal offences in ukraine.14.  on 24 june 2010 the town court, acting under the amended provisions of the code of criminal procedure concerning extradition, issued an order for the applicant’s provisional arrest for forty days, pending the receipt of an extradition request from the uzbek authorities.15.  on 23 july 2010 the kyiv shevchenkivsky district court (“the shevchenkivsky court”), upon an application by the general prosecutor’s office of ukraine (“the gpo”), ordered the applicant’s arrest pending extradition, for a period not to exceed eighteen months, until the extradition proceedings had been completed.29.  in his submissions to the kyiv-svyatoshyn court, the applicant opposed the police request on the grounds, in particular, that the proceedings concerning his request for asylum were still pending.4.  extradition inquiry in respect of the first three applicants and applications for asylum in sweden and the united states of america 37.  on 9 july 2010 the gpo received formal requests from the uzbek authorities for the first and third applicant’s extradition and on 27 july 2010 received a similar request concerning the second applicant.38.  on 10 july 2010 the gpo asked the security service and the ministry of foreign affairs for information about the first applicant, in particular whether he was being persecuted by the uzbek authorities owing to political or religious activities.39.  on the same dates, the gpo asked the uzbek authorities to provide more detailed information about the acts of which the applicants were suspected and for assurances concerning the applicants’ treatment if they were extradited.42.  on 24 august and 16 november 2010 the gpo, in response to its previous request, received copies of documents from the uzbek authorities describing the nature of the charges against the third and first applicants in uzbekistan.43.  on 14 october 2010 the ambassador of the united states of america (“the us”) to ukraine asked the gpo to facilitate a visit to the detained uzbek nationals on 15 and 21 october 2010 by representatives of the us department of homeland security for interviews as part of the process of examining their requests for asylum in the us.45.  on 22 november 2010 the gpo received the reports of the kyiv regional prosecutor’s office on the results of its extradition inquiries concerning the applicants.the reports recommended that the applicants’ extradition be refused, pursuant to paragraph 4 of article 466 of the code of criminal procedure which provides that extradition can be refused where “the competent authority of the foreign state has not provided, at the request of the central authority, additional materials or data, without which a decision on the extradition request may not be taken”.it referred to the visit of the us officials to the first and third applicant and to information provided to the gpo by the second applicant’s lawyer that his application for asylum was pending before the us authorities.51.  on 10 and 20 february 2012 the gpo decided not to extradite the third and first applicants to uzbekistan in view of the fact that they had been granted asylum in the us and sweden respectively.the gpo also observed that the information originally submitted by the uzbek authorities in support of their requests for extradition had been insufficient and that the uzbek authorities had not remedied that, despite the gpo’s requests.
he stated that his objection was based on moral values stemming from the religious education he had received from his mother, a jehovah’s witness, and on his own approach to life, involving the rejection of anything linked to war, violence or destruction in all its forms.i have decided to get baptised, but to do so i still need to make further progress and study the scriptures and the word of god in more detail.answer: no; for me, religious reasons take priority over reasons linked to morals ...” 10.  only three of the five members of the special committee were present when it interviewed the applicant, namely two officers of the armed forces and an adviser of the state legal council.firstly, he was not a member of the jehovah’s witnesses community, and secondly, he had not shown that he had taken part in non-violent movements; on the contrary, he had stated that self-defence was not a form of violence and that people should submit to lawful authority.12.  on 30 july 2013 the minister of national defence rejected the application on the grounds proposed by the special committee.13.  on 5 september 2013 the applicant applied to the supreme administrative court for judicial review of the decision by the minister of national defence.14.  firstly, he challenged the composition of the special committee that had adjudicated on his case, and complained in particular that the two university professors had been absent on that occasion.he submitted that as a result of their absence and the failure to replace them, the very nature of the committee had been distorted, since the military officers had formed a majority among the three members present.in the applicant’s view, the officers were inherently ill-disposed towards conscientious objectors and did not have the expertise in philosophy and psychology to make an objective assessment of the grounds put forward by them.15.  secondly, the applicant argued that the minister’s decision had not contained sufficient reasons, seeing that (a) it had incorrectly mentioned that he had cited religious grounds without being an adherent of a religion; and (b) the members of the committee had displayed prejudice by asserting that conscientious objectors had to be activists and anti-authority or to publicise their views, whereas the law did not lay down any such conditions.16.  thirdly, the applicant complained of an infringement of his right to conscientious objection, arguing that the mere assertion of that right, coupled with his behaviour in practice (not possessing a firearms licence or having any convictions for offences involving violence), was sufficient to justify his application for exemption from armed service.18.  in response to his first argument, it noted that the members of the committee sat on an equal basis and that the absence of two of the members therefore had no effect on the quorum and did not distort the nature of the committee.19.  with regard to his second argument, the supreme administrative court explained that, after examining whether the applicant was a follower of a religion that prohibited the use of force, whether he had taken part in non-violent movements and whether his philosophy of life prevented him from handling weapons, the committee had concluded that his conscientious objection was not accompanied by corresponding behaviour.it also dismissed his argument that opponents to the use of violence who did not publicly identify themselves as such were victims of discrimination, holding that the law required clear proof of their beliefs and that, moreover, the fact of not falling within the exceptions provided for by law was insufficient.21.  on 19 may 2014 the applicant was ordered to pay a fine of 6,000 euros (eur) for insubordination; with interest for late payment, the amount was increased to eur 7,940.85. on 11 july 2014 the applicant applied to the mytilene administrative court to have the fine set aside.
8.  pursuant to a memorandum of understanding of 9 november 1947 (“the tripartite agreement”), the governments of the united kingdom, india and nepal agreed that the salary of gurkhas serving in the british army would be set by reference to rates applied by india in respect of indian soldiers so as to avoid competition between the indian and british armies for gurkha recruits.these allowances used to be calculated by reference to local living expenses (for example, in hong kong or brunei), but in 1997, when the brigade’s home base moved to the united kingdom, a “universal addition” was introduced to ensure that, whenever a gurkha soldier was serving outside nepal, his take-home pay would be similar to that of a non-gurkha soldier in the british army of comparable rank and experience.(a)  the 2004 amendments to the immigration rules 13.  on 25 october 2004 the immigration rules (hc 394) were changed to permit gurkha soldiers with at least four years’ service who retired on or after 1 july 1997 (the date that the gurkha’s home base relocated to the united kingdom) to apply for settlement in the united kingdom.(b)  the 2009 amendments to the immigration rules 14.  on 21 may 2009 the secretary of state for the home department announced a new policy under which all former gurkhas who had served in the british army for at least four years would be eligible for settlement in the united kingdom.the rationale for the increase was that a gurkha who retired from the brigade to nepal would not receive the benefit of various schemes which soldiers retiring from the indian army could access, such as the provision of certain medical facilities.the review noted that the 2004 amendment to the immigration rules and the changes to married accompanied service (see paragraph 9 above) had changed the traditional assumption that british gurkhas would retire in nepal, and pointed to a future in which they could be expected increasingly to regard the united kingdom, rather than nepal, as their family base.23.  with regard to pensions, the review concluded that on balance the gps was more suitable than the afps to support the life-cycle of the great majority of gurkhas up until july 1997. however, moving the brigade’s base to the united kingdom and the subsequent change to the immigration rules had altered the previously valid assumption that gurkhas would retire in nepal.as the life profile of the typical gurkha approaches that of his uk/commonwealth counterpart, there can be little to be said in favour of providing them with such different pension benefit profiles.” 24.  the report recommended that serving and retired members of the brigade should be allowed to transfer from the gps to either afps 75 or 05, depending on when they enlisted.a gurkha transferring to either afps will be given fair pension value for his gps service.” 27.  under the actuarial calculation adopted by the government, a year’s service before 1 july 1997 translated – in terms of pension entitlement – to the equivalent of between 23 and 36 per cent of the value of a year’s service of a non-gurkha soldier of equivalent rank.however, as they had been in receipt of the gps pension from around the age of thirty-three, the capital value of the pension pot at retirement age would be reduced by the payments received under the gps up to that date.33.  on 7 march 2008 the applicants issued an application for judicial review in the high court challenging the legality of both (a) the decision that gurkhas who retired prior to 1 july 1997 were not entitled to transfer their pension rights under the gps into the afps and (b) the decision that, for those gurkhas who retired after 1 july 1997, service before that date did not rank on a year-for-year basis.a hearing took place in october 2009. at the hearing the parties agreed that the 2009 change to the immigration rules (see paragraph 14 above) was irrelevant for the purpose of the proceedings.in respect of the age discrimination challenge the high court relied on its earlier decision in r (gurung) v. ministry of defence [2008] ewhc 1496 (admin) (summarised at paragraphs 45 – 49 below), in which it held that the difference in treatment did not occur due to the difference in age but due to the dates at which service had been rendered.37.  in respect of the discrimination-on-grounds-of-nationality challenge the high court considered that it was bound by r (purja and others) v. ministry of defence [2003] ewca civ 1345 (summarised at paragraphs 41 – 44 below), in which the court of appeal had ruled that gurkhas with service before 1 july 1997 were in a markedly different position from other soldiers serving in the british army before that date.although the high court accepted that the 2004 change in the immigration rules (see paragraph 13 above) undermined some of the assumptions supporting the decision in purja, it held that the changes did not affect the reasoning of the court of appeal as that reasoning applied to the calculation of pension entitlements which accrued before 1 july 1997. for all the reasons advanced by the high court judge in gurung, the high court considered that the choice of 1 july 1997 to mark the boundary for different treatment of accrued pension was a rational and reasonable one.
6.  the applicant alleged that during his stay in police custody between 29 and 31 october 2004 he had been tortured by unspecified police officers, as a result of which he had confessed to having committed the crimes of which he was suspected.in the course of a medical examination on 1 november 2004 the doctors noted a number of bruises and lesions on the applicant’s limbs, chest and back the applicant alleges that no medical treatment was given to him for his injuries.7.  the applicant stated that he had subsequently brought his allegation of ill-treatment by the police before the trial courts but the courts had not responded to it.in particular, his clothes were taken away from him and instead he was given special orange clothes bearing the words “life imprisonment” in large print on the front and back; when leaving his cell the applicant had at all times been escorted by a special unit of guards in black uniforms with masks covering their faces.15.  the applicant alleged that in the course of the investigations and the trial he had been prohibited from corresponding by ordinary mail with his relatives and his counsel and from making telephone calls.17.  the applicant stated, in general terms, that following his conviction on 24 march 2005 he had not been allowed to have long meetings with his relatives and that the duration and frequency of the short visits they had been permitted to make had been considerably limited.the next day, due to the latter’s failure to appear, the applicant was assisted by a lawyer appointed for him by the authorities.19.  in the course of the investigation and trial, the applicant admitted that he had committed the murders and the attempted murder of which he was suspected.20.  the criminal investigation of the applicant’s case was completed in january 2005. subsequently, the criminal case was referred to the kyiv regional court of appeal for trial.21.  on 24 march 2005 the court found the applicant guilty of the aggravated murder of two persons ‒ one of whom was a minor ‒ and of the attempted murder of another person, with the aim of stealing the victims’ property.the court based its judgment on statements made by the applicant during the investigation and at the trial, the testimonies of one of the victims and six witnesses – one of whom had caught the applicant at the scene of the crime − and the conclusions of several forensic examinations, including a psychiatric examination which found that the applicant had been aware and in control of his actions at the time of the offences.24.  in his appeal, the applicant’s lawyer contested the first-instance court’s finding that the applicant had committed the murders with the aim of stealing the victims’ property.26.  in december 2005 the applicant requested that the kyiv regional court of appeal provide him with copies of certain documents from his case file, including the verbatim records of his questioning during the investigation, the decisions concerning his detention, and various procedural decisions taken in the course of the investigation and trial, which he intended to submit to the court in support of his application.in a letter dated 19 january 2006, a court of appeal judge informed the applicant that his request had been refused, pointing out that the procedure governing applications to the european court of human rights did not require the submission of the documents of which the applicant had sought copies.27.  on an unspecified date the applicant’s mother, acting on his behalf, made similar requests, which were refused by the deputy president of the court of appeal on 14 and 30 march 2006, on the same grounds.
5.  on 16 march 2001 a senior investigator of the krasnoyarsk regional prosecutor’s office charged the applicant with large-scale trafficking in firearms and ammunition and issued a warrant for his arrest.6.  on 3 june 2002 and in view of the additional charges brought against the applicant another arrest warrant was issued.this decision did not set a time-limit for the applicant’s detention and it has never been served on him.7.  on 27 september 2003 the applicant was arrested in monaco and on 29 april 2005 he was extradited to russia.8.  before his final admission to krasnoyarsk prison, the applicant was held in several different remand prisons and repeatedly complained about his unlawful detention.on the same day the investigator from the krasnoyarsk prosecutor’s office initiated a request for extension of the applicant’s detention.10.  on 31 may 2005 the krasnoyarsk regional court extended the applicant’s detention from 10 may 2005 until 17 august 2005 inclusive.the matter was heard in the presence of the investigator, the prosecutor ‒ who supported the application for extension ‒ and counsel mr v., who left the issue of the applicant’s detention for determination by the court.he submitted in particular that his detention had been contrary to the requirements of the russian constitution and the new code of criminal procedure, that the arrest warrants of 16 march 2001 and 3 june 2002 had never been served on him or his counsel, and that the detention hearing had been held in his absence.13.  on 17 august 2005 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld this detention order on appeal, in the presence of only the prosecutor.14.  on 21 may 2007, after two rounds of proceedings, the regional court found the applicant guilty of attempted murder, causing grievous bodily harm and leadership of a criminal enterprise and sentenced him to eleven years’ imprisonment.15.  on 19 february 2008 the supreme court upheld the conviction.16.  on 20 december 2006 he complained to the zheleznodorozhny district court of krasnoyarsk, which had territorial jurisdiction over the place of his detention, about unjustified delays in the criminal proceedings and a violation of the right to respect for his family life.17.  on 28 december 2006 the district court declared his complaint inadmissible, finding that the matters complained of were outside the court’s jurisdiction.on 27 february 2007 the krasnoyarsk regional court upheld the inadmissibility decision at final instance.
9.  on 9 december 2005 the investigation file was transferred for trial to the leninskiy district court of nizhniy tagil (“the district court”).10.  on an unspecified date the district court appointed counsel to the applicant, mr k. 11.  on 28 march 2006 the district court ordered another outpatient psychiatric expert examination of the applicant upon the prosecutor’s request and ordered that the measure of restraint remain unvaried.12.  on 2 june 2006 the district court held a hearing on extension of the term of the pre-trial detention in the applicant’s absence.15.  on 24 august 2006 the district court held a hearing on extension of the term of the pre-trial detention in the applicant’s absence.16.  on 28 august 2006 the applicant was admitted to the regional psychiatric hospital to undergo an inpatient examination pursuant to the district court’s order of 7 july 2006.17.  on 25 september 2006 a report of the inpatient psychiatric expert examination was drawn up stating that the applicant had been fully capable of understanding the consequences of his actions at the moment of the crime.18.  on 26 october 2006 the district court, having examined the criminal case against the applicant, found him guilty of murder of ms o. and sentenced him to eleven years’ imprisonment.19.  on 8 december 2006 the sverldovsk regional court (“the regional court”) examined in the absence of the applicant or any counsel on his behalf the statement of appeal of 30 june 2006 against the detention order of 2 june 2006 and dismissed it.21.  on 25 december 2006 the applicant requested the district court to restore the time‑limit for lodging an appeal against the detention order of 24 august 2006.22.  on 15 january 2007 the district court granted the request noting that the applicant had been served with a copy of the detention order “untimely”.the applicant was notified of the outcome of the appeal hearing on 5 april 2007.25.  on 30 march 2007 the regional court examined the applicant’s statement of appeal of 23 january 2007 against the detention order of 24 august 2006 in the absence of the applicant or any counsel on his behalf and dismissed it.26.  the date on which the applicant was served with a copy of the appeal decision of 8 december 2006 is at dispute between the parties.according to the government, the applicant was served with it on 7 june 2007. to support their claim, they enclosed a copy of acknowledgement of receipt dated 7 july 2006 stating that the applicant had been served on that date with a copy of a ruling of 7 july 2006. according to the applicant, he was served with the copy after the introduction of the present application before the court, that is, after 14 june 2007.27.  on 2 april 2013 the cherdynskiy district court of the perm region released the applicant on parole.
12.  according to the applicant, he did not have access to the required medication in the hospital, and therefore his condition worsened.15.  at the hearing the doctor who was treating the applicant testified that his condition had significantly deteriorated since the beginning of 2014. he received painkillers in hospital, but effective medical treatment was unavailable, owing to a lack of the required medication.he also stated that the release was not necessary, as the applicant could receive the required medical treatment within the prison system.19.  on 7 april 2015 the chelyabinsk regional court upheld the above decision on appeal, having fully endorsed the reasoning of the lower court.it also noted that, in addition to pain relief and therapy to relieve symptoms, the applicant could have chemotherapy, should the prison hospital receive the required medication.21.  on 27 march 2015 the court decided to apply rule 39, indicating to the government that it was desirable in the interests of the proper conduct of the proceedings that the applicant should be immediately examined by medical experts who were independent of the prison system, with a view to determining: (1) whether the treatment he was receiving in the prison hospital was adequate with regard to his condition; (2) whether his state of health was compatible with detention in prison hospital conditions; and (3) whether his condition required his placement in a specialist, possibly civilian, hospital.22.  on 9 april 2015 the government responded to the court’s letter of 27 march 2015, asserting that the scope and quality of the applicant’s medical treatment in the prison hospital corresponded to his needs.they submitted the following documents: a typed copy of the applicant’s medical file; certificates from detention facilities summarising the applicant’s treatment and describing his state of health; a report by a medical panel of 30 october 2014 confirming his eligibility for early release; a copy of the district court’s decision of 26 january 2015; a statement by the acting head of the hospital in which he noted that the district court had misinterpreted his testimony given on 26 january 2015, as he had never discussed the possibility of the applicant being treated in another hospital; and a statement by the head of the prison hospital in which he confirmed that the cancer treatment was only possible in a special oncological centre, and that he had never argued that it was accessible within the prison system.23.  on 28 may 2015 the applicant’s lawyer submitted that the government had not made arrangements for the independent medical examination indicated by the court to be carried out.however, two independent doctors summoned by the applicant’s lawyer had assessed the quality of his medical treatment in detention and the compatibility of further detention in the prison hospital with his state of health.in an expert report dated 23 may 2015 the doctors had concluded that the treatment the applicant was receiving in the prison hospital was inadequate.the belated diagnosis of prostate cancer and the failure to provide active treatment, such as glandular therapy, radiation therapy or surgery were mentioned among other major shortcomings on the part of the medical authorities.the doctors had also noted that the applicant could not be provided with adequate medical treatment in the prison hospital, because it had no licence for inpatient treatment of cancer patients and urological diseases.26.  at the request of the applicant’s lawyer, mr a. lepekhin, the investigative committee carried out a preliminary inquiry into the circumstances surrounding the applicant’s death, which ended with a decision of 15 october 2015 not to open a criminal case.relevant domestic and international law medical care afforded to detainees 27.  the relevant provisions of russian and international law on the medical care of detainees are set out in the following judgments: ivko v. russia, no.
4.  the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in volgograd.5.  on 26 october 2002 the applicant was arrested on a charge of murder.on 28 october 2002 the traktorozavodskiy district court of volgograd authorised his pre-trial detention.the applicant remained in custody during the investigation and pending the trial.6.  on 24 november 2003 the volgograd regional court scheduled the trial of the applicant and seven other defendants for 24 december 2003. the court also ruled that the trial was to be held in camera.7.  on 26 april 2005 the volgograd regional court convicted the applicant of murder committed out of national hatred and sentenced him to nine years’ imprisonment.8.  on 22 february 2006 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the applicant’s conviction on appeal.the court decided to hear the applicant’s case in his absence.his lawyer was present and made submissions to the court.9.  on 30 august 2010 the applicant was released on parole.10.  on 8 december 2010 the presidium of the supreme court quashed the judgment of 22 february 2006 by way of supervisory review and remitted the matter for fresh consideration.11.  on 1 february 2011 the supreme court held a new appeal hearing.the court found that the case had become time-barred under the statute of limitations and discharged the applicant from serving a prison sentence.the applicant’s lawyer was present and made submissions to the court.the applicant did not attend the hearing.
8.  on 31 may 2012 the primorsk district court of st petersburg remanded the applicant in custody.the district court noted that the applicant was a foreign national without a permanent place of residence in russia and official employment and charged with a serious crime.10.  on 12 july 2012 the st petersburg city court quashed the detention order of 31 may 2012 on appeal and referred the matter back to the first-instance court.11.  on 19 july 2012 the district court, relying on the same grounds, ordered the applicant’s detention between 28 may and 28 july 2012. in doing so, the district court considered that neither the applicant’s refugee status nor his permanent place of residence and dependent family members (wife and child) justified the application of an alternative preventive measure.finally, it referred to the applicant’s intention stated at the hearing eventually to leave the russian territory.13.  on 3 september 2012 the st petersburg city court upheld the detention order on appeal.14.  on 20 july 2012, the district court, relying on the same grounds, extended the applicant’s detention.16.   on 13 september 2012 the st petersburg city court upheld the detention order on appeal.17.  on 12 september 2012, the district court, relying on the same grounds, extended the applicant’s detention until 14 october 2012.19.  on 13 december 2012 the st petersburg city court rejected the applicant’s counsel’s appeal.20.  on 22 january 2013 the st. petersburg city court held a preparatory hearing and again extended the applicant’s detention for another six months.23.  on 4 june 2013 the district court, by a collective detention order in respect of both co-defendants, extended the applicant’s detention for another three months.25.  on 4 september 2013 the st petersburg city court upheld the detention order on appeal.26.  on 26 september 2013 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 28 december 2013. the applicant was in detention pending trial at least until 2 january 2014.27.  on 9 april 2014 the district court found the applicant guilty and convicted him to two years’ imprisonment.
6.  on 4 march 2012 the applicant was arrested by a police officer, z., and accused of disorderly behaviour in a public place, an offence under article 20.1 of the federal code of administrative offences (“the cao”), punishable by a fine or up to fifteen days’ detention.the record read as follows: “4 march 2012 i have made the following findings under article 28.3 of the code of administrative offences: [the applicant] was drunk and used foul language against passers-by, waving his arms in the air; he was trying to start a fight, and did not rectify his behaviour despite remarks from passers-by.the fact of the offence has been confirmed by: witness k. [the applicant] has been informed of his rights and obligations under articles 48 and 51 of the constitution, and articles 1.5, 24.2 and 25.1 of the cao: that the person who is being prosecuted for an administrative offence has the right, inter alia, to have access to all the material in the file, to testify, to adduce evidence, to lodge interlocutory applications and challenges, and to have legal assistance.9.  it appears that one of the passers-by, n., accepted a request to make a written statement attesting to the fact that the applicant had been drunk and had used foul language.10.  on 5 march 2012 the police officer submitted the record to his superior, who decided that the case should be transferred to a court for examination.14.  as can be seen from the judgment in this case (see below), the applicant was accused at the trial of using foul language in the presence of other people, while being drunk, thus breaching public order.the court also heard n. and k.. it appears that the justice of the peace asked z. and n. a couple of questions.17.  by judgment of 29 march 2012 the justice of the peace found the applicant guilty and imposed a fine of 500 russian roubles (the equivalent of 13 euros at the time) on him.the judgment read as follows: “the court holds that, while drunk, the defendant used foul language in the presence of other people and thus breached public order ... the defendant’s guilt is confirmed by z.’s report and n.’s testimony ... the use of foul language in a public place is unacceptable and discloses a form of disorderly behaviour ... in the court’s view, the use of aberrant language in a public place in the presence of at least one person constitutes an offence under article 20.1 of the cao.moreover, the defendant continued to use foul language during his arrest and while being taken to the police station ...” 18.  the applicant appealed to the naberezhniye chelny town court.he argued, inter alia, that although the offence record referred to his using foul language “against passers-by”, the justice of the peace had phrased the charge as using foul language “in the presence of other people”; the judge had not retained the phrase from the offence record, which stated that the applicant “[had not rectified] his behaviour despite remarks from passers‑by”.the appeal court examined the applicant and upheld the judgment of 29 march 2012. on that date, the appeal decision and the trial judgment became final.the appeal court held as follows: “the justice of the peace convicted [the applicant] of using foul language in the presence of others, thus breaching public order ... the appeal court dismisses the argument that the mere use of aberrant language in respect of one person does not disclose an offence.such actions include using foul language in a public place, insulting people, destruction of or damage to others’ property ... each of these actions may amount to disorderly behaviour if it breaches public order and discloses a manifest disregard to society ... certain factual contradictions between the information in the administrative offence record, z.’s report and n.’s testimony (as regards use of foul language on account of low culture rather than in respect of passers-by) were dispelled during the trial following the interview of the witnesses ...” 20.  the applicant applied to the deputy president of the supreme court of the tatarstan republic for judicial review under article 30.12 of the cao.having examined the file, by decision of 15 june 2012 the deputy president upheld the court decisions of 29 march and 16 april 2012.
after several failed attempts by the applicant to spend time with the child in accordance with the order, the enforcement judge sent a bailiff on 18 and 20 november 2008 to make an unannounced visit to monitor the applicant’s attempt to make contact with the child.during the visit, the bailiff informed the enforcement judge that the respondent had brought the child to the front gate of the house, but the child had refused to leave with the applicant, even after the respondent tried to persuade him, and had gone back inside.13.  on 9 january 2009 the enforcement judge asked the social care centre to contemplate initiating corrective monitoring of the respondent’s exercise of parental rights in the light of the respondent’s substantial influence on the child’s hostility toward his mother.on 19 june 2009 the social care centre, with the approval of the enforcement judge, applied the same measure to the applicant so as to enhance the parents’ collaboration with a view to satisfying the child’s emotional needs.16.  due to the respondent’s failure to prepare the child appropriately for the contact with his mother, on 4 may 2009 the enforcement judge ordered the respondent to pay a fine in the amount of 10,000 serbian dinars (rsd) and on 6 june 2009 a fine in the amount of 150,000 rsd, both within three days.18.  the parental therapy, which at that time had already lasted for six months, included 23 sessions in which the social care centre’s professionals continuously and intensively worked with the applicant, the respondent, the child and the paternal grandparents to reach mutually acceptable arrangements and enforce the interim measures in line with the best interest of the child.23.  the first attempt to reunite the applicant with the child took place on 22 december 2008. the enforcement judge, a bailiff, several representatives of the social care centre, two uniformed policemen, three plain clothes policemen, the applicant and her lawyer all entered the courtyard of the respondent’s house, expecting that the child would be surrendered.the judge and the centre’s representatives explained to the child in front of the others that he should leave and go with his mother to her house, but the child rejected the planned reunion and went back inside.24.  on 15 january and 4 february 2009 the enforcement judge adjourned the custody transfer scheduled for those dates as it was awaiting an opinion from the social care centre regarding the formal corrective supervision of the respondent, as requested in the interim access enforcement proceedings (see paragraph 14 above).the attempt of transfer was conducted in the presence of the enforcement judge, the psychologist, the psychiatrist and the lawyer from the social care centre and police officers.the police explained that they could not forcefully remove the respondent from the premises to enable the social experts and the judge to facilitate a conversation with the child in his absence, since the child was clinging on the father, crying and refusing to let him go.it appears that the applicant was also against the use of force (according to a report to the enforcement judge by the social care centre of 31 march 2010, the applicant refused the possibility of the use of force throughout the proceedings).37.  it also found that the non-enforcement of the interim access and custody orders during the same period had been attributable to the particular complexity of the case, as the child had objected to being reunited with the applicant.40.  on 23 march 2011, upon the initiative of the social care centre, the applicant and the respondent signed an agreement on access rights designed to assist the re-establishing of contact between the applicant and v.s.41.  despite this agreement, on 25 march 2011 the enforcement court imposed a fine on the respondent in the amount of rsd 100,000 because of his failure to comply with the judgment of 24 november 2009. it also ruled that the respondent was to be given three days from the date of receipt of that order to surrender the child voluntarily to the applicant and with the added condition that, should he fail to do so, he would have to pay a further fine of rsd 150,000. the respondent did not comply with the order and it seems that the fine in the amount of 100.000 rsd was subsequently imposed and paid.
6.  in 1997, as a result of an accident, the applicant’s house had partially burnt and he had to live in the attic, which was not designed for lodging.the applicant considered that in the circumstances the authorities were under an obligation to provide him with free housing.7.  in january 2006 the applicant lodged complaints with the state duma and the prosecutor general of the russian federation against the judges who had dealt with his civil case.in particular, the applicant, using abusive language, accused them of having taken bribes from the defendant in the amount of usd 30,000, falsification of evidence, terrorism, abuse of power as well as inciting racial and ethnic hatred.10.  the investigator ordered the applicant’s psychiatric evaluation in the state academic centre for social and forensic psychiatry in moscow (государственный научный центр социальной и судебной психиатрии им.at the same time they concluded that the applicant was sane, fit to stand trial and highlighted that he had no history of mental disorders.12.  on 1 august 2006 the prosecution transferred the applicant’s case to the moscow city court (московский городской суд) for examination.13.  on 21 november 2006 the experts concluded that the applicant was suffering from a chronic mental disorder - paranoid personality development – and needed involuntary treatment in a specialised psychiatric facility.the experts based their assessment, inter alia, on the applicant’s “overvalued” ideas expressed in numerous petitions to various authorities “in a grotesque form”, attempts to “find the truth”, contradictions in his opinions, ambivalence etc.the experts also concluded that the applicant had been insane at the time of the impugned offences and unfit to stand trial.14.  on an unspecified date the city court ordered another forensic psychiatric examination of the applicant by the forensic psychiatry centre.15.  on 7 february 2007 the new report confirmed the findings of the previous report of 21 november 2006. in addition, the experts found that the applicant was a danger to society, stating as follows: “[t]aking into account that [the applicant] shows, in subjectively significant situations, a tendency towards rapid formation of overvalued ideas which sometimes reach a delusional level, broadening of the circle of persons brought into the focus of these emotions, grave emotional disturbances with non-corrective behavior, rejection of regime requirements, lack of critical attitude to his [emotional] state, dissimulation, [he] is a danger to the society and needs compulsory treatment in a specialised psychiatric hospital”.16.  on 20 february 2007 the city court having established the principal facts in respect of the abovementioned offences discontinued criminal proceedings against the applicant due to his insanity.the court referring to the findings and recommendations of the psychiatrists ordered the applicant’s involuntary treatment in a psychiatric hospital.17.  on 5 april 2007 the supreme court of the russian federation summarily upheld the lower court’s decision.
lodged an action with the chişinău economic court seeking the applicant’s exclusion from the list of shareholders on the grounds, inter alia, that he had not paid for his part of the shares, that is to say he had only paid mdl 1,080 instead of mdl 2,700. the applicant objected, claiming that the action was time-barred: under the relevant law, it had to be introduced within three years of the creation of the company.9.  the hearings before the economic court of appeal took place on five different dates: 30 april, 27 may, 2 june, 4 june and 9 june 2009. on 2 june 2009 a.n.’s representative submitted that the applicant had not paid his contribution and that he had been asked to do so every year since the creation of the company in 2002. when asked whether there were any minutes to confirm the contention that the applicant had been summoned to pay his contribution, he answered that he was not aware of any such minutes.10.  on 4 june 2009 a.n.’s representative presented for the first time minutes of a meeting of the company’s shareholders, which had allegedly taken place on 20 february 2007. the minutes showed that the applicant had admitted to not having paid for the totality of his shares and had pledged to pay within one month or lose his status as a shareholder in the company.13.  on the same date the economic court of appeal adopted a judgment in the case by which it upheld the appeal, reversed the judgment of the first-instance court and found in favour of a.n.in ruling on the case, the court of appeal relied entirely on the minutes of the shareholders’ meeting dated 20  february 2007.14.  several days after the pronouncement of the judgment, the applicant had access to the case file and noted that the transcript of the hearing of 4 june 2009 did not contain a record of his request for an expert authentication of his signature.15.  the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law with the supreme court of justice claiming, inter alia, that the proceedings had been unfair because the economic court of appeal had used as the main and sole piece of evidence in the ruling against him a forged document, namely the minutes of a shareholders’ meeting dated 20 february 2007. the economic court of appeal had given decisive weight to that document in spite of his express statement that the signature on the document was not his.had not relied on the minutes of 20 february 2007 either in his initial action or in his appeal against the judgment 14 march 2009. he had presented them for the first time during the fourth hearing before the economic court of appeal.in support of his assertion that the minutes in question had been forged, the applicant submitted evidence that between 11 and 22 february 2007 he had been undergoing medical treatment in israel and could not therefore have attended a shareholders’ meeting held on 20 february 2007. he presented documents issued by the moldovan border authorities and israeli stamps in his passport confirming his travel to israel between the above-mentioned dates.he also reiterated his objection concerning the statute of limitations and urged the supreme court to quash the judgment of the economic court of appeal and order a re-examination of the case.presented for the first time a copy of minutes of a meeting of the company’s shareholders which had allegedly taken place on 23 february 2007. in the new minutes the applicant was recorded as acknowledging that in the previous minutes dated 20 february 2007, the date had been wrongly indicated and that the correct date should have been 23 february 2007.17.  on 17 december 2009 the supreme court of justice dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law, upholding the judgment of the economic court of appeal.it did not respond to the applicant’s argument that a.n.’s action was time-barred or to the contention that the economic court of appeal’s judgment had been based on a forged document.nor did the supreme court respond to the applicant’s argument that the economic court of appeal had rejected without any reasons his request for an expert authentication of the minutes of 20 february 2007. instead, relying on the minutes of 20 february 2007, the supreme court concluded that the applicant had not paid the totality of his shares in the company.18.  on an unspecified date the applicant lodged a criminal complaint against a.n., alleging that he had forged the company shareholders’ minutes dated 20 february 2007. in the course of the criminal proceedings, an expert from the national forensic centre presented his report dated 7 august 2010, in which he concluded that the signature on the minutes of the company shareholders’ meeting dated 20 february 2007 did not belong to the applicant.
the detention orders were essentially based on the gravity of the charges, the primary grounds being the risk of the applicants’ absconding and interfering with the course of justice.5.  the first applicant was born on 27 april 1961 and lived, prior to his arrest, in poronaysk, sakhalin region.he was arrested on 27 february 2003 on suspicion of sexual assault and was placed in detention.on 9 february 2007 the poronayskiy town court of the sakhalin region convicted him of sexual assault and sentenced him to six years and nine months’ imprisonment.6.  the second applicant was born on 29 may 1971 and lived, prior to his conviction, in samara.he was arrested on 13 march 2007 on suspicion of bribery.he was released on 12 september 2007. on 20 may 2008 he was convicted of bribery and sentenced to one year and six months’ imprisonment.7.  the third applicant was born on 14 october 1979 and lived, prior to his arrest, in ulybino, novosibirsk region.on 3 february 2011 the novosibirsk regional court convicted him of drug dealing and abuse of power, and sentenced him to eight years and six months’ imprisonment.on 18 october 2011 the supreme court of russia upheld his conviction on appeal.8.  the fourth applicant was born on 29 november 1986 and lived, prior to his conviction, in turukhansk, krasnoyarsk region.on 23 april 2010 he was arrested on suspicion of murder.on 17 october 2012 he was convicted of aggravated murder and was sentenced to fifteen years’ imprisonment.9.  on various dates the applicants’ complaints about lengthy pre-trial detention were communicated to the government.the government were asked to inform the court of their position regarding a friendly settlement of the cases and any proposals they wished to make.
referring in particular to the act which had led to her committal to the psychiatric hospital and her general state of mental health, the authority concluded that she posed a danger to public safety which outweighed her personal interest in not being expelled, despite her long stay in germany and her residence status.during the interlocutory proceedings the administrative authorities undertook not to execute the expulsion order until the administrative court had ruled on the merits.16.  in november 2009 the applicant was granted certain privileges in the hospital, such as occasional days of leave, and subsequently, after an improvement in her mental health, she started working full‑time in the hospital’s laundry department.with regard to the situation in pakistan, it noted that according to information supplied by the german embassy in pakistan, basic medical care for patients with mental illness was available in large cities such as lahore and that the applicant could afford the treatment she needed as she would be receiving a monthly pension of around 250 euros (eur).it found that although members of the applicant’s family in pakistan had indicated to the german embassy that they were not prepared to take her in, it was conceivable that they might help her to arrange for the required treatment in return for payment of a few euros.it also endorsed the administrative authority’s conclusion that the applicant had not expressed prominent views in favour of the ahmadiyya religion, so there would be no specific danger for her in that regard.18.  on 23 may 2011 the hesse administrative court of appeal refused the applicant leave to appeal, noting that the administrative court had taken into account all the relevant facts of the case.on 2 august 2011 it dismissed a complaint by the applicant of a breach of the right to be heard, in which she had, in particular, argued that the court had not given proper consideration to her submissions on her improved state of health, the death of her sister in pakistan and the living conditions she would face in the event of her return there.20.  previously, on 24 november 2011, the marburg regional court, on the recommendation of a medical expert, had suspended the implementation of the hospital treatment order and released the applicant on probation (führungsaufsicht) for a five-year period.the regional court held that, thanks to the treatment, the danger of the applicant’s reoffending had receded sufficiently for the residual risk to be tolerable.23.  following the chamber judgment, on 14 september 2015 a panel of the grand chamber acceded to the applicant’s request for the case to be referred to the grand chamber (see paragraph 5 above).24.  in their observations of 7 january 2016 on the merits of the case, the government, in their own name and on behalf of the land of hesse, which is responsible for deciding on the applicant’s residence rights, gave an assurance that before taking any measures for the applicant’s removal, the german administrative authorities would issue a new expulsion order taking account of the time which had passed.25.  subsequently, in reply to several questions put by the court, the government declared that the administrative authorities would not expel the applicant on the basis of the original expulsion order, that the assurance they had given could be relied on to prevent any attempt to remove the applicant on the basis of the original expulsion order and that the german authorities considered themselves bound by that undertaking at all levels, since it had been made in consultation with and with the agreement of the hesse land government.26.  on 9 february 2016 the government officially requested that the court strike the application out of its list of cases in accordance with article 37 § 1 (b) of the convention.on that occasion they reiterated the aforementioned assurance, specifying that any new expulsion order would replace the original one and that the applicant would have access to all the remedies available in german law if she wished to challenge it.
f. shot the driver in the head and the two then took him to a forest, where f. and the applicant fired several more shots into the victim and abandoned the body.the following injuries were detected: four painful swellings (two of which were coupled with sores) of up to 4 cm in diameter on the back part of the head and on both temples, two oval bruises on the forehead of 8 x 5 cm and 5 x 4 cm, bruises on both eyelids, a slightly swollen bridge of the nose, bruises on the sides of the nose extending to the eyelids, and linear sores on both wrists.12.  according to the applicant, his medical examination was limited to the visible parts of his body not covered by clothes, and the expert failed to document the many bruises that covered the rest of his body.13.  as further submitted by the applicant, on 29 september 2001 the police tried to transfer him from the kherson temporary detention facility (“the itt”, part of the police system) to the kherson pre-trial detention centre (“the sizo”), but the sizo’s administration refused to admit him because of his many injuries.16.  with his observations to the court of 16 july 2014 the applicant submitted a handwritten copy of a complaint to the kherson regional prosecutor’s office (“the kherson prosecutor’s office”) dated 5 october 2001 (with a handwritten confirmation by two inmates that the applicant had handed the complaint to the guard on duty for dispatching).17.  according to another, similar handwritten note submitted to the court on 16 july 2014, the applicant had on 7 october 2001 complained to the governor of the kherson sizo that the guards had torn up his complaints to the prosecution authorities on 5 and 6 october 2001. he also complained that although he had been taken to the sizo on 5 october 2001 with injuries all over his body, the sizo official on duty had rejected his request for a medical examination.the prosecutor relied on the statements of the police officers, who denied ill-treating the applicant and his co-defendants, as well as on documents from the sizo administration, which stated that no injuries had been found on the defendants during their medical examinations and that they had not raised any complaints.34.  on 24 september 2001 the investigator in charge of the case issued a decision to extend the term of the applicant’s detention in the itt to ten days (instead of the legally allowed maximum of three days, after which the applicant had to be transferred to the local sizo – see paragraph 77 below).44.  on 8 april 2008 the supreme court quashed that judgment in the part concerning the applicant on the grounds that the trial court had modified the charges against him without respecting the applicable procedural rules.53.  during the daily outdoor walk on 16 august 2005 in the kyiv sizo one of the guards allegedly hit the applicant with a rubber truncheon in the stomach and on the hip.55.  on 20 september 2005 the applicant’s lawyer wrote to the governor of the kherson sizo that the applicant had complained of having been beaten by a guard in the kyiv sizo.60.  extracts from the applicant’s medical records in detention, which were provided to the court by the government, contain a copy of a report on a medical examination of the applicant in the kherson sizo of 13 february 2006. it mentioned, in particular, that the applicant had pigmented skin marks.the applicant also submitted several colour photographs of his cells in the kherson and kyiv sizos showing, in particular, tight metal grids on the windows, an extremely small space between the various items of furniture in the cell, poor sanitary facilities, and a lavatory which could be seen from the door.73.  in january 2007 the court asked the applicant to submit copies of his cassation appeals against the judgment of 7 december 2004, showing the dates he had lodged them with the courts dealing with the criminal case against him.75.  on 7 may 2007 the trial court judge dealing with the criminal case in question wrote to the applicant that there were no grounds to grant his request as he had already received all the copies he had asked for, which was confirmed by acknowledgments of receipt with his signature in the case file.
5.  the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in velika reka.6.  he was employed by holding kompanija “komgrap” – dd “komgrap gradnja”, a socially-owned company based in belgrade (hereinafter “the debtor”).7.  on 3 february 2006, the first belgrade municipal court ordered the debtor to pay the applicant specified amounts on account of salary arrears and social insurance contributions, plus the costs of the civil proceedings.this judgment became final on 31 july 2006.8.  on 23 october 2006, upon the applicant’s request to that effect, the fourth belgrade municipal court accepted the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the applicant the enforcement costs.9.  on 24 december 2010 the belgrade commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor (st. 4372/2010).10.  on 22 june 2011 the applicant submitted his respective claims.11.  on 31 october 2010 the belgrade commercial court dismissed these claims as out of time.the commercial appeals court upheld that decision on 26 june 2012.12.  the insolvency proceedings against the debtor are still ongoing.13.  on 23 april 2010 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal.14.  the constitutional court dismissed his appeal on 14 july 2011.15.  on 13 march 2012 the applicant lodged a new constitutional appeal.16.  on 26 january 2012 the constitutional court dismissed again his appeal.on 28 december 2012 that decision was delivered to the applicant.
in particular, the court noted: “when deciding that [the applicant] should be detained [pending investigation], the court notes that he is suspected of having committed a grave and serious offence, that he does not have a permanent residence in russia, that there are reasons to believe that, if released, the applicant might abscond or continue his criminal activity, destroy the evidence or in any other way interfere with the criminal proceedings against him.13.  on 21 february 2008 the district court extended the applicant’s detention pending investigation until 29 may 2008. the court reiterated that the applicant’s detention was justified due to the gravity of the charges and lack of a place of permanent residence in russia.15.  on 19 august 2008 the city court extended the applicant’s detention until 29 november 2008. according to the applicant, the court referred to the gravity of the charges and his “significant financial possibilities”.in particular, the supreme court noted: “it follows from the materials in the case-file that [the court] took into account the gravity of the charges against [the applicant]..., and it is reasonable to assume that, if at large, he may abscond..., or continue his criminal activities, or threaten the witnesses, the victims and other parties to the proceedings, or destroy the evidence... that may be found in foreign companies or interfere with investigation in any other way.furthermore, the grounds for the applicant’s detention have not ceased to exist and there are no exclusive circumstances rendering the lifting or replacement of the restrictive measure... possible.” 16.  on 20 november 2008 the city court extended the pre-trial detention in respect of the applicant, e. and s., his co-defendants, noting as follows: “according to the materials submitted, e., s. and [the applicant] are charged with a number of offences, including especially serious ones for which a custodial sentence exceeding two years can be applied in the event of conviction.it follows from the investigator’s motion, submitted materials and his explanation given in court, that the criminal case is very complex, fourteen people were indicted, a big volume of investigative activities have been carried out, including those under way in different regions in the russian federation; there are complex forensic expert examinations ongoing, the responses to the inquiries sent are still pending, including the ones concerning international criminal assistance, the investigators have planned numerous activities aimed at establishment of facts to be proved and completion of the investigation.on the basis of the aforesaid, and in view of the circumstances of the case, the court finds that the investigator’s arguments that the defendants’ detention should be extended are convincing and justified and that the grounds for extension of their detention are exceptional regard being had to the nature of the charges and pending investigative activities aimed at the completion of the investigation.having regard to the circumstances of the case, the submitted materials and other information, including the one pertaining to the defendants’ character, the court concludes that there are sufficient grounds to believe that, should they be released, the defendants might abscond, put pressure on witnesses and other parties to the proceedings, try to conceal or destroy evidence in order to obstruct justice.when deciding on the extension of the defendants’ detention, the court takes into account the circumstances as required by [law], notably their family status, age, health condition, and character information submitted by the defence.” 17.  on 14 january 2009 the supreme court upheld the decision of 20 november 2008 on appeal.it noted in respect of the applicant as follows: “even though... [the applicant] does not have a criminal record, is married and have a child, prior to his arrest was employed and had a permanent source of income, he is charged with a number of very serious offences which entail, in case of conviction, a custodial sentence exceeding two years and which, according to the investigators’ version, have been committed by an organised criminal group managed by e. and [the applicant]... the applicant is a national of another state, he does not have a permanent place of residence in the russian federation... the above information about the applicant’s character and the gravity of the charges are, in the court’s opinion, sufficient to assume that he may abscond, despite his and his defence’s declarations and assurances.21.  on 11 march 2009 the city court extended the applicant’s detention pending the defendants’ study of the case file, which comprised 160 volumes, until 20 june 2009. the court referred to the gravity of the charges against the applicant and the lack of permanent residence in russia.22.  on 28 may 2009 the city court extended the applicant’s detention until 20 september 2009. the court noted that the defendants, including the applicant, and eighteen lawyers that represented them had not completed the study of the case file.referring to the gravity of the charges against the applicant and the lack of a permanent residence and of “established social links” in russia, the court noted that the applicant might abscond, put pressure on witnesses and other parties to the proceedings in order to obstruct justice.notwithstanding personal surety and a possibility of bail proposed by [the applicant], the fact that [the applicant] and s. have minor children, the length of their pre-trial detention, the measure of restraint earlier imposed on [the defendants] should remain unchanged.” 26.  on 25 february 2010 the supreme court upheld the decision of 17 september 2009 on appeal.33.  on 21 may 2008 in an article entitled special protection for the mafia («спецприкрытие для мафии») rossiyskaya gazeta, an official national newspaper, published an interview about the criminal investigation with general ts., the head of the department of the investigating committee of the ministry of the interior of the russian federation.
5.  on 29 june 2005 the čačak commercial court ordered a socially-owned company fabrika reznog alata čačak ad (hereinafter “the debtor”) to pay the first applicant specified amounts on account of damages, plus the costs of the civil proceedings.6.  on 22 february 2006 the belgrade high commercial court amended the first instance judgment by ordering the debtor to also pay the first applicant specified amounts on account of lost profits and increasing the awarded costs of proceedings.7.  on 26 june 2007, upon the first applicant’s request to that effect, the čačak commercial court ordered the enforcement of the said judgments and further ordered the debtor to pay the first applicant the enforcement costs.8.  on 17 march 2009 the debtor paid the first applicant a part of the sums specified in the said judgments.9.  on 30 march 2010 the privatisation agency ordered the restructuring of the first applicant’s debtor.11.  on 21 may 2014 the constitutional court found a violation of the first applicant’s right to a hearing within a reasonable time and of its right to the peaceful enjoyment of its possessions.it further awarded the first applicant 1,000 euros (eur) as just satisfaction for non-pecuniary damage and ordered the court in čačak to expedite the proceedings.12.  on 11 july 2003 the kraljevo commercial court established the secured property right of the applicant on certain commercial premises and ordered gp jastrebac (hereinafter “the debtor”) , a socially-owned company undergoing insolvency proceedings, to finish the construction of that property.the commercial court further ordered the debtor to pay the second applicant a certain amount if it failed to do so.13.  on 9 september 2009 the debtor paid the applicant a part of the amount established by the decision.15.  on 26 march 2014 the constitutional court found a violation of the second applicant’s right to a hearing within a reasonable time.the constitutional court dismissed the second applicant’s complaint concerning his right to the peaceful enjoyment of his possessions as well as his request for pecuniary damages, since the insolvency proceedings were still pending.16.  on 22 september 2003 the belgrade commercial court ordered a socially-owned company, dp fabrika termotehničkih uređaja i montaže “cer” čačak (hereinafter “the debtor”), to pay the third applicant specified amounts on account of damages, plus the costs of the civil proceedings.17.  on 30 october 2006, upon the third applicant’s request to that effect, the belgrade municipal court accepted the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the first applicant the enforcement costs.the constitutional court dismissed the third applicant’s complaint concerning its right to the peaceful enjoyment of possessions and its request for pecuniary damages as premature, since the enforcement proceedings were still pending.
9.  subsequently the applicant’s detention was extended on a number of occasions in the course of the investigation and trial in view of the gravity of the charges against him and the risks of his absconding, seeking to influence witnesses and reoffending.10.  on 5 may 2012 the district court found the applicant guilty of the charges and sentenced him to five years’ imprisonment in a correctional colony.on 4 september 2012 the krasnoyarsk regional court upheld the conviction, but decreased the sentence by two months.iz-24/1 in krasnoyarsk the applicant told the medical staff that he had hypertension.in the hospital the applicant received the full range of treatments for his conditions.17.  according to the applicant, in may 2013 he started experiencing pain in the chest, pelvic area and testicles.18.   in written submissions, mr kh., ms k. and ms b., detainees who worked with the applicant in the children’s camp from may 2013, confirmed the above statements.19.  on 2 september 2013 the applicant asked the head of the detention facility to authorise a medical examination and treatment outside the facility owing to a serious spine and leg condition that had worried him since may 2013. he stated that over the previous three months he had received pain relief medication provided by his relatives, but that his condition had not got better.21.  on the next day the applicant complained about the quality of his treatment to the federal service for the execution of services in krasnoyarsk.22.  on 14 february 2014 the applicant was taken to the regional cancer hospital in krasnoyarsk, where he was diagnosed with prostate cancer with metastasis to the pelvic bone.24.  between 21 march and 3 april 2014 the applicant was examined and treated in the prison hospital.ten days later the sosnovborsk town court of the krasnoyarsk region dismissed an application for early release, finding that the applicant was receiving the required treatment in detention.on 23 december 2014 the regional court quashed the decision on procedural grounds and remitted the case for fresh consideration.the parties did not inform the court of the outcome of those proceedings.31.  the applicant was detained in the remand prison between 10 december 2010 and 25 may 2015, save for short periods in the prison hospital.
6.  since 24 december 1999 the first applicant has served his sentence in the ik-2 facility for life prisoners in the perm region.it appears from the original registration logs and floor plans submitted by the government that all the cells measured 10.5 or 11.3 square metres and were designed to accommodate up to three prisoners.7.  as regards the conditions of his detention between 1999 and 2009, the first applicant submitted that the toilet was located in the corner of the cell, behind a one-metre-high partition.it was connected to the sewer directly, without a u-bend pipe, and foul smells stayed in the cell.the toilets and ventilation had been repaired, a higher partition and a door installed, the window shutters removed, and access to natural light and air had been improved.11.  since 10 march 1998 the second applicant has served his sentence in the ik-5 facility for life prisoners in the vologda region.the facility is located on an island in a former monastery that was built in 1810 and converted into a prison in 1996. individual cells have no running water or sewerage.the prosecutor noted that only the mess, kitchen, bathhouse and shared toilets on each floor had centralised water supply, whereas the individual cells had no running water or sewage connection.every day prisoners took their toilet buckets to the toilet at the end of the corridor where they emptied and washed them.in 2009 the federal penitentiary service had prepared an engineering and design blueprint for connecting all the cells to the mains and sewers but funding for the project had not been allocated.the prosecutor asked the court to require the facility’s management and the regional branch of the federal penitentiary service to connect all the cells to the water supply and sewers, to install ventilation and to improve the quality of the water.13.  by a judgment of 24 august 2011, the belozerskiy district court of the vologda region granted the prosecutor’s claim and directed the management of the prison to connect all the cells to the mains, sewers and a ventilation system within one year and to improve the water quality within six months.14.  in 2013, the second applicant sued the ministry of finance for compensation for non-pecuniary damage caused by the substandard sanitary conditions at the ik-5 facility.it found that the cell was ventilated through a small opening in the window and that the temperature was normal, that there was a toilet consisting of a bucket with a lid, and a tank for drinking water, and that sanitary regulations did not require the installation of a sewage system “in territories where sewers were not available”.the court also noted that the claimant had not produced any evidence showing that the conditions of his detention in the period between 1998 and 2013 had been inadequate.
12.  in addition to taking statements from the witnesses, the czech authorities examined and recorded the scene of the crime, and performed a forensic examination of h.c.z.’s body and a ballistic examination of the bullets and cases found at the scene of the shooting.the indictment was served on his court-appointed lawyer on 10 october 2001. however, since the applicant was eventually found to have gone back to slovenia and voluntarily begun serving a prison sentence for an unrelated offence, the czech authorities contacted the slovenian authorities, seeking to take over the proceedings against the applicant.20.  on the basis of the forensic analysis of the crime scene and the case file submitted to the slovenian authorities by the czech authorities, a forensic ballistic report was prepared by a ballistic expert, f.s.the applicant nevertheless requested the opportunity to cross-examine him in order to clarify the circumstances of the shooting and the exact positions of everyone who was in the bedroom at the material time.24.  both the district prosecutor and the applicant appealed against the judgment, and on 12 june 2003 the ljubljana higher court granted the prosecutor’s appeal, increasing the applicant’s prison sentence to fifteen years.and other foreign witnesses was found to be well grounded, and the case was remitted to the district court for re-examination with the instruction that the applicant be given the opportunity to cross-examine e.m.l., who was considered the key witness in the case against him.and a certain a.b., who had also been involved in the internet services featuring interactive sexual content, to testify at the hearing scheduled for 15 november 2005. however, on that date none of the witnesses appeared before the court, so the district court requested legal assistance from the czech and dutch judicial authorities, asking its foreign counterparts to hear the three witnesses in the applicant’s presence.the court decided to request the dutch authorities to give the applicant the opportunity to cross-examine those witnesses; however, the investigating judge of the regional court of the hague refused to allow the applicant to attend the examination in person, finding that the witnesses’ safety could be at risk and that they might not be willing to give a statement.as regards e.m.l.’s testimony regarding the shooting of h.c.z., it was to a large extent consistent with his previous statements; however, when asked to identify on the floor plan of the bedroom where the shooting had taken place the location of the applicant and that of his brother m.š., e.m.l.the czech ballistic experts confirmed that the bullets and cartridge cases submitted to them by the slovenian authorities matched the bullets and cartridge cases found at the crime scene and in h.c.z.’s body, and had undoubtedly been fired from the same weapon.in the netherlands because of the decision of the dutch investigating judge, which fell beyond the jurisdiction of the slovenian courts, the district court nonetheless concluded that since the applicant’s counsel was present and moreover had submitted questions written by the applicant to both witnesses, the applicant’s defence rights were not violated.on the floor plan of the bedroom, but nonetheless found that his statement regarding the identity of the shooter was persuasive, since he had known the applicant and had maintained throughout the proceedings that he had seen him pulling a gun and firing a shot at h.c.z.finally, the court pointed out numerous discrepancies between the applicant’s statements given during the investigation and at the trial, and the fact that the gun with which h.c.z.it noted that the grounds relied on by the investigating judge in the hague, who refused to allow the applicant’s presence at the examination, were identical to those provided in section 178 § 4 of the slovenian criminal procedure act.it rejected the applicant’s complaint of a violation of his defence rights due because he did not have the opportunity to cross-examine the main witness for the prosecution, finding that the applicant had been familiar with e.m.l.’s testimony and had had an adequate and sufficient opportunity to effectively challenge it through the assistance of his counsel.
4.  the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in budapest.5.  on 6 january 2000 the applicant brought an action against his parents before the siófok district court for dissolution of joint ownership of a real property.6.  on 21 march 2000 the court suspended the proceedings pending the adjudication of a preliminary question in other proceedings.upon termination of the other proceedings on 17 november 2005, the siófok district court continued hearing the case.7.  on 25 august 2006 the court again suspended the proceedings pending the adjudication of a preliminary question in another related procedure.upon termination of these proceedings on 30 august 2007, the siófok district court ordered continuation of the case on 17 november 2008.8.  an agreement was reached between the parties which was acknowledged and incorporated into a judgment by the siófok district court on 5 may 2011.
the panel concluded that the applicant was eligible for early release as he suffered from a condition included in the list of serious illnesses precluding the serving of sentences in correctional institutions, as provided for by decree no.14.  on 24 july 2013 the district court rejected a request by the applicant for release, citing the panel’s report of 6 march 2013 and, in particular, the fact that he had been diagnosed with stage 3 cancer, which was not included in the list of illnesses.relying on statements by a representative of the applicant’s correctional colony and ms artemyeva, the court found that the applicant was not receiving anti-cancer treatment in the colony as such treatment had to be prescribed by an oncologist.22.  at the end of july 2014 the applicant asked the court to apply rule 39 of the rules of court and to indicate to the russian authorities that he should be provided with the necessary medical care or released from prison on health grounds.23.  on 5 august 2014 the government were requested under rule 54 § 2 (a) of the rules of court to submit information about the applicant’s health, the quality of the medical assistance he was receiving and the conditions of his detention.in addition, in merely a few lines, they stressed that: (a) the applicant was undergoing treatment in the prison hospital; (b) his health was satisfactory and “nothing was life-threatening”; (c) the medical care was afforded to him “in full”, was “appropriate” to his condition and complied both with the requirements of russian law and the guarantees of article 3 of the convention; and (d) his illnesses were not included in the list of illnesses precluding the serving of sentences in correctional institutions.26.  following receipt of the government’s submissions and the applicant’s comments on them, on 12 november 2014 the acting president of the section decided to indicate to the government, under rule 39 of the rules of court, that the applicant should be immediately examined by medical experts independent from the penal system, including by an oncologist, with a view to determining (a) whether the treatment he was receiving in detention was adequate to his condition; (b) whether his current state of health was compatible with detention in a correctional colony or prison hospital; and (c) whether his current condition required his admittance to a specialist hospital or release.(iii)  a certificate dated 24 november 2011 issued by the head of the applicant’s correctional colony setting out his criminal record and convictions and indicating that since 23 august 2014 he had been detained in the correctional colony as there were no grounds to keep him in the prison hospital.on 17 january 2015 two forensic medical experts from st. petersburg state medical university prepared a report responding to the three questions put by the court in its decision of 12 november 2014. assessing the quality of the applicant’s medical assistance, the experts noted that since august 2012 the applicant had only received symptomatic treatment with anaesthetics for his kidney cancer.the experts stressed that even after the growing metastasis in the applicant’s brain was discovered in december 2014 the prison doctors had not considered the possibility of radiotherapy.31.  following communication of the case to the parties, on 29 june 2015 the government informed the court that the applicant had died on 8 april 2015. they submitted a copy of the death certificate and asked the court, in the absence of any person wishing to pursue the application on his behalf, to strike the case out of the list of cases pursuant to article 37 § 1 (c) of the convention.32.  the government included the applicant’s medical record drawn up between december 2014 and april 2015 in a letter to the court dated 24 september 2015. they also enclosed a number of certificates prepared by the acting heads of the correctional colony and colony medical unit.the acting head of the colony laid down the details of the applicant’s criminal record, indicated that he had not made any complaints to the colony administration between 21 november 2014 and 8 april 2015 and that a request he had made for early release had been dismissed by the ingodinskiy district court on 16 march 2015. in separate certificates the acting head of the medical unit recorded the progress of the applicant’s illness, placing particular emphasis on the rapid deterioration of his health in 2014 when new and growing metastases had been discovered in his lungs, lymph nodes, adrenal gland and brain, and the development of cancer intoxication, accompanied by serious bilateral polysegmental pneumonia, brain oedema and terminal kidney failure.the applicant’s condition had been considered particularly serious between 18 december 2014 and 1 february 2015, and then between 24 march and 8 april 2015. the assessment had been changed to moderately serious for the period 1 february to 23 march 2015, although no changes in the long list of conditions had been recorded.33.  in the letter of 18 august 2015 the applicant’s lawyer informed the court that ms artemyeva, the applicant’s sister and heir, wished to continue the proceedings before the court on the applicant’s behalf.
8.  the first applicant, mr reznik, submitted that between 1 january and 15 may 2007 he had been held in cells 117 and 118 of the remand prison, which measured 6 square metres and had six sleeping places but accommodated up to nine inmates.for the next few years he was in cell 111, the largest of all the cells he was held in at 14 square metres, with up to five people sharing.9.  the government did not contest the fact that the applicant’s former cellmates had been held in the same remand prison as the applicant or the veracity of their statements.11.  the government provided a description of the applicants’ conditions of detention, relying on certificates issued in june 2015 by the director of the remand prison, photographs of the cells, prisoner transfer logs (суточная ведомость учёта лиц, временно выбывших из следственного изолятора) and registration logs (журнал количественной проверки подозреваемых, обвиняемых и осуждённых).they submitted that the number of prisoners in the cells where the applicants had been held had not exceeded the occupancy limit.mr reznik cell date 117 21 february 2007 42 16 june; 16 and 23 september, 1, 7; 13 and 14 october; 11, 12, 18 and 26 november 2008; 1, 15 and 22 september, 6 and 27 october, 10 and 17 november 2009 ms guzeyeva cell date 184 21 february, 14 may and 14 august 2007; 14 march and 16 june 2008 13.  the prison director’s certificates specify that cell 44 “was equipped with three sleeping places” and measured 14.3 square metres.m inmates period 118 8 2 14 january to 14 may 2007 44 14.  the registration logs did not contain the names of prisoners but listed numbers that could be interpreted as the cell number, its maximum occupancy and the actual number of prisoners on a given date.for example, in the log of 9 june 2008, the maximum capacity was handwritten for cells 42, 44, 45, 111, 117, and 118 (see mr reznik’s cell numbers above); and for 184 and 192 (ms guzeyeva’s cells), and matched the actual number of prisoners in those cells.the applicants denied that the photographs showed the cells in which they had been held because those cells had not had the vaulted ceilings that were visible in the photographs.16.  on 14 december 2010 the kirovskiy district court of rostov‑on‑don convicted the applicants and their co-defendants of illegal banking operations and forgery, and sentenced them to six years’ imprisonment and a fine.the court ordered the forfeiture of the applicants’ money as “the proceeds of crime”.17.  on 13 march 2012 the rostov regional court amended the judgment on appeal, reducing the sentences and revoking the forfeiture order on the grounds that the relevant provisions of criminal law had been enacted after the commission of the crimes.on 21 march 2013 and 10 february 2014 the kirovskiy district court ordered the return of part of the money to the applicants, which they received shortly thereafter.the court considered that the rest of the money was to be forfeited to the state.19.  the applicants appealed and by a final decision of 16 december 2015 the rostov regional court ordered the rest of the applicants’ property to be returned to them, finding that the district court’s forfeiture order had been unlawful and procedurally defective.
the aim of the demonstration was “to protest against abuses and falsifications in the course of the elections to the state duma and of the president of the russian federation, and to demand fair elections, respect for human rights, the rule of law and the international obligations of the russian federation”.the organisers and the authorities agreed that the assembly layout and the security arrangements would be identical to the previous public event organised by the same group of opposition activists on 4 february 2012. on that occasion, the venue of the meeting had included the park at bolotnaya square and the bolotnaya embankment.it reasoned as follows: “in assessing the circumstances under investigation, [the court takes account of] the submitted materials and the indicated information in their integrity, as well as the personality of [the applicant], who is suspected of having committed criminal offences one of which is characterised as grave and the other of medium gravity, punishable by up to two years of deprivation of liberty, and therefore giving sufficient reasons to believe that the applicant is likely to abscond, to continue his criminal activity, to destroy evidence, or to otherwise obstruct the investigation of the criminal case.” 38.  the court dismissed the applicant’s request for an alternative preventive measure, including bail of 500,000 russian roubles (rub), and personal guarantees of several state officials and found that his release was not required on health grounds.on the same day the court found that the circumstances that had justified the detention order had not changed and, referring to the gravity of the charges and the complexity of the investigation, extended the applicant’s detention until 6 november 2012. this extension order was upheld by the moscow city court on 6 august 2012.44.  on 23 april 2013 the moscow city court examined a fresh request for the extension of the applicant’s detention and granted it until 6 july 2013. the decision read as follows: “the materials presented [by the investigator] reveal that the grounds for choosing the preventive measure in respect of [the applicant] were not only the gravity of the charges but also the information about the personality of [the applicant] who could abscond from the investigation and trial, threaten witnesses, or otherwise obstruct the proceedings in the case, if released.the aforementioned grounds ... have not changed, have not lost their relevance to date, and the circumstances of the case [and] the nature of the crime committed by [the applicant] lead the court to conclude that the need for the [pre-trial detention] has not, at this stage, ceased to exist ... this term is reasonable, [it] is justified by the objective circumstances, it is not in conflict with the term of the pre-trial investigation, also extended on the same grounds ... in accordance with the constitutional court’s [case-law], the proportionality of the preventive measure to the [gravity of the] charges imputed to [the applicant] show that in this case the public interests, in particular those related to the criminal investigation, override the importance of the principle of respect of individual liberty.” 45.  on 24 may 2013 the applicant’s criminal case was transferred to the zamoskvoretskiy district court for the determination of criminal charges.47.  on 6 june 2013 the latter court granted another extension of the applicant’s detention until 24 november 2013. this decision concerned eleven defendants and read, in so far as relevant, as follows: “... the court concludes that the preventive measure in respect of [all defendants] ... is to remain unchanged because the reasons taken into account when these measures were chosen have not ceased to exist and have not changed ... ... [the defendants] are accused of [grave crimes punishable by prison sentences] ... regard being had to all the available information about the personality of [the defendants] and the nature of the criminal offences imputed to each of them, the court still has sufficient grounds to believe that the said defendants, if at liberty, may flee the trial or otherwise obstruct the course of justice, [motivated by] the gravity of the charges.despite the defendants being registered as having permanent addresses in the russian federation, the analysis of the overall information about [the defendants’] personalities, and the nature of the offences imputable to them, give the court sufficient grounds to consider that the defendants, if the preventive measure is changed to another one not involving deprivation of liberty, may flee the trial or otherwise obstruct the course of justice, [motivated by] the gravity of the charges ... the reasons taken into account when these measures were chosen have not ceased to exist and have not changed ...” 54.  on 17 december 2013 the moscow city court upheld the extension order of 19 november 2013.59.  according to the government, the artificial light in the cells was maintained at 100 watts round the clock except at night, from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m., when it was 75 watts; they provided measurement tables for this detention centre created in august 2013, which stated that the brightness in the cells was between 149 and 454 lux, the temperature in the cells between 26oc and 29oc, and the humidity between 36% and 45%.this decision read as follows: “... the performance of a medical examination ... falls outside the competence of the investigating bodies ... however, given that the state of health of the accused mr belousov is of importance to the present criminal case, the investigating bodies have sent the relevant request to the administration of [iz-77/5] stating the need to carry out, in the shortest possible time, the medical examination of the accused mr belousov, the results of which are to be submitted to the investigating bodies for inclusion in the criminal case file.” 62.  it appears that the medical examination was not carried out.67.  according to the government, the conditions in the cells of iz-77/2 were as follows: the toilet was separated by a solid partition from the rest of the cell and ensured the necessary privacy; the state of the sanitary facilities was satisfactory; the cells were treated for disinfection and pest-control once every three months and whenever necessary; the applicant was entitled to one hour’s outdoor exercise per day; the cell was cleaned and the bedding changed once a week; the cells were equipped with forced ventilation and could be aired through a hinged window pane.moreover ... the participants in the mass disorder threw chunks of tarmac, stones, sticks and other objects at the police ... which hit them on various body parts, and [the defendants] ... [who] participated in the mass disorder ... implemented their criminal intent to use violence against public officials ... applied physical force not endangering life or health of those [officials] ... mr belousov used violence not endangering the life or health of [mr f.] ... between 5 p.m. and 8.10 p.m. on 6 may 2012 ... unidentified participants in the mass disorder deliberately administered at least three blows and kicks to [f.’s] head, body and limbs, after which mr belousov ... deliberately targeting [f.], threw an unidentified solid yellow round object, which hit [f.] on the upper right side of the chest, causing him physical pain.as a result of mr belousov and other unidentified persons’ actions [f.] sustained physical pain and injuries in the form of bruising and abrasion of the soft tissues of the parietal region, bruising of the ... left forearm, abrasion on the ... right shin, [all of] which, assessed individually or cumulatively, constituted injuries not endangering life or health, and not entailing short-term health impairment or minor durable professional incapacitation ... mr belousov ... pleaded not guilty and testified that ... he wanted to see why the meeting was not starting [and] went to malyy kamennyy bridge ... [he] saw the riot police cordon ... [and officers] arresting some [participants] ... [he] was looking to leave and went to the middle of bolotnaya square and saw a girl who tripped on something and nearly fell.... mr belousov was filmed at the moment he threw a yellow object at the police ... the [defendants’] argument that no mass disorder took place is considered by the court unsubstantiated because ... as a result of the premeditated actions of a group of individuals who organised ... obstruction to the demonstrators’ march on their way to the intended meeting venue where the stage was, which caused discontent among the protesters towards ... the police ... those who were leading the march and who were able to make an unhindered approach to the meeting venue changed their tactics and called for ... a sit-in, hoping thus to secure a decision to change the placement of the cordon to their advantage and to extend their area beyond what had been agreed ... as a result ... the protesters forced their way through the police cordon ... public order was disrupted ... because of the larger crowd, uncontrollable and incited by organised groups ... conditioned the applicants’ intent to participate in such actions, accompanied by chunks of tarmac and plastic bottles being thrown and violence towards the police otherwise being used.conscious of their participation in spontaneously erupted disorder and wishing to take part in it, the defendants joined the mass movement ... ... the court takes into account the nature and the degree of [the applicant’s] involvement in the mass disorder ... and considers it possible to give him a sentence below the minimum punishment provided for by article 212 § 2.” 81.  the applicant was sentenced to two years and six months’ imprisonment, calculated on the basis of a two-year prison term under article 212 of the criminal code partly concurrent with a one-year prison term under article 318 of the criminal code.
4.  the applicants in the present cases are russian nationals.5.  the applicants sued different municipal companies, referred to in the appendix as the “debtor companies”, in various unrelated sets of the court proceedings.6.  the companies were incorporated as municipal unitary enterprises set up by decisions of local administrations and provided services tabulated below in the respective municipal districts in several regions of russia.the companies had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to them by the administrations in order to carry out their statutory activities.7.  on the dates tabulated below by decisions of the local authorities some of the assets allocated to the companies were transferred back to the administration.8.  at a later point insolvency proceedings were opened in respect of the debtor companies.the dates on which the insolvency started and ended are tabulated below.9.  on the dates tabulated below domestic courts by separate judgments made pecuniary awards in the applicants’ favour, to be paid by the debtor companies.particulars of each judgment are summarised in the appended table.10.  on the dates listed in the appendix the awards became enforceable.11.  the final judicial decisions in the applicants’ favour have remained unenforced due to companies’ insolvency and subsequent liquidation.several applicants’ subsequent court actions against authorities, including subsidiary liability claim, legal succession proceedings or claims for damages against the respective local administrations, as well as repetitive complaints to the bailiffs’ service or the prosecutor’s office in connection with pending criminal proceedings brought in 2006-07 with regard to the company’s insolvency (applications nos.12.  on 20 november 2009 the applicant in application no.10313/08 died.on 1 november 2010, his widow, anishchenko raisa yakovlevna, expressed her willing to participate in the proceedings before the court in her late husband’s stand.
under the lease of flats act (zakon o najmu stanova), which entered into force on 5 november 1996, such lessees are subject to a number of protective measures, such as the duty of landlords to contract a lease of indefinite duration, payment of protected rent (zaštićena najamnina), the amount of which is set by the government and significantly lower than the market rent; and better protection against termination of the lease.7.  the applicant refused to recognize s.š., who had been living in her flat since 1975, as a holder of a specially protected tenancy (“stanarsko pravo”) and to conclude a lease contract with her.brought a civil action against the applicant before the zagreb municipal civil court (općinski građanski sud u zagrebu) relying on sections 33(3) and 37(2) of the lease of flats act (see paragraph 18 below), seeking recognition of her legal status of a protected lessee and obtaining a judgment in lieu of the lease contract.8.  shortly afterwards in 2007 the applicant brought a counterclaim before the same court seeking to obtain a judgement ordering s.š.be ordered to pay her 500 croatian kunas (hrk) per month[1] together with the accrued interest, for the period between june 2002 and december 2006. the applicant specified that the said amount represented her estimate of a freely negotiated rent (“slobodno ugovorena najamnina”) as provided by section 6 of the lease of flats act and the government of croatia’s decision on the determination of the level of freely negotiated rent (odluka o utvrđivanju slobodno ugovorene najamnine, official gazette no.it recognised her legal status of a protected lessee and substituted the lease contract stipulating protected rent in the amount of hrk 190.25 per month[2].10.  on 11 december 2012 the zagreb county court (županijski sud u zagrebu) dismissed an appeal by the applicant and upheld the first-instance judgement, which thereby became final.11.  the applicant then lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) alleging violations of her right to equality before the law guaranteed by article 14 of the constitution and of her ownership rights guaranteed by articles 48, 49 and 50 of the croatian constitution (see paragraph 17 below).by a decision of 12 september 2013 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint.12.  the applicant submitted a document dated 11 may 2007 from which it follows that the protected rent for her flat was set at hrk 178.73[3].13.  according to the documents submitted by the parties, the applicant was not obliged to pay the condominium fee into the common reserve fund for the flat.14.  according to the applicant, she never paid any income tax on the income generated by renting her flat subject to the protected lease scheme.15.  the applicant furnished information as regards the monthly market rent for renting out flats in the vicinity of hers.she submitted an advertisement from the internet dated 2 june 2014 offering for rent a flat of a similar size as hers (80 m²) for eur 700 per month, and another one dated 17 december 2014 of 36 m² for eur 420 per month.in addition to this she submitted a copy of a lease agreement of 30 january 2014 for a flat with the surface area of 44.94 m² rented out for hrk 1,600 per month[5].
7.  the applicant was a civil servant of the city of slavonski brod, working in its office for public relations and protocol (grad slavonski brod, ured za odnose s javnošću i protokol – hereinafter “the city of slavonski brod”).8.  for the duration of his suspension, that is to say between september 2007 and september 2008, the applicant was entitled to monthly salary compensation in the amount of 60% of the salary remitted in the month prior to his suspension from the civil service.9.  on 5 september 2008 the osijek civil service tribunal (službenički sud u osijeku) found the applicant guilty of severe breaches of his official duties and fined him 10% of the salary paid to him in the month in which the said sanction was imposed.10.  on 14 october 2008, after the applicant lodged an appeal, the superior civil service tribunal (viši službenički sud) amended the impugned decision and fined the applicant 5% of his salary paid in the month in which the said sanction was imposed.11.  on 3 november 2008 the applicant lodged an application for the reimbursement of the portion of his gross salary – in the total amount of 78,428.47 croatian kunas ((hrk), approximately 10,900 euros (eur) at the time) – withheld during the suspension period between september 2007 and september 2008, together with accrued default interest running from the date of his suspension until payment of the said portion.he was of the opinion that by withholding 40% of his salary for a period of 12 months and imposing a fine on him the administrative bodies had punished him twice.13.  the applicant then lodged an appeal, which was dismissed as ill-founded by the same administrative body that delivered the above-mentioned decision (that is to say the city of slavonski brod).however, in its decision of 22 december 2008 it gave the instruction that the applicant had a right to bring an administrative action against it before the administrative court.15.  on 1 january 2012 certain amendments to the court act entered into force and the administrative court became the high administrative court.16.  by a decision of 4 january 2012 the high administrative court, relying on sections 9 and 30(1), point 5, of the administrative disputes act, declined jurisdiction in respect of the subject matter, stating that an ordinary municipal court (redovni, općinski sud) was the appropriate court to hear the applicant’s case, and declared the applicant’s action inadmissible.he complained, inter alia, that his right to a fair hearing, in particular his right of access to court, as guaranteed by article 29 of the croatian constitution and article 6 § 1 of the convention, had been violated when the high administrative court had declared his action inadmissible.18.  by a decision of 5 july 2012 the constitutional court declared the applicant’s constitutional complaint inadmissible on the grounds that the case raised no constitutional issue.19. on 6 september 2012 the applicant brought a civil action in the slavonski brod municipal court (općinski sud u slavonskom brodu) for reimbursement of salary arrears withheld between september 2007 and september 2008.it held, inter alia, that given that the high administrative court had declared the applicant’s administrative action inadmissible, it could not be deemed that the statutory limitation period had been interrupted.21.  by a judgment of 12 august 2013 the slavonski brod county court (županijski sud u slavonskom brodu) dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the first-instance judgment of 20 march 2013.
the applicant had previously worked at the portuguese meteorological institute (instituto português de metereologia – hereinafter “the im”) (since renamed the portuguese sea and atmosphere institute (instituto português do mar e da atmosfera), where he had acted as vice-president from may 2003 to april 2004 and where he had been the project coordinator of a project co-funded by the eu agency eumetsat from may 1998 until he was removed from this position by the president of the im, a.s., on 6 january 2006.the relevant parts of the article read as follows: “... someone who does not share these views is the president of the im, [a.s.], who has assured o independente that ‘the project does not face any risk’ and denigrated carlos câmara, whom he does not recognise as having the ‘skills to evaluate the development of the project’, and his opinions ... with regard to câmara leaving the project, [a.s.] mentioned that the former scientific coordinator ‘had broken a relationship of trust’, adding that his behaviour and his profile had led to his removal ...” 9.  on 10 march 2006 o independente published an opinion article, entitled “the liar”, written by the applicant in reply to the article of 3 march 2006. the article was divided into three parts: i) the reasons he had decided to write the article; ii) the problems with the project in question, namely financial mismanagement and lack of staff; and iii) a reaction to the statements made by a.s. the relevant parts of the article read as follows: “last friday, o independente devoted an article to the circumstances surrounding my removal from scientific coordinator of the project... contacted by a.f.s., my declarations focused on two issues of extreme gravity since they undermine the operational functioning of the project: the lack of a cost centre for the financial management and the non-recruitment of the necessary elements for its execution.in relation to the financial management, the president of the im stated that ‘both the im and the ‘manager’ of the project are aware of all the expenses and funding involved’.clear and objective questions require clear and objective answers and the question is solely one of whether there is a cost centre and if, in 2005, the financial execution reports were regularly made showing that the amount of 1,187,135 euros – 768,315 euros of which received from eumetsat in the beginning of 2005 and the remainder 418,820 euros to be invested by the im – was spent in accordance to the plan signed by the president.it further established that from 2004 to 2006, when the applicant had been coordinating the project, he had written various emails and memoranda which had been addressed to the manager of the project, c.t., and the science minister reporting problems in the implementation of the project, and an additional open letter to staff working for the im; the applicant had also had a meeting with the secretary of state for science and innovation where those problems had been discussed.the court further noted that the applicant’s article, and in particular the choice of the words “petty liar” and “poor wretch”, had been vindictive and a personal attack on a.s. the relevant parts of the judgment read as follows: “the article published on 10 march 2006 was the culmination of a tense relationship between [the applicant] and the assistant to the public prosecutor and an example of their professional disagreements.... following an analysis of the phrases used in the article, in particular “petty liar” and “poor wretch”, the court is of the opinion that [the applicant] did not limit himself to objective criticism within a professional context and veered into attacking the assistant, given that those value judgments go beyond mere professional criticism and fall within the hard core of the right to reputation.... in a cold and strict analysis of the facts which were established in the instant case ... there are no doubts that [the applicant] wanted, and managed, to libel the offended by imputing to him epithets such as the ‘president of the im is nothing more than a petty liar and a poor wretch’ which are harmful to his personal and professional honour and by calling into question his personal competence and good name.if throughout the article in question in the instant case [the applicant] objectively criticised the assistant’s professional performance, even in reply to the previous article published on 3 march 2006, he [the applicant] drifted into a personal attack motivated by a feeling of revenge when he stated that ‘the president of the im is nothing more than a petty liar and a poor wretch’.while the word ‘liar’ would be a fact and as such addressed towards the professional performance of the assistant, the phrases ‘petty liar’ and ‘poor wretch’ constitute value judgments which, in the opinion of this court, are excluded from objective criticism and fall within the scope of a personal attack on the assistant.... in the instant case, [the applicant] knew that the offended was the president of the im, a public body, and wrote those words about him in order to address the duties performed and the activity performed in relation to those functions.in fact, the phrases had only one purpose – to be used as a counterattack to the interview given by the assistant to a journalist in which he mentioned that he did not consider that [the applicant] was competent to evaluate the progression of the programme, and with the aim of downgrading and humiliating the assistant.” 13.  the lisbon criminal court sentenced the applicant to 250 day fines, totalling 2,000 euros (eur).the relevant parts of the judgment read as follows: “in the instant case the phrases ‘petty liar’ and ‘poor wretch’, in the context of the written piece concerning the professional relationship between the assistant and [the applicant], their academic background and their personal relationship, cannot be disregarded as [the applicant] wishes.in other words, he cannot claim that the word ‘liar’ was not from the ethical and moral point of view ‘innocent’ and even less when the adjective ‘petty’ is added ... [the applicant] could probably have achieved the ‘informative’ result which he wanted by only [saying] ‘misrepresenting the truth’.... even within this context of tense professional relationship, there can be doubt that the phrases “petty liar” and “poor wretch” are objectively defamatory, capable of undermining one’s character and how one is considered ... in this regard, [the applicant]’s desired freedom of expression went much further than the limits covered by criticism by entering into the sphere of the offence of honour (an indivisible feeling, referring both to the professional and personal aspect [of the individual]) and into the scope of defamation.”
17.  on 22 february 2007 the opatija municipal court dismissed the applicant’s civil action on the grounds that as stipulated in the agreement between the holy see and croatia and the related agreement between the government of croatia and the croatian episcopal conference on catholic religious education in state schools and pre-school institutions, he could not teach catholic religious education without a canonical mandate.... [t[he constitutional court starts by observing that the republic of croatia and the holy see concluded an agreement on education and cultural affairs, signed in zagreb on 18 december 1996. the act ratifying that agreement came into force on 11 february 1997 and thereby this international treaty became part of the internal legal order of the republic of croatia with precedence in terms of its legal effects over the [domestic] statutes.under the agreement, teachers of religious education are members, together with their pupils, of the educational corps ... the republic of croatia undertook to regulate the programme and functioning of catholic religious education in schools of all types and levels by a special agreement between the republic of croatia and the croatian episcopal conference.the constitutional court considers it necessary to note at this point that the appellant is wrong when he argues that the agreement between the holy see and croatia on education and cultural affairs does not require a canonical mandate as a condition for employment and that such a requirement only flows from the agreement between the government of croatia and the croatian episcopal conference on catholic religious education in state schools and pre-school institutions of 29 january 1999. the appellant specifically contends that the agreement between the government [of the republic of croatia] and the croatian episcopal conference is a bilateral agreement which ‘is not a statute and does not have the status of an international treaty’ and thus could not be binding for [him and the state] nor could it be applied to [his] case, as was done by the [lower] courts.although the appellant relies on an erroneous premise that the canonical mandate, as a condition for employment as a teacher of religious education, has been stipulated (only) by the agreement between the government [of the republic of croatia] and the croatian episcopal conference, it could be held that in essence he considers that the consequences of the withdrawal of the canonical mandate on his contract of employment, and his position of teacher of religious education, are contrary to the constitution.the constitutional court reiterates that the requirement to hold a canonical mandate in order to teach religious education, and the consequences of its withdrawal (loss of the right to teach catholic religious education), are provided for under article 3 of the agreement between the holy see and croatia on education and cultural affairs.the assessment of a person’s adequacy [to teach religious education] by the competent church authorities is a concretisation of the freedom of the church’s activity and the right to religious freedom, which [also] includes the right of parents to a religious education of their children.10.2.4. the enforcement of the obligation undertaken by an international agreement, namely the organisation of catholic religious education in state elementary and high schools and pre-school education institutions, as provided for under the agreement between the holy see and croatia on education and cultural affairs and the agreement between the government of croatia and the croatian episcopal conference, brought religious education teachers into the employment system of the republic of croatia.although their employment status is not fully defined by these agreements, the provisions of the agreement between the holy see and croatia on education and cultural affairs in themselves show that the employment status of religious education teachers is a sui generis employment status – in order to teach religious education they must be suitable for that position in the opinion of the church authorities; they must hold a canonical mandate and the withdrawal of the mandate leads to the loss of the right to teach catholic religious education.at the public hearing – on the basis of evidence given by the director of the administration for legal affairs of the ministry of science, education and sport of the republic of croatia s.s.b., it has been undoubtedly established that the employment of all teachers of religious education was conducted without an open competition, although that has not been provided for under the relevant law.the letter indicates that a contract of employment is to be concluded with religious education teachers meeting the relevant requirements, and that if the diocesan bishop by means of a decree withdraws the canonical mandate to teach catholic religious education from a religious education teacher due to deficiencies related to the correctness of the teaching and personal morality, the contract of employment is to be terminated under section 107 of the labour act as an extraordinary dismissal.the assessment of the lawfulness of the termination of the appellant’s contract of employment was, in the light of the relevant labour law, conducted by the [competent] courts at three levels of jurisdiction.in view of the fact that for the position of teacher of religious education there is a further special requirement, without which it is impossible to conclude a contract of employment (a canonical mandate), and having found that the appellant, due to the withdrawal of [the canonical mandate] no longer met the requirements for teaching catholic religious education, and the fact that the defendants had tried to find him another post ..., the [competent] courts, in the constitutional court’s view, applied a constitutionally acceptable interpretation according to which the appellant’s contract of employment had been terminated in accordance with the relevant law.10.2.6. against the above background, in view of the defendants’ conduct following the withdrawal of the appellant’s canonical mandate and in view of the manner in which the competent courts provided him with judicial protection in terms of the state’s obligations under the vatican agreements, the constitutional court finds that the appellant has been afforded sufficient protection of his [employment rights].” 24.  judge d.k.25.  the president of the constitutional court gave a dissenting opinion in which she argued, in particular, that the normative framework for the employment of teachers of religious education, based on the agreement between the holy see and croatia on education and cultural affairs, had not been implemented sufficiently precisely in the relevant domestic employment system, which had left a number of issues undetermined.
7.  on 28 march 2003 the split department for the conservation of cultural heritage (ministarstvo kulture, uprava za zaštitu kulturne baštine, konzervatorski odjel u splitu, hereafter “the split department”) ordered a measure of preventive protection relating to cultural heritage with regard to the applicant’s building, pending the final evaluation of its cultural value.under section 10 of the protection and preservation of cultural heritage act (zakon o zaštiti i očuvanju kulturnih dobara, hereafter “the cultural heritage act”) the measure would remain in place for a period of three years, and, in accordance with section 11 of the same act, would afford the same protection as a final protective measure (see paragraph 21 below).9.  on 10 january 2007, after the expiry of the three-year period, the split department again ordered a measure of preventive protection with regard to the applicant’s commercial building, reiterating the same grounds as those specified in its previous decision.10.  the applicant was not informed of the above decision relating to the second measure of preventive protection in respect of his building.11.  on 16 october 2007, after becoming aware of the second measure of preventive protection following an enquiry with the land registry, the applicant challenged the extended application of that measure before the ministry of culture (ministarstvo culture, hereafter “the ministry”).he contended, in particular, that he had not been informed of the decision ordering the preventive protection, and that the protection could no longer be ordered, since the maximum duration of such a measure under the cultural heritage act was three years.the applicant also enquired about compensation in respect of the pecuniary damage he had sustained as a result of the measure of preventive protection.it stressed that the decision of 10 january 2007 extending the preventive protection after the expiry of the first three-year period had been necessary, owing to the fact that it had not been possible to obtain an excerpt from the land register from the split municipal court, and that the building represented an important example of early industrial architecture in split.13.  on 31 january 2008 the ministry dismissed the applicant’s appeal as unfounded, on the grounds that there was nothing in the law preventing the competent authority from applying the measure twice for periods of three years, and that the measure of preventive protection had not limited the applicant’s ownership rights.14.  on 9 march 2008 the applicant lodged an administrative action in the administrative court (upravni sud republike hrvatske), challenging the lawfulness and reasonableness of the measure of preventive protection, and emphasising the passivity of the competent authorities in finally resolving the matter.the applicant also asked the administrative court to award him 200,000 euros (eur) in respect of the damage he had sustained as a result of the conduct of the administrative authorities.on 15 april 2010, after the expiry of the measure of preventive protection, the split municipal court ordered that the entry concerning the measure be deleted from the land register.in particular, it pointed out that there had been solid evidence suggesting that the building was an important object of cultural heritage, and that the measure of preventive protection was therefore justified given the need to carry out further assessments.moreover, the administrative court considered that nothing in the relevant domestic law prevented the adoption of the second decision on preventive protection following the expiry of the first three-year time-limit.17.  on 10 september 2011 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske), complaining of a violation of his property rights under article 48 of the constitution with regard to the allegedly unlawful and unreasonable application of the measure of preventive protection in respect of his property.
however, it turned out that, according to the documents, the flat was no longer municipal property and that it belonged to l. the federal registration service sent the relevant data to the head of the municipality’s administration on 16 february 2011. the head of the administration asked the regional prosecutor to look into the situation with the flat.according to the relevant documents, on 9 november 1992 the factory had signed a privatisation agreement to transfer the flat to kh.as regards his passport details indicated in the privatisation agreement, he explained that in 2009 and 2010 he had lost his passport twice and that he had never met p. or l. the police further established that l., who was serving in the army at the time, had also lost his passport in 2009.10.  on 31 march 2011 the prosecutor responded to the head of the administration advising him as follows: “it appears that the persons who were parties to the transactions with the flat committed a crime in this respect.furthermore, in order to prevent further transactions with the flat, i have asked the chief state registrar to refuse state registration of any future transactions with the flat.” 11.  on an unspecified date the police opened a criminal investigation into the transactions involving the flat.the prosecutor argued that kh., had never resided in the flat and that the flat had never been transferred to him from the municipality under a privatisation scheme.the prosecutor asked the court to invalidate the privatisation agreement of 9 november 1992 and subsequent transactions in respect of the flat as having no basis in law.14.  on 6 july 2011 the registration service issued a certificate confirming the purchase of the flat by the applicant and her title to it.15.  on 16 september 2011 the district court granted the applicant’s request and allowed her to take part in the proceedings initiated by the prosecutor.17.  on 23 december 2011 the tsentralniy district court of chelyabinsk granted the prosecutor’s claims brought on behalf of the municipality.the court reasoned as follows: “pursuant to article 302 of the civil code of the russian federation, if a property has been purchased from a person who had no right to sell it, and the purchaser is unaware and could not have been aware [of that fact] (the bona fide purchaser), the owner shall have the right to reclaim that property from the purchaser, if the said property was lost by the owner or by the person into whose possession the owner has conveyed the property, or if it was stolen from either of them, or if it left their possession against their will in another way.it has been established in the course of the proceedings that the flat in question left the municipality’s possession against the latter’s will.accordingly, the flat ... should be recovered from [the applicant] and transferred to the municipality.” 18.  on 5 march 2012 the chelyabinsk regional court upheld the judgment of 23 december 2011 on appeal.the part of the judgment of 23 december 2011 concerning the monetary award in the applicant’s favour remains unenforced.21.  on an unspecified date the applicant brought an action against the state, alleging that the local authorities’ inaction had resulted in her buying a flat from a person who had no right to sell it to her.
6.  the first applicant, mr t. p. was born in 1981 and is currently serving his prison term in sátoraljaújhely.7.  on 22 november 2006 the nógrád county regional court convicted the first applicant of murder committed with special cruelty and abuse of firearms.the applicant was sentenced to life imprisonment with no possibility of parole.8.  on 28 june 2007 the budapest court of appeal upheld the judgment, adding that the murder had been committed for ‘villainous’ reasons, namely, the applicant was considered to have killed the victim in a particularly atrocious manner, so as to prevent her from reporting the initial abduction and stabbing and thereby to cover up a previous crime.9.  on 14 february 2008 the supreme court dismissed the first applicant’s petition for review.10.  on 5 november 2013 the president of the republic dismissed the applicant’s request for pardon, by which he sought commutation of his life sentence to twenty years fixed-term imprisonment as well as allowing the possibility of his release on parole.11.  the second applicant, mr a.t. was born in 1985 and is currently serving his prison term in sátoraljaújhely.12.  on 14 may 2010 the borsod-abaúj-zemplén county regional court convicted the second applicant of double murder and abuse of firearms.he was sentenced to life imprisonment with no possibility of parole.13.  on 9 november 2010 the debrecen court of appeal upheld this judgment.14.  on 13 september 2011 the supreme court dismissed the second applicant’s petition for review.15.  on 23 october 2014 the president of the republic dismissed the applicant’s request for pardon, by which he sought commutation of his life sentence to twenty years fixed-term imprisonment as well as allowing the possibility of his release on parole.
he suffered from advanced hiv, long-term tuberculosis at the stage of lung tissue destruction and chronic hepatitis c. 10.  in june 2012 the applicant was admitted to the tuberculosis unit of the medical wing of remand prison no.given the development of the applicant’s drug resistance, a medical panel at the hospital ordered different antibiotics to be used.in july 2014 a tuberculous infection of the vertebrae was diagnosed and the applicant was readmitted to the prison hospital.his application for release was examined by the leninskiy district court of nizhniy tagil on 27 november 2014. at the hearing the applicant’s doctor testified that he was suffering from serious diseases, that he could not care for himself and that the prospects of his recovery were poor.on the same day the district court dismissed the application, citing the applicant’s history of previous convictions which, in the court’s opinion, demonstrated that he “had failed to take the path of improvement”.15.  on 12 march 2015 the applicant asked the court to apply rule 39 of the rules of court and to indicate to the government that he should be provided with adequate medical care and immediately released.16.  on 23 march 2015 the president of the section, acting upon the applicant’ s request, decided to apply rules 39 and 41 of the rules of court, indicating to the government that the applicant should be immediately examined by medical experts which were independent from the prison system.they were to determine (1) whether he was receiving adequate treatment in the prison hospital for his condition; (2) whether his state of health was compatible with detention in the conditions of a prison hospital; and (3) whether his condition required his admission to a specialist, possibly civilian, hospital.17.  on 7 april 2015 the government responded to the court’s letter of 24 march 2015. it submitted documents related to the applicant’s conviction; certificates issued by the head of the detention facility where the applicant had been previously detained, describing the state of his health and giving a list of medical procedures he had undergone; documents showing that the detention facility was authorised to provide medical services to inmates; extracts from the applicant’s medical history; certificates issued by the head of the prison hospital describing the state of the applicant’s health, the quality of the medical treatment and the conditions of his detention; handwritten statements by three of the prison hospital’s staff stating that they had provided the applicant with the necessary care; the report of the special medical panel of 26 september 2014; and copies of the decisions of 27 november 2014 and 24 february 2015 on his applications for early release.18.  the government also asserted that the scope and quality of the treatment provided to the applicant in the prison hospital was appropriate for his state of health.however, they admitted that there had been a serious deterioration in the applicant’s condition in 2014. lastly, they submitted that an examination of the applicant by a medical panel to check his entitlement to early release had been scheduled for 9 april 2015.however, two independent doctors acting at the request of the applicant’s lawyer had assessed the quality of the applicant’s medical treatment in detention and whether his further detention in the prison hospital was appropriate for someone as ill as him.in their report, dated 20 may 2015, the doctors concluded that the medical care provided by the detention authorities had been inadequate, particularly in view of the continued use of ineffective drugs.they also stated that the applicant required spinal surgery owing to the tuberculous infection of the vertebrae and that it was vital he be transferred from the prison hospital to a specialist medical facility.the court held that the applicant should be released immediately, owing to the state of his health and the absence of disciplinary violations.
4.  the applicants were born in 1950 and in 1949, respectively, and live in matosinhos.5.  on 16 march 2005 a.c. and m.l.instituted civil proceedings against the applicants and other four defendants before the matosinhos court seeking the payment of 11,843.48 euros (eur) due to the alleged sale of a part of the plaintiffs’ property.6.  on 29 march 2005 the applicants were summoned to challenge the action against them; which they did not.in the notification letter they were given notice that the lack of opposition would entail the confession of the facts pursuant to article 484 § 1 of the code of civil procedure (see paragraph 11 below).7.  between 21 april 2005 and 24 may 2013 several procedural steps took place either by action of the plaintiffs, the remaining defendants or the matosinhos court.in particular: on 21 april 2005 the remaining defendants contested the action; on 3 november 2005 the plaintiffs submitted observations in reply; on 17 october 2007 the plaintiffs lodged a request seeking the intervention of i.t.in the proceedings, which was admitted by the matosinhos court on 29 may 2009; on 15 december 2010 the judge gave directions concerning the matters to be discussed at the hearing (despacho saneador); on 21 march 2012, following i.t.’s death, the matosinhos court stayed the proceedings pending the outcome of inheritance proceedings.8.  on 24 may 2013 the applicants submitted a power of attorney and requested that the case-file be uploaded to the legal platform “citius” for consultation.9.  on 10 january 2014 the applicants requested the participation of an expert of their own choosing in the preparation of the expert report which had been sought by the plaintiffs.on an unknown date the other defendants in the proceedings lodged an opposition to the applicants’ request.10.  on 16 october 2015 the matosinhos court adopted a judgment in which it ruled in favour of the applicants.
informed the authorities of the incident, the head of the local administration, mr kh.s., arrived at the military unit, spoke to the servicemen and had the detainees released.in their observations on the admissibility and merits of the application of 9 april 2012, they stated, in particular, the following: “... the damage to the applicants’ health occurred as a result of unidentified persons opening fire on them on 8 october 1999 in the village of savelyevskaya in the naurskiy district.after the shooting the unidentified persons stole cattle belonging to the applicants ...” 15.  on 17 july 2000 the first applicant complained in writing of the infliction of bodily injuries and the theft of her livestock to the naurskiy district temporary department of the interior (наурский временный отдел внутренних дел) (hereinafter “the naurskiy vovd”).she further stated that after the military unit had left the place where it had been stationed, she had gone to the field and found an envelope with the address of one of the servicemen who had been stationed there and that she still had the envelope and could provide it to the investigators.the decision stated: “... on 8 october 1999 during the day unidentified persons intentionally inflicted bodily injuries on [the applicants] ...” 20.  on 20 october 2000 the investigators granted the first applicant victim status in the criminal case and questioned her again.24.  on 24 october 2000 the investigators questioned two of the first applicant’s neighbours, ms s.g. and ms p.kh., both of whom stated that they had not witnessed the incident in october 1999, but that they had been told that the first and second applicants had been shot and wounded by the military servicemen and one man had been shot dead by them and that as a result of the incident the applicants’ cattle had been lost.41.  on the same date (26 february 2006) the investigators refused (in the light of the expiry of the time-limit) to initiate a new criminal investigation into the injuries sustained by the applicants on 8 october 1999.43.  on 26 april 2008 the head of the naurskiy vovd overruled the decision to terminate the criminal investigation as unsubstantiated and premature and ordered that the proceedings be reopened and the case file be transferred to another law-enforcement body, in accordance with the rules of jurisdiction.the reasoning for the decision stated, inter alia, the following: “... the investigation established that an unidentified person had opened fire and wounded in the arm [the first and the second applicants], causing them medium and minor gravity bodily harm, respectively [...] ... it was also established that unidentified persons had committed the theft of sixteen cows belonging to [the applicants] and of two cows belonging to mr m.r.the examination of the contents of the criminal case file demonstrated that the victims [the applicants] had been shot at with firearms, from a distance ... and the location of their wounds showed that life-threatening damage could have been caused to them ... in addition, according to the information in the case file, mr d. had been shot and killed on the spot in [the applicants’] presence.in the light of the above, the investigation of the criminal case failed to establish in full whether an attempt on the lives of [the applicants] had been made by the unidentified persons who [were responsible for] their gunshot wounds ...” 44.  on 29 april 2008 the re-opened criminal case file no.the decision criticised the investigators’ failure to take basic steps and stated, amongst other things, the following: “... at the same time, the investigation established that the shooting had been aimed at them [the applicants, mr m.r., mr r.m.therefore, the above information provides grounds for concluding unequivocally that the unidentified person had the clear intention of killing [the applicants and mr d.]; ... thus, the actions of the unidentified person should be deemed to constitute murder under parts 1 and 2 (subparagraph “a”) of article 105 of the russian criminal code, and the case file in respect of criminal case no.52.  on 26 april 2008, shortly before the scheduled start of the first-instance court hearing (see paragraph 43 above), the prosecutor quashed the decision of 26 february 2006 and as a result, by a decision of 28 april 2008 the district court rejected the first applicant’s complaint as groundless.the decision stated, among other things, the following: “... the court has no legal rights to impose obligations on the investigation bodies concerning the order and direction of the conduct of the investigation.
7.  shortly after the incident, criminal proceedings were instigated against the owner of the construction site, h.c. (also referred to as “the employer”) and three officials from the antakya municipality for causing death by negligence and failing to comply with the regulations and orders, pursuant to article 455 of the criminal code in force at the material time (law no.the experts noted that the municipality also bore 25% responsibility for the two children’s deaths, as (i) they had failed to duly inspect whether the construction, for which it had issued a permit, had complied with the rules on work safety, and to ensure that the construction site had been properly closed off with wooden panels as a safety measure, and (ii) it was not clear on what legal ground it had allowed the digging and the use of the hole in question as a shelter, as such shelters had to be built beneath buildings and not in open spaces.according to the experts, the remaining responsibility (50%) lay with the owner, h.c., who had failed to put in place the necessary safety measures on the construction site, such as building a wooden fence around the hole, erecting warning signs or recruiting a security guard to control access to the construction site.reiterating the factual findings in the previous report of 16 april 1998, the experts identified four main causes of the accident in question: (i) absence of wooden panels around the construction site, which was located in a residential area in close proximity to other houses and public roads; (ii) absence of any railing around the hole; (iii) absence of signs prohibiting entry into the construction site or warning against the water-filled hole on the site; and (iv) lack of diligence of the deceased children.they noted that, according to the information provided to the investigation authorities by the applicant, the hole in question had been open for the past eight to ten months, and a number of residents from the neighbourhood had warned h.c. to take the necessary safety measures against the hazards on the construction site, particularly vis-à-vis children.the experts considered, lastly, that while the municipality had a general duty to inspect construction sites and impose penalties for breaches of the laws, they could not be held accountable for failing to conduct inspections, impose safety precautions or issue penalties unless it could be proven with conclusive evidence that the authorities had overlooked the deficiencies on the construction site despite having been aware of them, or had otherwise neglected their duties, which evidence was lacking in the instant case.according to the expert report, h.c. had made the following statements in the aftermath of the incident before the investigative authorities and the trial court: “... [after digging the hole on the construction site], i enclosed the hole with wooden planks.the responsibility for failure to take any safety measures around the hole or to prevent access to the construction site, despite the knowledge that the site attracted children, fell firstly on the contractor and then on the municipality, which was required to inspect the construction site periodically in order to identify deficiencies and issue the necessary warnings; the municipality authorities had clearly neglected that duty.(d)  judgment of the hatay criminal court of first instance 15.  on 14 april 2000, relying on the third expert report, the hatay criminal court of first instance held that i̇.h.s., who was the director of reconstruction at the municipality (belediye imar müdürü), and the construction owner, h.c., were 25% and 75% responsible for the incident respectively.after setting out the circumstances in which the incident had occurred, much like in the previous reports submitted to the criminal court, and referring to the relevant provisions of the labour code and the regulation on workers’ health and occupational safety in construction work, the experts concluded that h.c. bore 85% of the responsibility for the incident on account of his failure to take the necessary safety measures on the construction site, such as erecting wooden panels or other fencing around the site, taking special precautions in those parts of the site that presented a danger of falling, placing warning signs as necessary, informing the construction workers of possible hazards at the construction site and employing a guard to control access to the site.20.  turning to the liability of the deceased children, the report held that while it was natural for the children to have been playing out on the street, they should not have entered the construction site and approached the water-filled hole, the dangers of which were obvious bearing in mind in particular that the ground had been slippery at the relevant time.the municipality was clearly responsible for the deaths of the two children for having tolerated the presence of a large and uncovered water-filled hole in the very centre of the city for months on end, yet its responsibility had been disregarded by the first-instance court.it noted that the first‑instance court should have dismissed the case against the municipality at the outset for procedural reasons, without examining its substance, as the complaints concerning the municipality’s responsibility to inspect the construction site fell within the jurisdiction of the administrative courts.27.  on an unspecified date in 2009 the applicant, together with other family members, brought compensation proceedings before the hatay administrative court against the municipality for the death of their son and brother erhan cevrioğlu due to the alleged negligence on the part of the municipality in the discharge of its inspection duties.30.  on 11 march 2011, relying solely on the expert report submitted to the hatay civil court of first instance on 5 november 2004, and without undertaking any analysis of its own as to the responsibilities of the municipality under the applicable legislation and whether it had fulfilled those responsibilities, the hatay administrative court held that no fault was attributable to the municipality on the facts of the instant case and thus dismissed the compensation claims of the applicant and his family.
6.  on 30 march 2007 the applicant, who was at that time a journalist of the weekly magazine wprost, contacted a.c., the then rector of the university of gdańsk, in order to inform him that she considered him to be a long-term informant for the communist secret services in the past.a photo showing a.c. in the course of his official duties alongside the article had the caption: “a.c., rector of the university of gdańsk, used to be an informant for the communist secret services under the name lek”.it criticised the articles in so far as they alleged a.c.’s involvement with the communist secret services, saying that the arguments presented by the applicant in the articles were not sufficiently convincing.it further referred to a previous public plea to the media requesting them to deal with allegations of collaboration with the communist secret services with the utmost diligence, seriousness and caution, so as not to cause detriment to anyone and to avoid a sensationalist approach to a very serious issue.it was submitted that this publication could discredit him in the eyes of the public and result in him losing the confidence necessary to perform his duties as a public university rector, a criminal offence punishable under article 212 of the criminal code.17.  at a hearing on 15 march 2011 in the latter proceedings, the gdańsk regional court held, referring to documents stored by the ipn, that a.c. had made a true vetting statement to the effect that he had not been an informant for the communist secret services.21.  the court found that the plaintiff had been working at the university of gdańsk since 1974. he had been questioned by the communist secret police on several occasions before 1989, when the communist system in poland had collapsed.23.  the court considered that while before it the applicant had referred to ipn documents, neither the documents she had submitted originating from these files nor the full file obtained by the court had supported the conclusion that a.c. had been an informant.she had only received a decision from the director of the ipn allowing her to access the documents on 9 may 2007, after the article had been published and created a considerable media stir.she had failed to contact a.c. prior to the publication to try to check the veracity of the information, apart from her telephone call to him whereby she had only informed him that she would be publishing the article.the mere fact that the court had gathered more material relevant to establishing the facts concerning a.c.’s past than the applicant had had at her disposal prior to the publication of the impugned articles demonstrated that she had formulated her allegations without a sound factual basis.it was limited by the criterion of truthfulness on the one hand, and the necessity to protect important values such as dignity, reputation, honour and the private life of individuals on the other.the court observed that the amount of the fine had been determined with regard to the degree of the applicant’s guilt.however, the court was of the view that a non-custodial sentence was sufficient in the circumstances, commensurate with the gravity of the offence.it further ordered that the judgment be made public, having regard to a request submitted by the plaintiff and article 215 of the criminal code, which obliged the court to allow such requests in cases involving convictions based on article 212 of that code.
the decision of the warsaw court of appeal of 19 september 1996 (upheld by the supreme court (sąd najwyższy) on 22 november 1996) and the decision of the warsaw court of appeal of 6 december 1996 (upheld by the supreme court on 13 january 1997) were all justified by the courts by the existence of strong evidence against the applicant, comprising the testimony of the alleged victim w.s., the results of the line-up and confrontation with witnesses, as well as by the gravity of charges and a need to take additional investigatory measures.25.  the applicant’s detention was further extended by the supreme court on 21 april 1998, until 31 august 1998, and on 15 october 1998, until 30 november 1998, on the grounds of the existence of strong evidence against him, the gravity of the charges, the complexity of the case and the need to obtain statements from witnesses who lived in lithuania.on 8 may 2007 the warsaw regional court dismissed the applicant’s claim, considering that the plaintiff had failed to substantiate some of his allegations and to demonstrate that the remainder of the alleged procedural shortcomings and the actions of the respondent had been unlawful or linked with any damage which the applicant might have suffered.61.  on 13 october 2005 the applicant brought a civil action under article 417 of the civil code, seeking compensation for the fact that in the official letter of 27 december 2004 the deputy governor (zastępca dyrektora) of radom remand centre had stated that the applicant was guilty of uttering threats against judge b. p. on 8 june 2006 the radom regional court dismissed the applicant’s action.72.  on 27 november 2006 the warsaw regional court awarded the applicant pln 5,000 in compensation for the infringement of his personal rights on account of the fact that three letters sent to him from the regional inspectorate of the prison service, the country election office and the central board of the prison service had been censored by mistake.the regime was to entail (1) general security measures as regulated by the law, including the monitoring and censorship of the applicant’s correspondence and monitoring and control of his telephone conversations and visits, and, in addition, (2) the use of handcuffs and fetters during the applicant’s transport; (3) transport only with the help of police; and (4) handcuffing the applicant behind the back anywhere outside the remand centre’s living quarters.the requests were justified by invoking: (1) the gravity of the offences of which the applicant had been convicted and the long sentence; (2) the fact that the applicant manifested his hostility towards the agents of the justice department; (3) serious lack of moral character; and (4) other unspecified features of the applicant’s character and his personal qualities (właściwości i warunki osobiste) which, together with the above‑mentioned elements, made him a person who posed a serious threat to the society and to the security of the remand centre.146.  during the third review proceedings, the administration of radom remand centre, submitted that the applicant had stopped posing a threat to the security and internal order of the remand centre and of the officers of the justice department and did not cause any problems to the remand centre’s staff.such statements are groundless and [were] employed with the goal of making a particular impression and [to enhance] the ‘effectiveness of [the applicant’s] actions.’” 174.  on 10 january 2005 the applicant complained to the penitentiary judge that the governor of radom remand centre had confiscated his private copy of a brochure on the case-law of the echr, which he had intended to send to k.s., a fellow prisoner detained in another establishment.(iii)  complaint about the unreasonable length of the proceedings concerning the applicant’s disciplinary punishment 186.  on 3 december 2004 the applicant filed with the lublin court of appeal via the radom regional court a complaint under the 2004 act alleging an unreasonable delay in the above-mentioned proceedings concerning the challenge to his disciplinary punishment.200. the monitoring of the applicant’s letters and telephone conversations was considered justified by the fact that the applicant, due to the nature of the offences of which he had been convicted and the opinions of prison wardens, had been classified by the penitentiary commission as a “dangerous prisoner”.(a)  the imposition of a high-security regime 217.  on 13 may 2010 the administration of pińczów prison requested that the applicant be classified as a prisoner posing a serious threat to society or to security of a prison on the following grounds: (1) the applicant had been convicted of murder with the use of arms and an attempted murder; (2) he had been previously classified as a special-type prisoner within the meaning of article 88 § 3 of the code; (3) in opole lubelskie prison he had been gathering information about officers of radom remand centre and had been inciting prisoners to rebellion; (5) he had received disciplinary punishments many times during his incarceration; (6) he seriously lacked moral character and was vexatious; (7) he had close links with the criminal world; and (8) prisoners looked up to him because of his leadership qualities and facility to dominate other people and the fact that he had become a self-declared speaker for prisoners’ rights.218.  on 13 may 2010 the penitentiary commission of pińczów prison, having heard the applicant and taken under consideration the reasons for the above-mentioned request, classified the applicant as a prisoner posing a serious threat to society and the security of the prison within the meaning of article 88 § 3 of the code.220.  on 6 september 2010 the kielce regional court examined the applicant’s appeal under article 7 § 1 of the code as to the formal compliance of the impugned commission’s decision with the law and as to the alleged arbitrariness of its assessment of the applicant’s character and his conduct.257.  by the letter of a penitentiary judge of the supreme court of 7 november 2002 and a letter of the warsaw election commissary (komisasz wyborczy) of 3 december 2002, the applicant was informed that he should have been allowed to cast his vote in the elections because on 23 october 2002 the remand centre’s management had been officially notified that the ruling depriving the applicant of his civic rights had been quashed by the supreme court on 22 october 2002. the applicant was further informed that, following the supreme court’s judgment, he should have immediately lodged a reclamation about the fact that his name was missing from the register of persons entitled to vote in the remand centre (reklamacja na nieprawidłowości w spisie wyborców).
7.  on the evening of 22 october 2011 the panemunė police department of the kaunas district received a call that a man had been robbed in the street by several young men in the neighbourhood close to the railway station.the young man was arrested and taken to the panemunė police station ...” 14.  on 24 and 26 october 2011 the applicant’s mother r. complained to the kaunas district police department and the kaunas city prosecutor that her minor son had been beaten by police officers while being apprehended.they also stated that while being apprehended near the railway station the applicant had violently resisted, had been kicking out and shouting, and had thrown himself on the ground, as a result of which the police had had to use a truncheon and handcuffs against him.21.  on 24 october 2011 the head of the panemunė police department instructed the officers of that department to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the applicant’s allegations that he had been ill-treated by the police while being apprehended.the written record of the interview repeated almost identically the wording of his initial report (see paragraph 13 above), and added: “we found out that [the applicant] was a minor only at the police station ... had we known that earlier, we would not have used physical coercion and restraining measures against him ... at the time of the arrest, there was blood on [the applicant’s] hand.i took my hands out of my pockets, then the officer got out of the car and walked towards me, then i started running away and the police car started chasing me ... i ended up near a bus stop close to the railway station and there i was arrested by the police.there were three officers in the car, one of them was a.r., the other was the one with the shaved head who was sitting next to me, and the third was about 172 cm tall; this one had a large build and short dark hair ... in the police station a.r.i gave them my mother’s telephone number, and the officers called her and took me to her ... the officer with the shaved head handed me over to my mother and said “i don’t know how you will react but the officers have given him a little lesson to not run away from them the next time.” 26.  on 22 november 2011 the investigator examined twenty-two photographs of the applicant which had been taken by his mother on 23, 25 and 29 october 2011. the investigator noted that injuries were visible on the applicant’s forehead, arms and legs, upper chest and the left side of his back.the written record of the interview was almost identical to his previous statements (see paragraphs 13 and 23 above), and added: “... i arrived at the place where [the applicant] had been apprehended ... he was actively resisting: he was kicking out and had fallen on the ground.the young man continued behaving in an aggressive manner and actively resisting arrest, so officers used physical coercion, after which the young man was handcuffed and put into a police car ...” 30.  on 28 november 2011 the investigator submitted a report to the head of the criminal investigation unit of the kaunas district police department, suggesting that no pre-trial investigation should be opened.the prosecutor opened a pre-trial investigation, noting that the medical examination of the applicant had shown numerous injuries, so it was necessary to assess whether the use of force by the police officers had been within the limits provided in the law (see “relevant domestic law” below).when he saw the approaching officers, he began to squirm and tried to get away ... after he was handed over to the officers, i saw that he was actively resisting arrest with his legs and arms, he was squirming and he fell on the ground with full force, making it more difficult to arrest him.and i left and i didn’t see anything else.” 33.  on 10 july 2012 the applicant’s mother submitted a request to the kaunas city prosecutor for the investigation to be transferred to the prosecutor’s office on the grounds that the kaunas police officers could not be considered impartial.the following day the kaunas city prosecutor dismissed the request for the investigation to be transferred to the prosecutor’s office, finding no grounds to doubt the impartiality of the police investigator.the prosecutor held that physical force had been used against the applicant only to the extent that was strictly necessary to arrest him, and that the applicant’s allegations that he had been beaten up in the police car with a truncheon had not been proven.
... this court considers that what is missing in the present case are the reasons for not accepting the status of the accused in the czech republic, the explanation of where the accused actually lives [resides] and, consequently, a clear conclusion as to whether or not he satisfied the conditions set out in article 5 of annex c of the convention on temporary admission ....” 22.  in the resumed proceedings, by a decision of 9 october 2008 the customs administration again found the applicant guilty of committing the same administrative offence and fined him hrk 5,000. the customs administration again found that at the time of the commission of the offence the applicant had had his domicile in croatia according to the domicile and residence of citizens act (see paragraph 32 below) and thus did not satisfy the conditions for exemption from payment of customs duties set forth in article 5 of annex c to the istanbul convention (see paragraph 45 below).in the proceedings it was established beyond doubt that on 15 june 2008 the accused was found operating the vehicle in question with foreign licence plates of the czech republic on the territory of croatia as if he satisfied the conditions for temporary admission, and that conduct was contrary to the conditions for temporary admission of goods set forth in the customs act or in the [istanbul] convention because he was a croatian national who at the time of the commission of the offence had his domicile in croatia.therefore, the accused did not satisfy the conditions for the temporary admission of a foreign car to the territory of the republic of croatia with total relief under annex c [to the istanbul convention] and the decree on the implementation of the customs act because his domicile was in croatia at the time of the commission of the offence.... the other appellate arguments are also unfounded because the ... customs administration ... correctly and accurately established the [relevant] facts ... and correctly applied the substantive law... in particular, special conditions for the temporary importation of means of transport are prescribed in article 5 of annex c to the convention on temporary admission in chapter iii, where subparagraph (b) provides that means of transport for private use must be registered in a territory other than that of temporary admission, in the name of a person having seat or domicile in a territory other than that of temporary admission, and [must] be imported and used by persons having domicile in such a territory.therefore, given that during the [first-instance] proceedings the decisive fact that the accused is a croatian national who at the time of the commission of the offence had his domicile in the territory of the republic of croatia was established beyond doubt, he did not satisfy the conditions for temporary admission of a foreign car to the territory of the republic of croatia set out in the above-cited provisions of the annex to the convention on temporary admission.besides, the fact of living in the territory of another state, that is, in the state from which the disputed car originates, cannot be assessed in accordance with croatian laws, and especially not in the way [the high court for administrative offences] did it, but in accordance with the convention [on temporary admission] itself and the decree on the implementation of the customs act, .... [t]hat fact of living in the territory of another state is to be proved by work or residence permit.according to section 241(1) subparagraph 10 of the customs act a ... natural person shall be liable for an administrative offence if he or she handles [the] goods as if they satisfy the conditions for temporary admission, and that conduct is contrary to the conditions for temporary admission of goods set forth in the customs act or in the convention on temporary admission, convention on temporary admission, annex c, article 5 subparagraph (b) provides as follows: (b) means of transport for private use must be registered in a territory other than that of temporary admission, in the name of a person having seat or domicile in a territory other than that of temporary admission, and be imported and used by persons living in such a territory.having regard to the cited provisions of the customs act and article 5 subparagraph (b) of the annex c to the convention on temporary admission, as well as the facts established in the proceedings ... (in particular the fact that it was established ... that at the time of the commission of the offence the complainant had registered domicile in croatia in accordance with the relevant provisions of the domicile and residence of citizens act), the constitutional court finds that the legal views expressed in the contested decisions are based on a constitutionally acceptable interpretation and application of the relevant substantive law.161/03 with subsequent amendments), which was in force between 1 november 2003 and 30 june 2013, at the material time read as follows: chapter 5 temporary importation division 2 conditions for granting temporary importation with total relief subdivision 1 road vehicles section 265(1) “total relief [from customs duties] shall be granted for road vehicles ... in the following cases: (a)  if they are registered outside the customs territory of the republic of croatia and in the name of a person outside [that territory]; in the event that [they] are not registered, these conditions shall be considered satisfied if they are owned by a person having seat outside the customs territory of the republic of croatia, b) if they are used by persons having seat outside the customs territory of the republic of croatia ...” ... section 269 “without prejudice to the application of any special provisions, the time-limit for the completion of the temporary importation is ... for road vehicles for private use ... six months within a twelve-month period.” 31.  the relevant part of the general tax act (opći porezni zakon, official gazette, nos.45.  the relevant provisions of the istanbul convention read as follows: chapter i general provisions definitions article 1 “for the purposes of this convention, the term: (a) ‘temporary admission’ means : the customs procedure under which certain goods (including means of transport) can be brought into a customs territory conditionally relieved from payment of import duties and taxes and without application of import prohibitions or restrictions of economic character; such goods (including means of transport) must be imported for a specific purpose and must be intended for re-exportation within a specified period and without having undergone any change except normal depreciation due to the use made of them; ...” ... annex c annex concerning means of transport ... chapter ii scope article 2 “the following shall be granted temporary admission in accordance with article 2 of this convention: (a) means of transport for commercial use or for private use; (b) ...” chapter iii miscellaneous provisions article 5 “for the facilities granted by this annex to apply: (a) ... (b) means of transport for private use must be registered in a territory other than that of temporary admission, in the name of a person established or resident in a territory other than that of temporary admission [the french text of the istanbul convention reads: résidant en dehors du territoire d’admission temporaire], and be imported and used by persons resident in such a territory [résidant dans un tel territoire].” ... article 9 “1.52.  the view of the customs administration is best summarised by the following quotation (opinions of 26 january 2009, 6 february 2009, 15 april 2009, 15 september 2011 and 20 september 2012): “the use of foreign goods in the customs territory of the republic of croatia, within the temporary importation procedure, is governed by sections 145-152 of the customs act and the corresponding provisions, that is, sections 260-297, of the decree on the implementation of the customs act, further to the international convention on temporary admission.in terms of the customs regulations, the temporary importation procedure, which is regulated by national legislation (sections 145-152 of the customs act and sections 260-297 of the decree on the implementation of the customs act) and by the international convention on temporary admission (the istanbul convention), allows the temporary admission of goods with conditional exemption from customs duties and taxes ... in accordance with annex c to the convention on temporary admission, the right to temporary importation of a vehicle with exemption from customs duties and taxes may be granted under the following conditions: means of transport for private use: - must be registered in a territory other than the territory of temporary admission, - must be registered in the name of a person having a seat or domicile in the territory of another state and - must be imported and used by persons living in that territory.the relevant part of that instruction reads as follows: “the following instruction is given with a view to removing doubts and uncertainties and [in order to] harmonise procedures relating to the application of annex c to the convention on temporary admission and the use of cars with foreign licence plates in the customs territory of the republic of croatia: lawful use of foreign means of transport within the customs territory of the republic of croatian is granted under the temporary importation procedure.thus, the fulfilment of the conditions for the use of foreign motor vehicles in the customs territory of ... croatia ... is to be assessed on a case-by-case basis, on the basis of the available evidence, which the beneficiary of the temporary admission procedure has to obtain and present.” (iv)  decisions of the customs administration and the ministry of finance and the case-law of the administrative court 55.  in the first-instance decision of the customs administration no.for the purposes of this convention, the term “resident of a contracting state” means any person who, under the laws of that state, is liable to tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, place of management or any other criterion of a similar nature .... 2. where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 an individual is a resident of both contracting states, then his status shall be determined as follows: a) he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the state in which he has a permanent home available to him; if he has a permanent home available to him in both states, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the state with which his personal and economic relations are closer (centre of vital interests); b) if the state in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent home available to him in either state, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the state in which he has an habitual abode; c) if he has an habitual abode in both states or in neither of them, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the state of which he is a national; d) if he is a national of both states or of neither of them, the competent authorities of the contracting states shall settle the question by mutual agreement.
he stated that he had used the knife against the victim because he had known that the victim wanted to hit him, although he could not say whether the victim had already hit him at that point or, if not, when the victim was going to attack him.11.  on 30 november 2004 the judge extended the applicant’s detention until 5 february 2005. the judge noted that s. had submitted that keeping the applicant in detention was not justified, as he did not present any danger and had no reason to evade justice, since he had a job and a permanent place of residence.19.  on 27 may 2005 a senior lawyer of the daugavpils bar refused the court’s request to provide the applicant with another state-appointed lawyer, stating that s. had carried out his duties diligently, and article 98 of the code of criminal procedure (kriminālprocesa kodekss) did not give an accused the right to freely choose a lawyer.the court then dismissed the applicant’s application for another forensic medical examination on the grounds that one had already been carried out in november 2004. all the applications were dealt with at a hearing and the applicant was present when the relevant decisions were announced.the written application stated that the applicant was refusing the services of d. on the grounds that all applications made to the court on 1 september 2005 had been drafted by the applicant, and d. had not shown any interest in asking the court to order the examination of witness statements about the scene of the crime, new psychiatric expert evidence, or the correction of the motive in the bill of indictment.at the end of the written application the applicant asked the daugavpils court to provide him with another state-appointed lawyer who would carry out his function in compliance with article 97 of the code of criminal procedure.28.  in reply to the applicant’s application, d. presented the applicant’s letter of 20 june 2005 to the court and invited it to establish whether the applicant needed a lawyer at all.it noted that the applicant had declined the services of d. because the latter could not guarantee that he would be acquitted, and the applicant had been of the opinion that d. had not adequately defended him.the applicant asked the court to provide him with a list of lawyers and a means of communicating with them, or, in the alternative, to ensure that he was assisted by one of the two lawyers he named.41.  on 11 may 2006 the applicant was provided with a state-appointed lawyer, m. 42.  at a hearing on 17 may 2006 the applicant was assisted by m. he and m. asked the court to adjourn the hearing, stating that more time was needed in order to prepare a defence.43.  on 8 november 2006 the applicant was represented by a state-appointed lawyer, v. at a hearing held on the same day the court read out witness statements and the applicant did not raise any objections to the statements in substance.45.  as to the fairness of the proceedings, the regional court found that the first-instance court had afforded the applicant an opportunity to choose a lawyer and exercise his defence rights.referring to the reasoning of the first-instance court, the regional court agreed that his refusal to accept the services of the two lawyers had been unjustified.having examined the content of the applicant’s submissions, applications and complaints in the criminal proceedings, it did not find that any of the conditions of section 83 of the criminal procedure law had been fulfilled.he made a complaint regarding the quality of the legal services provided by the state-appointed lawyers and the decision of the first-instance court to deprive him of legal assistance.
4.  the applicant was born in 1947 and lives in tirana.5.  by a final judgment of 21 june 1996 the tepelenë district court ordered the tepelenë district council (këshilli i rrethit) to pay the applicant 530,941 albanian leks (all) as compensation for the nationalisation of her house by the state in 1967. the judgment became final on an unspecified date in 1996.6.  on 15 july 1998 an enforcement writ was issued.7.  by a final judgment of 25 april 2008 the gjirokastër district court ordered the gjirokastër regional council (këshilli i qarkut) to pay the applicant all 1,237,336 as compensation for the delayed enforcement of the tepelenë district court decision of 21 june 1996. the judgment became final on 25 may 2008.8.  on 27 june 2008 an enforcement writ was issued.9.  from 1996 to 2009 the applicant had continuously addressed letters to the authorities for the enforcement of the final judgments.she also instituted enforcement proceedings before a bailiff.10.  on 23 january 2009 the constitutional court acknowledged that there had been a breach of the fair trial as a result of the non-enforcement of the final judgments.11.  on 8 december 2009 both judgments were enforced and the sums were paid to the applicant.
7.  on 10 april 2008 the bochum district court (“the district court”), following an application from the bochum prosecutor’s office, issued a search warrant in respect of the home of the applicants, who were suspected of having committed tax evasion between 2002 and 2006. the search warrant allowed the seizure of papers and other documents concerning the applicants’ capital, both inside and outside germany, especially documents concerning information on foundations and any documents that could help to determine the true tax liability of the applicants since 2002.s.a. in their tax returns for the years 2002 to 2006. it indicated that the applicants had evaded tax payments of eur 16,360 in 2002, eur 24,270 in 2003, eur 22,500 in 2004, eur 18,512 in 2005 and eur 18,000 in 2006. the search warrant stated that the house search was urgently needed in order to find further evidence and that, weighing the seriousness of the alleged crimes against the constitutional rights of the applicants, the house search was proportionate.it had been based on material which had been acquired in breach of international law, especially the european convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters of 20 april 1959 and the convention on laundering, search, seizure and confiscation of the proceeds from crime of 8 november 1990, because the data had been stolen from the l. bank and had been bought by the secret service.12.  the district court was also of the view that the search warrant in question could be issued on the basis of the information in the data carrier, as the secret service had only played a passive role in acquiring it.in the court’s opinion, it was within the secret service’s remit to acquire the data carrier in the prescribed way and hand the data over to the prosecution, as the data carrier contained 9,600 sets of data concerning international cash flows.even assuming that the german authorities might have committed the criminal offences of acting as an “accessory to a criminal offence” (begünstigung, article 257 § 1 of the german criminal code) and an “accessory to the divulgence of official secrets” (beihilfe zum geheimnisverrat, section 17(1) and section 17(2)(2) of the unfair competition act, in conjunction with article 27 of the german criminal code) in buying the liechtenstein data from k., and that k. might have committed the offence of “industrial espionage” (betriebsspionage, section 17(2)(1) of the unfair competition act), it considered the search warrant to have been lawful.14.  as regards the question whether illegally obtained evidence could be used in criminal proceedings, the regional court referred to a decision of the same court of 22 april 2008, where it had held in a similar case and with regard to the same data carrier that the interest in prosecuting the suspects outweighed the possible infringements of criminal law, as the principal criminal act of “data theft” had been committed by a third party and not by the german authorities.as to the presumed breach of international law, the court added that such a breach would not lead to the unlawfulness of the search warrant, firstly because international law did not grant the applicants any personal rights and secondly because the use of the evidence did not in itself constitute a breach of international law.they were of the view that the regional court and the district court should have decided that the search warrant had not been in accordance with the law, as the use of the liechtenstein data as a basis for a search warrant had violated international treaties and the sovereignty of liechtenstein, which had protested against the use of the data.furthermore, the transfer of the liechtenstein data from the secret service to the financial authorities and the prosecution had violated the principle of the separation of the secret service and the prosecution in germany.19.  furthermore, the court reiterated that it was not its role to substitute itself for the authorities in the interpretation and application of domestic law, but to review, in the light of the basic law, the decisions taken by the authorities in the exercise of their margin of appreciation.20.  in applying these general principles to the case at hand, the federal constitutional court ruled, at the outset, that it was not necessary to decide upon the question whether the acquisition of the data had been in breach of national or international law or violated the principle of the separation of the secret service and the prosecution in germany, as the regional court had departed in its decision from the applicants’ allegation that the evidence might in fact have been acquired in breach of domestic and international law, including criminal law.21.  the federal constitutional court found that the fact that the regional court based its legal assessment on the assumption that the acquisition of the data had been in breach of domestic and/or international law was not arbitrary and hence could not be found to be in violation of article 13 of the basic law.furthermore, the federal constitutional court considered reasonable the district and regional court’s legal assessment that the principle of separation of the secret service and the prosecution had not been infringed, as the facts of the case did not show that the secret service had either ordered or coordinated the “data theft”, but had been offered the data on k.’s own initiative.22.  with regard to the regional court’s finding that the search order could be based on the liechtenstein data the federal constitutional court found that the regional court’s legal assessment sufficiently took into account the applicants’ basic rights as the regional court had departed from the applicants’ allegation that the evidence had been obtained in breach of domestic law and thus based its decision on, what was, for the applicants, the best possible assumption.
8.  on 2 october 2012 the lübeck regional court, having heard the applicant in person as well as his lawyer, by whom he was represented throughout the proceedings, ordered the applicant’s preventive detention to continue.9.  the regional court considered that the requirements set up by article 67d of the criminal code, read in the light of the federal constitutional court’s judgment of 4 may 2011 (see paragraph 23 below), in order for retrospectively-extended preventive detention to continue, were met.the regional court endorsed the findings which psychiatric expert b. had made in his report dated 4 june 2010 on the possibility of granting relaxation of the conditions of the applicant’s detention (vollzugslockerungen) after having examined the applicant in person.10.  furthermore, in the regional court’s view, there was still a high risk that the applicant, owing to the said specific circumstances relating to his person and his conduct, would commit the most serious sexual offences if released.he complained, in particular, that the regional court had failed to obtain a new report by a different expert and had relied on the report of expert b. dating back two-and-a-half years, on relaxation of the conditions of the applicant’s detention, which had not addressed the issues relevant to his continued detention.as regards the finding that the applicant suffered from a mental disorder for the purposes of section 1 (1) of the therapy detention act, the court of appeal stressed that the decision to extend the applicant’s preventive detention had not only been based on the written report submitted by expert b. in 2010. the expert had been heard in person by the regional court in different proceedings (concerning the applicant’s transfer to a psychiatric hospital, see paragraph 19 below) on 6 june 2012 and had updated and confirmed his previous findings.the hospital, having regard to the voluminous case‑file, had confirmed expert b.’s conclusion that the applicant, who had refused any therapeutic treatment for years, suffered from a profound personality disorder as defined by the icd-10, namely a narcissistic personality disorder with emotionally unstable and sadistic elements.13.  the court of appeal, having regard to the applicant’s previous offences and the fact that therapy to date had not yielded success, further agreed that there was still a high risk that the applicant would commit the most serious sexual offences if released.as had been confirmed by the applicant in the hearing before the regional court, his personal and therapeutic situation had not changed since the court of appeal’s last decision of 18 november 2011 in which, in periodic review proceedings, it had ordered the extension of the applicant’s preventive detention.he complained that the extension of his preventive detention beyond the former statutory ten-year time-limit had violated his right to liberty and the protection of legitimate expectations in a state governed by the rule of law.15.  the applicant claimed that the restrictive criteria set up by the federal constitutional court in its judgment of 4 may 2011 for a continuation of his retrospectively extended preventive detention had not been met.in particular, the order for the continuation of his preventive detention had been based on an old expert report on relaxation of the conditions of his detention, which had not addressed the criteria set up by the federal constitutional court.for as long as the applicant’s detention was executed at that prison during the time covered by the proceedings at issue, the applicant, having refused repeated offers of treatment, in particular transfer to the social‑therapeutic institution of lübeck prison, apparently did not undergo any therapy for sexual offenders.19.  prior to the proceedings at issue, on 14 june 2012 the lübeck regional court dismissed the prosecution’s request to transfer the applicant to a psychiatric hospital for the further execution of his preventive detention under article 67a § 2 of the criminal code (see paragraph 23 below).21.  on 29 august 2014 the hamburg regional court, having regard to an additional report drawn up by expert l., declared the applicant’s preventive detention terminated and ordered his release on 1 october 2014. it found that the applicant neither suffered from a mental disorder nor was there a high likelihood that he would commit the most serious crimes of violence or sexual offences if released.
11.  the applicant was detained in the following detention facilities: - the simferopol temporary detention facility (“the simferopol itt”, a part of the police system): from 25 september to 26 october and from 4 to 19 november 2004 (during the intervening period from 26 october to 4 november 2004 the applicant was undergoing a forensic psychiatric examination in a psychiatric hospital); - the simferopol pre-trial detention centre (“the simferopol sizo”): from 19 november 2004 to 16 march 2006 and from 2 may to 18 october 2006; - the dnipropetrovsk sizo: from 17 march to 6 april, from 25 april to 1 may and from 19 to 29 october 2006; - the kyiv sizo: from 7 to 25 april 2006 (that is during the time when the applicant’s case was examined by the supreme court); - the odessa sizo: from 30 october to 4 november 2006 (the applicant raised no complaints in respect of his detention there); and - kherson prison no.15.  the government submitted that they were not able to provide details as to the specific cells, in which the applicant had been detained, because the relevant records had been destroyed with the passage of the envisaged period of their storage.(b)  in the simferopol sizo 20.  according to the information note issued by the governor of the simferopol sizo on 29 november 2012 at the request of the government’s agent, the applicant was detained in the following cells: - from 19 november 2004 to 18 march 2005 and from 22 april to 23 november 2005 – in cell no.22.  the case file contains a copy of the sizo governor’s decision of 24 november 2005 about the applicant’s placement in a separate cell of the maximum security unit on the ground of the prevention of the spread of tuberculosis (the applicant was then diagnosed with active tuberculosis).38.  according to the government, the conditions of detention in the prison were in compliance with the standards established by the court.39.  on 17 october 2012 an official of the kherson city prosecutor’s office in charge of the supervision of lawfulness in penitentiaries, a representative of the association of ukrainian human rights monitors in law-enforcement institutions, as well as the governor and the deputy governor of the prison, conducted “a monitoring visit” of the prison.40.  on an unspecified date in october 2012 the deputy governor of the prison issued an information note about the conditions of detention in that prison at the request of the government’s agent.50.  according to an information note issued by the dispensary’s chief doctor at the request of the applicant’s lawyer on 24 april 2013, during his treatment there in 2002 the applicant had been administered anti-tuberculosis medicines of the first and the second lines.53.  on 11 october 2004 the itt governor wrote to the simferopol prosecutor that, according to the conclusion of a tuberculosis specialist of the same date, the applicant was suffering from an active form of tuberculosis and required further examination and inpatient treatment in a hospital environment.the doctor confirmed the earlier diagnosis and recommended the continuation of the medicinal treatment, subsequent monitoring of the applicant’s condition and his isolation.he was prescribed with: isoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamide, ethambutol and streptomycin – for an intensive treatment phase (for the periods from 19 november 2004 to 28 february 2005, from 1 august to 30 november 2005 and from 2 may to 30 august 2006) and isoniazid, rifampicin and pyrazinamide – for a follow-up treatment phase (for the periods from 1 march to 31 july 2005, from 1 december 2005 to 16 march 2006 and from 1 september to 13 october 2006).on 8 september 2005 an official of the regional office of the state department for the enforcement of sentences wrote to the applicant that he was the only detainee suffering from an active form of tuberculosis and his isolation was justified.it was explained in the letter that the palliative care consisted of the administration of two anti-tuberculosis drugs of the first line (isoniazid and rifampicin) regardless of the applicant’s resistance to them.86.  on 11 june 2006 the applicant sent his first letter to the court, in which he complained, in particular, about the physical conditions of his detention and the lack of adequate medical care.88.  in october 2006 the court received several copies of the completed application form from the applicant, in which he elaborated, in particular, on the complaints, which he had outlined in his initial letter to the court, including about the conditions of his detention in the simferopol, dnipropetrovsk and kyiv sizos.
8.  in 2002 the applicant secured an order from the athens court of first instance requiring the mortgage registry to register the deed of sale; the mortgage registry did so on 31 january 2003. the applicant paid the sum of 36,911.63 euros (eur) in registration fees.10.  on 29 march 2004 the investigating judge drew up an indictment in respect of the applicant and c.g., accusing the applicant of having forged: (a) a certificate from the tax authorities attesting that he had paid inheritance tax on land valued at eur 63,768,920, whereas he knew that the land was part of the public forest estate and the tax had not been paid; and (b) a document allegedly issued by the penteli forestry commission attesting that the land was not part of the forest estate.the investigating judge also accused him of having used the forged documents to persuade the administrative authorities that the land was privately owned and could be the subject of a transaction, in particular a deed of transfer.the sixty-two-page report concluded that one of the two documents “appeared to have been entirely written” by the applicant and contained an illegible signature, whereas aspects of the signature on the other document “strongly suggested that it had been added” by the applicant’s co-accused.the president adjourned the hearing and directed that the public prosecutor’s office was to ensure the attendance of the two experts.subsequently, all the evidence was read out (105 documents running to a total of more than 1,500 pages), including the report by m.m.k., the defence witnesses gave testimony, and counsel for the defence asked questions and made their submissions without mentioning the need to examine other witnesses.at the end of the hearing, the president asked all the parties to the proceedings whether they wanted any additional examinations or explanations, but they replied in the negative.addressing the findings of m.m.k.’s report, it noted the following: “the forgery of the aforementioned certificates by the first two defendants has been validly proved beyond all doubt, in particular through the handwriting analysis by the graphology expert m.m.k., the contents of which the court finds entirely convincing; in addition, the report’s credibility is backed up by the documents in the file and the witness testimony.it can be established with little effort from an assessment of these items of evidence that the certificates were forged by the defendants, who, moreover, were the only people with an interest in taking such action.” 18.  on 20 march 2007 the applicant appealed against that judgment to the athens criminal court of appeal, sitting as a bench of five judges.20.  the criminal court of appeal refused the request in respect of all the witnesses mentioned, holding as follows: “the defendants’ request to call the graphologist [m.m.k.]the defendants who are asking for the above-mentioned witnesses to be called to testify in court have, moreover, not stated the reason for their request ...” 21.  as regards the expert report by m.m.k., the court of appeal held that the applicant had had no factual or legal basis for challenging it, and that his objections were contradicted by the factual circumstances, which were established and undisputed.summing up, over six pages, the factual circumstances as established by the documents and the witness testimony, the court of appeal also mentioned the findings of m.m.k.’s report, describing it as “detailed” while adding: “the contents and conclusions of the handwriting analysis by m.m.k.are convincing and consistent with the documents issued by the tax authorities, the forestry commission, the criminal investigation department and the other documents that have been read out, and also with the witness testimony.” 22.  on 15 february 2010 the applicant appealed on points of law.he alleged that there had been a violation of article 6 § 3 (d) of the convention in that he had been convicted solely on the basis of the report by m.m.k., without having been allowed to cross-examine her at the hearings in the courts of first instance and appeal.has produced a detailed analytical report, which has been read out in court ... the defendants who are asking for the above-mentioned witnesses to be called to testify in court have, moreover, not stated the reason for their request ...’ accordingly, the ground of appeal submitted to that end by john constantinides, alleging a violation of article 510 § 1 (a) and (d) [failure to provide specific reasons] of the code of criminal procedure, is unfounded and must be dismissed, since no provision relating to the accused’s defence rights has been infringed, whether article 6 § 3 (d) of the convention or the constitutional requirement to provide detailed and specific reasons for a judicial decision.” ...
6.  on 4 may 2007 a.g. was arrested on suspicion of drug-related crimes and placed in a temporary detention centre (“the itt”) belonging to the mykolayiv police.8.  during his detention in the itt, he was attended by the ambulance doctors who provided him with requisite medical treatment.on 19 may 2007 he was transferred to the surgical ward of the local hospital where he was treated for his phlegmon.9.  according to the results of the domestic investigations, at about 9.30 p.m. on 23 may 2007 an itt officer heard moaning coming from the cell where a.g. was detained.the officer checked the cell and saw him with his mouth open, breathing heavily and repeating that he felt bad and needed air.11.  on more than fifteen occasions between 2007 and 2012 the investigators at the local prosecutor’s office, having conducted pre‑investigation inquiries, refused to initiate criminal proceedings in connection with the death of the applicant’s son.13.  on 27 march 2013 an investigator at the prosecutor’s office of the zavodskyy district of mykolayiv terminated the criminal proceedings, finding no elements of a crime on the part of the itt officers in question.14.  on 24 july 2013 the zavodskyy district court of mykolayiv quashed the decision of 27 march 2013 as unfounded, noting that the investigator had failed to take the necessary measures in the case.15.  on 3 october 2013 the investigator terminated the criminal proceedings, concluding that there was no evidence to suggest that the itt staff had caused the death of the applicant’s son.in particular, bed linen and a rope fashioned from bed linen, which had been found in the cell, could not be examined any further, as they had been destroyed after the post-mortem examination.he further noted that on 24 may 2007 a site inspection had been carried out, but no video-recordings or sketches of the scene had been made, and no photographs had been taken.16.  relying on the available evidence, the investigator found that, shortly before his death, the applicant’s son had unsuccessfully attempted to commit suicide by asphyxiating himself with a rope which he had produced from the bed linen.according to the latest medical findings, his death had been caused by interrupted mechanical asphyxiation; the visible injuries on his neck suggested that heart failure had resulted from the attempted strangulation.17.  as regards the applicant’s son’s condition during his detention, the available medical evidence suggested that a.g. had not had any acute condition necessitating his admission to hospital during his detention in the itt; on the other hand, he had been medically supervised within the itt.having examined the case, the investigator concluded that the itt officers could not have envisaged the fatal developments.
7.  on the morning of 16 august 2010 the police took the applicant to the kyivskyy district police station in kharkiv (“the district police”).10.  on 25 august 2010 the assistant prosecutor of the kyivskyy district prosecutor’s office of kharkiv (“the prosecutor’s office”) inspected the premises of the police station where the applicant had allegedly been ill-treated.and g. they all denied the allegations of ill-treatment and submitted that the applicant had sustained the injuries before being taken to the police station, namely during the scuffle with his neighbour.the officers stated that the applicant’s nose had been injured before and that it bled from time to time, that he had been offered an antiseptic tissue, that he had declined an offer by the police officers to go to a hospital and that he had continued voluntarily to give evidence about the fight with his neighbour.14.  on 29 october 2010 the prosecutor’s office, having completed its pre-investigation inquiry, refused to initiate criminal proceedings concerning the applicant’s allegations that he had been ill-treated by police officers between 16 and 19 august 2010. according to that decision, the applicant had only been present at the district police station between 7 a.m. and 9.45 a.m. on 16 august 2010 and there had been no evidence suggesting that the police officers had been involved in any alleged ill‑treatment or unlawful detention.18.  on 10 may 2012 the district court reversed the decision of the prosecutor’s office of 29 october 2010, finding that the measures taken to examine the applicant’s allegations had been insufficient.according to the decision, which referred to the explanations by the police officers and other evidence, the applicant had left the police station at 9.45 a.m. on 16 august 2010 and there had been no involvement of the officers in any unlawful action in relation to the applicant.23.  on 15 december 2014 the kharkiv region prosecutor’s office terminated the investigation, finding that the applicant’s allegations had been refuted by the statements of the police officers, other witnesses, and documentary and medical evidence which suggested that the applicant might have sustained minor injuries during his fight with the neighbour on 15 august 2010.25.  on 23 september 2010 the district police opened criminal proceedings in relation to the moderately severe injuries sustained by the applicant’s neighbour during the fight of 15 august 2010. subsequently, the case was classified as attempted murder.as regards the grounds for the applicant’s arrest without a court decision, the investigator cited the three sub-paragraphs of the first paragraph of article 106 of the ccp of 1960 (see paragraph 45 below).he further noted in his report that the applicant had been suspected of attempted murder, that he had a record of serious offences, and that his arrest would prevent the applicant from absconding and impeding the execution of a judgment.the court pointed out that no new information had been added to the material which had been examined earlier by the district court and the court of appeal when deciding on keeping the applicant in custody.37.  on 10 december 2010 the hearing before the district court concerning the preventive measure in the applicant’s case was interrupted because the applicant had to be provided with medical care.38.  on the same day the deputy prosecutor of the kyivskyy district of kharkiv ordered that the applicant be examined and asked the medical expert to detail, among other things, the nature, quantity, location, and severity of his injuries.42.  on 21 december 2010 the prosecutor’s office, having concluded its pre-investigation inquiry, refused to open criminal proceedings concerning alleged police brutality against the applicant on 9 and 10 december 2010. according to the decision, there had been no evidence suggesting that the applicant’s injuries documented after the alleged ill-treatment had been caused by police officers.
7.  on 19 july 2002 the head of the regional education inspectorate (“the rei”) of the ministry of education dismissed the applicant on disciplinary grounds.8.  the applicant brought a claim against the rei, challenging the order for her dismissal and seeking reinstatement and compensation for lost earnings.that judgment was upheld by the stara zagora regional court (окръжен съд) and the supreme court of cassation on 18 july 2003 and 24 november 2005 respectively.in the course of the proceedings, neither the opposing party nor any of the courts raised any doubts as to whether the rei was the correct defendant in the case.10.  following the entry into force of the judgment of 24 november 2005, the applicant applied to take up her duties on 6 december 2005. on the same day a new order for her dismissal was issued by the head of the rei.11.  on an unspecified date, at the latest in january 2006, the applicant lodged an appeal against the dismissal order with the stara zagora district court, challenging its lawfulness, and seeking reinstatement to her previous post and compensation for loss of income.it appears from the case file that at the first court hearing, the date of which was not specified, the rei argued that it was not the proper defendant in the case and that the claims had to be addressed to the secondary school in which the applicant had been working prior to her dismissal.the rei submitted that article 61 § 2 of the labour code and section 37(4) of the education act provided that the applicant’s employer was the school.12.  during a court hearing on 12 april 2006 the district court ruled in favour of the objection, and, reasoning that the proper defendant in the case was the school, discontinued the proceedings.14.  on 26 may 2006 the regional court quashed the decision of the lower court, explicitly stating that the proper defendant in the applicant’s case was the rei.it remitted the case to the first-instance court for examination on the merits.16.  following an appeal lodged by the rei, on 27 april 2007 the regional court upheld the judgment.on 16 april 2008 the plovdiv appeal court (апелативен съд), sitting as a court of cassation according to a legislative amendment entered into force in july 2007, quashed the judgment of the lower court and dismissed the applicant’s claims.it found that the rei was not the applicant’s employer under the law and was not, therefore, the proper defendant in the case.the court ruled that the applicant’s claims had to be brought against the school in which she had been working prior to her dismissal, as that school was her employer.
following an application by the applicant to have his contact time increased, the family court held on 16 january 2001 an oral hearing, joined the proceedings on contact to the proceedings on custody rights previously initiated by ms k. in 1999, and commissioned an expert opinion with regard to the custody of d. on 1 october 2001 the applicant requested that the family court impose a fine on ms k., because she was not cooperating.on 16 november 2001, after the appointed psychology expert had informed the family court that he considered that contact with the father was in the child’s best interest, the parties concluded an in-court settlement according to which contact between the applicant and his son should be re-established.furthermore, it appointed a contact facilitator (umgangspfleger) charged with facilitating contact periods between the applicant and his son, but declined to appoint a guardian ad litem (verfahrenspfleger) on the grounds that the child’s interests were sufficiently safeguarded by the court‑appointed expert.18.  on 13 september 2006 the experts informed the family court that they had been unable to supervise contact because ms k.’s counsel had informed them that both ms k. and the child had been advised not to talk to the applicant on medical grounds.19.  on 18 december 2006 the family court decided to take a witness statement from the director of d.’s kindergarten as to the child’s behaviour and his relationship with the applicant and with his mother.to strengthen the development of the child’s own personality and to let the child experience the real world, a counterbalancing authority figure outside of the child’s mother’s family was greatly needed.24.  in its statement dated 22 june 2007 the youth office gave an account of its conversations with ms k., the child’s paediatrician dr d., the child’s school teacher, the applicant and the child.26.  on 8 january 2008, in the proceedings regarding custody, the family court heard testimony from the child, who declared that he did not want to live with his father and that he did not want to go to court anymore.27.  on 8 february 2008, following an appeal by ms k., the cologne court of appeal quashed the decision to fine her on the grounds that there were serious doubts as to whether ms k. was able to cooperate in preparing d. for contact with the applicant.the court further considered that the question of custody rights had to be clarified with regard to ms k.’s psychological problems and that the hearing of expert opinion in the parallel proceedings on custody rights was indispensable.30.  on 12 december 2008, before the expert had submitted her expert opinion, the family court decided to suspend the applicant’s contact until 31 december 2011. it considered that because of the massive and continuing conflict between the parents, the child would experience a serious conflict of loyalty if contact was enforced.33.  on 12 may 2009 the family court rejected the applicant’s application for custody while having regard to the fact that neither the appointed guardian ad litem nor the expert had been able to examine ms k. and the child owing to ms k.’s refusal.it relied on the expert’s preliminary report according to which a transfer of custody was not in the child’s best interest, although there was no indication that contact with the applicant would jeopardise the child’s welfare.34.  on 30 june 2009, the cologne court of appeal rendered its decision on the basis of the case-file and confirmed the family court’s decision to suspend contact (see paragraph 30 above), even though this decision meant that ms k., who – for whatever reason – had wanted to prevent contact with the applicant, had managed to attain her aim.the conflict of loyalty to which d. was exposed was certainly not exclusively imputable to ms k. furthermore, it would undoubtedly not be compatible with the child’s welfare to separate him from both parents and to place him in a boarding school, as had been suggested by the applicant.
6.  the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in vlora.7.  on 30 may 2007 the vlora district court ordered the vlora construction police (policia e ndërtimit dega vlorë) to pay the applicant 2,795,956 albanian leks (“all”) for the unjustified destruction of his property.8.  on 11 june 2008 the decision was upheld by the vlora court of appeal and became final.9.  on 11 september 2008 an enforcement writ was issued.10.  from 2009 to 2012 the bailiff unsuccessfully sought the enforcement of the decision from the vlora construction police and the national urban construction inspectorate (inspektorati ndërtimor urbanistik kombëtar).11.  to date, the final decision has remained unenforced.
8.  a second recommendation to the same effect was made, following the applicant’s second parole board review on 31 january 2007 and rejected by the secretary of state on 23 may 2007. at the conclusion of its statement of reasons for rejecting the board’s recommendation, the national offender management service (“noms”) wrote: “the secretary of state has therefore decided that you should remain in closed conditions and your next review will conclude in january 2008.” 9.  the accompanying letter stated: “it has been decided that your case will next be referred to the parole board for a provisional hearing to take place in january 2008.if you are not content with the paper panel’s decision you may request that the case proceeds to the arranged oral hearing.” 10.  the case was referred to the parole board on 21 december 2007. on 6 may 2008 the applicant and the parole board were sent relevant reports as required by the applicable rules.11.  meanwhile, in autumn 2008, the applicant commenced judicial review proceedings against the secretary of state and the parole board seeking damages for the delay in holding the hearing.after carefully reviewing the facts and the individual periods of delay encountered, it concluded that there had been a delay of ten months, from march 2008 to january 2009, in the holding of the parole board hearing which was unjustified and for which the secretary of state was responsible.this delay had prevented the applicant from having the lawfulness of his continued detention decided in accordance with article 5 § 4. on the question of damages, the court was satisfied that the applicant had shown, on a balance of probabilities, that he would have been released had the review taken place in march 2008. damages on the basis of a loss of liberty were therefore appropriate.14.  in its judgment of 29 march 2011 on the amount of damages to be awarded, the court considered a number of just satisfaction awards in cases before this court in which breaches of article 5 § 4 had been found.it distinguished between cases where the delay had merely led to feelings of frustration and those where it had been established that, but for the delay in the holding of the hearing, the applicant would have been released earlier.16.  in its judgment of 1 may 2013 the supreme court unanimously rejected the applicant’s appeal and allowed the appeal of the parole board, reducing the damages award to gbp 6,500.17.  as regards the alleged violation of article 5 § 1 of the convention, lord reed, giving the leading opinion, observed that article 5 § 4 provided a procedural entitlement designed to ensure that persons were not detained in violation of their rights under article 5 § 1. however, he added, a violation of article 5 § 4 did not necessarily result in a violation of article 5 § 1. he considered this court’s judgment in james, wells and lee, cited above, not to be directly relevant to the applicant’s case since that judgment concerned lack of access to rehabilitation courses and the just satisfaction awards made were for the feelings of distress and frustration resulting from continued detention without access to courses, and not for loss of liberty.lord reed noted that the delay in the applicant’s case appeared to have been the result of errors by administrative staff, “of a kind which occur from time to time in any system which is vulnerable to human error”.while it was extremely unfortunate that the errors had occurred and had resulted in the prolongation of the applicant’s detention, they were not of such a character, and the delay was not of such a degree, as to warrant the conclusion that there had been a breach of article 5 § 1.18.  on the matter of damages for the violation of article 5 § 4 of the convention, lord reed reviewed relevant case-law of this court where a violation of article 5 §§ 1, 3 or 4 had been found, focusing in particular on cases concerning a delay in holding a hearing intended to address the question whether a convicted prisoner should be released.he considered that no clear guidance could be derived from the cases since none concerned awards for loss of liberty resulting from a violation of the speedy decision guarantee in article 5 § 4. while, he said, an appellate court would not interfere with an award of damages simply because it would have awarded a different figure if it had tried the case at first instance, in the applicant’s appeal the court was being invited to give guidance as to the appropriate level of awards in cases of this character.for that purpose, the court had undertaken a fuller analysis of the case-law of this court than the court of appeal.... in the light of that analysis, and applying the general approach which i have described ..., it appears to me that an award in the region of £6,500 would adequately compensate mr faulkner for his delayed release, bearing in mind the conditional and precarious nature of the liberty foregone.
11.  on 24 march 2015 the svitlovodsk court convicted the applicant of the unlawful purchase, possession and transportation of drugs and sentenced him to three years’ imprisonment.the governor asked the hospital to confirm whether the applicant had indeed been examined for hcv and if so, what the results of the examination had been.14.  on 6 august, 27 november and 3 december 2014 and on 9 january and 4 june 2015 the applicant consulted the prison doctor, complaining in particular of discomfort in the hypochondrium (below the lower ribs), on the right-hand side.15.  on 13 august 2014 the prison’s medical unit issued a certificate stating that the applicant, according to his own statement, was suffering from hcv and that during his stay in the prison he had consulted the prison doctor on several occasions in this connection and received treatment for his symptoms.16.  on 3 december 2014 the prison governor informed the applicant’s lawyer that on 6 august and 27 november 2014 the applicant had consulted the prison doctor concerning his hcv and had been prescribed treatment for his symptoms.the governor went on to state that it was planned that a consultation would be arranged with an infectious diseases specialist who would be able to order the necessary examinations and prescribe treatment for the applicant.18.  on 8 june 2015 the head of the prison’s medical unit issued a certificate which stated that the applicant’s health had worsened in the previous two months and that he was suffering from fatigue, nausea, and weight loss.the certificate also stated that in order to ascertain the state of his health the applicant needed to be examined by an infectious diseases specialist of the kirovograd central city hospital (“the city hospital”).19.  on 19 june 2015 the acting president of the section, upon the applicant’s request under rule 39 of the rules of court, decided to indicate to the government that they should present the applicant urgently for medical examination by a specialised doctor of the city hospital; secure for the applicant immediately, by appropriate means, treatment to his state of health; and inform the court by 17 july 2015 about the applicant’s state of health and the measures undertaken.20.  from 6 until 9 july 2015 the applicant underwent an in-patient examination at the city hospital in the course of which a number of blood tests and an ultrasound examination were conducted and the applicant was examined by a number of specialists.22.  on 14 july 2015 the government informed the court about the applicant’s examination at the city hospital.23.  on 19 august 2015 the applicant complained to the court that the recommendations of the city hospital doctors were not being followed.26.  the relevant part of the report to the ukrainian government on the visit to ukraine carried out by the european committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment from 9 to 21 october 2013 reads as follows: “161.the committee recommends that measures be taken to remedy this regrettable state of affairs.” 27.  in 2013 the ukrainian parliamentary commissioner for human rights published a special report dedicated to the monitoring of the observance of the right to medical care in the remand prisons within the purview of the state correctional service of ukraine.28.  on 29 april 2013 the cabinet of ministers approved a state programme for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of viral hepatitis for the period until the end of 2016. the programme stipulates a number of goals to be achieved over that period, including extending access to hepatitis treatment to 30% of all patients.
4.  the applicant was born in 1984 and is detained in saint-petersburg.5.  on 22 april 2004 he was arrested on suspicion of murder.6.  on 24 april 2004 the vyborgskiy federal district court of saint-petersburg authorised the applicant’s pre-trial detention.he remained in custody pending investigation and trial.7.  on 7 february 2005 the district court extended the applicant’s pre‑trial detention.the court referred to the gravity of charges, the applicant’s character, lack of permanent residence in saint-petersburg, and risk of absconding or re-offending.8.  on 7 april 2005 the district court returned the case to the prosecutor and extended the applicant’s detention without specifying any reasons.9.  on 15 september 2005, 21 october 2005 and 15 december 2005 when extending pre-trial detention, the district court reproduced the grounds for detention described above.10.  on 2 march 2006 the saint-petersburg city court quashed the detention order of 15 december 2005 and remitted the case for a fresh examination.11.  on 16 march 2006, 22 march 2006 and 21 june 2006 the district court extended the applicant’s detention referring to the gravity of charges, absence of permanent residence, his character, possibility of absconding and committing crimes.the applicant and his lawyer did not attend the hearing on 21 june 2006.12.  on 30 june 2006 the vyborgskiy district court of saint-petersburg convicted the applicant of murder and theft.13.  on 31 january 2007 the saint-petersburg city court upheld his conviction on appeal.as regards the applicant’s appeal against the detention order of 21 june 2006, the court noted that the lower court had failed to ensure the applicant’s and his lawyer’s presence at the hearing of 21 june 2006. however, in view of the applicant’s conviction, it discontinued the appeal proceedings finding them unnecessary.
6.  ms bachurina was born on 8 november 1978 and lived before her arrest in the village of strelnitsa, voronezh region.7.  on 13 april 2006 mr semenov was arrested on suspicion of several counts of aggravated bribery.on 17 april 2006 the tsentralniy district court of tver ordered his placement in custody.the detention was further extended by the district court on 11 july and 11 september 2006.8.  mr semenov appealed: on 14 july 2006 against the detention order of 11 july 2006 and on 12 september 2006 against the order of 11 september 2006.9.  on 22 august and 3 october 2006, respectively, the tver regional court dismissed the appeals and upheld the detention orders.10.  on 11 october 2006 the regional court extended mr semenov’s detention.11.  nine days later mr semenov lodged an appeal statement with the russian supreme court via the regional court.12.  on 16 november 2006 the regional court dispatched the case-file to the supreme court which on 11 january 2007 upheld the decision of 11 october 2006.13.  on 26 december 2006 the regional court once again extended the detention.14.  between 11 and 30 january 2007 mr semenov and his co-defendants lodged their appeals with the supreme court via the regional court.on 1 march 2007 the regional court transmitted the case-file to the supreme court which on 11 april 2007 upheld the order.ii.56124/07) 15.  on 14 july 2007 ms bachurina was arrested on suspicion of attempted large scale trafficking of drugs.17.  the detention order was upheld on appeal by the moscow city court on 27 august 2007.
4.  the applicant was born in 1979 and lived, prior to his arrest, in krasnogorsk, moscow region.5.  on 5 july 2007 the applicant, a police officer at the material time, was arrested on suspicion of abuse of official powers causing serious damage.on 10 july 2007 he was formally charged with the imputed crime.subsequently he was additionally charged with embezzlement on a large scale as part of an organised criminal group.6.  on 6 july 2007 the zamoskvoretskiy district court of moscow remanded the applicant in custody on the ground of the gravity of charges.the court also reasoned that he might put pressure on witnesses, destroy evidence or interfere with investigation.7.  on 3 september 2007, 11 december 2007, 10 april 2008 and 1 july 2008 the district court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention stating that the investigation was still pending, the case comprised 118 volumes and concerned fifteen suspects, the applicant had been suspected of a serious crime, could interact with his accomplices, abscond, destroy evidence and threaten witnesses.the court also took into account the applicant’s state of health, character and family status however it did not provide any detailed arguments in this respect.8.  on 30 december 2008 and 20 april 2009 the district court issued collective detention orders in respect of the applicant and other co-accused pending their study of the case-file.the court referred to the gravity of the charges, the defendants’ possibility to abscond, commit crimes and interfere with the investigation.9.  the applicant’s appeals against the detention orders were rejected.10.  on 9 june 2010 the moscow city court acquitted the applicant of all charges.
the applicant was required to leave the check-in area and to follow officer a. he was taken to a police office on the second floor of the airport.8.  at 11.20 a.m. the applicant and the five others were ordered to remain on the second floor of the airport and were informed that they would have to be questioned as to how they had purchased their allegedly forged tickets.11.  the first is a copy of the record (протокол) of search and confiscation completed by captain n. it records that the applicant was searched and his aeroplane ticket confiscated, in accordance with articles 21.1, 27.7 and 27.10 of the code of administrative offences (see relevant domestic law at paragraphs 25 and 26 below).at the bottom of the record, the applicant has written that it had been explained to him that the search and seizure could be appealed to a higher authority and that, while the record had been handed to him at 1 p.m., the actual seizure of the ticket by officer a. had taken place at 8.30 a.m. at the check-in desk.12.  the second is a pro forma statement (объяснение), filled in by captain n. in it, he records that he began filling out the statement at 12.40 p.m. and finished at 12.50 p.m., and that, when asked, the applicant refused to given an explanation for the ticket.on the statement the applicant has written that the ticket was obtained legally and that, relying on article 51 of the constitution (the right against self-incrimination) he refused to give any further explanation because he had been detained illegally in the departure hall without explanation.under section 11 of the police act (see paragraph 24 below) the police had the right to seek an explanation from the applicant regarding the ticket, and he had been invited to provide one.the decision stated, in so far as relevant, as follows: “... on 18 may 2007 the [police] together with the sheremetyevo airport security service carried out a check of the passengers leaving on the flight no.when questioned, the head of the operational-search unit of the aviation division of the department of the interior, [s.], stated that, on 18 may 2007, on the occasion of the high-profile summit in samara the policemen of the aviation division of the moscow branch of the department of the interior, together with its subordinate units in the airports of the moscow region, carried out operational search activities to identify persons of an extremist nature intending to organise mass riots.for thirteen of the tickets, the examination revealed that secondary text had been added on top of the original text in the fields ‘flight number’ and ‘time’.... held: 1.  to refuse the institution of criminal proceedings further to the complaint about the commission of criminal offences of [abuse of powers] and [exceeding official powers] by the [eleven policemen involved] for absence of corpus delicti.” 18.  the applicant challenged this decision before a court under the procedure set out in article 125 of the code of criminal procedure.it also observed that the applicant had challenged the prosecutor’s refusal to open criminal proceedings claiming, inter alia, that the police had unlawfully restricted his liberty and in violation of his right to freedom of expression and to freedom of assembly.the court found the applicant’s allegations about the unlawfulness of the ticket seizure to be unsubstantiated, finding that the seizure had been carried out in accordance with articles 27.7 and 27.10 of the code of administrative offences (see paragraph 26 below).the court further found that the applicant had been taken to the airport police quarters to provide an explanation for the purchase of his ticket.it noted that the subject matter of the applicant’s appeal to court had been the lawfulness of the prosecutor’s refusal to institute criminal proceedings against the officers who had allegedly violated his constitutional rights.
the administrative decision ordered the owner of the protected water reserve, the hungarian state, to make an offer compensating the owners of the plots of land within the protection zone within sixty days.8.  on 16 december 2002 the general directorate of water management (országos vízügyi igazgatóság) upheld the first-instance decision on the establishment of a protection zone for the municipality’s water reserve.the decision also required that if the owner of the protected water reserve was different from that of the land in the protection zone, the owner of the protected water reserve had the obligation to acquire ownership of the land in the protection zone, either through expropriation or through a sale and purchase agreement (see paragraphs 24 and 25 below).10.  under the law, owners of land within the water protection zone were under an obligation to refrain from any activity that could endanger water quality or lead to pollution and from constructing any facility that did not serve the purposes of the water reserve.11.  on 16 november 2005 the owners of the plots of land within the protection zone addressed a letter to the treasury asset management directorate (kincstári vagyoni igazgatóság), the trustee of the water reserve, offering their plots of land for sale and asking the directorate to make an offer.12.  the directorate transferred the request to the central danube valley inspectorate for environmental protection, nature conservation and water management (közép-dunavölgyi környezetvédelmi és vízügyi igazgatóság), which, due to lack of jurisdiction, returned the case to the directorate on 13 december 2005, informing the ministry of environment protection and water management about the measure.13.  meanwhile, in proceedings initiated by some of the landowners, the pest county regional court established that the treasury asset management directorate was under an obligation to proceed with the expropriation.15.  on 11 august 2008 the owners of the plots of land, including the applicants, asked the central hungarian regional administration office (közép-magyarországi regionális közigazgatási hivatal) to instruct the ministry to proceed with the expropriation by setting a time-limit.16.  their request was dismissed on 11 august 2008. according to the administration office, the owners had first requested the expropriation of their properties on 31 october 2007, thus the statutory three-year period during which the ministry could acquire the property had not expired.17.  by a decision of 22 october 2009 the pest county regional court overturned the administrative decision and remitted the case to the administration office, stating that the three-year period had expired since the expropriation proceedings were initiated, on 16 november 2005, at which time the claimants had offered their plot of land for sale.18.  on 2 december 2008 the danube regional waterworks informed the applicants that any measure concerning the ownership of the disputed plot of land fell within the competence of the state.19.  on 19 january 2009 the central directorate for water and environment informed the applicants that it had appointed a limited liability company to prepare the sale and purchase agreements and the documents necessary for the expropriation by 29 may 2009.21.  on 14 december 2010 the pest county governmental office (pest megyei kormányhivatal) (the legal successor of the central hungarian regional administration office) ordered national asset management inc. (magyar nemzeti vagyonkezelő zrt) (the legal successor of the treasury asset management directorate) to serve an expropriation notice on the land owners within ninety days of receipt of the decision.the application was granted by the government office; despite this national asset management inc. did not respond to any of the measures taken by the government office.22.  finally, the decision on the expropriation of the applicants’ plot of land was issued by the government office on 16 december 2011, establishing the amount of compensation at huf 39,170,000 (approximately eur 126,000).
(hereinafter “the debtor”) was sentenced for fraud in criminal proceedings and ordered to pay 18, 425 serbian dinars (rsd) to pp reprek, a company based in serbia and owned by the applicant.7.  on 17 december 1998 the said company filed with the district court in belgrade a request for enforcement based on the judgment in said criminal proceedings.following an order to specify a motion for enforcement, the decision on enforcement was adopted on 29 april 1999.8.  on 15 october 1999 the enforcement court ordered the ministry of interior to provide the exact address of the debtor.9.  on 7 february 2000 the bailiff noted that the debtor had moved away to an unknown address.10.  on 27 october 2000 the case was adjourned.11.  on 7 may 2005 the applicant requested the continuation of the enforcement proceedings on behalf of his company.12.  on 4 october 2005 the enforcement court again ordered the ministry of interior to provide the exact address of the debtor.13.  by letter of 21 october 2005, the ministry informed the enforcement court of the debtor’s address.14.  on 18 november 2005 the bailiff went to the address provided by the said ministry and established that the debtor was no longer living there and that he had moved away to an unknown address.15.   on 20 january 2006 the enforcement court requested the ministry of interior to provide the exact address of the debtor and his latest known place of residence.16.  on 24 october 2006 the enforcement court informed the applicant that the ministry did not establish the exact address of the debtor nor did it initiate misdemeanour proceedings against the debtor in accordance with article 25 of the domicile and temporary residence act (see paragraph 22).17. on 31 may 2007 the insolvency proceedings against the applicant’s company “reprek” were completed.the said company ceased to exist and all its assets were transferred to the applicant.18.  the enforcement court adjourned the case on 31 march 2010.
4.  the applicant was born in 1960 and lived, prior to arrest and conviction, in cheboksary.5.  on 27 january 2004 the applicant was arrested.he remained in custody pending investigation and trial.6.  on 7 october 2005 the leninskiy district court of cheboksary convicted the applicant of fraud and sentenced him to six years and nine months’ imprisonment.7.  on 13 december 2005 the supreme court of the chuvash republic upheld his conviction on appeal.the court reduced the applicant’s sentence to five years and ten months.8.  on 22 june 2007 the presidium of the supreme court of the chuvash republic quashed the judgments of 7 october and 13 december 2005 and remitted the case for a fresh examination.the applicant was remanded in custody.9.  on 11 july 2007 the leninskiy district court ordered the applicant to stay in prison pending trial.10.  on 22 november 2007 the leninskiy district court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention, having noted that: “... taking into account the seriousness of the charges against [the applicant], his health condition, personal profile, a possibility that he might abscond, the court considers that the previous measure of restraint should remain unchanged ...” 11.  on 5 february 2008 the supreme court of the chuvash republic upheld this decision on appeal.12.  by decision of 24 december 2007, as upheld on appeal, the leninskiy district court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention for three months.having heard the parties, the court ruled that: “... as it can be seen from the case file, [the applicant] has been accused of a serious crime, which is punishable with an imprisonment exceeding two years.the grounds, which were used to put him in custody ..., have not ceased to apply.being at large, [the applicant] may abscond and continue his criminal activity...” 13.  on 27 march 2008 the leninskiy district court convicted the applicant of fraud and sentenced him to five years and ten months’ imprisonment.14.  on 1 july 2008 the supreme court of the chuvash republic upheld his conviction appeal.
5.  on 4 september 2008 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of causing and inciting prostitution of minors and unlawful breaking and entering.according to the record of the arrest, a number of witnesses made statements about the applicant’s involvement in the said crimes.6.  on 5 september 2008 the leninskiy district court of ufa remanded the applicant in custody noting as follows: “[the applicant] is charged with serious offences, which fact suggests that, being a former law enforcement officer, if released, he may interfere with the establishment of the truth, influence or threaten witnesses and victims, continue criminal activities or abscond and it will not be possible to complete the investigation or conduct a trial.relying on the seriousness of the charges against the applicant, the district court extended the applicant’s detention during investigation on 30 october and 18 december 2008. on 15 july and 20 october 2009, 20 january, 15 april, 16 june, 19 august and 15 november 2010 the supreme court of the bashkortostan republic extended the applicant’s detention pending trial.each time the supreme court issued a collective detention order in respect of five defendants, including the applicant, and noted that the circumstances underlying their remand in custody had not ceased to exist.relying further on the seriousness of the charges against the five defendants, the supreme court reasoned that, if released, they might abscond, continue criminal activities or interfere with the establishment of the truth.9.  on 27 december 2010 the supreme court of the bashkortostan republic found the applicant guilty of several counts of causing and inciting prostitution of minors, abuse of power and unlawful breaking and entering.10.  on 27 april 2011 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the applicant’s conviction on appeal.12.  following the remand in custody on 5 september 2008, the applicant was detained in remand prison no.13.  on 27 february 2009 the applicant sent a letter to the court alleging a violation of his right to liberty and asking the court to send him an application form.14.  on 17 april 2009 the court sent a letter to the applicant which contained an application form to be filled out.in the letter the court advised the applicant that he was to submit a completed application form by 12 june 2009. the court’s letter was sent to remand prison no.the applicant was not detained at the remand prison at the moment and the court’s letter was forwarded, to correctional colony no.according to the stamp on the court’s letter of 17 april 2009, the correctional colony received it on 2 september 2009. then the administration of the correctional colony sent the letter back to remand prison no.the letter arrived there on 2 october 2009 and on the same day the applicant received it (according to the applicant, he received the letter on 5 october 2009).
12.  subsequently the kaunas regional prosecutor (hereinafter “the prosecutor”), at the request of the kca and relying on the findings of the audit report, asked the domestic courts to reopen the civil proceedings concerning the size of s.f.’s land, and to suspend the enforcement of all the kca’s decisions concerning the restoration of property rights in respect of that land.on 23 october 2002 the supreme court reopened the civil proceedings concerning the size of s.f.’s land, on the grounds that the audit report had revealed relevant information which had not been known at the time of the adoption of the kaunas district court’s ruling of 23 may 2001.on the same day the bank unilaterally terminated the loan agreement of 2000 and asked the court to begin the forced recovery of the debt under that agreement, amounting to ltl 10,231.23 (eur 2,963.17), by seizing the applicant’s apartment, which had been pledged to the bank as collateral.the following day the court also granted the bank’s application for interim measures concerning the loan agreement of 1994, but having found that the applicant’s apartment had already been seized, the court ordered the seizure of the applicant’s movable property, financial assets and property rights, amounting to the sum of ltl 2,909.33.she stated that on 23 october 2001 the kca had restored her property rights by cancelling her debt to the state, but due to circumstances beyond the applicant’s control the ministry of finance had only informed the bank about the cancellation on 6 december 2004. the applicant submitted that from 23 october 2001 until 6 december 2004 she had repeatedly contacted the bank and asked it to not count the interest and late payment fines.thus, she considered that the bank had known about the cancellation of her debt, and it was therefore unjust and unfair for it to ask her for any payments for that period, or to unilaterally terminate the loan agreement of 2000. the applicant further asserted that in the period of 2001‑2002 she had paid the bank a total of ltl 5,222.26 (eur 1,512.47) in interest and late payment fines under the two loan agreements; she claimed that there had been no grounds for the bank to accept those payments, and asked the court to order the bank to return them to her.22.  on 22 march 2005, at the applicant’s request, the kaunas district court suspended the forced recovery of the debt by means of seizing the applicant’s apartment, pending the examination of the claim and counterclaim in the civil case.the court also noted that the delay in the cancellation of the applicant’s debt had been caused not by the actions of the bank but by those of the kca and the prosecutor, so the bank had had the right to receive interest payments during the period in question.27.  on 13 july 2006 the kaunas regional administrative court refused to accept the applicant’s claim, on the grounds that complaints against the prosecutor general’s office and the ministry of finance – and, as a result, the entire claim – had to be examined by the vilnius regional administrative court (see paragraph 38 below).the applicant argued that the kca had acted unlawfully by suspending the restoration of her property rights and asking the prosecutor to apply for the reopening of the civil proceedings concerning the size of s.f.’s land.the court considered that, in the presence of well-founded doubts about the actual size of the land owned by s.f., the kca had acted lawfully and diligently by suspending the restoration of the property rights and initiating the reopening of the proceedings.in addition, the supreme administrative court distinguished between the kca’s competence and that of the ministry of finance: while the kca was responsible for the restoration of property rights, it was the ministry of finance which had the authority to cancel the applicant’s debt and issue the bank with a certificate confirming such cancellation.the kca’s request of the ministry of finance to suspend the cancellation of the applicant’s debt (see paragraph 11 above) had not been legally binding on the ministry, and had had no legal effect on the cancellation of the debt.the court further held that the suspension of restoration of the applicant’s property rights had been ordered not by the kca but by the ruling of the kaunas regional administrative court of 21 march 2002, and the ruling had been revoked by that same court only on 26 october 2004 (see paragraphs 12 and 14 above).accordingly, the supreme administrative court concluded that the kca could not be held responsible for the suspension of the restoration of the applicant’s property rights and the cancellation of her debt, and thus there were no grounds to award her damages.
the second applicant, mr lantsev, died on 28 october 2007. on 10 march 2008 his widow, ms raisa pavlovna lantseva, stated her wish to pursue the complaint of her late husband before the court.5.  on 30 june 1997 the applicants were dismissed from work on the grounds of redundancy.7.  on 10 september 1997 the kolpashevo town court of the tomsk region dismissed the applicants’ claims in full.8.  on 17 october 1997 the aforesaid judgment was quashed further to the applicants’ appeal by the tomsk regional court and the case was remitted for fresh examination.11.  on 23 april 1998 the town court allowed the applicants’ claims in part.12.  on 8 september 1998 the regional court upheld the judgment in part but remitted the claim for salary arrears for a fresh examination.13.  on 25 november and 8 december 1998 the hearings were adjourned at the applicants’ request.16.  by the judgment of 11 february 1999 the town court partly allowed the applicants’ claims.17.  on 23 april 1999 the regional court quashed the first-instance judgment and remitted the case for fresh examination.20.  on 14 january 2000 the applicants’ claims were satisfied in part by the town court.21.  on 15 february 2000 the judgment was upheld on appeal by the regional court.22.  on 13 march 2002 the presidium of the tomsk regional court, by way of supervisory review, quashed judgments of 14 january and 15 february 2000 and remitted the case for fresh consideration.24.  on 23 may 2002 the hearing was adjourned until 30 july 2002 for collecting additional evidence, on 1 november 2002 - for obtaining a graphologist’s report, and on 26 may 2003 – for taking further evidence from the defendant.26.  on 4 june 2003 the proceedings were stayed as the defendant company was in the process of reorganisation which lasted until 19 july 2004.28.  on 14 december 2004 the regional court upheld the judgment on appeal.
5.  the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in tambov.6.  on 23 october 2006 the leninskiy district court of tambov (“the district court”) ordered the tambov town administration to pay the applicant approximately 776,150 russian roubles (rub) in social benefits and inflation losses, and recalculated regular payments received by the applicant due to his participation in the clean-up operation at the chernobyl nuclear disaster site.the judgment entered into force on 3 november 2006.7.  on 7 november 2006 the district court clarified the judgment of 23 october 2006.8.  on 29 november 2007 the judgment of 23 october 2006 was executed, i.e. in approximately one year and one month after it became final.9.  on 1 august 2008 the district court awarded the applicant rub 87,060.05 of interest and rub 5,000 in compensation for non-pecuniary damage in respect of the delayed enforcement of the judgment of 23 october 2006. the decision came into force on 10 september 2008 and was fully enforced on 24 november 2008.
4.  the applicant was born in 1953 and lived, prior to his arrest in st petersburg.5.  on 20 december 2005 the applicant was put on the wanted list on suspicion of a murder and gangsterism.6.  on 17 july 2007 the vyborskiy district court of st petersburg remanded the applicant in custody in absentia.7.  on 20 october 2007 the applicant was arrested in hungary.8.  on 13 september 2008 he was extradited to russia and placed in detention.9.  on 28 april 2009 the st petersburg city court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention referring to the seriousness of the charges and the applicant’s attempt to abscond.the applicant remained in detention pending investigation and trial.the court concisely reiterated in its detention orders the above reasons and stated that the applicant might interfere with investigation, commit crimes, threaten witnesses and that he could not be released on bail.10.  the applicant’s appeals against the detention orders were rejected on the following dates:date of the detention order date of the introduction of the appeal date of the appeal hearing 28 april 2009 4 may 2009 2 july 2009 4 may 2009 8 may 2009 2 july 2009 19 august 2009 31 august 2009 22 october 2009 14 october 2009 16 october 2009 21 december 2009 14 january 2010 18 january 2010 16 february 2010 15 february 2010 18 february 2010 26 april 2010 11.  on 29 april 2010 the saint-petersburg city court convicted him of murder and gangsterism and sentenced him to 16 years’ imprisonment.on 7 october 2010 the supreme court of russia upheld this decision on appeal.
5.  the applicant was born in 1967 and until his conviction lived in ivdel, a town in the sverdlovsk region.7.  on 24 july 2000, as the investigation unfolded, the local official newspaper the north star printed an interview with a deputy town prosecutor about a spike in murder rates.the prosecutor said: “in the first half of 2000 our town reported fourteen murders – a historic high, it seems.twelve of them have already been solved, thanks to the industry of the police department and the investigators from the prosecutor’s office.... the fingerprint identification of ex-convict [n.b.](whose body was found in [a river]) has allowed to discover his enemies and to prove that he was beaten by three inhabitants of ivdel seeking [...] to settle scores for his murder of [another man] for which [he] had served almost nine years.it has been established that [n.b.’s] two murderers – [the applicant’s codefendant] and s. turyev, both ex-convicts – were complicit in the early‑march murder of [l.r.][her] body was dumped in a wood near the airport and was found only in may.as those crimes were not solved in time, [the applicant’s codefendant] rampaged on and on 20 april killed [another woman] who had witnessed the night-time arson at vizhayskaya street that had killed five.and [the other woman] (whose body was found in a well next to the sports centre) had been garrotted with a wire.all three persons arrested in this multicount case will undergo forensic psychiatric observation because of the gravity of the crimes committed, which carry up to twenty years or life in prison.but even after these downright senseless murders, the crime wave in the town continued.” 8.  when the case came to trial before the sverdlovsk regional court, the applicant moved to disqualify the prosecutor for the prejudice apparent in that interview.on 4 october 2002 the court refused the motion because the prosecutor had only cited facts from the investigative file, had affirmed the applicant’s complicity but not his guilt, and was not personally interested in the outcome of the trial.9.  on 22 january 2003 the court sentenced the applicant to twenty years’ imprisonment for arson and the murders of n.b.on 23 october 2003 the supreme court upheld the sentence, leaving unanswered the applicant’s complaint about the press interview.10.  in reply to a post-conviction complaint brought by the applicant, in december 2004 the sverdovsk regional prosecutor’s office found that the interview had breached the agency’s ethics policy as it had preceded the trial without, however, tangibly redressing the applicant.
4.  the applicants were prosecuted in russia for various crimes.their detention was ordered and extended by the courts.the detention orders were essentially based on the gravity of the charges, the primary grounds being the risk of the applicants’ absconding and interfering with the course of justice.the detention and extension orders used stereotyped formulae, without addressing specific facts or considering alternative preventive measures.5.  the first applicant was born in 1973 and lived, prior to his arrest, in yekaterinburg, sverdlovsk region.in 2007 the applicant was arrested in ukraine.on 24 may 2008 he was extradited to russia and was placed in pre-trial detention until 27 december 2010 when he was released on bail.on 22 april 2011 the kirovskiy district court of yekaterinburg convicted him of fraud.6.  the second applicant was born in 1978 and lived, prior to his arrest, in angarsk, irkutsk region.on 23 september 2007 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of fraud.on 25 september 2007 the court remanded him in custody.on 24 june 2010 the irkutsk regional court convicted the applicant of fraud.7.  the third applicant was born in 1967 and lived, prior to his arrest, in yekaterinburg.the applicant was arrested on 16 august 2012. on 17 august 2012 the court held to place him in pre-trial detention.on 10 october 2013 the sverdlovsk regional court convicted the applicant of trespass, battery, robbery and sexual assault.
13.  according to the government, in the course of the police interview the applicant, who was drunk when he was taken to the police station, suddenly climbed on a table and jumped out of the window.17.  according to ms p. and the applicant’s mother, who visited the applicant in the hospital, the applicant’s eyes were both bruised (which is also evident on photographs of the applicant in hospital), his left ear was swollen, his teeth were loose and he could hardly talk.on 11 october 2006 the moskovskiy district court of cheboksary (“the district court”) dismissed the investigator’s request to have the applicant remanded in custody on the grounds that he had been hospitalised and could not participate in the hearing himself.the order stated that in the course of the applicant’s interview the police officers, who had failed to carry out their duties in accordance with the service regulations and to take into account the applicant’s personality, had opened a window thereby creating conditions for the applicant to jump out of it.25.  the following injuries were recorded during the applicant’s initial examination at the cheboksary town emergency hospital on 7 october 2006: a soft tissue injury to the head, scratches on the face and knees, swelling and bruises on the left hip, a fractured left foot and a dislocated right foot.the investigator asked whether on 7 october 2006 the applicant had had any injuries other than those to both of his feet, and if so, how and when they had been received, whether they could have been received as a result of a fall onto tarmac from the first floor, where they were located and how serious they had been.information on the exact location, number and morphological characteristics of the injuries was missing, and was insufficient to determine the time and order they had been inflicted to distinguish them and determine which could have been as a result of the applicant being punched and kicked and which could have been as a result of his fall from the first floor.33.  the moskovskiy district prosecutor’s office and subsequently the cheboksary inter-district investigation department of the investigative committee at the chuvashiya prosecutor’s office refused to open a criminal case into the applicant’s alleged ill-treatment and unlawful deprivation of liberty twenty-four times, pursuant to article 24 § 1 (2) of the code of criminal procedure (“ccrp”), because none of the elements of the offences provided for in articles 127, 285, 286, 299 and 301 of the criminal code (unlawful deprivation of liberty, abuse of powers, criminal prosecution of persons known to be innocent and unlawful arrest and detention respectively) were present in respect of the actions of the police officers.and f. had carried out non-investigative actions involving the applicant, a suspect in the criminal case, from 11 p.m. to 5.42 a.m. on the night of 6 october 2006, and no assessment of the lawfulness of those actions had been carried out.a refusal on 16 june 2008 was overruled on 16 june 2008 on the grounds that deficiencies identified by the deputy head of the prosecutor’s office of chuvashiya on 5 december 2006, the moskovskiy district court of cheboksary on 6 march 2007 and the supreme court of chuvashiya on 12 april 2007 had still not been corrected.35.  in the most recent refusal issued on 2 december 2008 investigator a. from the cheboksary investigative committee found that the applicant, who had been wanted in the theft case, had been arrested and taken to the police station and remained there on suspicion of committing it.the investigator stated that injuries other than those to both feet had been found on the applicant at the time of his admission, as set out in the forensic medical expert’s report of 14 december 2006. however, the lack of any detailed description of those injuries in the applicant’s medical records had made it impossible to establish when and how they had been received, in particular whether they had been received as a result of him falling from the first floor or being beaten up.38.  the decision of 2 december 2008 also referred to the applicant’s statements that immediately before his arrest he had been drinking, and to statements by the investigator from the district police and a police officer who had guarded the applicant at the hospital on 9 october 2006 that the applicant had allegedly stated off the record that he had jumped out of the window himself trying to flee, without any influence by the police officers.the decision of 6 march was upheld on appeal on 12 april 2007 by the supreme court of chuvashiya, which noted that it was necessary to assess the lawfulness of the handcuffing and guarding of the applicant in hospital before his detention in the criminal proceedings.40.  on 3 november 2009 the district court dismissed the applicant’s appeal against the most recent refusal to open a criminal case, finding that the investigating authorities had carried out all the measures necessary for establishing the relevant facts fully, objectively and thoroughly, and had taken a reasoned decision on the basis of a full and comprehensive inquiry in accordance with the law.
4.  the applicants are russian nationals who live in kizel, perm region.their names and dates of birth are tabulated below.5.  the applicants sued the municipal unitary enterprise “gorvodokanal” (муп «горводоканал») (hereafter “the company”) for salary arrears.6.  the company was incorporated as a municipal unitary enterprise set up by a decision of the local administration and provided water supply in the town of kizel.the company had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to it by the administration in order to carry out its statutory activities.7.  on 7 september 2006 the company was declared insolvent and its liquidation started.8.  in 2007 and 2009 domestic courts by separate judgments made pecuniary awards in the applicants’ favour, to be paid by the company.particulars of each judgment are summarised in the appended table.9.  on the dates listed in the appendix the awards became enforceable.10.  the applicants alleged that the judgments had remained unenforced.according to the government, all the judgments, except the one delivered on 16 october 2009 in mr martov’s favour, had been fully enforced in december 2007-april 2010. the judgment of 16 october 2009 had not been enforced since mr martov had failed to submit the execution writ to the liquidator.the government corroborated their statements by a certificate issued by the company’s liquidator on 6 february 2012. according to that document, the judgment of 1 august 2007 in mr martov’s favour had been enforced in full, whereas the execution writ issued in 2009 had never reached the liquidator.the document says nothing about other applicants.11.  the applicants submitted to the court a copy of a letter they had received from the prosecutor’s office of kizel, dated 3 june 2011. according to the letter, in november 2009 mr martov submitted to the liquidator the execution writ in respect of the judgment of 16 october 2009.
4.  the applicant was born in 1951 and lived, prior to his arrest, in irkutsk.5.  on 14 may 2008 the applicant was arrested.on an unspecified date he was charged with three counts of pimping and pandering, extortion and illegal keeping of firearms.the court remanded him in custody.6.  on 5 march 2009 he was committed for trial before the oktyabrskiy district court of irkutsk.7.  on 3 august 2009 the district court extended his pre-trial detention on the ground that the circumstances of the case had not changed since the applicant’s arrest, he was accused of a serious crime, did not live at his domicile, hence he could abscond, threaten witnesses and interfere with the investigation.8.  on 26 november 2009 and 2 march 2010 the district court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention referring to the above grounds and stating that the victims of his crimes were minors.the court also took into account the applicant’s character, his state of health and age.9.  the applicant’s appeals against the detention orders were rejected.10.  on 29 march 2010 the district court convicted him as charged.
5.  during the autumn of 2004 the applicant assembled several explosive devices with the purpose of extorting money from commercial banks in order to donate the proceeds to orphans.the grounds for the request were the refusal of the applicant to undergo planned outpatient treatment, stated ideas concerning revenge against and murder of certain regional officials, and the applicant’s own complaints about the “worsening” of his condition.the panel also found that the applicant was a danger to himself or others and there was a risk of significant damage to his health owing to the deterioration or aggravation of his psychiatric condition in the absence of psychiatric assistance.the relevant parts of the panel’s report read as follows: “[the report begins with a detailed account of the applicant’s personal and medical history with a special accent on the events related to the assembly and use of explosive devices and his subsequent involuntary treatment in psychiatric facilities.]conclusion: considering the clinical history of severe mental disorder, avoidance of in- and outpatient treatment, criminal behaviour in acute mental state in the past, his own complaints about ‘worsening’ of the condition, coupled with refusal of voluntary treatment, the panel [considers involuntary hospitalisation in a psychiatric facility to be necessary] ...” 10.  on monday, 17 september 2012 the hospital applied for judicial authorisation of the applicant’s involuntary hospitalisation under section 29 (a) and (c) of the psychiatric assistance act 1992, since the applicant was a danger to himself or others and there was a risk of significant damage to his health owing to the deterioration or aggravation of his psychiatric condition in the absence of psychiatric assistance.the hearing was attended by the applicant, his counsel mr m., the representative of the hospital, and the prosecutor.upon an application by the prosecutor, the court ordered that the hearing be held in camera in order to protect the applicant’s privacy in respect of his medical condition; the applicant himself and his representative objected to that decision.the relevant parts of the judicial order read as follows: “[the reasoning of the order begins with a detailed account of the applicant’s personal and medical history with a special accent on the events related to the assembly and use of explosive devices and his subsequent involuntary treatment in psychiatric facilities.][according to his medical records] on 7 november 2011 mr makarov complained of aggravation of his mental state: tension, restless sleep, gloominess, references to the need for psychiatric treatment, however he refused it owing to lack of trust in the doctors ... between december 2011 and march 2012 mr makarov did not visit his attending psychiatrists despite repeated reminders ... on 11 july 2012 during a visit to his attending psychiatrist mr makarov complained of ‘bad ideas of killing mr b.’ and other persons said by him to be involved in making his diagnosis public.[the order goes on to provide an account of the applicant’s most recent hospitalisation and reproduces the relevant parts of the medical counselling panel report.]the court considers that the report of the medical counselling panel was prepared by competent professionals in the relevant field of studies, and due consideration was given to the clinical history of mr makarov ... the report contains the symptoms [showing the severity of mr makarov’s condition], it states the diagnosis.having regard to the information obtained through psychiatric observation, the history of criminal behaviour, anxiety, tension and ideas in respect of public officials, the experts concluded that in his current mental state mr makarov is a danger to himself or others and there was a risk of significant damage to [his] health owing to the deterioration or aggravation of his psychiatric condition in the absence of psychiatric assistance.during the hearing mr makarov did not contest his diagnosis ... however he argued that his disorder was not severe and he was in a remission state ... refused inpatient treatment ... stated that he needed specialised assistance, but not from gapb; in his statements and replies demonstrated denial and aversion towards [any assistance from them] ... stated that he supressed the need for psychiatric care with willpower ... it has been established during the hearing that mr makarov needs psychiatric assistance, since otherwise he may suffer from severe deterioration of his health, because he suffers from a severe mental disorder, avoids treatment, refuses assistance of attending psychiatrist, his mental condition aggravated, he has aggressive thoughts and ideas, refuses food, refuses voluntary inpatient treatment ...” 12.  in a separate ruling the town court observed that the application for involuntary hospitalisation had been submitted outside the statutory forty-eight-hour time-limit and urged the hospital administration to avoid similar occurrences in future.13.  on 19 october 2012 the applicant’s counsel appealed against the order arguing, inter alia, (a) that the town court had failed to demonstrate the need for hospitalisation, and (b) that the application for involuntary hospitalisation had been lodged outside of the statutory time-limit and thus the applicant had been detained without a court order for more than forty‑eight hours.concerning the applicant’s detention beyond the time-limit without a court order, the supreme court stated that the delay had been caused by the hospital administration, while the courts had complied with the procedural time-limits.
6.  the applicant sued her former employer (the ministry of internal affairs of the republic of kalmykiya, hereafter “the ministry”).7.  on 27 october 1999 the elista town court of the republic of kalmykiya (“the town court”) awarded the applicant monthly payments as compensation for damage to her health, with subsequent index-linked adjustment in accordance with changes in the statutory minimum monthly salary.according to the new law, such payments were to be adjusted in accordance with changes in the level of inflation.9.  in november 2006 the ministry applied the new method of index‑linking, and recalculated the monthly payments to be paid to the applicant.on 22 february and 3 april 2007 (upheld on 20 july 2007) the justice of the peace of elistinskiy court circuit no.5 of the republic of kalmykiya (“the justice of the peace”) ordered the ministry to pay the applicant the interest in respect of certain delays in the monthly payments, in accordance with the judgment of 27 october 1999. on 22 february 2007 the judge agreed with the applicant’s calculation of the delay interest (based on the index-linking of the monthly payments in accordance with the changes in the statutory minimum monthly salary).on 3 april 2007 the court calculated the delay interest based on the amount of the monthly payments, as index-linked in line with the rate of inflation.11.  on 7 may 2007 the justice of the peace refused the applicant’s claim for the delay interest.on 8 august 2007 the town court quashed the above decision and ordered the ministry to pay the delay interest as calculated by the applicant.the court held that, in the absence of a relevant judicial decision, the ministry had unlawfully changed the mode of index-linking ordered by the judgment of 27 october 1999.12.  in the meantime, on 7 may 2007 the ministry requested clarification of the judgment of 27 october 1999 as regards the method of index-linking.on 25 june 2007 the town court held that, as a result of changes in the relevant legislation, as of 1 january 2003 the index-linking of the amounts in question was to be based on changes in the level of inflation.on 11 october 2007 the supreme court of the republic of kalmykiya upheld the decision of the town court.13.  in a letter received on 1 october 2009 the applicant informed the court that in august 2009 the ministry had stopped paying the monthly payments, owing to a lack of funds in the relevant budget.14.  according to the government, the amount due to the applicant from august 2009 onwards was paid to her in full on 8 october 2009. on 11 november 2009 the town court awarded her delay interest for late payment in respect of the delays in payment between september and october 2009. the judgment came into force on 23 november 2009, and was executed on 9 december 2009.
5.  the applicant was born in 1927.6.  he owned a house with a yard in plovdiv, which were expropriated in 1982 on the basis of section 98 (1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973 (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство) with a view to constructing a residential building.the expropriation decision stated that the applicant was to be compensated with a two-room flat and a garage in a building which the municipality intended to construct.7.  on an unspecified date the flat due in compensation was constructed and delivered.however, the applicant never received the garage which had also been due to him.8.  in april 2008 the applicant complained to the plovdiv municipality of the failure to provide him with a garage.by a letter of 11 june 2008 the deputy mayor of plovdiv informed him that the municipality had no garages available and that it was currently constructing a building with underground garages, one of which could be offered to him.9.  in february 2010 the applicant wrote once again to the municipality, and was informed in reply that the construction of the building mentioned earlier had not been completed.10.  in 2014 the municipality offered the applicants’ heirs a garage, which the latter refused as it was situated at more than ten kilometers from their place of residence.
4.  the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in pernik.5.  her mother owned a house with a yard in the city, which were expropriated in 1978 on the basis of section 98 (1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973 (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство – “the tupa”) with a view to constructing a highway.it was stated in the expropriation decision that the applicant’s mother was to be compensated with a three-room flat, and the applicant was to receive a two‑room flat.6.  the flat that the applicant’s mother was due was constructed and provided to her in 1985. until then the family lived in a municipally-owned dwelling.7.  the expropriated house was pulled down in 1986.8.  in a decision of 14 july 2000, issued on the basis of section 100 of the tupa, the pernik mayor indicated the exact flat to be provided to the applicant.it measured 75 square metres and was situated in a building under construction.it was stated in the decision that the flat’s value was 22,424.84 bulgarian levs (bgn), although it was not specified whether this amount took into account the value of the expropriated properties.later on in 2000 the applicant paid to the municipality bgn 28,000 for the flat’s value; it is unclear how this amount was arrived at.9.  the building where the flat was situated was completed in 2003, but the flat that the applicant was due was never handed over to her.the applicant was told that it had been transferred by the municipality to third parties.10.  in the following years the applicant and her mother filed complaints with the regional governor, the prime minister and the parliament.11.  the authorities have not yet fulfilled their obligation to provide the applicant with a flat.the applicant states that she does not have another dwelling and that together with her husband and children she has been living with her parents in their flat.
... [l]oss of control over drinking and complete lack of awareness regarding alcohol abuse and its consequences result in a high probability of the repetition of previous relapses and, therefore, in behaviour which could, for similar reasons, pose a threat to the financial, social and personal stability of the person examined.” 9.  in a judgment of 16 october 2012 the district court, having examined an expert report and heard the expert and the applicant, decided to limit the latter’s legal capacity to act.11.  on 8 august 2013 the municipal court quashed the judgment of 16 october 2012 and sent the case back to the district court which in a judgment of 12 june 2014 decided to limit the legal capacity of the applicant, for a period of twelve months, so that he was not entitled to dispose of funds exceeding 1,500 czk (eur55) per week.she informed me about it in order to give us the possibility to look intensively for another institution.” “the director of the [social care] institution ... informed me on the phone that he had been in touch with the legal department about how to cancel the agreement and he had established that it was not possible.in answer to the question what the position of the psychiatrist is..., he said that she had not allowed [the applicant] to go for walks without assistance and she considered his state of health poor.” 35.  on 23 august 2011 the applicant was transferred to the horažďovice convalescent home – long-term care hospital (nemocnice následné péče – léčebna dlouhodobě nemocných).36.  on 23 august 2011 the applicant’s lawyer lodged a request with the municipal court through the prague 4 district court arguing that the guardianship court, namely the prague 4 district court, had been inactive in the matter of his client’s detention and had not initiated guardianship proceedings (opatrovnické řízení) seeking to solve the conflict of interests between the applicant and his public guardian.37.  on the same day, the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal (ústavní stížnost) alleging that his rights to respect for his private life, to liberty, freedom from discrimination and a fair trial had been violated by the procedure pursued by the municipal office and the prague 4 district court on account of his detention in the social care home.38.  on 19 september 2011 the municipal court decided not to undertake any action on the applicant’s request of 23 august 2011 because the power of attorney submitted by his lawyer was invalid on account of the applicant’s lack of legal capacity to sign it and because his public guardian had informed the court, on 16 september 2011, that she would not join the proceedings.... it is not possible to set a time-limit to carry out an act – the issuance of a decision on the commencement of the proceedings – if that act depends on the discretion of a court which is not obliged to decide on the commencement of proceedings but is doing so on the basis of a motion....” 41.  on 12 october 2011 the ombudsman (veřejný ochránce práv) issued a report in response to a letter from the applicant dated 29 april 2011. the report stated, inter alia: “the applicant was also prescribed psychiatric medication, both regular and in the event of ‘unease’ ... it appears however that the medication ‘in the event of unease’ has not yet been administered to the applicant.... apart from the fact that the provisions of the civil law require that the legal act – the conclusion of the contract on provision of residential social services – be approved by the court, another requirement of generally binding rules, or more precisely the commitments of the czech republic under international law, cannot be overlooked, i.e. article 5 § 4 of the convention ... ... [in the applicant’s case], in order to comply with the convention, the czech republic ... guarantees ... the right to institute proceedings in which the court would speedily decide on the lawfulness of the deprivation of liberty and order the [applicant’s] release if the deprivation of liberty is unlawful....” 42.  on 25 october 2011 the prague 11 municipal office, in reaction to the findings of the ombudsman, requested the district court to approve the agreement signed by the public guardian on the provision of residential social services of 7 february 2011.44.  on 28 november 2011 the applicant lodged a second constitutional appeal challenging the decisions of the prague municipal court of 19 september 2011 and the plzeň regional court of 4 october 2011, the procedural measures taken by the prague 4 district court and the plzeň-jih district court and, lastly, the practice of the prague 11 municipal office.the same applied in respect of the procedural steps taken by the prague 11 municipal office and by the prague 4 district court, as the district court, in its judgment of 10 november 2011, had approved the agreement concluded with the social care home by the public guardian and the latter’s termination of the agreement.57.  on 30 march 2012 the applicant lodged a similar claim, arguing that the plzeň-jih district court and the plzeň regional court had erred in not instituting proceedings to determine the lawfulness of his detention under article 191b of the code of civil procedure and that the prague 4 district court and the prague municipal court had remained inactive despite his numerous submissions describing his detention.62.  in a decision of 11 july 2013 the district court discontinued the proceedings for damages on the grounds that, as the applicant was fully legally incapacitated, the power of attorney that he had given to his representatives was null and void, and that in a letter of 28 june 2013 the guardian ad litem had informed the court that it would not join the proceedings.
13.  on 6 december 2014 the applicant was transferred to the oncology department of the hospital at the lviv pre-trial detention centre (“the oncology facility”) for medical examination.17.  on 17 march 2015 the applicant left the hiv treatment facility under guard and on 5 april 2015 arrived back at the colony where she was put under the supervision of the prison doctor (a general practitioner) as an outpatient and continued with her art.18.  on 16 april 2015 the applicant left the colony under guard and on 22 april 2015 arrived at the kyiv pre-trial detention centre (“the kyiv sizo”) in order to be able to attend the appeal hearings in her case.20.  in an undated letter submitted to the shevchenkivsky court on 8 june 2015 the kyiv sizo governor and the head of its medical unit informed the court that the applicant was receiving art at the sizo but her cancer could only be treated with radiation therapy, which could not be provided at the sizo.23.  on 1 july 2015 the acting president of the section decided, upon the applicant’s request under rule 39 of the rules of court, to indicate to the government that they should present the applicant urgently for medical examination by a specialist doctor; secure immediately, by appropriate means, treatment of the applicant appropriate to her conditions, and inform the court by 1 august 2015 about the applicant’s state of health and the measures undertaken.24.  on 6 july 2015 the government agent’s office asked the prison authorities to take appropriate action to ensure the applicant’s examination and treatment and to inform it of the applicant’s situation.25.  on 8 july 2015 the sizo governor asked the kyiv city clinical oncology centre (“the kyiv oncology centre”), a specialist civilian institution, to arrange for the examination of the applicant by one of the centre’s specialists.30.  on 31 july 2015 the government informed the court of the steps taken by the authorities after the court had indicated the interim measure and provided the relevant medical documentation.33.  on 14 september 2015 the applicant wrote to the court, alleging that the government had failed to comply with the interim measure indicated by the court.34.  on 16 september 2015 the applicant left the kyiv sizo for the hiv treatment facility, travelling through the odessa sizo, where she was held from 17 to 19 september, and the kherson sizo, where she was held from 20 to 24 september 2015. on 24 september 2015 she arrived at the hiv treatment facility.35.  on 17 september 2015 the court asked the government to provide factual information concerning the reasons for which the applicant had not been treated with radiation therapy and the specific plans for her future treatment.37.  on 25 september 2015 the government again informed the court of the medical examinations the applicant had undergone during the period following the court’s decision to indicate the interim measure.38.  from 5 to 27 october 2015 the applicant underwent radiation treatment at the kherson regional oncology clinic; she was recommended another course starting on 17 november but on 14 november 2015 she refused to undergo it citing the side effects of the previous treatment.42. the 2012 report of the ukrainian parliamentary commissioner for human rights on the monitoring of places of detention contains the following observations concerning the transportation of prisoners (pages 50‑54).43.  the relevant reports of the european committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman and degrading treatment and punishment (“the cpt”) concerning conditions of transportation of prisoners in ukraine can be found in the judgments of yakovenko v. ukraine (no.
7.  the applicant stated in his application that no coercive measures had been applied to him during or after his arrest on 17 august 2005. he also noted that immediately after his arrest he had been brought to the local police station, where the officer on duty had examined him and had drawn up a report about his injuries in the presence of two attested witnesses.she finalised the examination report on 16 september 2005, in which she documented the following injuries: a bruise measuring 2 x 1 cm in the applicant’s left temple, another bruise of about the same size on the right part of his head, a 6 x 0.2 cm bruise and abrasion under his right eye, a horizontal linear abrasion on the right part of his torso measuring 3  x 0.6 cm, a bruise of 2 x 1 cm and a vertical linear abrasion measuring 18 x 3 cm on his left thigh.14.  the applicant submitted that the expert had not reported all his injuries and that he had not dared to complain to her of his ill-treatment, firstly, because of the presence of the officers in question during his examination and, secondly, because he had been ashamed in front of a woman.17.  in his reply to the government’s observations on the admissibility and merits of the application, the applicant submitted a different version of the events: that his first questioning had actually taken place on 19 august 2005 and that its report had wrongly been dated 18 august 2005.18.  the applicant was placed in the sumy temporary detention facility (“the sumy itt”, a part of the police infrastructure), in which he was detained until his transfer to the sumy pre-trial detention centre (“the sumy sizo”) on 7 october 2005.21.  on the same date the applicant was questioned, in the presence of his lawyer mr m., in respect of another count of murder, of ms s. (some household appliances from her flat and her husband’s military identity card had been found in the applicant’s luggage following his arrest on 17 august 2005 – see paragraph 6 above).he stated that he had only been a witness of the crimes and that the murders had been committed by other persons, a. and se., who had later forced him to sell the property belonging to the victims.26.  two police officers implicated in the alleged ill-treatment of the applicant visited him in the sizo (where he had been transferred from the itt on 7 october 2005) on 18, 22 and 30 november 2005. they allegedly continued putting pressure on him, to which the investigator failed to react.during his questioning on that date the applicant stated once again that his initial confessions had been the result of his ill-treatment by the police officers who had ensured his transfer from kyiv to sumy on 18 august 2005 (see paragraphs 9 and 10 above).it was noted in the decision that the applicant had raised that complaint for the first time during his questioning on 13 february 2006. the officers concerned denied the veracity of his allegations.lastly, the court noted that the applicant had complained for the first time about his ill-treatment only on 13 february 2006. it relied on the prosecutor’s decision of 15 february 2006 not to initiate criminal proceedings against the police, which the applicant could but had not challenged.37.  both the applicant and the lawyer acting on his behalf appealed against the conviction, arguing principally that the applicant’s guilt had not been proven (there had been no sufficient material evidence and the statements of the applicant and of the witnesses had been inconsistent) and that the conviction was based on the applicant’s statements obtained under duress.they also argued that the court had not allowed the applicant’s requests to summon a witness who had been acquainted with the supposed murderers and that the statements of several witnesses who had allegedly seen those persons had not been attached sufficient weight.38.  on 17 august 2006 the supreme court partly changed the reasoning of the verdict, having upheld, on the whole, the findings of the first-instance court and the applicant’s sentence.in substantiation, she enclosed an incomplete photocopy of the applicant’s letter to her dated 9 august 2011. the applicant had complained to his mother about poor conditions in the prison, about his harassment by the guards and about having had to share his cell with an inmate, with whom he had a conflict.
4.  the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in sofia.5.  the applicant’s husband owned a house with a yard and a garage in sofia.6.  on 14 june 1985, by decision of the sofia mayor, the property was expropriated with a view to constructing a school.the decision, based on section 98 (1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973 (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство – “the tupa”), stated that the applicant’s husband was to be compensated with a four-room flat and a garage in a building which the municipality intended to construct.7.  by a supplementary decision of 12 september 1986, based on section 100 of the tupa, the mayor determined the exact location, size and other details in respect of the future flat to be provided in compensation.no mention was made however of the garage.even though, after judicial review initiated by the applicant’s husband, in a final judgment of 18 march 1987 the sofia city court ordered the mayor to supplement the decision and specify the exact garage to be provided to the applicant’s husband, this was not done.8.  in 2004 the municipal authorities transferred to the applicant’s husband property to a flat different from the one described in the decision of 12 september 1986, which however he did not contest.9.  the applicant’s husband passed away in 2005. by virtue of his will, all his property was left to the applicant.10.  in a letter signed by the chief architect of sofia and dated 8 july 2009 the applicant was informed that the decision of 12 september 1986 had not yet been supplemented to specify the garage to be provided to her because no buildings with garages earmarked for the purpose were being built.11.  in august 2009 the applicant challenged before the courts the mayor’s failure to issue a decision specifying the garage to be provided to her.in a final judgment of 23 june 2010 the supreme administrative court dismissed her claim, noting that the case at hand did not concern what was defined by statute as “unlawful failure to act”, but instead the enforcement of the judgment of 18 march 1987 (see paragraph 7 above), which had to be pursued under a different procedure.12.  in parallel proceedings brought on an unspecified date in 2009, the applicant sought damages from the sofia municipality for wrongful failure to provide her with a garage.in a final decision of 23 september 2010 the supreme administrative court declared the claim inadmissible, on the ground that the courts had already established in the judgment of 23 june 2010 that there had not been any unlawful failure to act on the part of the administrative authorities.
21.  on 12 november 2003 the voroshylivsky district court of donetsk (hereafter “the voroshylivsky court”) allowed this claim, having found, in particular, that article 113 of the civil code of ukraine of 1963 did not authorise the transfer of title to a part of shared property, which had not been divided into allocated parts and that it also obliged co-owners of a shared property to seek the consent of their counterparts before carrying out transactions in it.22.  on 5 february 2004 the donetsk regional court of appeal (hereinafter “the regional court”) quashed this judgment following an appeal by the applicants’ opponent and dismissed the prosecutor’s claim, having found that, unlike in the case of selling part of a shared property, giving it as a gift to a third party did not require the co-owners’ consent.(joined by a.n., when he acquired part of v.s.’s share and replaced by him, when he acquired the entire share), of his share in the flat, regard being had to his unlawful conduct towards her, the impossibility of joint use of the flat, and his refusal to pay his share of the maintenance costs.(by then the owner of half the flat) of his share against payment by the applicant of compensation in the amount of uah 5,602. the court noted, in particular, that there was extensive evidence that the defendants had allowed numerous strangers to live in the flat; that the applicant had been harassed; and that the flat’s appliances and the applicant’s belongings had been misused and damaged.26.  on 20 october 2005 the regional court, having reviewed the case on appeal by the applicant’s opponents, upheld the judgment with respect to the reimbursement of the costs borne on the flat by the applicant and the revocation of v.s.’s right to occupy it, as he no longer owned any share in the flat.it then quashed the ruling to dispossess a.n., having noted that, according to the expert assessment, the market value of the disputed flat had been appraised at uah 147,756, which meant that value of half the flat had been uah 73,878. the court further stated that the applicant’s claim for dispossession of a.n.the relevant part of the judgment read as follows: “neither the provisions of the housing code of ukraine nor those of the civil code of ukraine of 2003, which the applicant cites as the basis for her claims, nor the property law of ukraine, envisage dispossession of the owner of his or her property and his or her eviction from a flat owned by him or her on the grounds cited by the applicant.” 27.  the applicant appealed in cassation.28.  on 2 december 2005 the district prosecutor also lodged a cassation appeal on the applicant’s behalf, in which he corroborated her submissions that the defendants had been harassing her, had been using the flat in bad faith and had forced the applicant, a senior lady, to leave the dwelling she had occupied for many years.he also alleged that the sum proposed by the applicant in compensation for the defendants’ share in the flat had been fair, as it had been equal to the flat’s value indicated in the gift deeds on the basis of which a.n.31.  on numerous occasions between 2002 and 2007 the applicant complained to the voroshylivsky district police in donetsk (“the district police”) about various instances of verbal and physical harassment, damage to and taking of her property and attempts by v.s.they examined the situation, questioned the applicant and her opponents, and subsequently refused to institute criminal proceedings (in particular, 22 january, 7 february and 24 december 2002; 22 and 24 january, 22 february, 5 and 22 march, 15 july, 30 august, 18 september, 12, 16 and 24 october, 4, 15 and 19 november and 5 december 2003; 1 june, 3 and 9 august and 15 november 2004, 20 january, 23 july, 6 august, 19 november, 13 and 28 december 2005; and 4 and 31 march and 16 and 27 july 2006).the police further recommended that the applicant resolve the dispute concerning the use of the flat in civil proceedings and assured her that “pre-emptive conversations” had been had with the purported offenders to foster respectful conduct on their part.33.  on 30 january 2003 the prosecutor’s office quashed a decision not to institute criminal proceedings in connection with the injuries caused to the applicant on 15 december 2002. on several occasions the applicant enquired about the status of these proceedings and received no reply.40.  on 27 march 2007 the regional court upheld the prosecutor’s office’s appeal and returned the case to the voroshylivsky court to be examined by another judge with respect to the complaints which could be addressed in private prosecution proceedings.it noted, in particular, as follows: “... the court comes to a conclusion that the basis of the present criminal proceedings is the existence of a private-law dispute between the defendants and the injured parties concerning the use of shared property, which the injured parties demand to resolve by way of criminal proceedings in view of their extremely antagonistic relationship with the defendants.” 49.  on 27 february 2012 the regional court quashed this verdict on appeal by the prosecution and the injured parties and remitted the case for retrial.
4.  the applicants were born in 1952 and 1955 respectively and live in sofia.5.  the first applicant’s parents owned part of a house in sofia.6.  in 1986 the house was expropriated with a view to constructing a street and a residential building.the expropriation decision, based on section 98 (1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973 (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство – “the tupa”), provided in particular that in compensation the applicants were to receive a three-room flat.7.  by another decision of 28 may 1993, based on section 100 of the tupa, the mayor indicated the exact future flat to be provided as compensation to the applicants.it measured 87 square metres and was situated in a building to be constructed by the sofia municipality.its value was set at 21,185 old bulgarian levs (bgl), later amended to bgl 21,231. the applicants paid to the municipality the part of this amount which was not covered by the value of the expropriated property.8.  in 1990 the applicants, their children and the first applicant’s parents were accommodated in a three‑room municipal flat.they remained in it until 2004, when they chose to move to another dwelling better adapted for the first applicant’s mother’s frail state of health.9.  on an unspecified date in 2005 the applicants brought a tort action against the sofia municipality, claiming pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage on account of its continued failure to build and provide them with a flat.10.  the action was dismissed on 21 february 2006 by the sofia district court, which found that the applicants had not proven that they had sustained damage, in particular because they had been accommodated in a municipally-owned dwelling, and that in any event domestic law provided for a special remedy for persons in the applicants’ situation, namely the possibility to request a new valuation of the expropriated property.in a letter by the municipality dated 2 june 2006 and signed by a deputy mayor, they were informed that they were not entitled to seek such a valuation since they had not been the owners of the expropriated property.12.  in the meantime the flat due to the applicants was built and they took possession of it on 19 june 2006.13.  in the tort proceedings, in judgments of 14 december 2006 and 8 july 2008 the sofia city court and the supreme court of cassation upheld the sofia district court’s judgment of 21 february 2006, reiterating its findings.14.  in these proceedings the applicants were ordered to pay 1,200 new bulgarian levs (bgn, the equivalent to 612 euros – eur) in court fees.
after the incident, the first applicant was admitted to hospital where she remained in the intensive care unit until 4 november 2011.6.  on 3 november 2011 the public prosecutor requested that the skopje court of first instance (“the trial court”) launched preliminary proceedings against f.t.the detention was ordered on account of the risk of him absconding and interfering with the investigation, namely “influencing the victims witnesses, in particular since they live in (f.t.’s) vicinity”.on 1 december 2011 the investigating judge ordered his release finding that “his attendance at the trial can be secured with a more lenient measure (seizure of passport and obligation to report to the court) ... taking into account the individual circumstances and needs of [f.t.], his age, the fact that he is a regular student in third year of secondary school and a young man in development, [the court] considers that there are grounds for termination of the detention order ...” 8.  on 13 january 2012 the public prosecutor lodged an indictment against f.t.9.  on 7 june 2012 the skopje court of first instance, after it had heard evidence from the accused, the applicants, witnesses, experts, representatives of a social welfare centre (who suggested that f.t.had been mentally fit when the crime had been committed) established the following: “at 1.30 a.m. on 25 october 2011 the accused s.g. and f.t., on the basis of a prior agreement, arrived [at the applicants’ house] with an intention to steal movable objects.with the use of force and dangerous object – a metal hammer with a wooden grip, they intentionally inflicted serious injuries on the now deceased v.[k.] and [the first applicant] in order to achieve their aim ... wearing black masks, [s.g. and f.t.]sustained serious injuries-head wounds, multi-fragmented fractures accompanied with brain haemorrhages under the hard tissues of the brain ... linear skull fracture, as a result of which he died on 1 november 2011. soon after, l.j., [the first applicant’s daughter and the second and third applicants’ sister] appeared and started screaming.after [the first applicant] had heard l.j.’s screaming, she arrived in the kitchen in order to see what was going on, but when she arrived in the living room, she was assaulted by the minor f.t.he punched her hard in the head, inflicting severe injuries, namely four head wounds [cuts and bruises]; two sizeable skull fractures; haemorrhages under the soft tissues of the brain; and a brain lesion in the area of the left temple ... ... [the first applicant], v.[k.] and l.[j.]they were admitted by i.s., a doctor who was on duty at the time, who noted the serious physical injuries which both v.[k.] and [the first applicant] had sustained.12.  by judgments of 26 november 2012 and 12 march 2013, the skopje court of appeal and the supreme court, respectively, dismissed f.t.’s complaints about alleged errors on the facts and law, as well as alleged violations of the procedural rules.both courts upheld the lower court’s judgment finding no grounds to depart from the facts as established by the trial court and the reasons given for the conviction.by letters dated 28 february, 8 april and 20 may 2013, the enforcement judge notified the trial court in skopje responsible for minors about f.t.’s failure to report to the detention facility and sought instructions “given the urgent nature of the proceedings”.
5.  the applicant was born in 1966. at the time she submitted her complaint she lived in madona region, latvia.6.  on 17 november 2006 the madona district court, acting as a first‑instance court, found the applicant guilty of a traffic offence which had caused moderate bodily injury to a victim.the court ordered the applicant to perform 100 hours of community service and suspended her driving licence for a year.7.  in establishing the applicant’s guilt, the first-instance court relied on incriminating statements by the victim and two witnesses.it also relied on other evidence, including a medical expert opinion on the bodily injuries sustained by the victim.8.  the applicant appealed against the judgment to the vidzeme regional court.she alleged, inter alia, that the first instance court had failed to order an inspection and a technical examination of her vehicle, and had also not carried out a confrontation of witnesses.9.  on 13 february 2007 the vidzeme regional court upheld the judgment of the first-instance court but changed in part the punishment by revoking the suspension of the applicant’s driving licence.10.  on 8 march 2007 the applicant submitted an appeal on points of law to the senate of the supreme court.she alleged that the appellate court had failed to carry out and to order a number of investigating activities.specifically, according to the applicant, the appellate court has not carried out a confrontation between the witnesses and the victim.11.  the applicant maintained that the evidence in the case was not sufficient to establish her guilt, and thus the appeal court had acted contrary to numerous sections of the criminal procedure law.12.  in a letter dated 11 april 2007 a judge of the senate of the supreme court informed the applicant that on 11 april 2007 her appeal on points of law was not admitted for examination in the cassation proceedings.it relied on section 573 of the criminal procedure law and stated that “[the appeal on points of law] was not substantiated by any fundamental infringement of the criminal law or the law on criminal procedure”.it was also stated that it was not within the competence of the cassation court to re-examine or obtain evidence, or to explain the factual circumstances of the case.
in 2000 the turkish police arrested the applicant, and he was prosecuted for infringing state constitutional order (article 146 of the turkish criminal code).given the threat to the applicant’s life, the turkish authorities decided to release him.7.  in 2002 the applicant fled to greece, where he submitted an asylum application on 15 january 2002. on 18 february 2002 the general secretary of the ministry of public order, adjudicating at first instance, rejected that application, giving summary reasons.on 29 january 2003, having been summoned to attend the advisory board on asylum, he presented the latter with a number of documents showing that he had suffered torture in turkey on account of his political opinions, including a medical report drawn up by the greek medical centre for the rehabilitation of torture victims and an amnesty international document.on the same day the advisory board on asylum issued a favourable opinion in respect of the applicant.61/1999 (on the procedure for the examination of asylum applications), the minister for public order should have taken a decision within twenty-four hours on whether or not to grant the applicant international protection.however, by the date on which the application was referred to the court, the minister had not taken any decision and therefore had neither ratified nor rejected the board’s opinion.10.  between 2003 and 2015 the applicant lived in athens and attended the police station every six months in order to renew his asylum-seeker’s card.under domestic law that card did not constitute a residence permit and therefore did not secure all the attendant rights: it only allowed the asylum-seeker not to be expelled and to reside in the national territory with “tolerated status” while his application was being examined.that request had been based on accusations similar to those used in 2000 which had been assessed by the greek authorities during the examination of his asylum application.the division based its decision on the risk run by the applicant of suffering ill-treatment on account of his political opinions, should he be extradited.it further noted that the nature of the offences for which extradition had been requested had only been described vaguely and abstractly in the request submitted by the turkish authorities.... 14.  on 27 march 2013 the public prosecutor appealed to the court of cassation against the decision of the indictment division of patras court of appeal.he had written to the ombudsman of the republic on 21 march and 25 june 2012, and to the minister for public order on 19 november 2013, 16 june 2014 and 27 february 2015.17.  furthermore, it emerged from correspondence among a number of different authorities (between police authorities and between the police and other authorities) on 23 february 2007, 16 october 2012, 14 november 2012 and 28 january 2015, that the applicant’s asylum application was still pending before the minister for public order.
7.  at the time of the events giving rise to the application, the applicant was working at the directorate of national palaces as a secretary.on an unspecified date in 2002, following ongoing conflict with a colleague and at the request of a certain professor, m.ü., from the same directorate, the applicant was demoted.she claimed that, although she had taken up m.g.’s offer to contact the professor to settle the dispute which had caused her demotion, she had never instructed him to threaten or otherwise harass the professor.as charged, but acquitted the applicant on the grounds of a lack of sufficient evidence to corroborate the allegations against her.12.  in the meantime, on 31 december 2002, shortly after her indictment, the applicant had been dismissed from the position to which she had been demoted, without receiving payment in lieu of notice or severance pay.13.  on 30 october 2003 the applicant brought an action against the directorate of national palaces before the bakırköy labour court, claiming severance pay and payment in lieu of notice on grounds of wrongful dismissal.on the basis of its examination of the case file before the istanbul assize court, the labour court first found it established that the applicant had incited m.g.in the light of those findings, it then concluded that the termination of the applicant’s employment contract had been in accordance with section 17 of law no.1475. the relevant part of the judgment reads: “...in their observations, the respondent party submitted that the applicant had incited her friend to threaten and extort ransom from m.ü, and that she had confessed to the charges against her in her statement to the police... the court has requested the case file of the istanbul 6th criminal assize court and examined the entire criminal investigation file.based on its examination, it notes that the other accused m.g., in his statement to the police of 19 november 2002, stated that it was the applicant who had instructed him to threaten m.ü.8 or about 10 times from the telephone numbers 0212 xxx xxx and 0532 xxx xxx, hence based on the following, the court finds it established that the plaintiff had incited m.g.the court has also given regard to the documents submitted by the plaintiff’s employer and finds it established that the plaintiff’s contract had been terminated on the basis of the fact that the plaintiff had incited m.g.based on the documents submitted by the parties, the statements made during the proceedings, the statements of m.g.in the criminal case file, the court finds that the employer is under no obligation to continue employing the plaintiff and that the relationship of trust between the employer and the employee was breached and therefore the termination of the employment contract was just and lawful.” 15.  the applicant appealed against the decision of the bakırköy labour court.during the criminal proceedings, in total disregard of the fact that she had been acquitted of incitement by the istanbul assize court.
4.  the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in arzamas.5.  in the early hours of 5 june 2005, at about 3 a.m., the police arrested the applicant.in the morning he was interviewed and later taken to the hospital because he broke the window and injured himself.at 6 p.m. the arrest record was drawn up; it gave 6 p.m. as the time of the applicant’s arrest.6.  on 7 june 2005 the lukoyanovskiy district court in the nizhny novgorod region remanded the applicant in custody for an initial two‑month period.7.  on 8 august 2005 the district court held a hearing to decide, among other matters, on an extension of the applicant’s detention.the applicant asked for release; counsel for the applicant pointed out that, since the authorised detention period had ended on 5 august 2005, his detention in the following three days had been unlawful.the district court extended the applicant’s detention, finding that the “preventive measure [should] remain unchanged”.8.  in the statement of appeal against the district court’s extension order, the applicant complained that the custodial measure which had already expired could not “remain unchanged”.the appeal was forwarded to the regional court only on 8 september 2005.9.  on 23 september 2005 the regional court rejected the appeal in a summary fashion, without addressing the applicant’s arguments.10.  on 25 january 2006 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 25 april 2006, without informing the applicant or his representative about the hearing or giving any reasons for its decision.the applicant filed an appeal on 30 january 2006 which was dismissed by the regional court on 31 may 2006.11.  by judgment of 25 august 2006, as upheld on appeal on 17 october 2006, the applicant was found guilty and given a custodial sentence.
taking into account the partial contradictions that existed between the different medical reports, the court considered that the consequences of the accident for the applicant’s state of health were not sufficiently established.16.  the insurance company therefore ordered another medical report, which was delivered on 11 november 2002. the report observed the existence of a causal link between the accident and the damage to the applicant’s health, and was accompanied by a neuropsychological report, which noted a brain dysfunction subsequent to a head injury.the medical expert confirmed the existence of a causal link between the accident and the applicant’s health problems, and concluded that the applicant’s illness had led to a total incapacity for work.20.  on 14 january 2005 the insurance company issued a decision confirming the termination of the applicant’s benefits as of 1 april 1997. the applicant lodged a complaint against that decision.on the basis of this report, on 22 september 2005 the insurance company dismissed the applicant’s complaint on the grounds of lack of a causal link between the accident and her medical conditions.22.  the applicant appealed, arguing that most of the medical reports had found a causal link and that the only report denying the existence of such a link was based solely on medical reports by other experts instead of on a direct examination.23.  on 28 december 2005 the social insurance court recognised the existence of a causal link between the accident and the health problems the applicant complained of, and allowed her appeal.the matter was referred to the insurance company for it to decide on the right of the applicant to insurance benefits.the applicant was then issued with a formal notice within the meaning of article 43 (3) of the social security act inviting her to undergo the said evaluation and warning her about the legal consequences of failing to do so indicated in the said provision (see § 38 below).28.  in a decision of 2 march 2007 the insurance company again refused to grant any benefits to the applicant on the basis of the images recorded during the surveillance and her refusal to undergo a neurological examination.by a decision of 10 april 2008, the insurance company rejected the applicant’s request for destruction of the images and decided to grant her daily allowances and a pension on the basis of a disability degree of 10%.35.  in its judgment of 29 march 2010, of which the applicant was notified on 19 april 2010, the federal court ruled that, in accordance with its earlier jurisprudence (see below § 43), the surveillance of the applicant by private investigators had been lawful and the surveillance file was therefore a valid piece of evidence.after evaluating the surveillance file it found that the medical reports contradicted the images and videos showing the applicant walking her dog, driving a car long distances, going shopping, carrying groceries and opening the boot of the car by moving her arms above her head without noticeable restrictions or unusual behaviour.accordingly, the federal court denied the probative value not only of the medical reports attesting to the applicant’s complete incapacity to work but also of the reports attesting to her incapacity to work of a lesser degree.36.  subsequently the applicant lodged a request with the federal court for interpretation of its decision in the light of the established case‑law concerning the probative value of the medical reports.
4.  the applicant was born in 1948 and lives in budapest.5.  on 9 march 2006 the applicant submitted a request for an increase of her disability pension before the budapest governmental authority (directorate of pension insurance), which dismissed her claim on 21 august 2006. the applicant lodged an appeal against the decision on 10 october 2006. the central-hungarian regional insurance directorate acting as a second-instance authority upheld the first-instance decision on 4 january 2007.6.  the applicant sought the judicial review of the second-instance decision within the statutory time-limit.she submitted her statement of claim on 9 february 2007 to the first-instance administrative authority, in line with the applicable procedural laws.7.  in the absence of any developments in the case, the applicant notified the first-instance administrative authority about upholding her claim on 18 march 2010. the first-instance administrative authority subsequently forwarded the applicant’s statement of claim to the budapest labour court on 20 july 2010.8.  the budapest labour court dismissed the applicant’s claim on 14 june 2011.
52257/11) against hungary lodged with the court under article 34 of the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (“the convention”) by eleven hungarian nationals, mr tibor bak, mrs lászlóné csatári, mr istván csillag, mr andrás halász, ms boglárka lászló, mr zoltán lex, mr márk marsi, mr sándor orosz, mrs klára pápainé armuth, mr györgy  rosta and mr attila széles (“the applicants”), on 8 august 2011. a list of applicants is annexed to the present judgment.the hungarian government (“the government”) were represented by mr z. tallódi, agent of the ministry of justice.1 to the convention concerning the imposition of 98% tax on part of their severance payment was communicated to the government.4.  on 10 november 2015 and 9 june 2016 the court received friendly settlement declarations signed by the government and seven applicants under which the latter agreed to waive any further claims against hungary in respect of the facts giving rise to their complaints against an undertaking by the government to pay mrs lászlóné csatári 20,600 euros (eur), mr istván csillag eur 19,300, mr zoltán lex eur 46,700, mr márk marsi eur 8,300, mr sándor orosz eur 28,300, mr györgy rosta eur 16,000, and mr attila széles eur 11,100, to cover any pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage as well as costs and expenses.these sums will be converted into the currency of the respondent state at the rate applicable on the date of payment, and will be free of any taxes that may be applicable.in the event of failure to pay these sums within the said three-month period, the government undertook to pay simple interest on them, from the expiry of that period until settlement, at a rate equal to the marginal lending rate of the european central bank during the default period plus three percentage points.the payment will constitute the final resolution of the case in respect of these seven applicants.from june 2002 he was employed at the state-owned national development bank ltd. his employment was terminated by mutual agreement in june 2010. the upper bracket of his severance payment was taxed at 98% rate.the government did not contest the levy of the special tax on his severance payment; but in their observations they rectified the tax amount.the government did not contest the levy of the special tax on his severance payment; but in their observations they rectified the tax amount.from april 2007 she was employed at the state-owned mfb investment ltd. her employment was terminated by mutual agreement on 29 october 2010. the upper bracket of her severance payment was taxed at 98% rate.the government did not contest the levy of the special tax on her severance payment; but in their observations they rectified the tax amount.from january 2008 she was employed at the state-owned national asset management ltd. her employment was terminated by mutual agreement in 2010. the upper bracket of her severance payment was taxed at 98% in the amount of huf 2,932,623 (approximately eur 9,700).in a letter dated of 17 march 2016 the ninth applicant submitted that due to some special accounting methods applied in her case, she had received further bonuses from her previous employer calculated pro rata temporis for the years of 2011 and 2012; in respect of these bonuses additional special tax had been levied in the amount of altogether huf 829,119 (approximately eur 2,700).the applicant received a certificate from her employer regarding the deduction of special tax from the subsequently received bonuses on unspecified dates in 2011 and 2012.
7.  on 23 august 2007 the leninskiy district court of nizhniy novgorod (“the district court”) authorised the applicant’s detention on remand in connection with the car thefts, referring to the gravity of the charges and an unspecified risk that she would put pressure on minors s. and z. the judge concluded that the applicant could obstruct the proceedings.8.  on 5 september 2007 the nizhniy novgorod regional court upheld the detention order on appeal.9.  on 13 september 2007 the investigator ordered a psychiatric examination of the applicant to verify whether she was fit to stand trial.10.  the district court, referring to the need to complete the investigation “in the absence of grounds for varying or cancelling the measure of restraint”, issued further detention orders extending the term of the applicant’s pre-trial detention on 18 october and 14 december 2007, and on 15 january 2008.11.  in february 2008 the criminal case against the applicant and her co‑defendants was submitted for trial before the district court.12.  on 18 february 2008 the district court, noting that the applicant had been charged with a serious crime and could exercise pressure on the minor co-defendants if at liberty, decided to maintain her in custody until 1 august 2008.13.  on 11 july 2008 the judge ordered the applicant’s and z.’s release, concluding that there was no longer necessary to maintain them in custody, given that they had made admissions and that the applicant was unlikely to put any pressure on her co-defendants.14.  by judgment of 1 september 2008, the applicant was convicted on several charges and acquitted of the remainder, in particular, of the charges pertaining to involvement of minors in criminal activities.17.  in december 2007 the committee against torture retained ms p., an advocate, who visited the applicant in the remand centre on 27 december 2007 and 21 february 2008. the applicant explained to the advocate that a certain “olga”, a prison staff member, asked her about her complaint to the court and told her to make written statements indicating that she “had no claims against the remand centre”.18.  in the meantime, on 8 february 2008 mr ryzhov, the applicant’s representative before the court, sought a permission to see the applicant in the remand centre in order to obtain further details concerning the conditions of her detention.the applicant’s representative showed a simple authority form signed by the applicant and authorising him to represent her before the court.19.  on 28 february 2008 the administration of the remand centre informed the representative that such permission could be granted by the district court dealing the criminal case against the applicant.20.  instead of applying for a court order, the applicant’s representative sought judicial review of the above refusal.by decision of 25 march 2008 the sovetskiy district court of nizhniy novgorod confirmed the above refusal considering that the applicant’s representative had not been vested with any authority to represent the applicant in the judicial review proceedings because he had not had an “advocate” status, as required by the civil code or the code of civil procedure; a copy of the authority form concerning the proceedings before the court had not been duly attested.21.  on 6 may 2008 the nizhniy novgorod regional court upheld the sovetskiy district court’s decision on appeal.
7.  on the same date the investigator decided to institute criminal proceedings against the applicant under article 113 criminal code (cc) on account of wilful infliction of medium gravity damage to y.p.’s health, and to apply a written undertaking not to leave his place of residence as a preventive measure in respect of the applicant.the investigator cited the following grounds for his decision: “... taking into account that the materials of the criminal case provide sufficient grounds to believe that, if at large, [the applicant] will not abscond from the authority dealing with the case, obstruct the investigation and commit a criminal offence ...” 8.  on 9 august 2010 the charge against the applicant was modified to a more severe one under article 112 of the cc following the results of the forensic medical examination, according to which the damage to health suffered by y.p.9.  on the same date the investigator filed a motion with the lori regional court seeking to have the applicant detained, taking into account the fact that the materials of the case provided sufficient reasons to believe that, if at large, the applicant could obstruct the investigation by exerting unlawful influence on the persons involved in the proceedings and commit a new criminal offence, as well as the nature and dangerousness of the offence.10.  the applicant objected to this motion, arguing, inter alia, that it was unreasoned and did not contain any arguments in support of the allegation that he could commit any of the acts prescribed by article 135 of the code of criminal procedure (ccp).11.  on 10 august 2010 the lori regional court, having heard the applicant, found the investigator’s motion to be well-founded and decided to grant it by ordering the applicant’s detention for a period of two months: “... taking into account the nature and dangerousness of the act committed by [the accused], and the fact that, if at large, he may abscond from the authority dealing with the case or obstruct the investigation by exerting unlawful influence on the persons involved in the criminal proceedings, as well as avoid liability and sentence.” 12.  on 12 august 2010 the applicant lodged an appeal arguing, inter alia, that his detention on conditions provided by article 135 of the ccp was incompatible with the guarantees of article 5 of the convention.the applicant further argued that the sole reason for changing the type of preventive measure and imposing detention was the modification of the charge against him to a more severe one.13.  on 3 september 2010 the criminal court of appeal decided to uphold the regional court’s decision, finding that: “... the severity of the sentence risked by [the applicant] provides sufficient ground to believe that, if at large, [the applicant] may abscond from the authority dealing with the case, obstruct the investigation and avoid criminal liability and serving the imposed sentence ... ... thus, the regional court ... has ensured the requirement of [article 134 of the ccp] to prevent the accused’s inappropriate behaviour in the course of the criminal proceedings, as it was impossible to ensure this by applying other available preventive measures in this particular case and was also in the public interest.” 14.  on 24 september 2010 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law, which was declared inadmissible for lack of merit by the court of cassation’s decision of 29 october 2010.17.  on 4 october 2010 the regional court decided to grant the investigator’s motion, finding that the grounds for the applicant’s detention – as stated in its decision of 10 august 2010 – still persisted, and it was necessary to extend the detention in order to complete the investigation.as regards the refusal to apply bail, the applicant argued that it was not based on any of the grounds envisaged by article 143 of the ccp.19.  on 20 october 2010 the criminal court of appeal upheld the decision to extend the applicant’s detention and to refuse his release on bail, finding it to be lawful and well-founded.as regards specifically the question of bail, the court of appeal stated at the outset that the grounds for refusal of bail mentioned in article 143 of the ccp were not exhaustive.he submitted, inter alia, that he had a permanent place of residence, had never absconded or obstructed the investigation and that on the contrary he had assisted in the disclosure of the crime.25.  on 3 december 2010 the regional court decided to grant partially the investigator’s motion, finding that the grounds for the applicant’s detention still persisted and extending his detention by fifteen days.at the same time, the regional court examined the question of the applicant’s release on bail and concluded that it “found it possible to replace the detention imposed on [the applicant] with bail”.29.  on 25 january 2011 the investigator decided to drop the charges against the applicant, cancel the bail and terminate the criminal proceedings.
as indicated in the apprehension report, at 10.30 a.m. on 19 july 2007 the applicant was taken to the court for the examination of the above administrative offence case.9.  in the morning on the same day the vinnytsya leninskyy district court (“the leninskyy court”) found the applicant guilty of the administrative offence of resisting the police and fined him 150 ukrainian hryvnias (around 14 euros).the case file contains two more reports on the applicant’s administrative apprehension dated 19 july 2007. according to one of them, he was released at 9.40 p.m. on that date, without any further details being indicated.according to the related judicial ruling of 20 july 2007 (see paragraph 14 below), at 3.25 p.m. on 19 july 2007 the police apprehended the applicant in a street after he resisted to an identity check.11.  it appears from the materials of the criminal proceedings against the applicant, which were instituted later (see paragraph 19 below), that on 19 july 2007 he was questioned in respect of ms o.’s murder.12.  on the same day the applicant had a conversation with his cell-mate in the temporary detention facility, yu., who convinced him to confess to the murder.he also promised the applicant money in exchange for the information as to where the applicant had thrown the knife.yu.’s statements and the related material evidence were eventually relied on by the trial court in the criminal proceedings against the applicant.13.  still on 19 july 2007, from 6.30 to 7.30 p.m., the police carried out a search in the applicant’s flat in the context of the investigation of the murder of ms o. it appears that they seized his shirt.14.  on 20 july 2007 the leninskyy court found the applicant guilty of the administrative offence of resisting the police at 3.25 p.m. on 19 july 2007 (see also paragraph 10 above) and sentenced him to five days’ administrative detention to be calculated from 19 july (at 3.25 p.m.) to 23 july 2007.15.  on the same day the applicant was questioned as a witness in the murder case.16.  on 21 july 2007 the applicant was questioned again as a witness concerning the murder of ms o. he confessed to having stabbed her several times after she had refused to give him cigarettes without payment.17.  on the same day the applicant repeated his confession during a reconstruction of the crime.as noted in the investigator’s decision to that effect, there were sufficient reasons to suspect the applicant of the murder and, given the fact that he suffered from a mental disorder, his legal representation was mandatory.during that questioning the applicant retracted his earlier confession and submitted that he had not been at the tobacco kiosk on the day of the murder.
6.  on 29 january 2007 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of murder.7.  on 1 february 2007 the lviv shevchenkivskyy district court (the shevchenkivskyy court) ordered his detention as a preventive measure pending trial, for an initial period of two months.8.  on 28 march 2007 the same court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention for two more months on the ground that there was a considerable volume of investigative measures to be carried out and there were no reasons for changing the preventive measure.9.  on 29 may 2007 the investigation was completed and the applicant and his lawyer received access to the case file.10.  on 6 july 2007 another set of criminal proceedings was instituted against the applicant, for infliction of grievous bodily harm.12.  on the same day the lviv regional court of appeal (the court of appeal) extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention to six months.13.  on 27 july 2007 the case was referred to the shevchenkivskyy court, which held a preliminary hearing on 31 august 2007. it ordered the applicant’s further detention without fixing any time-limits.14.  the shevchenkivskyy court remitted the case for further investigation three times (on 8 october 2007, as well as on 19 may and 18 november 2008).the appellate court quashed the first two decisions (on 18 december 2007 and 26 august 2008), but upheld the last one (on 27 march 2009).all the judicial rulings in question maintained the applicant’s continued detention without further reasoning.15.  on 14 may 2009 the investigation was completed and the case was referred for trial, this time to the court of appeal as a first-instance court.16.  on 27 may 2009 the court of appeal held a preliminary hearing, at which it decided, among other things, to remit the case for further investigation once again and to maintain the applicant’s detention.17.  on 4 august 2009 the supreme court quashed the above decision in so far as it concerned the remittal issue and rejected the applicant’s request for release on the ground that he was accused of serious crimes.18.  on 15 june 2010 the court of appeal found the applicant guilty of murder and attempted murder and sentenced him to thirteen years’ imprisonment.20.  on 29 january 2016 the applicant was released following the legislative amendments pertaining to the enforcement of sentences.
6.  on 25 december 1997 the stryy prosecutor lodged civil proceedings on behalf of the stryy city council seeking to have declared that the applicant had lost her right to occupy a flat provided to her under the protected social tenancy scheme, as she had abandoned it.10.  on the same date the court also addressed the city council in a separate ruling (окрема ухвала) inviting it to consider the applicant’s personal situation and the need for her reintegration into society in deciding on how to use the flat formerly occupied by her.11.  on 1 april 1998 the stryy mayor reacted at the lviv regional court’s separate ruling informing it that the stryy prosecutor had instituted the proceedings against the applicant without consulting the city council, which had no interest in evicting the applicant.12.  on 20 may 1998 the stryy prosecutor instituted eviction proceedings against the applicant under article 109 of the housing code, referring to the fact that she had no legal basis to continue residing in the flat but refused to move out voluntarily.13.  on 18 june 1998 the stryy court ordered the applicant’s eviction referring to article 109 of the housing code and the fact that she had lost occupancy right in respect of the disputed flat.17.  following the applicant’s numerous complaints concerning the alleged unfairness of the court decisions depriving her of her occupancy rights, on 30 may 2001 the presidium of the lviv regional court quashed the judgments of 2 february and 16 march 1998 by way of extraordinary procedure and remitted the applicant’s case to the stryy court for a fresh examination.18.  after several rounds of proceedings, on 7 october 2002 the lviv regional court of appeal upheld the applicant’s right to occupy the disputed flat having rejected the prosecutor’s claim against her.it noted, in particular, that, although the applicant had indeed been absent from the disputed flat for a period exceeding six months before the prosecutor had filed the proceedings, by resuming its occupancy before the case had been examined by the first-instance court, the applicant had restored her right to occupy the disputed flat.20.  on an unspecified date the applicant instituted civil proceedings seeking the invalidation of all the transactions in respect of the disputed flat, o.m.’s eviction and a court order allowing the applicant to move back into the flat.at the same time, regard being had to the decision restoring the applicant’s right to occupy the same flat, it obliged the city council to provide the applicant with replacement housing unit equivalent to the flat at issue.23.  on 20 october 2005 the city council informed the applicant that it was unable to execute the judgment at the material time, since it had no available housing and no funds to build new units.24.  according to the government, on an unspecified date the city council offered the applicant a flat located in v. street, but the applicant refused.28.  on 30 may 2007 the lviv regional prosecutor’s office informed the applicant that they saw no reason to intervene in the situation on the applicant’s behalf, as her right to municipal housing had been restored by way of court proceedings, and the bailiffs’ service had initiated the enforcement proceedings, which, according to their information, had been pending at the material time.29.  on 30 may 2008 the bailiffs’ service informed the applicant, in response to her complaint about delay in the enforcement of the judgment given in her favour, that the enforcement writ had been returned to her in 2006. however, she retained the right to re-introduce it and demand re‑opening of the enforcement proceedings subject to statute of limitation established by applicable law.32.  on 13 october 2010 the court awarded the flat to the municipality as intestate property and allotted to the applicant the right to occupy it under the protected social tenancy scheme.
6.  according to the applicant, at about 7 p.m. on 20 february 2002 he was stopped in the street by officers of the municipal guard (муніципальна дружина) and brought to the lviv medical sobering-up centre, in spite of the fact that he was sober.y.b., a paramedic working at the centre, concluded, after merely examining the applicant’s appearance and without administering any laboratory tests, that he was suffering “from alcohol intoxication of an intermediate degree.” accordingly, the applicant was confined in the centre in order to sober up.9.  before being discharged, the applicant signed a report on his confinement (“the confinement report”), which stated that he had been placed in the sobering-up centre at 10.20 p.m. on 20 february 2002 after having consumed 250 millilitres of vodka and that he had no complaints in respect of the sobering-up centre’s staff.3 (“the municipal clinic”) that on 20 february 2002 he had been arbitrarily confined in the sobering-up centre, even though he had been sober, and beaten by officers of the municipal guard in response to his peaceful protests.13.  on 15 april 2002 the lviv regional police addressed a letter to the applicant, indicating that the municipal clinic’s notification to the police of 22 february 2002 concerning the applicant’s complaint regarding his alleged beating had been registered in their log.14.  on 3 july 2002 the applicant received a letter from the lviv prosecutor’s office stating that an inquiry into his complaints concerning the actions of the municipal guard officers and the sobering-up centre paramedic had concluded that those complaints were ill-founded.15.  on numerous occasions between july 2002 and april 2003 the applicant complained to various departments in the prosecutors’ office that his allegations of ill-treatment had not been properly investigated – notably, that none of the parties concerned had ever been questioned.19.  in july 2002 the applicant lodged a civil suit with the shevchenkivsky district court in lviv against the lviv municipal guard, the municipal guard officers who had brought him to the sobering-up centre and paramedic y.b.20.  on 17 august 2002 the chief officer of the municipal guard informed the district court in a letter that on 20 february 2002 the applicant had been stopped by his officers because he “had been walking unsteadily, falling over, and shouting obscenities”.y.b., the sobering-up centre’s paramedic, submitted that in determining the applicant’s degree of alcohol intoxication he had acted in accordance with “the instruction issued by the medical department of the ministry of interior”.it referred, in particular, to the applicant’s own acknowledgment in the confinement report that he had drunk 250 milliliters of vodka and had no complaints against the staff of the sobering-up centre.as regards the applicant’s ill-treatment complaint, the court noted that the prosecutor’s office had refused to institute criminal proceedings in respect of the incident, having found the applicant’s complaint unsubstantiated.the court noted that the applicant’s claim that he had been occupied by a court hearing for the entire day on 21 february 2002 was unsubstantiated, as the relevant registry records indicated that on that day the applicant had been in court between 9.00 a.m. and 9.20 a.m. only.the applicant also complained that the first-instance court had unreasonably refused his request for the prosecutor’s office to be obliged to produce the results of its inquiry concerning the applicant’s complaints.it also noted that there had been no need to ask the prosecutor’s office for the results of its inquiry because the fact that it had refused to institute criminal proceedings into the applicant’s complaint had been sufficient to dismiss the matter.
81204496 and initiated new criminal proceedings in respect of the applicant’s activities during the period from 1948 to 1953, when he was an investigator at the ministry of state security of the soviet socialist republic of latvia.according to the office of the prosecutor general, the applicant had participated in political repressions of the soviet regime.more specifically, the office of the prosecutor general alleged that the applicant had participated in military operations against members of the latvian armed resistance, collected evidence in criminal proceedings against them, arrested them and their supporters and collected evidence and arrested people who had possessed anti-soviet manuscripts.on the same date the prosecutor for the first time questioned the applicant as a suspect.9.  on 26 july 2000 the prosecutor drafted the bill of indictment and sent the case to the riga regional court for adjudication.10.  on 23 october 2002 the applicant’s new defence counsel requested the riga regional court to postpone at least for three weeks the hearing, which was scheduled for 24 october 2002, so that he would have enough time to acquaint himself with the applicant’s criminal case file.13.  the riga regional court held hearings on 11, 12 and 18 october 2004. the next hearing was scheduled for 13 december 2004. however, on 7 december 2004 the judge informed the applicant that the hearing was postponed to 21 march 2005 due to a protracted examination of another criminal case.14.  on 21 march 2005 the riga regional court continued examination of the applicant’s criminal case and on 4 april 2005 the court delivered its judgment, acquitting the applicant.on 19 december 2005 the criminal cases chamber of the supreme court quashed the first-instance court’s judgment and remitted the case to the first-instance court.16.  on 23 march 2006 the applicant’s defence counsel appealed against the appellate court’s decision of 19 december 2005. with a decision of 28 april 2006 the senate of the supreme court quashed this decision and remitted the case to the appellate court.17.  on 2 may 2006 the judge of the criminal cases chamber of the supreme court scheduled the appeal hearing for 7, 8 and 9 february 2007.18.  upon the prosecutor’s request, on 7 february 2007 the appellate court suspended the case pending an expert medical report on the applicant’s capacity to participate in the hearing and to serve a prison sentence.19.  on 17 april 2007 the court’s decision ordering the forensic examination was forwarded to the state centre for forensic medical examination.20.  following the applicant’s forensic expertise, the examination of the applicant’s criminal case before the appellate court was continued on 27 and 28 february 2008. on 7 march 2008 the appellate court upheld the judgment of the riga regional court of 4 april 2005 acquitting the applicant.22.  with a final decision of 27 august 2008 the senate of the supreme court upheld the decision of the appellate court.
the prisoners were allowed to move freely outside the locked part of the prison between 4 and 7 p.m., and the out-of-cell facilities were inadequate and insufficient, particularly given that there was only an open recreation yard.the measurements of the cells indicate their overall size (as provided by the government) and with the in-cell sanitary facility deducted (based on the methodology enunciated in paragraph 114 below).m) according to the floor plans of bjelovar prison, which the government provided to the court and which are not disputed by the applicant.the cells were constantly maintained and some necessary reconstruction work and improvements to the facilities had been carried out in 2007, july 2009 and may-july 2010, as well as in 2011, 2012 and 2013. furthermore, the inmates were provided with all necessary hygiene and sanitary facilities.19.  the government also explained that the inmates were allowed to move freely outside their cells in the morning and afternoon, and to use the indoor and outdoor facilities of bjelovar prison.this in particular included two hours of outdoor exercise and in addition free out-of-cell movement inside the prison between 4 and 7 p.m. specifically, in the ordinary daily regime, the inmates would wake up at 7 a.m. on working days and at 7.30 a.m. on weekends and public holidays.the gym was open between 8 a.m. and 12.30 p.m. and between 2 and 6 p.m., and the basketball court was open on working days between 3 and 4 p.m. and at the weekends in both the morning and the afternoon.21.  the government substantiated their arguments with photographs taken in 2007, 2010 and 2011 in the context of the renovation of the prison and visits by various officials to the prison, floor plans and other relevant documentation related to the available facilities in bjelovar prison and the applicant’s health care and nutrition.23.  on 26 april 2010 he complained to the ministry of justice prison administration in general terms about the conduct of the bjelovar prison administration, alleging that they had never offered him the opportunity to have a meeting with the relevant officials, that his request for a transfer had been ignored and that the prison food had been inadequate.it pointed out that he had been given sufficient opportunity to have contact with his family by telephone and while attending the court hearings in march, april and july 2010 in the criminal proceedings against him, that he had not been engaged in any work because there had been an insufficient number of work posts in bjelovar prison, that he had had seven meetings with the prison governor and twenty-five meetings with various other bjelovar prison officials, and that food had been prepared in consultation with experts, the prison diet having been continuously supervised by the prison doctor.32.  on 20 november 2010 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske), relying on article 14 § 2 (equality before the law), article 26 (equality before the state authorities) and article 29 (right to a fair trial) of the constitution, complaining in general terms of a lack of personal space and work opportunities in bjelovar prison.33.  on 26 november 2010 the applicant complained to the ombudsperson (pučki pravobranitelj) that he had not been granted a transfer to a prison closer to his family, and alleged in general terms that the conditions of his detention had been inadequate.36.  the applicant replied to that request on 21 december 2010, indicating that the sentence-execution judge and the three-judge panel of the bjelovar county court had never examined his complaints properly, and that he had not been granted 4 sq.38.  on 12 april 2011 the ombudsperson replied to the applicant’s letter that, according to the information available, his accommodation in bjelovar prison had fallen short of the requirements of adequate personal space under the enforcement of prison sentences act.the relevant part of the decision reads: “in his constitutional complaint, the complainant was unable to show that the bjelovar county court had acted contrary to the constitutional provisions concerning human rights and fundamental freedoms or had arbitrarily interpreted the relevant statutory provisions.
on 31 march 2006 the executive board held a meeting with the executive board of the fma and informed it that the bank had made a loss of several hundred million euros in 2004. mr kulterer, the chief executive of the bank, informed the fma that the treasury department had gone over its internal transaction limit of 100 million euros (eur) by eur 47 million.9.  on 5 april 2006 the fma filed criminal information (strafanzeige) about offences committed in relation to the business of hypo alpe-adria bank against the three members of the executive board and mr rauscher, accusing them of embezzlement by investing money entrusted to the bank contrary to the instructions of the executive board.it accused the bank’s executive board of failing to give information to the supervisory board, the bank’s accountants and the fma, and of trying instead to hush up the losses by manipulating the balance sheets for 2004, which meant that the full extent of the damage was only discovered by external accountants when examining the balance sheets for 2005. the accountants had then informed the fma.on wednesday 17 november 2004 the risk management and control software programme in the head offices of hypo alpe-adria bank in klagenfurt showed, in all the relevant departments of the bank, exactly the kind of figures which bring managers of credit institutions out in a cold sweat: staggering losses on investment operations.... the transactions in question were all performed between 20 september and 5 october 2004. according to hypo boss kulterer, rauscher – in breach of internal regulations – gambled, by means of so-called swaps, on the occurrence of a highly explosive combination of two trends on the financial markets: on the one hand a fall in interest rates and on the other a rise in the dollar and the yen against the euro.a marked surplus on his account would undoubtedly have boosted his chances of securing the post.” 12.  the article continued with an overview of the history of hypo alpe‑adria bank, which had gone from being a regional bank to an international investment bank in the space of fifteen years.the claimant’s father had been a regional government member responsible for finances and had also been on the bank’s supervisory board until april 2003. the claimant had been the head of the bank’s treasury department since 1999. he had not been active in politics nor had he been in the public eye in connection with his professional activity.the transactions which had subsequently led to such enormous losses had been carried out between the end of september and the beginning of october 2004 and the claimant had been the main person in charge.on 5 april 2006 the fma had sent information to the klagenfurt public prosecutor’s office on three members of the executive board, who were suspected of manipulating the bank’s balance sheets, and on the claimant who was suspected of embezzlement for carrying out unauthorised foreign currency transactions.15.  the regional court noted that section 7a (1) of the media act required a weighing of the claimant’s interest in the protection of his identity and the public interest in its disclosure.having regard to the function of the press as a “public watchdog” and the circumstances of the case, the regional court found that the public interest of obtaining information outweighed the claimant’s interest in not having his name disclosed.17.  on 20 april 2009 the vienna court of appeal (oberlandesgericht) granted an appeal by the claimant, declared that the disclosure of his identity in the article had violated his rights and ordered the applicant company to pay him eur 3,000 euros in compensation and to reimburse his procedural costs.it shared the view of the regional court that there was a public interest in knowing who was responsible for hypo alpe-adria bank’s losses due to the fact that the land owned 50% of the bank.the fact that the claimant had been answerable to the executive board, although he had an important position in the bank, and that the criminal proceedings against him had been at an early stage, meant that the claimant’s interest in protecting his identity outweighed the public interest in the disclosure of his name.62746/00, 14 december 2002), the supreme court found that the appeal court had correctly weighed the conflicting interests of the claimant under article 8 on the one hand and of the applicant company under article 10 on the other, especially because of the early stage of the criminal proceedings against the claimant.
5.  the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in călărași.6.  on 26 october 2005 the applicant and her daughter drank water from taps in their apartment and shortly thereafter they felt unwell.on 29 october 2005 the applicant’s daughter, who was twelve at the time, was admitted to hospital with a diagnosis of “serious acute dysentery”.the applicant was admitted to hospital with the same diagnosis on 31 october 2005. she was released from hospital on 13 november 2005, a day later than her daughter.7.  the applicant lodged a court action against the local utilities provider (“the provider”), a state-owned company, claiming 100,000 moldovan lei (“mdl”, approximately 6,700 euros (eur) at the time) in compensation for the harm caused to her health and for the related inconveniences, including subsequent investigations and disinfection.8.  on 1 march 2006 the călăraşi district court found in her favour.it found that various sanitary, medical and technical reports had established that in the vicinity of the applicant’s apartment block the sewage pipe was situated above the drinking water pipe and was leaking.the water pipe had cracked on 26 october 2005 and sewage water had infiltrated the drinking water pipe.the court also established that the pipes had been used since 1977 and that their expected lifespan was fifteen years.a total of five people, all of whom had drunk water from taps connected to the same water pipe, had been admitted to hospital with the same diagnosis at approximately the same time as the applicant.taking into consideration such elements as the amount of physical and mental suffering caused to the applicant and her daughter, the court awarded her mdl 10,000 (approximately eur 648 at the time).9.  the parties appealed.on 26 april 2006 the chişinău court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal and partly accepted the provider’s appeal.it reduced the award to mdl 5,000 (eur 310) because it found exaggerated “both the sum claimed by [the applicant] and that awarded to [her]”.on 25 october 2006 the supreme court of justice upheld the judgment of 26 april 2006. it found that the lower court had taken into consideration the nature and seriousness of the mental suffering caused to the applicant, as well as the degree of guilt of the defendant.
7.  on 8 october 2012 the ministry of justice issued a decision declaring that the applicant’s presence in russia would be undesirable upon his release (the “exclusion order”).8.  on 11 october 2012 the federal migration service (fms) issued a deportation order against the applicant and asked the abakan town court of the khakassiya republic to authorise the applicant’s placement into the detention centre for aliens pending his deportation.on the same day the town court granted the request, holding that the applicant should remain in the centre “until his deportation”.9.  on 1 november 2012 the abakan town court, and on 16 january 2013 the supreme court of the khakassiya republic, confirmed the validity of the exclusion and deportation orders.10.  on 7 november 2012 the supreme court of the khakassiya republic heard the applicant’s appeal against the decision on his placement in custody.noting that the fms had not yet received a response from the georgian interests section as to the applicant’s nationality, it extended the time-limit until 1 july 2013.it further held that the town court had erred in fixing a specific time-limit for the applicant’s detention and that the applicant should remain in detention “until his deportation”.14.  on 1 march, 16 october and 23 november 2012 the fms inquired the georgian interests section at the embassy of switzerland in moscow whether or not the applicant was a georgian national.on 5 february 2013 the georgian interests section replied that the applicant’s georgian nationality had been revoked by the president’s decree on 23 november 2007.15.  on 30 january and 19 february 2013 the applicant asked the fms to consider his deportation to turkey where he owned real estate and where he had lived between 2001 and 2005. on 27 february 2013 the fms applied for assistance to the consular department of the ministry of foreign affairs (mfa).however, on 16 may 2013 the mfa explained that it was unable to issue laissez-passer documents to foreign nationals and referred the fms to the turkish embassy in moscow.on 1 july 2013 the group sent a request to the turkish embassy and also asked the georgian interests section whether the president’s decree revoking the applicant’s georgian nationality could be quashed in connection with the georgian amnesty act of 13 january 2013.on 26 july 2013 the abakan town court agreed with the applicant’s claim, noting that more than six months had lapsed between a first inquiry to the georgian interests section about the applicant’s nationality dated 1 march 2012 and the second inquiry dated 16 october 2012, that no information about any action by the fms in the period between 27 february and 1 july 2013 had been submitted, and that a request to the turkish embassy had been sent more than forty-five days after receiving the mfa’s explanation.the town court pronounced unlawful the fms’s failure to act but refused to fix a time-limit for the applicant’s detention, referring to the supreme court’s judgment of 24 january 2013 (see paragraph 13 above).18.  in the meantime, georgian counsel for the applicant’s family challenged the president’s decree revoking the applicant’s georgian nationality in the tbilisi city court.
5.  the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in hamburg.6.  on 26 august 2004 the zagreb municipal state attorney’s office (općinsko državno odvjetništvo u zagrebu; hereinafter: the “state attorney’s office”) indicted the applicant and another person in the zagreb municipal criminal court (općinski kazneni sud u zagrebu) on charges of aggravated fraud under article 224 §§ 1 and 4 of the criminal code (see paragraph 14 below).7.  the applicant was tried in summary proceedings (skraćeni postupak).on 11 february 2009 the zagreb municipal criminal court found the applicant and the other accused guilty as charged and sentenced the applicant to one year’s imprisonment, suspended for four years.she was also ordered, jointly with the other accused, to pay damages to the victims in the total amount of 230,335.22 croatian kunas (hrk; approximately 31,100 euros (eur)).8.  the applicant appealed against her conviction and sentence, challenging all legal and factual aspects of the case and asking that her conviction be quashed and a retrial ordered.she submitted, in particular, that she had not had fraudulent intentions, but had merely acted as an intermediary between the loan provider and the borrowers in order to earn commission for herself.moreover, she stressed that the trial judge had erred in the factual findings and had failed to obtain certain evidence requested by her, which meant that some crucial facts had been left undetermined.she also asked that she and her defence lawyer be allowed to appear at the session of the appeal panel.9.  on 20 january 2011 the bjelovar county court (županijski sud u bjelovaru), without informing the applicant or her lawyer, examined the case without holding a hearing.after examining all of the factual and legal issues of the case it dismissed the appeal and upheld the applicant’s conviction and sentence.10.  on 5 april 2011 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske), complaining of a lack of fairness of the criminal proceedings against her.she contended in particular that she had not been allowed to appear at the session of the appeal panel.11.  on 29 september 2011 the constitutional court declared the applicant’s constitutional complaint inadmissible as manifestly ill-founded.
the written notice given to him stated that he was the subject of an exclusion order and of a re‑entry ban on the basis of section 27 § 1 of the entry procedure act, that is to say “for the purposes of ensuring the defensive capacity or security of the state, or protecting public order or health”.10.  after the first applicant had been refused admission to russia, on various dates between may and november 2013 the second applicant sent requests to a number of executive authorities, including the federal security service of the russian federation (федеральная служба безопасности (фсб)) (hereinafter “the fss”) and its department in the perm region (федеральная служба безопасности по пермскому краю) (hereinafter “the regional fss”), the federal border service (пограничная служба), the russian ministry of the interior (министерство внутренних дел российской федерации) (мвд)), the ministry of foreign affairs (министерство иностранных дел российской федерации (мид)), the russian drug enforcement agency (федеральная служба российской федерации по контролю за оборотом наркотиков (фскн)), and the russian federal migration service (управлении федеральной миграционной службы (фмс)) (hereinafter “the fms”) and its perm region department (hereinafter “the perm region fms”) asking whether it had been they who had taken the decision for the first applicant to be excluded from russia.11.  in the absence of information concerning the basis for the exclusion and the executive authority responsible therefor, in december 2013 the applicants lodged a complaint with the leninskiy district court of perm against the perm region fms, alleging that it had taken the decision to exclude the first applicant for reasons unknown and stating that the first applicant’s inability to enter russia had disrupted their family life.by a decision of 20 february 2014 the leninskiy district court rejected the complaint, stating that the subject of the complaint should have been not the perm region fms, but the regional fss.12.  at the end of february 2014 the applicants lodged a complaint against the regional fss with the dzerzhinsky district court of perm and requested that the exclusion order be quashed and the re-entry ban lifted.according to the executive agency, the exclusion order and the re-entry ban had been imposed on the first applicant on the basis of a report drafted by the regional fss dated 7 september 2012 according to which the first applicant was a member of an extremist group and had incited ethnic tensions.when the applicants’ counsel tried to question the fss operational officer concerning the factual basis for the report of 7 september 2012, the latter refused (with the judge’s approval) to answer.15.  on 16 may 2014 the regional court upheld the first applicant’s exclusion and the re-entry ban, stating, inter alia, that according to the witness statement of the fss operational search officer “the [first] applicant had been involved in activities threatening state security.the court further stated that the decision to exclude the first applicant had been issued in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law and its reasoning had referred to the information submitted by the regional fss; therefore, it had been lawful.as to whether the imposition of the re-entry ban amounted to an interference with the right to family life, the court stated that interests of the society prevailed over the private interests of the [first] applicant.the court further stated that given the fact that the entry ban was valid at least until the end of 2014, the second applicant and her son could visit the first applicant in the summer of 2014 during the school holidays.(b)  appeal to the supreme court of the russian federation 16.  the applicants lodged an appeal against the decision of 16 may 2014 with the supreme court of the russian federation (hereinafter “the supreme court”) stating, inter alia, that (i) neither they nor their representative – despite having given an undertaking of confidentiality – had been told anything about the content of the information that had served as the basis for the exclusion and (ii) the court had taken into account the operational information furnished by the regional fss even though that evidence had not been formally submitted and should therefore not have been considered.the applicants further stated that the information furnished by the fss did not give details of the nature of the first applicant’s activity that had allegedly posed a risk to the national security.17.  on 23 july 2014 the supreme court upheld the decision of 16 may 2014, stating in general terms that the regional court had duly examined the legal basis for the exclusion, and that its decision had been lawful and had balanced public and private interests.20.  on 13 january 2015 the regional fss lodged a claim for reimbursement of transportation and lodging expenses related to the examination of the appeal against the first applicant’s exclusion order on 23 july 2014 by the supreme court in moscow.
6.  in response to a request from the police, on 26 november 2007 the state attorney’s office for the suppression of corruption and organised crime (ured za suzbijanje korupcije i organiziranog kriminaliteta) asked an investigating judge of the zagreb county court (županijski sud u zagrebu) to authorise the use of special investigative measures, namely tapping the telephone conversations of the applicant and several other individuals on the grounds of their suspected participation in organised drug trafficking, customs evasion, and the abuse of power and authority.his statement of reasons read as follows: “the state attorney’s office for the suppression of corruption and organised crime asked the investigating judge to authorise the use of phone tapping measures under article 180 § 1 (1) of the code of criminal procedure in respect of ... damir bašić [and others] on the grounds that a preliminary [police] investigation suggested that these individuals were engaged in criminal activity involving the commission of offences under articles 173 §§ 1 and 2, 298 § 2, 337 and 333 of the criminal code.having assessed the [state attorney’s] request, and in view of [the request from the police], it is established that there is probable cause for believing that the criminal offences have been committed and that the requisite investigation in the present case could not be carried out by any other means, or would be extremely difficult.in addition, given that the matter concerns the offences enumerated in article 181 § 1 (2) of the code of criminal procedure, the request has been granted and it was decided as indicated in the operative part of this order.” 8.  in the course of the investigation, the investigating judge issued several further secret surveillance orders to the same effect.9.  on the basis of the evidence obtained by the aforementioned use of secret surveillance measures, on 2 july 2008 the police lodged a criminal complaint against the applicant and five other persons with the slavonski brod county state attorney’s office (županijsko državno odvjetništvo u slavonskom brodu) in connection with suspected drug trafficking and customs evasion.he argued that the secret surveillance had been carried out on the basis of orders which had been issued contrary to the relevant domestic law and practice of the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) in that they contained no reasoning justifying the use of secret surveillance.the applicant further contended that his exact location at the moment of the alleged commission of the offence at issue should be established by obtaining the location tracking data of the mobile phone which he had allegedly used.17.  at a hearing on 26 november 2009 the applicant argued that a list of incoming and outgoing calls for the mobile phones allegedly used by the defendants should be obtained in order to clarify all the circumstances of the case.as to the applicant’s arguments concerning the alleged unlawfulness of the secret surveillance orders, that court held that the orders had outlined reasons for believing that the applicant had probably participated in the commission of the offence at issue and that the investigation could not have been conducted by other means.22.  the slavonski brod county court further held that all doubts on the part of the defence as to the accuracy of the recordings had been clarified by questioning the police officers, who had explained the manner in which the recordings had been obtained and documented.it also found that the available police reports on covert monitoring provided sufficient information as to the defendant’s location at the moment of the commission of the offence and that there was therefore no need to obtain further evidence, such as mobile phone location data, in that respect.23.  on 21 april and 6 july 2010, relying on the case-law of the constitutional court ‒ according to which secret surveillance orders needed to be properly reasoned in order to satisfy the requirement of lawfulness under the relevant domestic law ‒ the applicant lodged an appeal against the first-instance judgment with the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske).it stressed in particular that the alleged lack of reasoning justifying the secret surveillance orders could not result in the unlawfulness of the evidence obtained by the use of such secret surveillance.it also held that all the relevant circumstances of the case had been properly established by the first-instance court and that the applicant’s conviction had been based on a proper and convincing assessment of evidence and the relevant facts.25.  on 23 november 2010 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court complaining that his right to respect for private life and confidentiality of correspondence, as guaranteed under articles 35 and 36 § 1 of the constitution, had been breached by the unlawful and unjustified secret surveillance, and that his right to a fair trial under article 29 of the constitution had been breached by the use of the evidence thereby obtained in the criminal proceedings against him.
all disputes between the employee and the government arising out of this agreement shall be decided by the management officer or, in the absence thereof, the designee of the management officer, provided that the employee shall have the right to appeal in writing within thirty (30) days of receipt of notice of any such decision to the chief of mission [at the american embassy podgorica].” 8.  the first applicant’s main duties and responsibilities were related to assisting in organising official receptions, lunches and dinners; questions relevant to protocol and local practices and customs; maintaining a contact database; drafting correspondence in english and montenegrin; interpreting and translating documents, articles and incoming correspondence; arranging official calls; ensuring press coverage of ceremonial events; organising official visits and serving as a contact person between the front desk and the host country officials.all the applicants claimed compensation: the first applicant sought compensation for non-pecuniary damage caused by the wrongful dismissal, and the second and third applicants claimed compensation for loss of earnings.13.  on 26 may 2011 the court of first instance in podgorica declared that it lacked competence to deal with the first applicant’s claim and rejected it (tužba [se] odbacuje), which decision was upheld by the high court on 21 june 2011. on 4 october 2011 the supreme court quashed these decisions.relying on section 29 of the civil procedure act, section 2 (1) of the labour act and section 46 of the resolution of conflict of laws and regulations of other states act (see paragraphs 30, 33 and 35 below), the supreme court considered that the montenegrin courts had jurisdiction to examine the merits of the first applicant’s claim.14.  between 8 september 2011 and 24 september 2012 the court of first instance in podgorica declared that it lacked competence to deal with the applicants’ claims (in a re-trial in respect of the first applicant) and rejected them.in rejecting the first applicant’s claim the court further held that granting immunity to the respondent state could not be considered a restriction on access to court, as provided in article 6 of the convention.while the court acknowledged that in international and comparative law there were restrictions on state immunity in respect of employment-related disputes, it also held that recruitment (pitanja u vezi sa zapošljavanjem) in a foreign diplomatic mission or an embassy was an issue which could be “very sensitive or of a confidential nature” and might relate to the diplomatic and organisational policy of a foreign state.in ruling upon the second and third applicants’ claims, the court of first instance relied also on the vienna convention on diplomatic relations, which provided that the function of embassies was to represent foreign states, and held that therefore the jurisdiction of the domestic courts was excluded.the court also relied on article 22 of the vienna convention, which provided for the inviolability of the premises of embassies.she also submitted that the court of first instance had to examine the claim on the merits pursuant to the decision of the supreme court of 4 october 2011 and relied on section 415 of the civil procedure act (see paragraph 32 below).the high court further held, upon the first applicant’s appeal, that a violation of sections 367 (1) and 415 of the civil procedure code (see paragraphs 31 and 32 below) by the first-instance court did not render the first-instance decision unlawful, in particular as it was undisputed that the respondent party had its seat in another state and only a diplomatic representation in montenegro.17.  between 1 november 2012 and 10 may 2013, ruling upon the applicants’ appeals on points of law, the supreme court upheld the previous decisions on the grounds that the respondent party was a foreign state with its own legal personality and the domestic courts had no competence to rule upon the applicants’ claims.the court relied on section 29 of the civil procedure act, section 46 of the resolution of conflict of laws and regulations of other states act, and article 3 of the vienna convention on diplomatic relations.in ruling upon the third applicant’s appeal on points of law the supreme court also held, inter alia, that granting immunity to a foreign state in civil proceedings pursued a legitimate aim of complying with international law and encouraging good diplomatic relations between states, and that it could not be considered as a restriction on access to court in violation of article 6 of the convention.in ruling upon the third applicant’s constitutional appeal the constitutional court in addition held that pursuant to the case-law of the court and the constitutional court “it [was] not the task of these courts to examine the conclusions of the regular courts in respect of the substantive law application, except in cases where [...] procedural rights were violated ([such as ...], the right of access to court) [...]”.
5.  in the late evening of 28 october 2005 the applicant paid a visit to his friend ch.the trial judge questioned the applicant’s mother s. who submitted that ch.he confirmed that he had falsely accused the applicant due to the pressure put on him by policemen.in the conditions excluding visual observation of the witness to the parties to the proceedings.he further explained that the decision to grant anonymity to the said witness had been taken in the course of the preliminary investigation of the case in order to ensure his safety and security of person.then the judge and the secretary returned to the courtroom where the judge read out s.n.’s testimony.the prosecutor, the applicant and his lawyer were allowed to put questions to the witness through the trial secretary.12.  on 29 september 2006 the court heard i., a friend of the applicant and ch.13.  the trial judge also heard, upon the applicant’s request, l. and naz., the applicant’s relatives, and d., ch.’s mother, who claimed that ch.and z., who had seen n. on 28 october 2005 and confirmed that he had been in an inebriated state on that day, (2) k., the ambulance doctor who had pronounced n. dead and (3) police officer yu., who had questioned ch.the court also reviewed the crime scene investigation report and the forensic medical report which indicated that n.’s death resulted from a cranio-cerebral injury.15.  on 31 january 2007 the district court found the applicant guilty of manslaughter and sentenced him to six years’ imprisonment.the court based its findings on ch.’s testimony given by him as an anonymous witness in the course of the investigation.as regards ch.’s testimony during the trial, the court considered it unreliable, in view of ch.’s friendship with the applicant.the court took also into account the fact that the inquiry conducted by the prosecutor’s office in this connection found no case to answer against the policemen who had allegedly put pressure on ch.
8.  on 19 august 1994 the spandaryan district court granted the claim by annulling the above agreement and recognising the applicant as the owner of the house and the plot of land.14.  on 29 december 1998 the plenary session of the court of cassation (the highest judicial instance established by the constitution of 1995 and functioning since 10 july 1998) examined the decision of 22 september 1997 upon a supervisory appeal lodged by the general prosecutor’s office and decided to leave it in force.in particular, it found that the applicant’s ownership right to the plot of land situated at 13 byuzand street had been restored by the decision of of the presidium of the supreme court of 22 september 1997, therefore any premises situated on it had to be recognised as being under his ownership as well.19.  on 17 june 2004 the government decided to contract out the construction of one of the sections of byuzand street to a private company, vizkon ltd. the latter was authorised to negotiate directly with the owners regarding the property subject to expropriation and, should such negotiations fail, to institute court proceedings on behalf of the state seeking forcible expropriation of such property.21.  on 15 april 2005 the agency held a meeting of its governing board, which included representatives of the government, the state real estate registry (the srer), the ministry of finance and economy, the mayor’s office and the police department, at which it was decided to issue a new type of ownership certificate to the first applicant for the house and the plot of land situated at 13 byuzand street.as a ground for registration of the ownership right, it mentioned the judgment of the spandaryan district people’s court of yerevan of 19 august 1994, the decision of the presidium of the supreme court of 22 september 1997, the decision of the plenary session of the court of cassation of 29 december 1998 and the judgment of the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan of 18 july 2000.in particular, it found that the first applicant’s right to the plot of land had been recognised by the decision of the presidium of the supreme court of 22 september 1997 and the judgment of the kentron and nork-marash district court of 18 july 2000.having heard that the first applicant had refused to sign a friendly settlement with the government, the chairman of the civil chamber of the court of cassation, judge m., who ex officio presided over the examination of the appeal, stated: “each party should come to a solution through compromise... if we continue dragging out this dispute, we will celebrate its hundredth anniversary... name the day and the hour when it is convenient for you to come and express all your ideas in the presence of the parties before judge h...but try to have an efficient discussion before judge h. ... you have a lot of time until [then].the relevant parts of this decision read as follows: “...it follows from the examination of [the relevant court decisions] that no ownership right of [the first applicant] had ever been recognised in respect of any plot of land, therefore there are no legal grounds for the registration of [the first applicant’s] ownership to the land.... in these circumstances, the arguments with regard to the violations of the substantive and procedural law raised in the appeal on points of law are substantiated since the above-mentioned court decisions have not recognised [the first applicant’s] ownership right to any plot of land, therefore there are no legal grounds for the registration of [the first applicant’s] title.in particular, it held: “... it follows from the examination of [the relevant court decisions] that no ownership right of [the first applicant] had ever been recognised in respect of any plot of land ... therefore, [the first applicant’s] ownership right in respect of the state‑owned plot of land was registered without any legal ground.” 35.  on 12 february 2007 the first applicant lodged an appeal on points of law against this judgment arguing, inter alia, that the court of appeal had not been independent and impartial since it had been bound by the findings of the court of cassation expressed in the decision of 28 july 2006.45.  on 25 september 2006 the court of appeal held a hearing in the absence of the first applicant and his representative but in the presence of representatives of the mayor’s office and vizkon ltd, who made their submissions in relation to the first applicant’s appeal, asking that it be rejected.as regards the first applicant’s request to reschedule the hearing, according to the record of the hearing, the court of appeal refused to adjourn it on the ground that the first applicant had a representative who had participated in the proceedings before the district court.53.  on 18 may 2007 the second and third applicants lodged an appeal with the court of cassation against the judgment of the court of appeal of 25 september 2006 alleging that they had learned of the house expropriation proceedings against the first applicant only on 19 february 2007. in the appeal, the second and third applicants argued that they enjoyed the right of use of accommodation in respect of the first applicant’s house, therefore the expropriation proceedings also affected their proprietary rights.54.  on 24 july 2007 the court of cassation declared the appeal of 18 may 2007 inadmissible for lack of merit finding, inter alia, that the second and third applicants’ rights were not affected as the first applicant was the sole owner of the house in question.
6.  the following day the authorities of kazakhstan started an investigation into the incident, the applicant and his friend, b.m., being the main suspects.13.  on 8 july 2008 the vagharshapat police investigation unit took over the case and the charges against the applicant were brought into conformity with the relevant provisions of the criminal code of armenia.16.  on 20 october 2008 the case file, including the finalised indictment, was transmitted to the southern criminal court (one of the first instance criminal courts before the relevant amendments to the code of criminal procedure) to be set down for trial.17.  on an unspecified date the applicant’s lawyer filed a motion seeking to remit the case for further investigation on the ground that, inter alia, it was necessary to carry out several confrontations given that there were substantial contradictions between the applicant’s statements and the statements of witnesses v.h., g.a., g.t., k.h., l.t.the applicant further claimed that at the preparatory hearing the victim’s legal heir, s.m.’s wife, had submitted declarations from five out of the eleven witnesses stating their reasons for being unable to attend the hearings.the declarations, drafted in russian, were not properly examined by the regional court but were included in the case file and it was decided to continue the examination of the case in the absence of all the witnesses.21.  the applicant pleaded not guilty at the trial and contested the veracity of the statements of the witnesses made during the investigation of the case in kazakhstan.23.  at the hearing of 26 may 2009 the applicant filed a motion seeking to have examined in court the video recordings from the crime scene included in the case file.he claimed that it was necessary to identify other witnesses of the incident and clarify the colour of his outerwear on the day of the crime.in doing so, the regional court stated, in particular, the following: “the court, taking into account and having assessed the evidence supporting the accusation, finds that [the applicant’s] guilt in the offence was established by the following evidence that has been collected in the course of the investigation and examined in the court proceedings: the [trial] statement of the victim’s legal heir ... according to which at around 8 p.m. on 7 october 2000 her husband s.m.[the applicant’s] guilt ... has been substantiated also by: the judgment of 29.05.2006 of kostanay regional court ... ... clarifications provided by expert ... during the above-mentioned court proceedings that there were two penetrating knife injuries on the body ... each one of the injuries could by itself have caused the death.the statement of technical expert [during the proceedings before the kostanay regional court] ... the conclusion of the forensic medical examination of 31.10.2000 ... s.m.’s death had been caused by extensive haemorrhage as a result of liver wounds.the records of examination of the crime scene, records of ... examination of victim s.m.’s clothes, two video recordings of the event, the video recording of the examination of the body during the examination of the crime scene and forensic medical examination.” 25.  the applicant lodged an appeal claiming, inter alia, that there had been no confrontation between him, b.m.as regards the non-attendance of witnesses the court of appeal stated that, according to the materials of the case, the witnesses had been properly summoned but had submitted statements about their inability to appear before the court due to lack of funds or reasons relating to family or work and reinstated their statements made during the pre-trial investigation.28.  on 12 november 2009 the court of cassation declared the applicant’s appeal on points of law inadmissible for lack of merit stating, inter alia, that the court of appeal had reached the correct conclusion as regards the applicant’s complaints about his inability to examine the witnesses against him.
1.  the case originated in an application (no.62614/13) against the russian federation lodged with the court under article 34 of the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (“the convention”) by a russian national, mr gayk levonovich sarkisyan (“the applicant”), on 23 september 2013.2.  the applicant was represented by mr a. anokhin and ms m. gordeyeva, lawyers practising in astrakhan.the russian government (“the government”) were represented by mr g. matyushkin, representative of the russian federation at the european court of human rights.3.  on 28 january 2016 the complaints concerning article 5 § 3 and article 5 § 4 were communicated to the government and the remainder of the application was declared inadmissible pursuant to rule 54 § 3 of the rules of court.6.  in particular, the government acknowledged that the applicant had remained in pre-trial detention for an excessively lengthy period in violation of article 5 § 3 of the convention.they offered to pay the applicant 1,200 euros and invited the court to strike the application out of the list of cases in accordance with article 37 § 1 (c) of the convention.the amount would be converted into the currency of the respondent state at the rate applicable on the date of payment, and would be payable within three months from the date of notification of the court’s judgement.in the event of failure to pay this amount within the abovementioned three-month period, the government undertook to pay simple interest on them, from the expiry of that period until settlement, at a rate equal to the marginal lending rate of the european central bank during the default period plus three percentage points.the declaration did not mention the applicant’s complaint under article 5 § 4 of the convention.
7.  on 27 april 2011 the applicant was convicted of the above-mentioned crimes by the high court of cassation and justice and sentenced to seven years’ imprisonment.8.  on 28 may 2012 the applicant’s appeal against the above-mentioned judgment was rejected with final effect by a five-judge panel of the high court of cassation and justice.the full text of the judgment became available to the applicant on 1 november 2012.10. according to the report drawn up on the applicant’s arrival in gherla prison on 31 may 2012 the applicant was allowed to take with him to his cell, among other items, one glucometer with forty-one test strips and needles as well as several drugs.copies of the same medical chart also show that the applicant regularly received medication from the prison infirmary.13. in baia mare prison the applicant was examined at the prison’s infirmary twenty-four times between april 2013 and september 2014. in addition, he was taken for specialist diabetes and nutrition examinations at the baia mare county hospital nine times between 24 may 2013 and 2 october 2014.14. according to the government’s submissions and copies of the applicant’s medical chart, throughout his detention in baia mare prison the applicant was given, as needed and according to doctors’ prescriptions, insulin and drugs for his hypertension as well as neurotrophic, gastric protective, hypercholesterol and other drugs.15. according to the information provided by the national administration of prisons the applicant made no complaints concerning his medical treatment.on 10 august 2012 the applicant’s lawyer was informed that the complaint against the applicant’s placement in the closed prison regime had been rejected.on 5 september 2013 the applicant’s lawyer was informed by the baia mare prison administration that the applicant could not be compensated for the work he had performed in detention with permission to leave the prison.17.  from the government’s submissions it appears that the applicant was transferred sixteen times between detention facilities, to the hospital or to the courts, in special vehicles (iveco, mercedes or raba vans) which were well-maintained and met the legal comfort requirements.18.  according to the information provided by the national administration of prisons, the applicant was allowed to take with him his personal glycaemia kit and medication and was therefore able to measure his glycaemia.as regards the food received during transport, the applicant was provided with a diabetic menu as follows: during transport to and from gherla prison the applicant received 100 grams of biscuits, 100 grams of cheese, one egg and 500 grams of bread; during transport to and from baia mare prison the applicant received 320 grams of unsalted cheese, two eggs, 300 grams of processed poultry meat, 260 grams of semi-white bread and 250 grams of apples.19.  according to the prison visits record the applicant often received food packages which included sweets, fruits and vegetables as well as bottles of juice, all of which he was allowed to take with him during transport.20. the government submitted that the prison authorities had received no complaints or requests from the applicant in connection with the conditions of transport.
10.  in april 2013 the applicant’s husband obtained a copy of a decision pronouncing her presence in russia to be undesirable (“the exclusion order”), which the consumer protection authority (cpa) had issued on 9 june 2012. the text of the order indicated that the applicant’s presence in russia had been declared undesirable by the krasnodar regional division of the cpa on 9 june 2012, in accordance with section 25.10 of the entry and exit procedures act.it subsequently transpired that the basis for the exclusion order was that during her pregnancy in 2012 the applicant had tested positive for hiv and that the hospital had reported her hiv-positive status to the cpa.11.  according to the government, the krasnodar division of the cpa sent the exclusion order to the applicant by registered mail on 19 june 2012. they produced a log of registered correspondence which was to be submitted to the post office for dispatch on that date.12.  the applicant’s husband, acting as the claimant and also as the applicant’s representative, challenged the exclusion order before the russian courts, claiming in particular that the cpa had disregarded the applicant’s family connections in russia and her state of health.13.  on 24 may 2013 the tsentralnyy district court in sochi rejected the claim in summary fashion, repeating verbatim the text of the exclusion order and holding that it was lawful.on 23 july 2013 the krasnodar regional court upheld the district court’s judgment, finding that the applicant’s infection with hiv “created a real threat to the russian population”.14.  in the statement of appeal to the cassation instance, the applicant’s husband prayed in aid the position of the russian constitutional court which emphasised the necessity to take humanitarian considerations into account when deciding on the removal of a family member, and on the court’s case‑law under article 8 of the convention.on 30 september and 19 december 2013 the krasnodar regional court and the supreme court of russia respectively issued summary decisions, dismissing the application for an examination of the case by the cassation instance.16.  on 12 march 2015 the constitutional court ruled on a constitutional challenge brought by the applicant and two other aliens and their russian spouses against section 11(2) of the hiv prevention act, section 7(1)(13) of the foreign nationals act, and section 25.10 of the entry and exit procedures act.to declare that the closely related provisions of section 25.10 of the entry and exit procedures act, section 11(2) of the hiv prevention act, and section 7(1)(13) of the foreign nationals act are incompatible with the russian constitution ... in so far as they allow [the executive authorities] to declare undesirable the presence of a foreign national or a stateless person whose family permanently resides in russia, to issue a deportation order or an entry ban, to refuse him a residence permit or to cancel a previously issued residence permit solely because that person is hiv-positive, provided that the person has complied with the legal requirements on hiv-positive individuals relating to the prevention of spreading the infection, and provided that no other circumstances would call for such restrictions.2.  the federal legislator should – in the light of the requirements of the russian constitution and the position of the constitutional court, as expressed in the present judgment – introduce the necessary amendments into the existing corpus of laws which would clarify the grounds and the procedure for making decisions relating to the right of hiv-positive foreign nationals or stateless persons to stay and live in the russian federation.” pending such amendments, the constitutional court directed that the executive and judicial authorities be guided by the position it had formulated in the judgment.17.  on 20 april 2015 the applicant’s husband applied to the tsentralnyy district court in sochi for a reconsideration of the district court’s judgment of 24 may 2013 on account of the new case-law of the constitutional court.18.  the applicant’s husband appealed and on 22 october 2015 the krasnodar regional court quashed the above judgment, finding that the district court had not heeded the position of the constitutional court and had incorrectly shifted the burden of proof onto the applicant: “the krasnodar office of the consumer protection authority did not produce any evidence of ms ustinova’s conviction under article 122 of the criminal code (infection by hiv) and/or under article 6.1 of the code of administrative offences (concealing the source of hiv infection).it follows that the first-instance court’s finding that ms ustinova’s presence constitutes a threat to other russian residents, including those with whom she has had social and casual contact, is erroneous and contradicts the constitutional court’s judgment since the mere fact of hiv infection is not a ground for applying such important restrictions on her private life.” 19.  the regional court pronounced the exclusion order unlawful and directed the krasnodar office of the consumer protection authority to redress the effects of the violation.20.  in response to the court’s request for additional information of 12 may 2016 (see paragraph 4 above), on 29 june 2016 the government submitted that the applicant had crossed the russian border on 17 august 2015. on 18 may 2016 the federal migration service issued her a three‑year temporary residence permit.
the study summarising the outcome of the project was published in 2007 under the title “without defence”, suggesting that there should be a standard set of criteria developed to assess the quality of defence counsel’s work.in parallel, the applicant ngo made a contribution in respect of hungary to the comparative research project “effective defence rights in the european union and access to justice: investigating and promoting best practices” carried out in nine european countries and funded by the european commission and the open society justice initiative.the results of the two projects were presented at a conference in april 2009, the conclusions of which were summarised in the report “in the shadow of suspicion: a critical account of enforcing the right to an effective defence”.16.  as a feature of the project, the applicant ngo requested the names of the public defenders selected in 2008 and the number of assignments given to each lawyer from a total of twenty-eight police departments, situated in the seven hungarian regions.18.  on 18 august 2009 the applicant ngo addressed the same request to the hajdú-bihar county police department, seeking access to information concerning the names of defence counsel appointed in the police department’s area of jurisdiction and the number of appointments given to each defence counsel.19.  in its response of 26 august 2009 the hajdú-bihar county police department refused the applicant ngo’s request, stating that “the names of the defence counsel are not public-interest data nor information subject to disclosure in the public interest under section 19(4) of the data act, since defence counsel are not members of a body performing state, municipal or public duties.22.  in its counter-claim, the hajdú-bihar county police department maintained its view that the names of defence counsel constituted personal data rather than information subject to disclosure in the public interest, since they neither carried out their tasks within the scope of the duties and competences of the police departments, nor were they members of those bodies.referring to article 46 of the code of criminal procedure on mandatory defence and to article 48 of the same code on the investigative authorities’ duty to appoint defence counsel under certain conditions, the court observed that the duties of the investigative authorities also included giving effect to the constitutional right to defence.the court went on to state that, given the public-interest nature of mandatory defence, the interest in informing society seemed to be stronger than the need to protect privacy, which in any case was not infringed since the role of defence counsel was public from the moment of indictment.in the court’s view, the provisions of the code of criminal procedure relied on by the applicant ngo provided for equal recognition before the law and for the right to defence and imposed a duty on the state to ensure these rights.it noted that personal data could only be processed under section 5(1) of the data act for a well-defined purpose in the exercise of a right or in fulfilment of an obligation, and that personal data processed by the police departments could only be transferred with the permission of the person concerned.28.  the applicant ngo sought review of the second-instance judgment, maintaining that although the names of the defence counsel and the number of their respective appointments were personal data, this was nevertheless information subject to disclosure in the public interest as being related to the public duties carried out by ex officio defence counsel.1234/h/2006 of the parliamentary commissioner for data protection, that the question of whether an individual was a person performing public duties has to be determined solely on the basis of the provisions of the data act.in answering this question [of interpretation of the notion of ‘persons performing public duties’], the applicant’s argument concerning article 137(2) of the criminal code is irrelevant, since that provision only prescribes that defence counsel were to be regarded as persons performing public duties for the purposes of the criminal code itself, but not for the purposes of the data act or for any other legal relationship.the courts, the prosecution services and the investigative authorities perform this task by, in particular, ensuring the right to defence (article 5 § 3 of the code of criminal procedure) and by appointing defence counsel when required under articles 46 and 48 of the code of criminal procedure.
the first applicant appealed and on 26 june 2001 the court of appeal remitted the case to the court of first instance for fresh examination.on 8 april 2002 the kaunas regional court allowed the claim and allowed the counterclaim in part, ordering the first applicant’s company to pay ltl 211,884 and the claimant company ltl 5,295. the first applicant appealed and on 15 july 2002 the court of appeal increased the sum to be paid by the claimant company to ltl 8,103. the first applicant submitted a cassation appeal and on 29 january 2003 the supreme court upheld the court of appeal’s decision.9.  on 25 may 2004 the kaunas regional court refused to reopen the proceedings because the second applicant had failed to lodge his claim within the prescribed time-limit of three months of becoming aware of the circumstances providing the grounds for the reopening of the proceedings.10.  on 20 june 2005 the kaunas regional court examined the reopened rent arrears case, concluded that the second applicant should not have been involved in the proceedings and rejected the request of the second applicant to have the decision of the kaunas regional court of 8 april 2002 quashed (see paragraph 6 above).the applicants appealed against this decision and on 9 august 2005 the court of appeal upheld the decision of the kaunas regional court of 20 june 2005 not to quash the decision of the kaunas regional court of 8 april 2002 regarding the payment of rent arrears, but observed that the second applicant should have been involved in the proceedings because that was the main reason for reopening the rent arrears case.the second applicant requested legal aid in order to prepare a cassation appeal against the kaunas regional court’s decision of 20 june 2005 and the court of appeal’s decision of 9 august 2005. on 4 november 2005 his request was accepted by the kaunas state guaranteed legal aid service (hereinafter “the legal aid service”).on 10 february and 1 august 2006 respectively the kaunas regional administrative court and the supreme administrative court dismissed as unsubstantiated the applicants’ claims concerning the refusal to grant them legal aid, holding that under domestic law, legal aid was unavailable if the claims were directly related to a person’s commercial or independent professional activities (see paragraph 28 below).13.  on 8 may 2006 both applicants requested that the court of appeal transfer the bankruptcy and rent arrears cases to the vilnius regional court, but their request was dismissed on 15 may 2006 by the court of appeal.14.  on 22 may 2006 both applicants submitted two requests for legal aid: one concerned the preparation of the cassation appeal against the court of appeal’s refusal to transfer their cases to the vilnius regional court and the other concerned the reopening of the bankruptcy case.in the meantime the applicants submitted a request to the kaunas regional court and asked for the time-limit for submissions in the rent arrears case to be extended and the legality of the refusal of the legal aid to be examined.on 22 august 2006 the time-limit for submissions was extended but the legality of the refusal to grant them legal aid was not examined as it was considered to be outside the court’s jurisdiction.17.  the examination of the rent arrears case was resumed but was suspended by the kaunas regional court on 5 september 2006 due to the ongoing administrative proceedings concerning the legal aid (see paragraph 16 above).18.  after the examination of the rent arrears case was resumed on 28 june 2007 by the kaunas regional court, the applicants asked for adjournments numerous times due to their own inability to be present.on 7 april 2008 and 6 february 2009 respectively their complaint was dismissed by the kaunas regional administrative court and the supreme administrative court, which again held that under domestic law, legal aid was not available if the claims were directly related to the person’s commercial or independent professional activities.22.  on 3 june 2009 the court of appeal resumed the rent arrears case and scheduled a hearing for 6 october 2009. on 25 june 2009 the applicants were sent a notice informing them that the case would be examined in a “public hearing in writing” (viešame teismo posėdyje rašytinio proceso tvarka) on 6 october 2009. the applicants responded on 2 october 2009 (as indicated on the post mark) that they would not be able to attend the hearing because on 30 september 2009 they were sent a notice that another case involving the first applicant was being examined at the same time that day.
at the material time, he was a member of parliament and a member of the largest opposition party, the hungarian socialist party.the speaker’s proposal reads as follows: “speaker of parliament decision in disciplinary matter proposal to impose a fine according to the minutes of parliament’s session of 18 march 2013, tibor szanyi mp used a blatantly offensive expression during the counter-reply (viszonválasza során, sic) of his interpellation.xxxvi of 2012 on parliament and in application of my prerogatives under subparagraph 6 of the same, that parliament impose a fine whose amount should be one-third of the mp’s honorarium, that is, huf 131,410. budapest, 25 march 2013 signed: lászló kövér” an affirmative decision was adopted by the plenary on 28 march 2013, without any remedy available.it was addressed to the minister of national development and concerned the publication of the list of successful bidders in the national tender for tobacco retail licences.this was generally just enough to cover perhaps the overheads, although the costs of lease of the shop and the employees’ wages had to be generated beyond this profit.it has been the state in any case that got the real profit through the excise tax and the vat.however, the newly introduced 10 per cent profit, now due to the cronies (csókosoknak járó), will result in a situation in which the [new] “national” retailers will have forty times higher profit than was usual.the government have finished off this tradition by forcing into unemployment tens of thousands of employees of small hungarian enterprises; instead, they give all the opportunities to their obese pals, who can now freely select their underpaid dummy employees among the freshly expropriated losers.or else are you planning to continue looting the country, now completely without a face, that is, barefacedly (pofátlanul)?” 10.  the interpellation was refused by the speaker on 6 may 2013 – under section 97(4) of the rules of parliament – with the reasoning that it contained statements that were injurious to the prestige of parliament and inadmissible in a democratically functioning system.but to get the golden prize of the juicy retail spots possibly generating millions per day, one needed to belong to, one way or another, the jamboree of buddies of the local fidesz-chieftains.in exchange and ex post facto, you have increased the statutory profit rate and, at the same time, prohibited tobacco selling anywhere else, destroying tens of thousands of shops and their employees, under the slogan “let the strong live and the weak perish”.you, a mercenary of fidesz, are apparently eager to keep serving the other projects of fidesz as well, that is, what you can buy in these [new] shops will include, in addition to tobacco, alcohol, gambling tickets, newspapers and even things to lick.will the licences issued be sufficient for the mayors and mps of fidesz, reduced to a dummy existence after the falling down?since then, the answer has become clear: no, it is not, because you have already been, without a face, or to use your favourite expression, barefacedly playing games with the livelihood of the hungarian people.you have pushed anyone into misery; you have taken away even the allowances of the most miserable, those disabled – just to be able to stuff your mafia feeding on public procurement.
6.  the applicant was born in 1976 and is detained in togliatti, samara region.7.  on 19 october 2006 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of drug dealing.8.  on 20 october 2006 the samarskiy district court of samara remanded the applicant in custody.the court held that the applicant was suspected of a serious crime, that he could abscond, commit crimes, destroy evidence, threaten witnesses or in any other way interfere with the investigation.9.  on 18 december 2006 the district court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention.the court reproduced the reasoning of the previous detention order.the court also indicated that the applicant had played a leading part in the criminal activities.10.  on 15 february 2007 the district court extended the applicant’s pre‑trial detention on the ground that the investigation was still pending and it was necessary to conduct some investigative activities.the court further referred to the same grounds as in the previous detention orders.11.  the samara regional court rejected the applicant’s appeals against the detention orders.12.  on 1 june 2007 the bolshechernigovskiy district court of the samara region convicted the applicant of drug trafficking and sentenced him to 11 years’ imprisonment and a fine.on 21 august 2007 the samara regional court upheld his conviction on appeal.
it appears that the eyewitnesses provided contradictory testimonies as to the location and speed of the two vehicles immediately before the collision, the distance between them and the exact account of the events leading up to the collision.the expert was provided with the sketch of the accident (see paragraph 9 above) and photographs of the two vehicles, and asked to determine the location of the collision, to estimate the speed of the motorcycle before the collision, and to establish who had been responsible for the accident.the expert report, delivered on 31 january 2007 (hereinafter “the first expert report”), stated that the description of the skid marks and the fragments of glass and plastic on the road indicated that the collision had occurred in the right-hand lane.; −  examining the scene of the accident together with the applicant in order to verify his account of the events leading to the collision; −  finding out whether, at the time of the accident, there were any traffic signs on the road indicating the speed limit, or any restrictions on overtaking; −  additionally questioning an eyewitness who had claimed that following the collision the applicant’s motorcycle had risen up in the air and landed in the right-hand lane, in order to clarify the details of that testimony; and −  questioning another eyewitness identified by the applicant’s mother.the pre-trial investigation was transferred to a different investigator within the vilnius city police department and the investigator was instructed to carry out the investigative measures requested by r.k. as to the forensic expert’s report, the prosecutor informed r.k. that the questions to be submitted to the expert had been approved by a court decision, which the applicant had not challenged.25.  subsequently, in his order to the vilnius city police department the district prosecutor pointed out that the absence of the drivers’ signatures on the sketch had given r.k. legitimate doubts as to its accuracy, and asked the police to look into the officers’ actions when drawing up the sketch.the expert report, delivered on 16 june 2008 (hereinafter “the second expert report”), did not make a fresh estimate of the speed of the applicant’s motorcycle but relied on the findings of the first expert report and considered that the applicant had been travelling at a speed of at least 70.3 km/h.having examined the sketch of the accident and the damage to both vehicles, the second report confirmed the conclusion of the first report that the collision had occurred in the right‑hand lane, while the motorcycle was moving into it from the left-hand lane.the report concluded that the accident had been caused by the applicant: the main cause had not been the speed of the motorcycle but the difference between the speed of the two vehicles, and the fact that the applicant had not started to brake in time to avoid the collision.she also submitted that the prosecutor had disregarded the testimonies of some eyewitnesses that the collision had occurred in the left-hand lane and that it had caused the applicant’s motorcycle to rise up in the air and land in the other lane (see paragraph 19 above).in his report, delivered on 15 may 2009 (hereinafter “the third expert report”), the expert examined the sketch of the accident and photographs of the two vehicles, and estimated that immediately before the collision the applicant had been travelling at a speed of at least 70 km/h, and that it was not possible to determine the speed at which m.n.the report also stated that the motorcycle had hit the right side of the car, so even if, as claimed by the applicant, the car had entered the left-hand lane suddenly and unexpectedly, that would not have caused the collision, which had occurred in the right-hand lane.the expert report, delivered on 11 june 2010 (hereinafter “the fourth expert report”), examined the sketch of the accident and photographs of the two vehicles, and estimated that immediately before the collision the applicant had been travelling at a speed of at least 70.3 km/h.37.  r.k. was informed about the findings of the fourth expert report on 2 august 2010. she complained to the district prosecutor that she had not been given the opportunity to submit additional questions to the expert, in particular, whether having collided with the car, the motorcycle could have risen up in the air and landed in a different lane, as claimed by some eyewitnesses (see paragraph 28 above).the court also held that the conclusions of the specialist’s opinion that the collision had occurred in the left-hand lane had been contrary to the description of the location of the accident as provided in the sketch (see paragraph 9 above).
the applicant’s functions were described as follows: “operates, coordinates and assists in cultural/information events and general promotion projects; coordinates the annual and long-term cultural/information and general promotion planning; coordinates the cultural and information budget; operates and assists in matters regarding press, tv and radio; assists the second secretary with the communication strategy; handles and prepares correspondence and inquiries related to cultural, information and press matters responsible for the ‘cultural calendar’ on the home page; prepares and processes applications for financial and other support; processes the annual report on culture and other relevant reports; responsible for the head of missions newspapers’ review and certain translations; prepares and makes drafts of speeches on certain occasions; acting as interpreter on certain occasions; responsible for collecting, filing and translating various cultural and other adequate information; handles customs’ matters, as well as relevant notes, and setting arrangements for other proceedings including transportations of individuals and exhibitions; setting arrangements for cultural events in cooperation with the counsellor for political affairs/cultural attaché for lunches, dinners and receptions, including making guests lists writing invitation, bookings and other general assistance; responsible for the information material from the swedish institute - including ordering, filing and distribution and as well the information room; responsible for the ‘interpreters’ list’ and the ‘cultural board’; handles the annual ‘book list’; accepts and performs other duties assigned by the head of mission.” 16.  by a letter of 17 may 2005 the lithuanian state civil servants’ trade union (lietuvos valstybės tarnautojų profesinė sąjunga) also wrote to the swedish ambassador to lithuania.she argued that there had been a breach of her right of access to a court in that the lower courts had only applied the principle of state immunity on the basis of the title of her job and without any further examination of the relations between her and her employer or of the nature and the scope of her duties, in order to conclude that her work had related to the sovereignty of the kingdom of sweden.the supreme court also held: “... the chamber also observes that international practice is not consistent as concerns the question of which persons working at a diplomatic representation of another state participate in the public functions of the state they represent and who, as a result, work in the civil service of the represented state, on the one hand, and which persons are engaged in activities that are not related to the performance of state functions, and whose activity consequently falls under private law, on the other.(s.) v the embassy of the republic of poland ..., the supreme court held that the plaintiff, who worked at the embassy of the republic of poland as a receptionist at the front desk, that is to say she had a technical job, was helping poland in the implementation of its sovereign rights, and that as a result she was in a legal civil service relationship with the embassy of poland.the chamber concludes that in the present case, taking into account the fact that the plaintiff [the applicant] worked at the embassy of the kingdom of sweden as the head of cultural and information projects and was thus a member of the administrative-technical staff at the diplomatic representation, the lower courts have correctly established that she and the kingdom of sweden were in a legal civil service relationship regulated by public law.the fact that the parties chose an employment contract to formalise the legal relationship between them and that they noted that lithuanian law is applicable [to that relationship], is not in itself a ground to conclude that the parties were bound by an employment legal relationship, and not by that of the civil service, because, as has been mentioned, all the members of the diplomatic representation’s staff who work at the representation are considered to be in the civil service of the [represented] state, irrespective of the nature of the contracts concluded with them.the chamber notes that it is clear from the letter signed by the ambassador of the embassy of the kingdom of sweden to lithuania, which was given to the lithuanian courts, that the kingdom of sweden demands (reikalauja) the doctrine of state immunity to be applied in the [applicant’s] case.53.  article 1 of the 1961 vienna convention on diplomatic relations, in force in lithuania as of 14 february 1992, reads as follows: article 1 “for the purpose of the present convention, the following expressions shall have the meanings hereunder assigned to them: (a)  the ‘head of the mission’ is the person charged by the sending state with the duty of acting in that capacity; (b)  the ‘members of the mission’ are the head of the mission and the members of the staff of the mission; (c)  the ‘members of the staff of the mission’ are the members of the diplomatic staff, of the administrative and technical staff and of the service staff of the mission; (d)  the ‘members of the diplomatic staff’ are the members of the staff of the mission having diplomatic rank; (e)  a ‘diplomatic agent’ is the head of the mission or a member of the diplomatic staff of the mission; (f)  the ‘members of the administrative and technical staff’ are the members of the staff of the mission employed in the administrative and technical service of the mission; ...” article 3 “1.subject to the provisions of article 5, a contracting state cannot claim immunity from the jurisdiction of the courts of another contracting state if the proceedings relate to an obligation of the state, which, by virtue of a contract, falls to be discharged in the territory of the state of the forum.2.  paragraph 1 shall not apply where: (a)  the individual is a national of the employing state at the time when the proceedings are brought; (b)  at the time when the contract was entered into the individual was neither a national of the state of the forum nor habitually resident in that state; or (c)  the parties to the contract have otherwise agreed in writing, unless, in accordance with the law of the state of the forum, the courts of that state have exclusive jurisdiction by reason of the subject matter.2.  paragraph 1 does not apply if: (a)  the employee has been recruited to perform functions closely related to the exercise of governmental authority; (b)  the subject of the proceeding is the recruitment, renewal of employment or reinstatement of an individual; (c)  the employee was neither a national nor a habitual resident of the state of the forum at the time when the contract of employment was concluded; (d)  the employee is a national of the employer state at the time when the proceeding is instituted; or (e)  the employer state and the employee have otherwise agreed in writing, subject to any considerations of public policy conferring on the courts of the state of the forum exclusive jurisdiction by reason of the subject matter of the proceeding.” 58.  in the commentary on article 11 of the draft articles of 1991, the international law commission observed that the rules formulated in that article appeared to be consistent with the trend in the legislative and treaty practice of a growing number of states.the basis for jurisdiction is distinctly and unmistakably the closeness of territorial connection between the contracts of employment and the state of the forum, namely performance of work in the territory of the state of forum, as well as the nationality or habitual residence of the employees.the employees covered under the present article include both regular employees and short-term independent contractors.” (b)  the rule of non-immunity “(5)  article 11 therefore endeavours to maintain a delicate balance between the competing interests of the employer state with regard to application of its law and the overriding interests of the state of the forum for the application of its labour law and, in certain exceptional cases, also in retaining exclusive jurisdiction over the subject‑matter of a proceedings, (6)  paragraph 1 thus represents an effort to state the rule of non-immunity.in its formulation, the basis for the exercise of jurisdiction by the competent court of the state of the forum is apparent from the place of performance of work under the contract of employment in the territory of the state of the forum.2.  paragraph 1 does not apply if: (a)  the employee has been recruited to perform particular functions in the exercise of governmental authority; (b)  the employee is: (i)  a diplomatic agent, as defined in the vienna convention on diplomatic relations of 1961; (ii)  a consular officer, as defined in the vienna convention on consular relations of 1963; (iii)  a member of the diplomatic staff of a permanent mission to an international organisation or of a special mission, or is recruited to represent a state at an international conference; or (iv)  any other person enjoying diplomatic immunity; (c)  the subject matter of the proceeding is the recruitment, renewal of employment or reinstatement of an individual; (d)  the subject matter of the proceeding is the dismissal or termination of employment of an individual and, as determined by the head of state, the head of government or the minister for foreign affairs of the employer state, such a proceeding would interfere with the security interests of that state; (e)  the employee is a national of the employer state at the time when the proceeding is instituted, unless this person has the permanent residence in the state of the forum; or (f)  the employer state and the employee have otherwise agreed in writing, subject to any considerations of public policy conferring on the courts of the state of the forum exclusive jurisdiction by reason of the subject matter of the proceeding.” 60.  lithuania did not vote against the adoption of that text but has not ratified it either (see cudak, cited above, § 31).
6.  the applicants complained of the excessive length of different civil and criminal proceedings under article 6 § 1 of the convention.7.  all applicants obtained decisions of the constitutional court of serbia, which found a violation of their right to a hearing within reasonable time (see appended table for details of each civil proceedings and constitutional court’s decisions).the court, additionally, declared that the applicants were entitled to the non-pecuniary damages sought, in accordance with article 90 of the constitutional court act (see paragraph 14, article 90, below).8.  all the applicants filed requests with the commission for compensation for payment of non-pecuniary damages.9.  on 14 october 2010 the commission for compensation offered to pay ms prohaska prodanić rsd 60,000 (at the time approximately eur 600) for non-pecuniary damage incurred and rsd 25,000 for costs and expenses.she refused to accept that payment as the commission did not specify the deadline by which the sum would be paid.on 15 september 2015, the ministry of justice paid her rsd 85,000.10.  the applicant v. tomić contacted the commission for compensation on several occasions and requested the payment of non-pecuniary damage.it would appear that he had received no response.11.  on 16 march 2011 the commission for compensation offered to pay mr d. trpković rsd 35,000 (at the time approximately eur 350), but he refused to accept this amount, deeming it insufficient.
13.  on 1 march 2006 the first applicant lodged a request for family reunification with the second applicant, who was 15 and a half years old at the time and for whom he had custody according to egyptian law.15.  on 12 march 2007 the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision with the legal unit of the migration office of the canton of aargau.17.  on 26 june 2007 the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision with the court of appeal in foreigners’ law (rekursgericht im ausländerrecht) of the canton of aargau.in a very detailed decision it noted that the requirements for family reunification under article 17 § 2 third sentence of the act on the residence of foreign nationals (bundesgesetz über aufenthalt und niederlassung der ausländer, anag) were not met (see relevant domestic law and practice paragraphs 31‑33 below).it ordered the migration office of the canton of aargau to arrange for a residence permit for the second applicant.19.  subsequently, the migration office of the canton of aargau declared that it would grant a permanent residence permit to the second applicant for purposes of family reunification and, on 28 january 2008, transferred the file to the federal office of migration to seek the required consent.on 4 march 2008 the latter refused to give its consent, finding that the requirements for family reunification were not met and that the decision of the court of the canton of aargau was in contradiction to the case-law of the federal supreme court.20.  on 4 april 2008 the first applicant lodged an appeal against that decision with the federal administrative court, both in his own name and in that of his son.21.  on 30 july 2009 the applicants informed the authorities that the situation of the second applicant had changed.it found, second, that the applicants could not rely on article 8 of the convention, as the second applicant had reached the age of adulthood and was not dependant on the first applicant (see relevant domestic law and practice paragraph 33 below).it considered, in particular, that the relationship between the two applicants was not paramount (“vorrangig”), even though the first applicant had the right of custody for the second applicant according to egyptian law.it noted that the first applicant had not applied for family reunification immediately after his arrival in switzerland, that the second applicant was cared for by his mother and his grandmother in egypt until he turned 18 years, that the second applicant had lived almost all of his life in egypt and had more important social and personal ties to his country of origin, which would be negatively affected if he moved to switzerland, and that he had returned to egypt after having stayed with his father in switzerland for one and a half years.it observed that the first applicant had, thus, at that time, preferred that the second applicant lived with his mother and that the second applicant would face even more severe challenges to integration now than he had during his first stay in switzerland, given his age.while noting that the first applicant had a close relationship to his daughter in switzerland and that he could, thus, not be expected to relocate to egypt to live there with the second applicant, the court noted that the applicants had not submitted sufficient reasons to justify the second applicant’s reunion with his father in switzerland.25.  moreover, the federal supreme court considered that the circumstances of the present case differed from those of tuquabo-tekle and others v. the netherlands, no.
5.  on 13 january 2001 two soldiers of the russian federal forces m. and p. came to the applicant’s house to buy drugs.after the applicant sold heroin to them, unknown persons attacked the soldiers, put them in a car and took them to a hide-out where they were kept for five days.the soldiers were released by law-enforcement officers on 18 january 2001. the gun was never found.the applicant was the only suspect.7.  according to the applicant, on 4 april 2007 at approximately 7 p.m. he was arrested on suspicion of having participated in abduction of m. and p. according to the arrest record, the applicant was arrested on 5 april 2007 at 10:40 a.m. 8.  on 6 april 2007 the achkhoy-martan district court of the chechen republic authorised the applicant’s detention pending the criminal proceedings against him.9.  on an unspecified date the investigator questioned m. and p. both of them submitted that they had been abducted from the inner yard adjacent to the applicant’s house.they had come to the applicant’s house to buy drugs.the applicant had asked them to enter to help him move the car that had been parked inside.m. had cried out to the applicant for help, but the applicant had done nothing.10.  on 26 june 2007 the district court found the applicant guilty of abduction and theft of firearms and sentenced him to seven years’ imprisonment.the court relied on the statements of m. and p. given during the questioning by the investigator, the written statements made by their parents to whom m. and p. had told about their abduction, the written statements made by other soldiers who confirmed that m. and p. had been missing in 2001. investigator mir.testified in court as regards his questioning of m. and p. the court also heard a number of the applicant’s relatives and neighbours who testified as to the applicant’s character and the curfew introduced in the village in 2001 and studied the materials from the case-file prepared by the investigator.as regards the use of m. and p.’s written statements, the court noted as follows: “... according to [the rules of criminal procedure], if the victim of the crime fails to appear in court, the court, if requested by a party to the proceedings or of its own motion, may decide to have the [victim’s] earlier statement read out in the event of a natural calamity or other extraordinary circumstances preventing the [victim’s] appearance in court.the court considers that the victims were prevented from appearing in court for the following reasons: their psychological state, i.e, their lack of desire to reminisce about the circumstances of the abduction coupled with deprivation of liberty and, possibly, with the life threat, and to live through this again; lack of safety during the trip to chechen republic where the political situation is still troublesome, especially ... for ethnic russians who are not locals; a risk that the [applicant’s] relatives might put pressure on them; and the fact that they live far away and do not have means to pay for the trip to attend the court hearing.the court considers such circumstances to be extraordinary and preventing the victims from appearing in court.” 11.  on 15 august 2007 the supreme court of the chechen republic upheld the applicant’s conviction on appeal.
4.  the applicant was born in 1974 and lived in the sverdlovsk region.5.  on 6 april 2012 the leninskiy district court in nizhniy tagil issued a detention order in respect of the applicant who had been charged with murder and had absconded.the order was to be valid for an initial period of two months following the applicant’s arrest.6.  on 19 february 2013 the applicant was apprehended in china and extradited to russia.7.  on 30 april 2013 the leninskiy district prosecutor asked the district court to extend the applicant’s detention for a further two months.on the same day the district court granted the application in part.it extended the authorised period of detention “for one month, until 19 may”.8.  the applicant filed an appeal.he complained, in particular, that the initial two-month detention period had expired already on 19 april 2013 and that his subsequent detention had been unlawful.9.  on 10 june 2013 the sverdlovsk regional court rejected the appeal.on 26 september 2013 a judge of the regional court refused the applicant leave to appeal to the regional cassation instance.10.  on 4 march 2014 a judge of the supreme court of the russian federation refused the applicant leave to appeal to the supreme court.the judge noted, in particular, that the belated filing of an application for an extension of the authorised period of detention was not a ground for varying the custodial measure.
8.  on 11 december 2008 v., the owner of the apartment where the applicant had committed the crime brought a civil action against the applicant before the harju county court.he claimed compensation for damage caused as a consequence of the offence (damaged chair which had been hit by the bullet, damaged or lost belongings (mostly various items used to wrap parts of the victim’s cut up body), damaged flooring after the police had cut out a piece of parquet with a bullet mark to serve as evidence, a lock cylinder removed for evidence, cleaning bills, unpaid utility bills) in the amount of 28,259 kroons (eek) (corresponding to approximately 1,806 euros (eur)).the plaintiff submitted to the court documentary evidence (material from the criminal case, photos, invoices, inventory list of the apartment attached to the contract between v. and the victim) in support of his claims.10.  on 8 april 2009 the applicant informed the county court in writing that he did not object to accepting the action for proceedings but he contested the claim, arguing that he had not damaged or destroyed the items in question.he further contended that he had not committed murder but had shot the victim in self-defence; in so far as the alleged damage related to the collection of evidence, it had been caused by the police; the claims were unsubstantiated in part.he asked the court to dismiss the applicant’s request for the summoning of witnesses, as these individuals would be unable to give testimony about the items in the apartment or their value, and their statements could not refute the findings of a final court decision.he also submitted additional evidence to the court (a photo of one of the items in question; a bank statement about the payment of utility bills; price lists to prove the cost of another damaged item and the cost of cleaning services).the court noted in its judgment that it had also examined the material pertinent to the related criminal case and relied as documentary evidence on the statements made by t. in the criminal proceedings.relying on the judgment in the criminal case, the county court considered it established that the applicant had not acted in self-defence when he killed the victim.based on the material of the criminal case as well as documentary evidence submitted by v., the county court accepted v.’s claim in part, that is in the amount of eek 22,337 (eur 1,428, which amounted to 79% of the initial claim).it was noted in the judgment that an appeal lay to the tallinn court of appeal and that the appeal could be examined in a written procedure unless examination at a court hearing had been requested in the appeal.in such circumstances, the court of appeal could only accept an appeal for examination if the county court in its judgment had granted leave to appeal or a provision of substantive or procedural law had clearly been incorrectly applied or it was clear that the evidence had been wrongly assessed and this could have significantly influenced the court’s ruling.the court of appeal did not find that in the case at hand it could be said that the county court had clearly incorrectly applied a provision of substantive or procedural law or clearly wrongly assessed the evidence or breached the right to be heard (ärakuulamise õigus).pursuant to article 405 § 1 of the ccp, in such proceedings the court had to guarantee that the fundamental rights and freedoms and the essential procedural rights of the parties were observed and that the parties were heard (kohus kuulab menetlusosalise ära) if they so requested.the court of appeal further noted that the applicant had not objected under article 333 §§ 1 and 2 of the ccp to the county court’s decision of 8 july 2010 whereby the court had ordered that the case be examined in simplified proceedings and requested the applicant to make his submissions in writing.
5.  the applicant’s father owned a house with a yard in sofia, which were expropriated by a decision of the mayor of 16 april 1987 with a view to constructing embassy buildings.the decision, based on section 98 (1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973 (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство – “the tupa”), stated that the applicant’s father was to be compensated with a two-room flat and the applicant was to be compensated with another, three-room, flat.6.  by a supplementary decision of 15 april 1988, based on section 100 of the tupa, the mayor determined the exact location, size and other details in respect of the future flats to be offered in compensation.the flats were to be situated in a building which had to be constructed by the bureau for servicing the diplomatic corps (“the bsdc”).8.  in 1991 the plans for the construction of the building where the future flats offered in compensation were to be located were cancelled.11.  by a decision of the mayor of 10 july 1996 the applicant was allocated another flat, with a surface which was about 28 square metres bigger than the surface of the flat originally offered in compensation to him.12.  in the years that followed the applicant filed numerous requests with the authorities, asking them to find a suitable two-room flat to be provided to him and his mother in lieu of the one which had initially been due.on several occasions before 2001 the bsdc proposed flats but the applicant and his mother turned them down, either because they were not in the vicinity of the expropriated property or because they were not self-contained dwellings.13.  on 10 june 2004 the applicant requested that the mayor of sofia offer as compensation one of the several flats in the vicinity of the expropriated property managed by the ministry of foreign affairs, successor to the bsdc.the request was made in accordance with section 103 (5) of the tupa providing for the so-called re-compensation (преобезщетяване).in a final judgment of 9 april 2008 the supreme administrative court quashed the tacit refusal and remitted the case back to the mayor for examination of the request.it held that it was the duty of the mayor, and not of the ministry of foreign affairs, to provide a flat to the heirs of the applicant’s father.15.  in the meantime, the applicant’s mother was evicted from the municipally-owned flat she had been occupying.in 2007 she died, whereupon the applicant became the sole owner of the future flat allocated in compensation to his father for the 1987 expropriation.16.  in 2014, after the present application’s communication to the government, the applicant was requested to file once again with the sofia mayor a formal re-compensation request.
13.  it appears from the documents in the case file that in november 2006, and in january, march and april 2007, various people, including the applicant, s.j.’s husband, colleagues and relatives, were questioned as witnesses by the prosecuting authorities within the framework of the criminal proceedings.the experts, who conducted the examination on the basis of s.j.’s medical records from 15 to 20 november 2006 and the results of the post-mortem and histological forensic examinations, concluded that the cause of the death was “general poisoning” (ümumi intoksikasiya) which had resulted from endogenic toxic substances developed in the body owing to multiple traumas and toxic substances introduced into the digestive organs.in particular, relying on the findings of the forensic reports that some of the injuries on s.j.’s body had been sustained before her fall from the balcony, the applicant stated that s.j.31.  by a letter of 22 november 2008, the prosecutor general informed the applicant that numerous investigative steps had been taken and that the investigation was waiting for the determination of the origin and nature of the poisoning.in particular, he claimed that the investigation had not been effective, that the deputy prosecutor general’s decision against reclassifying the criminal case as murder under article 120 of the criminal code had not provided sufficient reasoning, and that the investigation had failed to examine s.j.’s blood sample.239/kes dated 25 november 2009 which reiterated the findings of the previous forensic examinations about it being impossible to identify the origin of the poisoning and the existence of various injuries on s.j.’s body which had been sustained before her fall from the balcony.37.  in the meantime, it appears from the documents in the case file that in september and december 2008, and in january, april, october and november 2009, the prosecuting authorities questioned various people as witnesses, including the experts who had participated in the forensic examinations, s.j.’s husband and his relatives.39.  on 25 january 2010 the applicant again requested that the prosecuting authorities reclassify the case as murder under article 120 of the criminal code, taking into consideration the fact that the death had resulted from an unidentified poison and that various injuries on s.j.’s body had been sustained before her fall from the balcony.45.  it appears from the documents in the case file that the applicant received a letter dated 14 february 2011 from the prosecutor general’s office in reply to his numerous letters to the prosecuting authorities about the progress of the investigation.54.  in the meantime, on 28 december 2011 the investigator decided to terminate the criminal proceedings for failure to identify the perpetrator of the crime, although all the relevant investigative actions had been carried out.it appears from the nasimi district court’s decision of 6 march 2012 that in the proceedings before the court the investigator stated that on 27 january 2009 a request for a chemical forensic examination in the united kingdom to determine the type of poisoning had been sent to the ministry of justice, but that no reply had been received.the investigator further stated that the investigation of the case had become very difficult as a long time had gone by since the commission of the crime and some items of evidence related to the case had been lost when it had been transferred from the binagadi district prosecutor’s office to the prosecutor general’s office.had been beaten and then thrown from the balcony the criminal case had not been examined under article 120 of the criminal code as murder, and that the investigation had failed to establish the origin of the poisoning.59.  on 27 february 2013 the nasimi district court granted the applicant’s appeal and overruled the investigator’s decision of 30 november 2012. in that connection, the court held that the investigator should not have terminated the criminal proceedings by relying solely on the fact that it had been impossible to identify the perpetrator of the crime and had to take all the relevant steps to identify that person.62.  on 21 february 2014 the nasimi district court overruled the investigator’s decision of 30 november 2013. the court found that the investigator had taken no action to identify the perpetrator of the crime since its decision of 27 february 2013.
13.  on 4 and 11 february 2002 the first applicant signed two documents explaining in detail his rights as a suspect or accused in the course of the pre-trial investigation, including the right to have a lawyer appointed for him, to consult a lawyer before being questioned for the first time and the right to remain silent.14.  on 11 february 2002 the first applicant was questioned in the capacity of an accused, admitted his guilt on the charges of robbery, and confessed to a minor role in the kharkiv attacks.15.  on 3 april 2002 the first applicant was questioned in the capacity of a witness, without a lawyer, about the luhansk murder (see episode 2 in the appendix).he denied any knowledge of or involvement in either crime but admitted that he knew a.b., had had a conflict with one of the victims, and that on the night of the luhansk murder the second applicant had lent his lorry to the victims.23.  on 7 november 2001 the second applicant was questioned in the presence of his lawyer about the circumstances of the crimea attack (episode 7) and participated in a reconstruction.had told him in 2000 that they had committed the donetsk murder and that he had also learned at the time that the first applicant and a.b.he also described the two attacks in toretsk, the attacks on the shoe sellers near kharkiv, and the crimea attack (episodes 3, 6 and 7).in particular, in describing the attack on the shoe sellers, he stated that the applicants had followed the victims in a car while mr zakshevskiy, i.k.made statements to the investigating authorities in the presence of a lawyer, implicating the applicants in the kharkiv attacks.and the first applicant commit the luhansk murder and witnessed the applicants participate in the attack on the shoe sellers near kharkiv.however, the hearing had to be adjourned because one of the judges was ill. the presiding judge asked whether the witness would appear at the next hearing.he replied that he wished to confirm the statements he had given in the course of the pre-trial investigation, and that the only point he might be confused about was the make of the foreign car he had seen on the night of the murder, since he was not a specialist.35.  the court then sought the parties’ opinions as to whether it would be justifiable to declare that it was not possible to obtain the appearance of those witnesses at the trial and to read out their statements.in rejecting that allegation, the court stated in particular that: (i) the second applicant’s statements had been made in the presence of a lawyer hired by his wife; (ii) the defendants had changed their statements over the course of the investigation to minimise their own role in the crimes and their culpability, which was inconsistent with their allegation that their statements had been forced on them by the authorities; (iii) a video recording of the second applicant’s interview and of a reconstruction of the crime with him and mr zakshevskiy had shown that his statements had been given freely; (iv) two investigations of the defendants’ allegations of undue pressure and ill-treatment conducted by the prosecutor’s office at the trial court’s request had found no proof in support of the allegations, which was consistent with the court’s own conclusions.41.  in response to the applicants’ allegations of various procedural irregularities, in particular alleged violations of their right to defence, in the course of the pre-trial investigation, the trial court stated that all evidence obtained in violation of the code of criminal procedure had been excluded from the file and the remaining evidence had been obtained in compliance with the code.
5.  the applicant was born in 1971. as of 19 february 2011, the date on which he lodged his application with the court, he was serving his sentence of imprisonment in a penitentiary institution in yerevan.thereafter they had all entered the room where parcels for prisoners were dropped off and there he had seen the applicant putting the syringe inside the cake and spreading the cream so that it could not be seen.stated that they had given the cake to the applicant before it was handed over to the administration of the penitentiary facility.g.b., the officer of the penitentiary facility who had inspected the parcel, stated during questioning that he had discovered a syringe filled with liquid inside the cake which was to be delivered to m.k.18.  on 19 november 2009 the bill of indictment was finalised and the case was transmitted to the syunik regional court, sitting in the town of goris, to be set down for trial.sent a written note to judge d. stating that he would be in yerevan for personal business from 4 december until the end of the month and would not be able to appear at the trial.26.  the hearing of 22 february 2010 was postponed until 9 march 2010 because judge d. was ill. 27.  by letter of 9 march 2010 the police informed judge d. that, according to d.t.’s mother, he had left for yerevan at the end of february to undergo medical treatment.defence lawyer ... opined: proceed with the trial since, in reply to the court’s decision to compel the witnesses, the kapan police department has stated the impossibility of their attendance.having heard the opinions of the parties, the court decides to proceed with the trial and read out the pre-trial statements of absent witnesses m.s., d.t.in doing so it stated, in particular, the following: “having assessed the evidence examined ... the court finds it established that [the applicant] illegally acquired ... narcotics, placed them inside a cake and attempted to deliver them to ...prisoner [m.k.][the applicant] pleaded not guilty and reiterated his statements made during the investigation ... that ... when they brought the cake, he had already signed [the papers] ... then they brought the cake and gave it to [g.b.].during the inspection of the cake a medical disposable syringe ... was discovered inside the cake... witness a.a. stated before the court that he worked in the ... penitentiary facility... he was invited to the parcel drop-off room where he saw a disposable syringe that had been discovered inside a cake ... ... the pre-trial statement of witness m.s.and had been warned about the responsibility for sending items prohibited by law ... ... the record of discovery of a prohibited item ... ... the record of seizure of the discovered prohibited item ... ... the opinion of the forensic expert ... thus, the court finds it established that [the applicant] committed the offence charged and that his guilt in committing it has been substantiated.[the applicant’s] arguments ... are unsubstantiated and are rebutted by the evidence listed above.ˮ 30.  the applicant lodged an appeal complaining, inter alia, that the witnesses against him were not questioned in court.32.  on 20 july 2010 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law complaining, inter alia, of the non-examination of witnesses against him either in the regional court or in the court of appeal.
4.  the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in yambol.5.  the applicant and his brother co-owned a house with a yard and a garage in yambol.6.  by a decision of the mayor of 31 january 1983 the property was expropriated with a view to constructing a residential building.the decision, based on section 98 (1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973 (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство – “the tupa”), stated that the applicant and his brother were to be compensated with flats in a building which the municipality intended to construct.7.  on an unspecified date the flats were constructed and delivered to the applicant and his brother.8.  on 13 july 1994 the mayor modified the decision of 31 january 1983, stating that the two brothers were also to be compensated with a common garage.the applicant’s brother informed the mayor that he renounced his right to compensation with a garage in the applicant’s favour.9.  by a supplementary decision of 30 may 1995, based on section 100 of the tupa, the mayor held that the applicant was to be compensated with the right to build a garage on a municipal land and determined the exact location of the future garage.the applicant did not appeal against that decision and apparently prepared to start the construction works.10.  by a decision of 9 october 2002 the mayor modified the previous decision of 30 may 1995, indicating another municipal plot of land where the future garage was to be built, as it had turned out that the previous one was not owned by the municipality.that decision was not appealed against by the applicant, but was eventually set aside by the yambol regional governor after it had been contested by third persons.11.  on an unspecified date in 2010 the applicant brought a tort action against the yambol municipality, claiming a wrongful failure on its part to provide him with a garage.the action was dismissed, the final judgment being given by the supreme administrative court on 30 march 2011. the domestic courts held that no unlawful inactivity on the part of the authorities had been established, neither had it been shown that the applicant had sustained any damage.12.  in june 2011 the applicant agreed to receive compensation in cash in lieu of the garage due to him.it appears that the municipality had been offering such a solution since 2007. the compensation in cash was paid to the applicant on 4 april 2012.
6.  in connection with an investigation into an international prostitution ring, measures were taken to intercept telephone conversations in accordance with article 706-95 of the code of criminal procedure, on one mobile telephone line in particular: from 5 p.m. on 6 august 2009 until 8.39 p.m. on 19 august 2009, on the basis of an order of 5 august 2009 by the chambéry judge responsible for matters concerning civil liberties and detention (“the liberties and detention judge”), authorising interceptions for two weeks; and from 28 august 2009 until 11 september 2009, on the basis of an order of 26 august 2009 by the same judge.and a man known as kiril, later identified as the applicant, and the other between the same woman and another man, in which the same kiril was referred to in terms suggesting that he was involved in the prostitution ring.after being arrested in germany pursuant to the warrant, which had in the meantime been converted into a european arrest warrant, the applicant was handed over to the french authorities at 11.45 a.m. on 16 december 2010; he was then brought before the strasbourg public prosecutor and immediately placed in administrative detention in strasbourg.8.  although the alleged offences were classified as serious crimes, the interviews and confrontations carried out during the investigation were not recorded, by virtue of the exception provided for in the seventh paragraph of article 116-1 of the code of criminal procedure, as applicable at the material time.... 13.  on 17 june 2011 the applicant applied to the investigation division of the lyons court of appeal to have various procedural steps declared void, including the order for his detention, the interviews and confrontations carried out during the investigation and the interception of various telephone conversations.he submitted two requests for preliminary rulings on constitutionality, concerning respectively the seventh paragraph of article 64-1 and the seventh paragraph of article 116-1 of the code of criminal procedure, pursuant to which no video recording had been made of the interviews and confrontations.14.  on 6 september 2011 the investigation division dismissed most of the application to have the procedural steps declared void (except for one point concerning the interception of telephone conversations), in particular restating the reason given in its previous decision of 13 january 2011. in two further judgments delivered on the same day, it referred the requests for preliminary rulings on constitutionality to the court of cassation.2012-228/229 qpc) the constitutional council declared the seventh paragraphs of articles 64-1 and 116-1 of the code of criminal procedure unconstitutional, holding that by providing for an exception to the rule of compulsory video recording of interviews in connection with serious offences where such interviews were carried out during preliminary or judicial investigations into serious offences relating to organised crime or undermining the fundamental interests of the nation, the impugned provisions infringed the principle of equality.... it rejected his argument that there had been violations of the convention (he had relied on articles 6 and 14 of the convention and, more broadly, the right to a fair trial and the prohibition of discrimination) and the constitution as a result of the application of the seventh paragraphs of articles 64-1 and 116-1 of the code of criminal procedure in his case.firstly, it held that the constitutional council had specified that the abrogation of the provisions in question would apply only in the case of persons in police custody or under formal investigation who were questioned or interviewed following the publication of its decision, so that his argument had in that respect become devoid of purpose.secondly, it observed that the applicant had not been questioned in police custody and that, although his interviews by the investigating judge had not been recorded on video, “this did not result in any infringement of his rights under the convention, be it his defence rights or the right to a fair trial, seeing that he was given the option of receiving legal assistance, and had the opportunity to review the manner in which the questions and answers had been transcribed in the record, which had been approved by a registrar, to ask for any corrections to be made and to challenge, at any stage of the proceedings, the meaning and scope of his statements as transcribed”.... lastly, it held that “it is not possible for anyone other than the party concerned to complain of a breach of the substantive requirements governing police custody, or of the lack of a video recording of police questioning or interviews by the investigating judge, in support of an application to have a procedural step or document declared void”; accordingly, the applicant was not entitled to object that the judgment appealed against had stated that there was no cause to declare void any police questioning or interviews by the investigating judge concerning individuals other than himself.20.  in a judgment of 28 october 2011 the lyons criminal court found the applicant guilty of the alleged offences, although it dismissed the charge of trafficking in human beings.21.  in a judgment of 20 july 2012 the lyons court of appeal upheld the judgment as to the issue of guilt and sentenced the applicant to six years’ imprisonment with a minimum term of two-thirds of the sentence, as well as imposing a fine eur 10,000 and a five-year exclusion order from the départements of savoie and bas-rhin.22.  an appeal on points of law by the applicant – whose sole argument was that french criminal law was not applicable – was rejected by the criminal division of the court of cassation in a judgment of 12 june 2013.
5.  at the time of the events the applicant had previous convictions from 1983 and 1989. he was released from prison in october 2002.8.  later that evening the applicant was taken to the police station, where he was questioned in relation to the incident.9.  at 2.00 a.m. on 25 april 2006 the applicant confessed that he had had a fight with sh., and that during the fight he had grabbed a knife and stabbed sh.11.  on 26 april 2006 the applicant was allowed to consult a lawyer for the first time.later on the same day, in the course of a reconstruction of the events, the applicant showed how he had been beaten by sh.before the questioning, the applicant signed a waiver of his right to a lawyer.14.  on 15 june 2006 the applicant was charged with aggravated murder and questioned again in the presence of his lawyer.15.  on 2 august 2006 the zaporizhzhya regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) commenced the trial of the applicant.16.  on 8 august 2006 the court found the applicant guilty of aggravated murder and sentenced him to life imprisonment.the court relied on the material, oral, expert and documentary evidence examined during the hearings.17.  the applicant and his lawyer appealed, claiming that the conviction was unfounded and that his right to a lawyer had not been properly ensured.18.  on 21 december 2006 the supreme court considered the applicant’s case and upheld the conviction.however, having regard to his behaviour immediately after the incident, namely the efforts he had made to provide the victim with medical assistance, it reduced the sentence to fifteen years’ imprisonment.20.  on 16 august 2006 the applicant lodged an application with the court of appeal, asking for permission to correspond with his relatives.21.  on 2 october 2006 the applicant made the same application, which was registered by the sizo mailing service under number 2/k-579.
5.  the applicant was one of the co-owners of a house with a yard in the town of troyan.the decision, based on section 98 (1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973 (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство – “the tupa”), provided that the applicant was to be compensated with a three-room flat in a building which the municipality intended to construct.7.  by a supplementary order of 27 march 1990, based on section 100 of the tupa, the mayor determined the exact location, size and other details in respect of the future flat to be offered to the applicant.9.  the building where the applicant’s flat was initially to be located was finished in 2003, but it was smaller than originally planned and no flat in it could be offered to the applicant.the reason for the change of plans, which had been decided upon in 1995, was the restitution of part of the land earmarked for the construction to its previous owners, under restitution legislation adopted in 1992.10.  in april 2001 the municipality issued a building permit for a new building with flats, to be situated on the plot of land where the applicant’s expropriated house was still standing.the permit was renewed in 2004, 2007 and 2010. in the meantime, construction plans were approved, and towards the end of 2003 the municipality allocated the flats to their future owners.on the basis of that distribution, on 13 january 2004 the mayor issued a new decision under section 100 of the tupa in respect of the applicant, revoking the previous decision of 27 march 1990 (see paragraph 7 above) and indicating the exact flat in the new building to be provided to her in compensation.11.  nevertheless, dissatisfied with the decision of 13 january 2004, the applicant challenged it before the courts, claiming that it impermissibly modified the 1990 decision dealing with the same matter.12.  in the meantime, in 2005 the applicant made a request to the mayor, seeking the revocation of the 1983 expropriation order in respect of her share of the property.13.  on 13 and 28 august 2009 the mayor ordered the applicant’s eviction from the expropriated house and that the house be pulled down.the first one was upheld by the courts in a final judgment of 14 february 2011, and the second one on 20 april 2010. meanwhile, in september 2009 the applicant was evicted.14.  the house was pulled down on an unspecified date, after which the municipality selected a company to carry out the construction works on the site, which started in april 2011. in the meantime, the applicant contested before the courts the 2001 building permit (see paragraph 10 above) concerning the building to be constructed, but was unsuccessful.15.  the building was finished in 2014 and in july 2014 the applicant was invited to receive the keys to her flat.she refused to do so and instead of that challenged before the courts the authorization for the building to be used, claiming in particular that the construction had not been of sufficient quality.
7.  except for the third and the fourth applicants who are the co-owners of the same flat, each applicant is (and the second applicant was before her death) the owner of a flat in split occupied by “protected lessees” (zaštićeni najmoprimci).under the lease of flats act (zakon o najmu stanova), which entered into force on 5 november 1996, such lessees are subject to a number of protective measures, such as the duty of landlords to contract a lease of indefinite duration, payment of protected rent (zaštićena najamnina), the amount of which is set by the government and significantly lower than the market rent; and better protection against termination of the lease.8.  in 2005 the applicants brought civil actions before the split municipal court (općinski sud u splitu), seeking to obtain judgements ordering the state to pay them the difference between the protected rent they were entitled to receive under the domestic legislation and the market rent they could have obtained if their flats were not subject to the protected lease scheme.the applicants argued that the inadequate level of the protected rent imposed on them under the lease of flats act unduly restricted their right of ownership.in their complaints lodged with the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske), the applicants alleged violations of their right to a fair hearing guaranteed by article 29 § 1 and of their right to compensation in case of ownership restrictions guaranteed by article 50 § 1 of the croatian constitution while referring also to its article 48 § 1 (see paragraph 18 below).10.  according to the information submitted by the applicants, the level of the monthly protected rent for their flats changed in the period after the entry into force of the convention in respect of croatia (5 november 1997) in the manner indicated below.35444/12 size of the flat in square metres the amount of the protected rent in hrk period 174.80 5 september 2012 - onwards the amount of the protected rent for the second applicant’s flat application no.35576/12 size of the flat in square metres the amount of the protected rent in hrk period 350.62 1 january 2013 - onwards the amount of the protected rent for the third and fourth applicants’ flat[1] application nos.41555/12 and 41558/12 size of the flat in square metres the amount of the protected rent in hrk period 160.08 5 september 2012 - onwards the amount of protected rent for the fifth applicant’s flat application no.48914/12 size of the flat in square metres the amount of the protected rent in hrk period 11.  according to the applicants, the condominium fee paid into the common reserve fund by the owners of the flat for maintenance etc., for the first applicant’s flat was set at 140 croatian kunas (hrk) on 1 march 1998 and has not been changed since.14.  the first applicant submitted: - a copy of a lease agreement of 30 september 2013 for a flat in the same building with the surface area of 32.9 m² rented out for hrk 2,000 per month, - an advertisement from the newspapers of 4 september 1999 offering for rent a flat in split of a similar size as his (60 m²) for 650 german marks (dem) per month, - an advertisement from the internet dated 15 november 2013 offering for rent a furnished flat of 50 m² for eur 300 per month, and another one dated 9 december 2014 of 60 m² for eur 500 per month, - an advertisement from the internet dated 21 november 2014 offering for rent a two bedroom flat for eur 112 per day in the high season, and for eur 60 per day in the low season.15.  the second and fifth applicants submitted: - an advertisement from the newspapers of 16 december 1998 offering for rent a furnished flat of 78 m² for dem 800 per month, - an advertisement from the internet dated 4 december 2014 offering for rent a furnished flat of 85 m² for eur 1,200 per month, and another one of 8 july 2014 offering for rent a furnished flat of 80 m² for eur 1,000 per month, - an advertisement of a real-estate agency offering for rent a flat of 80 m² for eur 1,000 per month.16.  the third and fourth applicants submitted: - an advertisement from the newspapers of 25 september 1999 offering for rent a non-furnished flat in split of 80 m² for dem 600 per month, and another one of 2 october 1999 offering for rent a flat of 93 m² for dem 1,000 per month, - an advertisement from the internet dated 8 december 2014 offering for rent a furnished flat of 60 m² for eur 500 per month, and another one dated 3 december 2014 offering for rent a flat of 55 m² for eur 400 per month.17. the government submitted that the applicants had not demonstrated that they would have been able to rent out their flats at all or to rent them out for the monthly rent indicated above (see paragraphs 14-16), pointing out to the negative effect the financial crisis had had on the real-estate market.the government furnished information from the tax authorities according to which the monthly market rent for flats in the vicinity of those of the applicants ranged, in the period between 2005 and 2015, from hrk 750 to hrk 5,320. the data submitted referred to nine flats and read as follows:
4.  the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in samara.5.  at about 8.35 p.m. on 14 october 2009 the applicant was apprehended by officers of the federal service for drug control (фсkн, “the drugs police”) during a test purchase of drugs from him.according to the applicant, he was brought to their premises at around 11 p.m. his account was corroborated by two drug police officers and two attesting witnesses.furthermore, at around 2 a.m. on the following day he was put in a cell that had not bed or stool, light, lavatory or running water, and was smeared with dirt and faeces.during his detention he had not been provided with food or drink, or permitted to use the toilet, but had had to urinate in a plastic bottle.at 6.30 p.m. a criminal case was instituted against the applicant, and thirty minutes later an investigator drew the arrest record, thus formally remanding the applicant in custody.6.  on 16 october 2009 the oktyabrskiy district court of samara remanded the applicant in custody.in particular, the court mentioned the following arguments: seriousness and nature of charges; previous conviction not being expunged; absence of “regular source of income”; hence possibility of continuing criminal activities or absconding or obstructing justice in any other manner.7.  on 11 december 2009 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 15 january 2010 finding that the grounds on which the preventive measure had previously been imposed still persisted and there was no reason to vary the preventive measure.additionally, the court mentioned that the applicant had permanent place of residence and employment but it further stated that the applicant “did not have a regular source of income”.8.  on 22 december 2009 the samara regional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal, endorsing the reasoning of the district court.the prosecutor was present at the appeal hearing unlike both the applicant and his counsel.9.  on 12 february 2010 the kuybyshevskiy district court of samara found the applicant guilty of selling large quantities of narcotics and sentenced him to eight years’ imprisonment in a strict-security institution.10.  on 4 may 2010 the samara regional court upheld the conviction.the prosecutor was present at the appeal hearing whereas both the applicant and his counsel were absent.
4.  the applicant was born in 1977 and is currently serving a sentence in a correctional colony in the tambov region.5.  on 17 july 2007 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of robbery.on the following day the meshchanskiy district court of moscow authorised his detention.6.  on 6 september 2007 the taganskiy district court extended the detention.that detention order was upheld on appeal on 22 october 2007 by the moscow city court.7.  another extensions of detention followed on 16 october 2007 and 11 december 2007. the applicant appealed against both detention orders.8.  on 17 january 2008 the applicant was convicted as charged and sentenced to nine years’ imprisonment.the conviction became final on 19 march 2008.9.  on 2 july 2008, in reply to the applicant’s complaint about the failure to examine his appeal, the city court informed him that his appeal against the detention order of 16 october 2007 was not received by the city court.however, by a letter of 22 august 2008 the city court forwarded the applicant’s appeal statement lodged on 17 october 2007 to the district court, requiring it to perform procedural steps necessary to initiate the appeal proceedings.the city court also informed the applicant that his appeal complaint of 17 october 2007 was mistakenly attached to another case-file.10.  no further information on organisation of the appeal hearing against the detention order of 16 october 2007 was provided.
7.  on 22 august 2007, owing to repeated violations of prison rules, the applicant was placed in the single-cell wing (единое помещения камерного типа, hereinafter “the epkt”), a stricter regime of the correctional colony, for eleven months.11.  the applicant further submitted that on the morning of 10 april 2009 he was taken to the office of the head of the unit where he slumped into a chair, half lying on it as he was unable to sit up straight due to a pain in his back and leg.12.  the applicant was allegedly forced to write a statement to the head of the prison service of the krasnoyarsk region, stating that no force had ever been used against him or any other detainees in the correctional colony and that his health problems had resulted from an accident in childhood.16.  on three occasions in the same month the applicant complained of constricting chest pain, frequent urination, a headache and pain in the small of the back.he informed the hospital doctors that he had started experiencing the pain in his leg after a fall in the cell in the first days of march 2008. his diagnosis of acute deep-vein thrombosis of the left leg, lymphedema, and degenerative disc disease were addressed by conservative treatment, leading to the amelioration of his condition.on 28 march 2009 he was admitted to the new wing of the prison hospital where the conditions were, according to the applicant, satisfactory.tired of the difficulties of prison life, the applicant had allegedly told the inmates that he had intended to use his chronic ailments to obtain a transfer to a hospital, where he “could rest”.32.  on 12 september 2011 an expert from the krasnoyarsk bureau of forensic medical examination was asked to look into the possible cause of the applicant’s leg condition, including the possibility of it having a trauma‑related cause related to the alleged beatings in march and april 2008. the expert found that the condition could not have resulted from the beatings.unlike all the other witnesses, who had denied the beatings, he said that on 5 march 2008 the prison officers had taken the applicant out of his cell, after a conflict with a “low caste” cellmate, to a search room.after having examined the applicant and his medical file, the expert found no evidence of ill-treatment and insisted that the applicant’s medical condition could not have been caused by or linked to the beatings.41.  on 30 december 2008 the court ordered an expert report to assess the quality of the medical treatment afforded to the applicant in detention.the experts noted that the applicant had suffered from chronic conditions, including vascular illness, degenerative disc disease of the thoracic and lumbar spine with schmorl’s nodes and first-stage nephroptosis of the right kidney.42.  on 23 november 2009 the zheleznodorozhniy district court dismissed the claim, having considered that the medical treatment received in the prison hospital had been adequate and successful, given the significant improvement of his health.44.  in 2010 the applicant lodged a claim for non-pecuniary damages against the correctional colony, arguing that the conditions of his detention in the epkt had been appalling and that he had not had adequate medical care in the colony.45.  on 1 april 2010 the achinsk town court ordered an expert examination, asking for an assessment of the quality of the treatment afforded to the applicant between 5 march and 17 july 2008.
5.  on 21 june 2000 the applicant company instituted civil proceedings before the zagreb municipal court (općinski sud u zagrebu) against the croatian health insurance fund seeking payment of 11,500 croatian kunas (hrk)[1] which had been unjustifiably seized from the company’s bank account for the alleged failure to pay health insurance contributions.6.  the municipal court scheduled sixteen hearings of which six were adjourned (in the period between 10 may 2005 and 3 november 2009) at the request of the applicant company.7.  the applicant company’s director failed to attend the hearing scheduled for 6 november 2006 without giving any reasons for his absence.therefore, by a decision of the same day, the court decided to suspend the proceedings (mirovanje postupka) pursuant to the law.the proceedings continued upon the request of the applicant company of 21 february 2007.8.  the statutory conditions for the suspension of proceedings were again fulfilled on 2 march 2010 when the applicant company’s director attended the hearing but failed to engage in litigation.accordingly, on the same date the municipal court issued a decision declaring that the applicant company’s action was to be considered withdrawn, pursuant to the law.9.  by a decision of 17 september 2010 the zagreb county court (županijski sud u zagrebu) dismissed an appeal lodged by the applicant company against the first-instance decision.the county court’s decision was served on the applicant company on 3 january 2011.10.  meanwhile, on 1 april 2010 the applicant company lodged a request for protection of the right to a hearing within a reasonable time (zahtjev za zaštitu prava na suđenje u razumnom roku) with the zagreb county court, complaining about the excessive length of the above civil proceedings.11.  on 3 september 2010 the applicant company’s request was forwarded to the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske).12.  by a decision of 13 july 2011 the supreme court found a violation of the applicant company’s right to a hearing within a reasonable time and awarded it hrk 5,000[2] in compensation.it held that (a) even though there were no substantial periods of inactivity the mere fact that the municipal court had scheduled sixteen hearings suggested that the proceedings had not been conducted efficiently, and (b) the conduct of the applicant company significantly contributed to their length (see paragraphs 6-8 above).14.  by a decision of 6 september 2012 a three-judge panel of the supreme court dismissed the appeal and served its decision on the applicant company on 13 november 2012.15.  by a decision of 31 january 2013 the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) declared inadmissible the applicant company’s subsequent constitutional complaint, and served that decision on the company on 23 march 2013. the constitutional court held that the contested second-instance decision was not open to constitutional review.
5.  the applicant was born in 1936 and lives in kragujevac.6.  on 13 december 2006 the applicant filed a civil claim in criminal proceedings as injured party.7.  on 18 november 2010 the kragujevac court of first instance delivered the first instance judgment.8.  on 20 october 2011 the kragujevac appellate court delivered the second instance judgment.this judgment was delivered to the applicant on 7 november 2011.9.  on 18 february 2014 the constitutional court of serbia rejected the applicant’s constitutional appeal.
5.  on 5 april 2005 the presnenskiy district court in moscow found the applicants and their co-defendants guilty of extortion and gave them a custodial sentence.on 31 october 2005 the moscow city court upheld the conviction on appeal.6.  on 26 january 2006 the presidium of the city court quashed the appeal judgment of 31 october 2005 for formal defects and ordered a new appeal hearing.no ordinary appeal lay against that decision but the second applicant complained to the supreme court about the city court’s failure to render a decision on his measure.on 13 december 2006 a judge of the supreme court rejected his complaint, finding as follows: “the fact that [the presidium of the city court] unjustifiably (необоснованно) omitted to rule on the preventive measure is not a ground for setting aside its decision because it appears from the ... city court’s decision of 26 july 2006 and the ... district court’s decision of 31 august 2006 that the matter of detention was addressed in subsequent judicial decision which maintained the custodial measure in respect of [the second applicant].” 7.  on 26 july 2006 the city court held a new appeal hearing and quashed the initial conviction for formal defects, ordering a re-trial.it also held that there were no grounds for varying the preventive measure and maintained it without setting a time-limit or relying on any provisions of the domestic law.8.  on 21 august 2006 the district court held a preliminary hearing and fixed the trial date for 31 august.9.  on 31 august 2006 the district court returned the case file to prosecutor and extended the applicants’ detention, referring to the gravity of the charges but without setting a time-limit.on 30 october 2006 the city court rejected the applicants’ appeals against the extension order.10.  on 16 january 2007 the district court extended the applicants’ detention until 28 february 2007, relying on the gravity of the charges and unspecified circumstances that indicated a risk of perverting the course of justice.on 21 february 2007 the city court quashed the detention order of 16 january because of an incorrect date in its text.on 27 february 2007 the district court issued an identically worded detention order which was upheld on appeal on 16 april.11.  on the same date the district court granted a further extension of the applicants’ detention until 30 april 2007, relying on the gravity of the charges.12.  further extensions were approved by the district court on 27 and 28 april (upheld on appeal on 25 june), 8 and 16 may (upheld on appeal on 23 july), and 13 june 2007 (upheld on appeal on 1 august).13.  on 11 october 2007 the district court found the defendants guilty and gave them custodial sentences.
16.  on 28 february 2012 the constitutional court (ústavní soud) dismissed the appeal, holding that it would be contrary to the principle of subsidiarity for it to decide on the merits of the case, because the applicant had not exhausted all the available remedies, which included an action for protection of personal rights under the civil code and an application for judicial review under article 82 of the code of judicial administrative procedure.they had also refused to agree to her wish for uninterrupted contact with the baby from the moment of birth, as the regular practice was to take the child away from the mother immediately after the birth to be weighed and measured and for further medical observation for a period of two hours.19.  at the time of lodging the present application, the applicant was pregnant again, with an expected delivery in the middle of may 2012. the pregnancy was free from complications and she again wished to give birth at home with the assistance of a midwife.despite the fact that both she and the child had been healthy and that no complications had occurred during the birth, the applicant had had to stay in the hospital for seventy-two hours.the newborn baby had been separated from her after the birth, and before leaving the maternity hospital the remains of the child’s umbilical cord had been cut off despite her wishes to the contrary.each health-care institution must fulfil the statutory requirements ... and the requirements laid down by the relevant secondary legislation.” 25.  on 20 march 2012 the ministry of health set up an expert committee on obstetrics with the objective of studying the issue of home births.subsequently, the minister of health removed the representatives of care recipients, midwives and the government’s commissioner for human rights, with the argument that only by changing the committee’s composition in this way it would be possible for it to agree on certain conclusions.26.  on 18 january 2013 the governmental council for equal opportunities for women and men (rada vlády pro rovné příležitosti žen a mužů), an advisory body to the government, recommended the prevention of further discrimination against women in the enjoyment of their right to a free choice of the method and circumstances of giving birth and the place of delivery.the council also referred to the recommendations of the committee on the elimination of discrimination against women, which monitors implementation of the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, to support its position that women should have a choice of where to give birth.the new procedure allows for the discharge of the newborn from the maternity hospital less than seventy-two hours after the birth at the request of the newborn’s legal representative, provided that the latter: “(a) has submitted a written withdrawal of his or her agreement to the provision of medical services to the newborn, or a written statement declaring his or her disagreement with the provision of the medical services, or, alternatively, such agreement or disagreement has been entered in the newborn’s medical documentation ...; (b) has been demonstrably and duly informed about the possible consequences following the discharge of the newborn before seventy-two hours have elapsed since the birth ...; (c) has been duly informed that – in the interests of the subsequent healthy development of the newborn – the czech specialist medical associations recommend: 2. that a blood sample be taken within forty-eight to seventy-two hours following the birth for the purposes of screening for hereditary metabolic malfunctions ...” 28.  according to estimated data provided by the world health organisation for 2004, the czech republic was among the countries with the lowest perinatal mortality rate, which is defined as the number of stillbirths and deaths in the first week of life.29.  according to the european perinatal health report on the health and care of pregnant women and babies in europe in 2010, issued in 2013 within the framework of the activities of the euro-peristat project, the czech republic was among the countries with the lowest mortality rate for newborns in the first twenty-seven days of their life.according to the court, the malpractice on the part of ms k. consisted in the fact that she had not followed the standard procedures for deliveries as laid down by the czech medical association (česká lékařská komora) and her conduct had thus been non lege artis.it held that the conclusions of the ordinary courts as to ms k.’s guilt had been too subjective and were not supported by the evidence beyond all reasonable doubt, thereby violating the principle of the presumption of innocence.it held that – on the basis of the expert opinion – the courts had applied very strict liability to the conduct of ms k. in a situation where it had not been clear how she could have prevented the baby’s death.the right of parents to a free choice of the place and mode of delivery is limited only by the interest in the safe delivery and health of the child; that interest cannot, however, be interpreted as an unambiguous preference for deliveries in hospital.”
15.  in january 2002 the prosecutor of the vilnius region (hereinafter “the prosecutor”) lodged a claim before the vilnius city first district court, asking for the administrative decisions which had acknowledged g.o.’s right to restoration of title, the sale of g.o.’s restoration rights to the applicants (and v.m.the prosecutor also submitted that the vca had unlawfully restored the applicants’ rights to property in the order of priority: even though the second applicant had been a deportee, g.o.accordingly, the court held that the applicants had the right to receive one plot of land of up to 0.2 ha, but not three separate plots of that size, and they were not entitled to restoration in the order of priority.since they had sold the land to third parties and restitution in integrum was not possible, the court decided that they had to pay the state the market value of that land.in line with article 6.147 § 2 of the civil code (see paragraph 38 below), when property subject to restitution is transferred and the person who transferred it has acted in good faith, he or she has to compensate in the amount of the market value of the property at the time when it was received or transferred, or at the time of restitution, whichever is lowest.the court noted that the prosecutor had not alleged that the unlawful transaction had occurred because of the applicants’ fault or that they had acted in bad faith; nor had it been determined, at the time of the proceedings, that any crime had been committed.accordingly, the court ordered the applicants to return to the state an amount corresponding to the market value of the land at the time they sold it, as that value was the lowest.the court considered that obliging the applicants to pay compensation in the amount of the market value of the land was not disproportionate, because they still retained the right to have property rights restored and to obtain new plots.on 7 december 2007 the vilnius regional administrative court rejected their application on the grounds that the execution of the judgment had not been started yet, and that, in any event, if the applicants did not have sufficient funds nothing would be seized from them.the court acknowledged that the vca had acted unlawfully when allocating land to the applicants; however, it considered that the applicants had not proven that they had suffered any pecuniary damage.the court noted that the applicants still had the right to restoration of title to g.o.’s land, because their agreement had not been cancelled, and that they were on the list of candidates to be given new plots of land.accordingly, the court held that the applicants should have known that they had received the land unlawfully and that they had themselves contributed to the pecuniary damage “by acting carelessly and negligently” (veikdami nerūpestingai ir neatsargiai).therefore, they argued that, in line with the provisions of the civil code (see paragraphs 39-40 below), the liability should have been distributed proportionately between the vca and the applicants and not placed solely on them.the court held that by selling their plots for a price that was significantly lower than their market value the applicants had acted at their own risk, and thus the difference between what they had received (ltl 25,000 each) and what they were obliged to pay to the state (ltl 216,000 each) could not be regarded as pecuniary damage.the government further submitted that there was still land available in the area around vilnius and that the applicants would be invited to another meeting, planned to take place in the autumn of 2016. at the time of the parties’ observations to the court, the applicants’ property rights had not yet been restored.
6.  on 29 may 1997 the donetsk kirovskyy district court (“the kirovskyy court”) found the applicant guilty of robbery and sentenced him to three years’ imprisonment.7.  on 18 july 1997 the donetsk regional court of appeal (“the regional court”) granted amnesty to the applicant.8.  on 26 september 1997 the same court, following an objection (протест) by its president, quashed the decision of 18 july 1997 and upheld the judgment of 29 may 1997 by a final decision.11.  following numerous unsuccessful complaints to the prosecution authorities, in march 2003 the applicant lodged a complaint with the kirovskyy court, stating that his arrest and detention had been unlawful and requesting to be released.12.  after several rounds of proceedings, on 23 march 2006 the kirovskyy court allowed the applicant’s claim and found the impugned actions of the police officers unlawful.the court found no evidence in the case file that the applicant had been informed of the court hearing and the final decision of 26 september 1997. he had been arrested more than five years later.15.  in 2006 the applicant lodged a claim for damages against the ministry of the interior on account of his unlawful arrest and detention.the applicant referred in that connection to the court’s decision of 23 march 2006, in which his deprivation of liberty had been found to be unlawful (see paragraph 12 above).the court observed that the applicant had appealed against neither the judgment of 29 may 1997 nor the ruling of 26 september 1997 (see paragraphs 6 and 8 above).having relied on the above considerations, the kirovskyy court concluded that the applicant had failed to prove that he had been deprived of his liberty unlawfully.19.  on 6 september 2007 the supreme court gave the applicant a deadline of 16 october 2007 to submit the power of attorney.20.  as confirmed by a postal acknowledgement of receipt, on 17 october 2007 the supreme court received a registered letter from the applicant’s representative, which had been dispatched on 12 october 2007 and which concerned the case under the number indicated in the ruling of 6 september 2007. according to the applicant, his representative had sent the requested authority form by the above-mentioned registered letter.according to the government, the content of that letter and the documents enclosed, if any, could not be established in the absence of their detailed description on the acknowledgment of receipt.it held that, contrary to its instructions of 6 september 2007, he had failed to submit the power of attorney “within the set time-limit and before the delivery of the present ruling”.23.  on 3 december 2007 g. requested that the supreme court give reasons for the dismissal of the applicant’s appeal on points of law, since the ruling of 6 september 2007 had been complied with.
15.  on an unspecified date the prosecutor lodged civil claims on behalf of the city of moscow, seeking: (1) invalidation of the power of attorney allegedly signed by kor.however, it ruled that the case fell under one of the two exceptions to the protection of a bona fide purchaser’s title, which required that precedence be given to the previous owner.the applicant’s title to the flat was annulled and the title was transferred to the city of moscow.19.  on 24 february 2010 the koptevskiy district court of moscow granted a claim for damages lodged by the applicant against the real estate agency which had represented her in the flat purchase.in their opinion, the flat belonged to the city of moscow and the applicant should be divested of her ownership rights in respect of it.however, it ruled that the case fell under one of the two exceptions to the protection of a bona fide purchaser’s title, which required that precedence be given to the previous owner.33.  on 24 december 2002 the local housing authorities authorised another exchange of flats between s. and k. on 16 april 2003 the city housing authorities transferred title to the flat to k. under the privatisation scheme.the housing authorities alleged that, in view of the fraudulent nature of the first transaction in respect of the flat, the first applicant’s title to the flat should be annulled and the flat repossessed by the city.however, it ruled that the case fell under one of the two exceptions to the protection of a bona fide purchaser’s title, which required that precedence be given to the city of moscow as the previous owner of the flat.42.  according to the government, the enforcement proceedings are still pending and offer a sufficient prospect of success, given the activities carried out by the bailiffs with the aim of recovering the debt from k. 43.  the applicant in this case is svetlana alekseyevna dergacheva, who was born on 29 september 1960 and lives in moscow.48.  on an unspecified date the housing department brought a civil action seeking, inter alia, the return of the flat to the city and the applicant’s eviction.the housing department further claimed that the applicant should not be recognised as a bona fide purchaser of the flat given that she had been yo.s’ colleague and knew her quite well and that the price she had paid for the flat had been below its market value.however, it ruled that the case fell under one of the two exceptions to the protection of a bona fide purchaser’s title, which required that precedence be given to the city of moscow, as the previous owner of the flat.50.  on 26 june 2012 the moscow city court upheld on appeal the part of the judgment of 14 february 2012 concerning the restitution of the city’s title to the flat and the applicant’s eviction and discontinued the proceedings as regards the repayment by yo.however, it ruled that the case fell under one of the two exceptions to the protection of a bona fide purchaser’s title, which required that precedence be given to the city of moscow as the previous owner of the flat.
5.  the applicants, mr vladimir karapetyan (the first applicant), ms martha ayvazyan (the second applicant), mr araqel semirjyan (the third applicant) and ms karine afrikyan (the fourth applicant), are armenian nationals who were born in 1969, 1967, 1973 and 1954 respectively and live in yerevan.6.  at the material time, the applicants occupied different posts within the ministry of foreign affairs, namely head of press and information department, head of nato division of arms control and international security department, counsel of the european department and head of usa and canada division of the american department respectively.8.  on 23 february 2008 several ambassadors for armenia in foreign countries made the following statement: “we, the undersigned, remaining faithful to our calling as armenian diplomats and led by our feeling of responsibility before the republic of armenia and the armenian people, with concern for the situation which has arisen in armenia, with profound respect for the right of armenian citizens to free elections, with the conviction that only a president elected as a result of free and fair elections can best tackle the challenges facing our country on the international level and substantially raise the international image of armenia, express our support to our compatriots who have risen to struggle for freedom, protection of the right to a fair election and establishment of true democracy in armenia.considering the preservation of stability in the country important and public accord necessary, we appeal to our compatriots and especially the representatives of all the structures in the country responsible for maintaining public order and peace to avoid the temptation of resolving problems by use of force.according to the government, the ambassadors who issued this statement were dismissed from their posts the following day and their dismissal was widely reported in the media.10.  on 24 february 2008 the applicants made the following statement: “by joining the statement issued by our colleagues from the ministry of foreign affairs we express our concern with the situation created in armenia, fraught with internal and external undesirable challenges, and outrage against the fraud of the election process, which shadow the will of our country and society to conduct a civilised, fair and free presidential election.only by acting in conformity with the letter and spirit of the law can we create democracy and tolerance in armenia and earn the country a good reputation abroad.” 11.  the names of the applicants, with the indication of their office, appeared under the statement.the fourth applicant was dismissed from office by a similar decree on 3 march 2008. as a ground for the dismissals, the decrees referred to sections 40, subsection 1, point (j) and 44, subsection 1, point (c), of the diplomatic service act (հհ օրենքը «դիվանագիտական ծառայության մասին», containing description which stated, inter alia, that a diplomat had no right to use his official capacity and work facilities for the benefit of parties and non-governmental organisations, or in order to carry out other political or religious activity (see paragraphs 22-24 below).in particular, they claimed that the decrees on their dismissal contained no reasons regarding the particular instance where they had made use of their official capacity and work facilities for the benefit of parties or non-governmental organisations or for engaging in political or religious activities, as prohibited by the sections of the diplomatic service act.14.  on 10 april 2008 the ministry of foreign affairs, as a respondent, lodged a response with the administrative court (հհ վարչական դատարան), claiming that the applicants, by making their statement of 24 february 2008 which had then been reported by the mass media and announced during the demonstration, had engaged in political activities.15.  on 29 may 2008 the administrative court dismissed the applicants’ claim, finding that their dismissal from work was lawful since the applicants, by making the impugned statement, in essence had engaged in political activity.the applicants’ right to freedom of expression, as protected by article 27 of the constitution (հհ սահմանադրություն), was not breached since the applicants, in exercising that right, had made use of their official status and work facilities.16.  on an unspecified date, the applicants lodged an appeal on points of law against the judgment of the administrative court, claiming, inter alia, a violation of their right to freedom of expression, as protected by article 10 of the convention.besides, they claimed that they had been discriminated against on grounds of political opinion, in violation of article 14, since those diplomats or state officials who had expressed publicly their support for the pro-governmental candidate had never faced any sanctions: the true reason for their dismissal was their critical opinion of government actions in the sphere of human rights and democratisation.they also claimed that their dismissal had been based on an erroneous interpretation of sections 40, subsection 1, point (j) and 44, subsection 1, point (c), of the diplomatic service act since they had not made use of their official capacity or work facilities when making the impugned statement.
10.  on 20 june 2000 the moscow city committee for registration of real estate transactions (the “city registration committee”) registered the certificate, confirming yar.’s title to the flat.on an unspecified date the city registration committee registered the transaction and issued the relevant deed, confirming the applicant’s title to the flat.12.  on an unspecified date the authorities opened a criminal investigation concerning the forgery of the will issued on behalf of r. 13.  on 6 june 2001 the taganskiy district court of moscow found yar.in particular, the court established that yar., acting in concert with other persons, whose identity was not known, had fraudulently acquired r.’s flat and sold it to the applicant on the basis of a forged will.14.  on 5 march 2002 the prosecutor brought a civil claim on behalf of the department for housing of the city of moscow (the “housing department”) seeking (1) the annulment of r.’s will and of the applicant’s title to the flat; (2) the applicant’s eviction; (3) restitution of the flat to the city of moscow; and (4) annulment of the purchase agreement between yar.15.  on 16 december 2003 the district court examined the case in the applicant’s absence and granted the prosecutor’s claims in full.16.  on 16 june 2004 the moscow city court held that the district court had failed to duly inform the applicant of the date and time of the hearing.17.  in the new set of proceedings the applicant brought a counterclaim against the city of moscow, seeking to be recognised as a bona fide purchaser of the flat.the court established that the property was escheat and ordered its restitution to the city of moscow.the court dismissed the remainder of the prosecutor’s claims concerning the annulment of the sale contract concluded by yar.and the applicant, and the former’s obligation to return the sum paid by the applicant to her.had acquired r.’s flat fraudulently, he had, in fact, stolen it from the city of moscow and the latter had the right to reclaim the flat from the applicant, despite the fact that she was a bona fide purchaser.22.  according to the government, on 9 april 2010 the flat was reassigned to sh., who had been on the social housing waiting list for twenty-five years.23.  on 12 may 2011 the district court recognised the city’s title to the flat.the court also terminated the applicant’s title to the flat.
7.  on 17 and 21 march 2001 the applicant, interviewed in connection with the inquiry into the case, informed the police that in the autumn of 2000 he had received twenty concrete slabs from k. in settlement of a debt to d., of which he was a shareholder.as can be seen from the copy of the record of the questioning submitted to the court, it was apparently filed as pages 82 and 83 in the domestic case file.12.  on 11 july 2001 the applicant was informed of the completion of the pre-trial investigation and committed to stand trial in the borznyanskiy district court (“the district court”).according to that document, the three parties had agreed that the value of the twenty slabs received by the applicant was uah 2,000 and that the transfer of the slabs to the applicant covered the relevant portion of k.’s debt to d. and d.’s debt to the applicant’s farm.15.  in the course of the trial, the district court questioned the applicant and numerous other individuals, including the directors and accountants of d. and k., and examined various documents.as can be seen in the minutes of the court hearings submitted by the government, the documents examined in the course of the trial included “a letter from the farming company”, included as page 65 in the domestic case file.16.  during the trial, the applicant, represented by a lawyer of his own choice, reiterated that he had had no fraudulent intent in taking possession of the slabs and that the three parties had decided on all the details of the transaction in april 2001 (that is, before the criminal proceedings had been instituted against him).the delay in finalising the papers had been due to various objective circumstances, including initial disagreements between the parties concerning the scope of the transaction and a fair price for the slabs, the replacement of d.’s director in november 2000, and a lengthy break in the functioning of d.’s accounts office.that ... the three-party agreement had been concluded ... before the initiation of the criminal case, and that the managers of the three entities had agreed on the price and procedure for the transfer of the concrete slabs, the court cannot accept them, as they contradict the case file materials and the evidence examined in court.19.  on the same date the court issued a separate ruling (окрема постанова) in which it drew the attention of the district prosecutor to various procedural shortcomings in the preparation of the case for trial.on 6 june 2001 the [police investigator] ... questioned [the applicant] as a witness, despite ... sufficient evidence ... for him to be questioned as a defendant, in compliance with all the requirements of the code of criminal procedure of ukraine ... with regard to the said breaches, the testimony [of the applicant] given ... during his questioning as a witness on 6 june 2001 was not taken into account by the court as evidence in the present case ....” 20.  it appears from the case-file materials that on an unspecified date the applicant filed an appeal against his conviction, which was accepted for examination.23.  the applicant lodged a cassation appeal, in which he complained, in particular, that his right to mount a defence had been breached on account of his being questioned without a lawyer on 6 june 2001. he argued that it was clear from the phrase, “these findings correspond to the declarations by the head of the farming company loboda g.i.contained on pages 65 and 67 of volume 1 of the case, dated june 2001” in the district court’s judgment of 13 august 2003, that the testimony he had given on 6 june 2001 had in fact been relied on for his conviction, in spite of the district court’s formal decision to exclude the record of that questioning from the case file.25.  on the same date the supreme court rejected the applicant’s cassation appeal, finding that the lower courts had correctly assessed the facts and applied the law.without addressing directly the applicant’s complaint concerning the breach of his right to defence, it made the following general remark concerning the procedural fairness of the proceedings: “... no breaches of the provisions of the criminal-procedure law in the course of pre-trial investigation as well as during the court proceedings can be identified”.
5.  the applicants in this case are natalya sergeyevna ponyayeva, who was born on 7 july 1978, and her two daughters, svetlana aleksandrovna oleneva, born on 18 march 2006, and anastasiya aleksandrovna oleneva, born on 11 july 2000. the applicants live in moscow.9.  on 9 march 2004 the department of housing of the city of moscow (the “housing department”) transferred the title to the flat to ol.was signed by a person acting by virtue of the power of attorney of 3 february 2004 and subsequently registered by the moscow city department of the federal registration service (the “registration service”).on 13 april 2004 the registration service registered the transaction and issued the relevant deed confirming b. and k.’s title to the flat.in particular, the court found that the latter had forfeited the right to reside in the flat and annulled his residence registration.the registration service registered the transaction and issued the relevant deed confirming the applicant’s title to the flat.13.  on 31 january 2006 the prosecutor’s office received a complaint from n., an acquaintance of ol., in which she alleged that the latter had been fraudulently deprived of the flat.and the housing department behalf seeking invalidation of the privatisation and subsequent transactions in respect of the flat.in particular, it established that ol.’s signatures on the power of attorney authorising third parties to act on his behalf in respect of the flat and his signature on other related documents had been forged.the court conceded that the first applicant was a bona fide purchaser of the flat.however, it ruled that the case fell under one of the two exceptions to the protection of a bona fide purchaser’s title, which required that precedence be given to the previous owner, in this case the city of moscow.in this connection, the court reasoned that ol.’s rights could be adequately protected only by means of restoring the city of moscow’s ownership in respect of the flat.the first applicant’s title to the flat was annulled and the ownership was transferred to the city of moscow.the court further recognised ol.’s right to reside in the flat and ordered the applicants’ eviction.17.  according to the government, the title to the flat was not transferred to the city of moscow and the applicants continued to reside in the flat.
7.  in late 2003 during a campaign for elections to the national parliament, the state duma, the newspaper published a number of satirical and parodic articles on the course of the campaign in the primorskiy region.the face on the figure, which had long, flowing hair, was a photograph of the then prosecutor of the primorskiy region, mr v. 11.  on 9 december 2003 mr v., in a private prosecution, brought criminal proceedings against the applicants, under article 130 § 2 of the russian criminal code, before the justice of the peace of circuit no.mr v. further submitted that the article in question, and the comments in respect of the list of the candidates, had been written in slang words and expressions and had represented him as an immoral and corrupt “prostitute-werewolf”, thus clearly indicating the intention of the writers to humiliate and insult him.the text of the article and the portrayal of the prosecutor of the primorskiy region, [mr v.], as an immoral and corrupt ‘prostitute-werewolf’ in an indecent and insulting manner damage the claimant’s honour and dignity.the claimant’s representative has highlighted the insulting nature of the information published in the newspaper ... pointing out that the claimant is a public figure and often takes part in tv programmes; his photograph has been published on numerous occasions in the media, and [mr v.’s] face is therefore well known to people in the primorskiy region.having examined the photographic collage and the text of the article ... the use of the name ‘prostitute-werewolf vasilinka’, the explanations of the claimant’s lawyer, who has insisted that the character’s name in the article and the surname of the prosecutor of the primorskiy region have the same root, and that the article states that the character is a lawyer by profession and has extensive working experience as a prosecutor, the court concludes that [the applicants] undertook deliberate actions which were insulting to [mr v.], and which were committed publicly as [the insult was disseminated] in a newspaper, that is to say in the media.... the applicants’ actions ...were intended to damage the honour and dignity and the professional reputation of the prosecutor of the primorskiy region, [mr v.]...” 13.  the court found the applicants guilty of aggravated insult as it had been published in the media, and fined each of them 30,000 russian roubles (rub) (approximately 860 euros (eur)).47 of arsenyevskiye vesti for 20-26 november 2003 they had in the column called “nadezhda alisimchik’s hummock of view” published an article entitled “candidates must be known from the inside!”, accompanied by a photographic collage representing a female body with the face of the prosecutor of the primorskiy region, the body having been covered with a one-dollar banknote.in the district court’s opinion, “the text of the article and the photographic collage [were] of an insulting nature, ascribe[d] negative characteristics, expressed in an indecent manner, to mr v.’s personality and damage[d] the honour and dignity of mr v., the prosecutor of the primorskiy region, as a private individual and as an official”.17.  the appellate court observed, in particular, that the article had involved an interview with the director of an escort agency, “vasilinka”, who “sporadically, during elections, [ran] the escort agency contact or image in coordination with superior organisations”, and that the article was followed by “director vasilinka’s rating of the candidates”, using slang words and expressions on her behalf.in reaching that conclusion, the district court “[took] into account the fact that the prosecutor of the primorskiy region, mr v., [was] a public figure and his photograph [had] been published in the media on many occasions ...” 18.  with reference to its findings, the appellate court concluded that the applicants “[had taken] deliberate actions which [had been] of an insulting nature in respect of mr v. and were performed in public, as [the impugned information] was disseminated in the media”.it had therefore been clear that information “of an insulting nature” had related to mr v. the district court observed that, “by virtue of his office, mr v. [was] a public figure and readers [could] therefore easily understand that the photographic collage [showed] mr v.; so that readers [were] not mistaken, the name of the character in the article, ‘vasilinka’, [had] the same root as mr v.’s surname, and the character [was] a lawyer by profession and has extensive working experience as a prosecutor”.19.  the district court further held as follows: “the court cannot accept the defendants’ arguments that it has not been proven that [mr  v.] was insulted as, in the court’s opinion, it is the text of the article and the photographic collage that are themselves insulting....in the court’s opinion, the offence took place in the form of public speech in the media, [the applicants] acted deliberately, the related words ‘prostitute’ and ‘werewolf’ indicate an intention to humiliate, dishonour and disgrace the subject of the article and photographic collage and, in a figurative sense, portray condemnable and distinctly negative characteristics, which are seen by the public as well as the person to whom they are addressed as insulting.in the court’s opinion, representing the prosecutor of the primorskiy region as an immoral and corrupt ‘prostitute-werewolf’ is intended to ascribe distinctly negative characteristics to [mr v.’s] personality in an indecent form.” 20.  the appellate court concluded that the first-instance judgment had been well-founded and dismissed the applicants’ appeal.
8.  two days later the krasnyy sulin town court of the rostov region authorised the applicant’s detention, having noted the gravity of the charges against him and the possibility of his absconding and reoffending in the light of the fact that he had not been living at his registered address in krasnyy sulin at the time of his arrest.10.  on several occasions the town court extended the detention of the two defendants, each time using similar wording, citing the gravity of the charges and the lack of any change in the circumstances and risks which had initially warranted their detention.13.  two days later the head of the prison hospital informed the town court that the applicant’s medical condition warranted further treatment in the hospital.14.  on 26 november 2007 the town court again stayed the proceedings until the applicant’s recovery and collectively extended his and ms p.’s detention for three months, until 29 february 2008, employing the same reasoning as on the previous occasions.15.  in january 2008 the prison hospital informed the town court that the applicant was receiving treatment and that it was impossible to predict the date of his discharge.17.  the town court continued regularly extending the applicant’s detention, citing the gravity of the charges and the risks of his absconding or reoffending.19.  towards the end of august 2008 the town court asked the medical authorities to allow a hearing on the hospital premises.21.  on 27 january 2009 the rostov regional court quashed the judgment on appeal and remitted the case for fresh consideration, ordering that the applicant remain in custody.22.  in the course of the new round of proceedings the town court, on a number of occasions, authorised the applicant’s continued detention.each time the gravity of the charges and the risks of his re-offending and absconding served as the reason for the extension.26.  on 14 july 2009 the regional court upheld the most recent detention order, stating as follows: “the [case-file] materials ... show that the preventive measure was imposed [on the applicant] in conformity with the requirements of law.[the town court] came to the correct conclusion that the circumstances that had [indicated the necessity for] the applicant’s detention had not changed.a chest x-ray examination on 9 april 2007 revealed that both his lungs were damaged by an active, advanced form of tuberculosis and that the right lung was partially collapsed on account of the presence of air in the thorax.while a report by the detention authorities in april 2010 stated that he had been given the treatment in full, the applicant’s medical file did not contain any information confirming that he had complied with the course of drug treatment.on 3 december 2009 and 12 february 2010 the doctors confirmed that the applicant could not undergo the prescribed pulmonary surgery due to the continuing deterioration in his health.
6.  on 12 april 2007 the presidium of the regional court, upon hearing the prosecutor, counsel for the applicant and for the injured party, quashed the conviction for formal defects and ordered a re-trial.the presidium directed that the applicant should be held in custody, without citing grounds for the custodial measure or setting a time-limit for its application.by the same decision, the court determined that the applicant should remain in custody because he was charged with a particularly serious offence and could pervert the course of justice if released.8.  on 31 july 2007 the regional court examined the appeal in the absence of the applicant and his counsel.it annulled the detention order on the ground that the district court had failed to set a time-limit for the applicant’s detention, in breach of the requirements of the code of criminal procedure.it did not take any decision regarding the applicant’s further detention and referred the issue to the district court for a new examination.9.  on 7 september 2007 the district court extended the applicant’s pre‑trial detention for a period of six months starting from 28 april 2007 and lasting until 28 october 2007, referring to the gravity of the charges and the applicant’s new line of defence which, in the district court’s view, was an indication that he might abscond.on 8 october 2007 the regional court rejected in a summary fashion the appeal against the extension order.10.  on 15 october 2007 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 28 december 2007, referring to the gravity of the charges and the flight risk.on 11 december 2007 the regional court upheld the detention order on appeal.noting that the trial was approaching the final stage, that the witnesses had been heard, and that the applicant had family and dependent children, the court held that the applicant could be released on bail.on 5 february 2008 the regional court quashed the bail decision, holding that the district court had not taken proper account of the gravity of the charges.on 20 february 2008 the district court reconsidered the matter and held that the applicant should be re-detained for a further three months on account of the gravity of the charges against him.on 26 march 2008 the regional court upheld the detention order on appeal.12.  on 3 march 2008 the district court found the applicant guilty of murder and sentenced him to five years’ imprisonment.
4.  the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in the leningrad region.5.  on 25 february 2009 an investigator charged the applicant with kidnapping in absentia and put his name of the international list of fugitives from justice.on the same day the investigator asked the vasileostrovskiy district court in st petersburg to detain the applicant on remand.6.  on 2 march 2009 the district court granted the investigator’s application for a detention order, referring to the gravity of the charges against the applicant.7.  on 22 july 2009 the applicant was apprehended in the vologda region and transferred to a remand prison in st petersburg.8.  on 30 july 2009 the applicant was interviewed and received a copy of the charge sheet.he also submitted an appeal against the detention order of 2 march.9.  on 1 september 2009 the st petersburg city court heard the appeal and set aside the detention order, finding that the failure to follow the legal procedure for putting the applicant’s name on the list of fugitives from justice amounted to a “fundamental breach” of the rules of criminal procedure.it ordered a new examination of the detention matter but did not specify whether or not the applicant should remain in custody.as it happened, the applicant was not released.10.  on 18 september 2009 the district court refused the investigator’s request for a detention order.it held, firstly, that the gravity of the charges was not a sufficient reason for detaining the applicant and, secondly, that the procedure for putting his name on the list of fugitives from justice had not been followed.the applicant was released in the courtroom.11.  on 21 october 2009 the district court found the applicant guilty and gave him a custodial sentence conditional on four years’ probation.
4.  the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in moscow.5.  on 11 january 1999 the parish of the russian orthodox church of the dormition of the theotokos (the “parish”) brought a civil claim against the applicant and her family claiming title to the land plot de facto used by the latter.6.  in may 1999 the applicant brought a counterclaim seeking annulment of the parish’s title to the land plot.7.  on 23 november 1999 the butyrskiy district court of moscow granted the parish’s claim and dismissed the counterclaim lodged by the applicant.8.  on 18 february 2000 the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 23 november 1999 on appeal.9.  in july 2000 the city prosecutor’s office, upon the applicant’s request, asked for the supervisory review of the above judgments.10.  on 24 august 2000 the presidium of the moscow city court quashed the judgments of 23 november 1999 and 18 february 2000 by way of supervisory review and remitted the matter for fresh consideration.the applicant eventually sought recognition of her property title to the land plot in question.12.  on 4 may 2005 the district court granted the applicant’s claims in full.the parish appealed.13.  on 11 august 2005 the city court upheld the judgment of 4 may 2005 on appeal.14.  it appears the judgment of 4 may 2005 was not enforced.15.  on 25 december 2005 the parish asked for the supervisory review of the judgments in the applicant’s favour.16.  on 13 july 2006 the presidium of the city court quashed the judgments of 4 may and 11 august 2005 by way of supervisory review and remitted the matter for fresh consideration.17.  on 31 january 2007 the proceedings discontinued due to the absence of the parties.
6.  the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in rudinská.7.  on 17 december 2008 the applicant lodged a civil action with the žilina district court (file no.8 c 240/2008) seeking an order for the defendant (a municipality) to enter into a contract with her concerning the transfer of a flat, in which she resided.8.  the district court scheduled two hearings for 8 june and 8 july 2009; it ruled on the merits of the action and granted the action on the latter date.the applicant lodged an appeal; the judgment was quashed by a court of appeal on 8 april 2010 and the matter was remitted on 4 june 2010 to the district court.9.  the applicant lodged a complaint under article 127 of the constitution with the constitutional court contesting the length of the proceedings in so far as those had been held before the district court.10.  on 11 october 2012 the constitutional court (file no.ii.ús 423/2012) rejected her complaint on the ground that, prior to lodging her constitutional complaint, the applicant had failed to exhaust ordinary remedies, in particular lodging a complaint with the president of the district court under the courts act (law no.757/2004).the constitutional court noted that the court of appeal had transferred the case file to the district court on 4 june 2010 and that the applicant had lodged her constitutional complaint on 27 september 2012. it found that, within that period, the district court had failed actively to proceed with the matter for one year and a half.the constitutional court observed that the court’s previous case-law – such as ištván and ištvánová v. slovakia (no.30189/07, 12 june 2012), which concerned a delay of more than six years – dealt with unjustified delays imputable to the courts that were substantially longer than those in the present case (one year and a half).the constitutional court considered that, because the unjustified delays in the present case had been shorter (compared to those in respect of ištván and ištvánová and other similar cases), it was justified in requiring – before turning for protection to the constitutional court – that the applicant lodge a complaint with the president of the district court with a view to accelerating her proceedings.11.  following the constitutional court’s decision, the district court scheduled a hearing for 9 september 2015. at the time of communication of the application the proceedings were still pending.
9.  subsequently, in august 2010 the applicant brought a civil action in the vienna regional civil court (landesgericht für zivilrechtssachen) under the official liability act (amtshaftungsgesetz) against the city of vienna (stadt wien) as the authority responsible for the hospital, seeking compensation of 20,000 euros (eur) plus interest in respect of non‑pecuniary damage.13.  the fact that her son had been able to escape from the hospital premises led the applicant to conclude that the hospital staff had acted negligently in the performance of their duties.when the police and the ambulance brought him back to the hospital, he had had to be sedated intravenously because of the highly psychotic state he was in.in view of the progress in his treatment, and as he appeared more reasonable and able to abide by agreements, he had been transferred from the acute station to the subacute ward on 20 april 2010. however, he had then succumbed to so‑called “dynamic exhaustion” (dynamische entleerung), which manifested itself in a noticeable loss of drive and the desire for a quiet environment.through occupational therapy and recreational walks in the hospital grounds, which − on the basis of a well-documented medical order − he had been allowed to take on his own as of 21 april 2010. this medical order had taken into account the fact that m.k.however, on 12 may 2010 at 5.15pm the doctor on duty was informed by the hospital staff that the applicant’s son had not returned from an authorised walk in the hospital grounds and had apparently taken his personal clothing with him.15.  the city of vienna submitted that under the provisions of the hospitalisation act and in keeping with current practice in the treatment of mentally ill patients, “open” psychiatry was the norm and restriction of a patient’s freedom of movement was permissible only in cases of absolute necessity and within the bounds of proportionality.in the present case, by 12 may 2010 restriction of the physical movement of the applicant’s son (known as “fixation”), and/or the spatial restriction of his movement to the confines of a psychiatric bed, or his permanent supervision, were no longer medically indicated, nor would such measures have been reasonable or adequate.18.  from a legal perspective, the regional civil court affirmed that, as the authority responsible for the otto wagner hospital, the city of vienna could be held accountable for any culpable action or omission by its organs or officials, pursuant to section 1 of the official liability act.at the material time, the applicant’s son had been lawfully hospitalised by a decision of the fünfhaus district court of 7 april 2010, which remained valid until 21 may 2010. sections 3 and 33 of the hospitalisation act in force at the time provided that, in cases where hospitalisation had been ordered, it was also necessary to guard against threats potentially posed by the patient.19.  the city of vienna appealed, claiming that the court had wrongly assessed the evidence, that its finding of facts was incorrect, and that it had wrongly interpreted the law.in its view, there had been no causal link between the wholly unexpected suicide of the applicant’s son and the alleged dereliction of the hospital’s duty of supervision under the hospitalisation act.according to the expert opinion by dr p of 25 may 2012, the continuation of m.k.’s hospitalisation on 12 may 2010 was indicated only because of the threat he posed to others, in particular to his mother, but no longer to himself.had committed suicide, the initial decision by the fünfhaus district court on his hospitalisation had still been valid and was based on the assessment that he posed a danger to himself and others because of his paranoid schizophrenia.m.k.’s hospitalisation had therefore not been unlawful, even though he had been placed in the open ward from 20 april 2010. contrary to the applicant’s line of argumentation, the otto wagner hospital had not had a duty to implement the fünfhaus district court’s decision on m.k.’s hospitalisation in a manner which compelled it to restrict his movement.
7.  having been a judge since 1 january 1978 and a member of the supreme court since 1 march 1994, on 15 november 2009 he was appointed vice-president for a six-year term by the president of the republic, after being proposed for the post by the president of the supreme court.8.  the mandate of the president of the supreme court was prematurely terminated, upon the entry into force of the fundamental law on 1 january 2012, in reaction to his criticisms and publicly expressed views regarding proposed judicial reforms (see baka v. hungary [gc], no.20261/12, § 151, 23 june 2016).9. in connection with these events, a proposal for the termination of the applicant’s mandate as vice-president was submitted to parliament on 23 november 2011, and was adopted on 28 november 2011 in the form of section 185 of act no.he remained in office as president of one of the civil law division benches of the kúria (the historical appellation by which the supreme court was renamed in 2012).(iii.it held that the premature termination of the applicant’s term of office as vice-president had not violated the fundamental law, since it had been sufficiently justified by the full-scale reorganisation of the judicial system and important changes made in respect of the tasks and competences of the president of the kúria.it noted that the kúria’s tasks and competences had been broadened, in particular with regard to the supervision of the legality of municipal council regulations (for the relevant parts of the constitutional court’s judgment see baka, cited above, § 55).seven judges dissented and considered that the changes concerning the judicial system, the new kúria and the person of its president had not fundamentally affected the status of the vice-president.the position of the vice-president within the organisation of the supreme judicial instance had not changed.under the act lxvi of 1997 on the organisation and administration of the courts, the vice-president was already entitled to act in the stead of the president of the supreme court only with regard to managerial tasks at the supreme court, but not with regard to his or her functions as president of the national council of justice (see baka, cited above, § 56).the dissenting judges concluded that the premature termination of the applicant’s term of office had not been sufficiently justified by the reorganisation of the judicial system; and that it had weakened the guarantees in respect of the separation of powers, had been contrary to the prohibition on retroactive legislation, and had breached the principle of the rule of law and the right to a remedy.clxii of 2011 on the legal status and remuneration of judges (“the alsrj”) (see baka, cited above, § 52), the president of the republic released the applicant from his duties as a judge with effect from 31 december 2012.(vii.on the basis of that judgment, the budapest labour court found, in a first-instance judgment of 21 march 2013, that the termination of the applicant’s judicial service had been unlawful and reinstated him – without, however, ordering his reinstatement in his previous position as president of one of the civil law division benches of the kúria.
it was further extended at the investigative authorities’ requests on a number of occasions given the seriousness of the charges, negative references about the applicant’s character and the fact that the applicant did not have permanent residence or a job.10.  on the day of the incident a medical expert, b., performed an autopsy of the victim at the request of the investigator.having been informed of their procedural rights, including the right to challenge an expert, seek the appointment of a particular person as an expert, adduce further questions, be present during an expert examination in person and make comments or requests, including in writing, the applicant and his lawyer studied the expert report and signed it without making any remarks or objections.the other witness stated that he had not seen the fight itself but had seen the victim lying wounded and had been told by others present that the applicant had knifed him and had then fled.15.  the autopsy expert testified that on the night of the murder the victim had been heavily drunk to such a point that he had been unable to think clearly.the trial court, convinced by the prosecution witnesses that the three individuals had not been present during the attack, dismissed the applicant’s request.17.  the day before the verdict, the applicant unsuccessfully asked the trial court to order an additional autopsy of the victim.20.  on 19 december 2008 the trial court rejected an application by the applicant for release, in which he complained that his detention had been excessively lengthy, that there was no reason to suspect that he had been involved in the crime, that he had a permanent place of residence and that he suffered from a serious medical condition.the court extended the applicant’s detention until 20 march 2009, referring to the seriousness of the charges, negative references about the applicant’s character and the “need to proceed with the trial.” 21.  on 29 december 2008 the defence appealed against the detention order.having heard the prosecutor, who insisted on the importance of the applicant’s continued detention, the regional court upheld the detention order, agreeing that the seriousness of the charges and stage of the proceedings warranted the extension.23.  on 18 march 2009 the town court again extended the detention until 20 june 2009. in addition to the grounds previously indicated, it held that there was a lack of evidence to support the applicant’s argument of poor health.referring to the length of the criminal proceedings, the court decided to reduce the period of the applicant’s detention by one month until 20 may 2009.the applicant’s only request was to have defence witnesses heard who were allegedly meant to testify that the applicant had not had any injuries prior to the fight and that all the prosecution witnesses had agreed to make untrue statements about him.the judgment was based on the in-court testimony of six prosecution witnesses, including eyewitnesses to the incident, the second autopsy report and the expert’s testimony.42.  on 6 september 2012 the deputy head of the prison hospital examined the applicant and noted that the applicant was absolutely convinced that he was in a serious state of ill health.
4.  the applicant was born in 1976 and lived, prior to his arrest, in olekminsk, sakha (yakutia) republic.5.  on 23 december 2008 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of murder.6.  on 25 december 2008 the olekminskiy district court of the sakha (yakutia) republic remanded the applicant in custody.7.  on 21 february, 19 march, 18 may, 18 june, 15 august, and 12 september 2009 the court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention and held that despite the fact that he had permanent residence, job and family, he should remain in detention as the investigation was still pending, he could threaten witnesses or re-offend.8.  on 18 june 2009 the judge stated in his detention order as follows: “... the circumstances of the case have not changed.[the applicant] ... committed the crime under the influence of alcohol ..., he concealed that he had committed the crime ...” 9.  on 27 november 2009 the court replaced the pre-trial detention with a house arrest.10.  on 10 june 2010 the olekminskiy district court convicted the applicant of murder and sentenced him to 8 years’ imprisonment.on 10 august 2010 the supreme court of russia upheld his conviction on appeal.
they were arrested and detained while the crimes were investigated and pending trial.their detention was ordered and extended by the courts.the detention orders were essentially based on the gravity of the charges, the primary grounds being the risk of the applicants’ absconding and interfering with the course of justice.5.  the first applicant was born on 20 august 1983 and lived, prior to his arrest, in yekaterinburg, sverdlovsk region.the applicant was arrested on 30 march 2005 on suspicion of fraud and placed in detention.6.  on 19 april and 14 july 2006 his pre-trial detention was extended.his appeals against these detention orders were considered on 23 july and 3 november 2006 respectively.the applicant and his lawyer did not attend the hearing on 19 april 2006.7.  on 23 october 2006 the leninskiy district court of yekaterinburg convicted the applicant of fraud and sentenced him to three years’ imprisonment.8.  the second applicant was born on 2 november 1972 and lived, prior to his arrest, in vorkuta, komi republic.the applicant was arrested on 14 january 2008. he remained in custody pending investigation and trial.9.  on 5 june and 2 september 2009 the applicant’s pre-trial detention was extended.his appeals against these detention orders were examined on 24 july and 30 october 2009. the applicant and his lawyer were not present at the hearings on 24 july, 2 september and 30 october 2009.10.  on 6 november 2009 the vorkuta town court of the komi republic convicted him of drug dealing and sentenced him to fourteen years and nine months’ imprisonment and a fine.11.  having regard to the similarity of the main issues under the convention in the above cases, the court decides to join the applications and examine them in a single judgment.
15.  on an unspecified date between 9 and 17 june 2002 the military unit conducting the special operation in mesker-yurt left the place where they had been stationed as well as the temporary filtration camp in the vicinity of the village.16.  from the documents submitted by the parties it transpires that along with the applicants’ relatives, a number of other residents of mesker-yurt, including mr r. makhtykhanov, mr m. magomedov and mr i. gachayev, were abducted during the special operation.(b)  information submitted by the government 18.  the government did not submit their version of the events and did not dispute the circumstances of the abductions as presented by the applicants.24.  according to the applicants, shortly after the abduction they learnt from undisclosed sources that in june 2002 mr askhabov had been detained on the premises of the shali district department of the interior (шалинский районный отдел внутренних дел (ровд)) (“the rovd”) and then transferred elsewhere.(i)  abduction of mr suliman magomadov and mr salambek magomadov 30.  mr suliman magomadov was born in 1978 and his brother, mr salambek magomadov, was born in 1980. on 23 may 2002 (in the documents submitted the date was also referred to as 25 may 2002) a group of armed servicemen abducted the brothers from their house at 19 shkolnaya street.(l)  abduction of mr adam temersultanov and subsequent discovery of his body 33.  mr adam temersultanov (in the documents submitted also spelled timersultanov) was born in 1976. on 25 may 2002 he went to the village mosque in mesker-yurt and stayed there for several days during the special operation, believing that it was a safe place.39.  in response to the court’s request for a copy of the contents of the criminal cases opened in connection with the abductions, the government did not furnish any documents but provided an information statement concerning the investigation of joint criminal case no.59114, 59125, 59126, 59127, 59128, 59129, 59133, 59134, 59135, 59136, 59138, 59163, 59164, and 59171 under article 126 of the criminal code (abduction) in respect of the abduction of the relatives of the applicants in ortsuyeva and others (application no.the relevant decision stated, among other things: “... the preliminary investigation has established that between 21 may and 10 june 2002 in the vicinity of mesker-yurt in the shali district of the chechen republic, servicemen of the russian ministry of defence and the russian ministry of the interior together with servicemen from the department of the execution of sentences of the russian ministry of justice, conducted a special operation to check identity documents and identify members of illegal armed groups.48.  according to the documents submitted, the special operation in mesker-yurt was conducted under the command of general bornovitskiy and on an unspecified date between 2002 and 2007 the applicants and their relatives forwarded that information to the investigators.3340/08), between 2002 and 2010 the applicants lodged numerous complaints and information requests concerning the search for their abducted relatives and the progress of the investigation into the matter.for instance, from a copy of the decision of the kizilyurt town court of 5 april 2010 declaring mr magomedrasul magomedov dead, it transpires that on unspecified dates in march 2003, april 2005, may 2006, december 2009 and march 2010 the applicants requested assistance in searching for him and complained to the supervisory prosecutors of the lack of progress in the investigation.53.  from the documents submitted it follows that between 2002 and 2010 the investigation of the criminal case consisted mostly of taking short statements from the applicants and/or some of their relatives and forwarding numerous requests for information to various state bodies.54.  it appears that following complaints lodged by the applicants, on 4 october 2011 the investigation of the joint criminal case was resumed and transferred again to the military authorities – the main military investigations department of the investigative committee of the russian federation.the relevant decision gave the following reason for the transfer: “... the investigation has established that the military servicemen who conducted the special operation in mesker-yurt between 21 may and 10 june 2002 were involved in the abductions.” the joint criminal case file was given a new number, 14/90/0091-11.
the return decision stated that he was a prohibited immigrant by virtue of article 5 of the immigration act (chapter 217 of the laws of malta) because he was in malta “without means of subsistence and liable to become a charge on public funds”.the two documents further informed him of the right to appeal against the decision and order before the immigration appeals board (“the iab”) within three working days.8.  the first applicant claimed that the contents of the decision in english were not explained to him, and that he could not understand the language.the return decision stated that he was a prohibited immigrant by virtue of article 5 of the immigration act (chapter 217 of the laws of malta) because he was in malta “without means of subsistence and liable to become a charge on public funds” and “without leave granted by the principal immigration officer”.the two documents further informed him of the right to appeal against the decision and order before the immigration appeals board (“the iab”) within three working days.13.  the second applicant claimed that the contents of the decision in english were not explained to him, and that he could not understand the language.19.  until the date of the lodging of the application, that is eight months after his arrival in malta, mr burhaan abdullahi elmi had not received a written decision informing him of the outcome of the age‑assessment procedure, and was still in detention.21.  until the date of the lodging of the application, that is almost eight months after his arrival in malta, mr cabdulaahi aweys abubakar had not received a written decision informing him of the outcome of the age‑assessment procedure, and was still in detention.he considered that the conditions in warehouse 2 were very similar to those in warehouse 1, which had been documented in a number of reports, including two cpt reports of 2007 and 2011. the first applicant also stated that he had difficulty communicating with a doctor in the absence of an interpreter and that he suffered from dizziness and eye problems.he noted that in october 2012 the detention authorities had not taken him to a hospital appointment; it had had to be rescheduled to march 2013. on that date, the doctor prescribed medication, however, up to the date of the introduction of the application (17 april 2013) this had not been forthcoming.25.  the government informed the court that following the lodging of the application with the court, on 19 april 2013 mr burhaan abdullahi elmi was released from detention under a care order and placed in an open centre for unaccompanied minors.he subsequently left malta before the termination of his asylum proceedings; indeed the last day of registration at the open centre was 2 august 2013. in the absence of any further contact with the office of the refugee commissioner, on 31 august 2013 the applicant’s asylum claim was implicitly “withdrawn as discontinued”.26. it appears that the first applicant absconded and went to germany and was held by the german authorities, who in turn requested the maltese authorities to take him back in terms of the dublin regulation.27.  in a signed declaration sent to the court by his legal representatives the first applicant admitted to being in schonbach, germany, as he was waiting there for the outcome of the judicial proceedings as to whether he would be sent back to malta in terms of the dublin ii regulation to have his asylum claim determined.28.  the government informed the court that following the lodging of the application with the court, on 24 april 2013 mr cabdulaahi aweys abubakar was released from detention under a care order and placed in an open centre for unaccompanied minors.
5.  the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in roslavl, the smolensk region.6.  on 15 june 2003 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of unintentional manslaughter.on 30 september 2003 he was committed to stand trial before the leninskiy district court of smolensk.on 10 october 2003 the district court fixed the first trial hearing and ordered that the applicant should remain in custody.7.  on 26 april 2004 the leninskiy district court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to twelve years’ imprisonment.the judgment became final on 10 july 2004 when the smolensk regional court upheld it on appeal.8.  in february 2005 the applicant lodged an action with the leninskiy district court, arguing that his detention from 2 to 26 april 2004 had been unlawful as there had been no legal order authorizing his detention during that period.he sought compensation for non-pecuniary damage.9.  on 23 september 2005 the leninskiy district court, in the presence of a defendant’s representative, dismissed the applicant’s action, finding that the applicant’s conviction precluded him from claiming compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damages.its operative part reads as follows: “given that mr artemenko was found guilty of the crime in relation to which he had been detained since 17 june 2003, he did not acquire the right to exoneration and to compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damage.therefore, there exist no grounds for satisfying mr artemenko’s claim for compensation in respect of his unlawful detention pending trial.” 10.  the applicant appealed, complaining, inter alia, that the district court had refused to secure his attendance and had not provided him with copies of materials presented by the defendants.he also maintained his initial claim for compensation.11.  on 29 november 2005 the smolensk regional court upheld the judgment of 23 september 2005 in the applicant’s absence.
7.  on an unspecified date the applicant was called to testify as a witness in connection with the above investigation, and for this reason his subsequent request to join the proceedings as an aggrieved party was refused.9.  on 25 august 2007 o.t., a resident of a village close to the place of where the applicant’s daughter was stabbed, was arrested on suspicion of having committed this crime.complained to the chief of the local police department that the investigation into the case had been ineffective.she also complained that she had not been able to participate in it in a meaningful way, as she had not been allowed to consult the case file and had been very poorly informed about the measures undertaken by the authorities with a view to identifying her sister’s murderer.that he had detected no irregularities in the manner in which the investigation had been conducted and that ‒ according to the applicable law ‒ aggrieved parties were not entitled to consult case files until completion of the pre-trial investigation, that is to say, until the likely perpetrator has been identified and committed for trial.14.  on 30 october 2007 the district prosecutor’s office quashed the decision to suspend the proceedings and ordered a further inquiry, noting that the investigation had been carried out in a perfunctory manner.she submitted that she suspected r.p., her sister’s husband, of having murdered her and referred to numerous delays in carrying out the investigative activities, which ‒ in her view ‒ had resulted in the loss of important evidence.that there had been many inadequacies in the investigation of her sister’s violent death and notified her that the chief and deputy chief of the investigative department had been reprimanded for poor planning of their department’s work and supervision of their subordinates.he also stated that, in his view, virtually no action aimed at identifying the murderer had been taken in 2008, that the operative officers had carried out the instructions received from the investigative officers in a perfunctory manner, and that the investigative and operative departments needed to streamline their methods of communication.24.  the proceedings were renewed and then suspended on several further occasions, reference being made to the insufficiency of the measures taken (specifically, on 11 may 2010, 2 april and 22 october 2011).25.  on 15 april 2013, following the entry into force of the new code of criminal procedure, the applicant was admitted into the proceedings as an aggrieved party and given an opportunity to consult the case file.26.  on 19 august 2013 the applicant complained to the minister of interior that, having studied the file, he found that the entire investigation had been marred by prohibitive delays and inactivity.in his view the competent authorities had, for an extensive period of time, focused predominantly on investigating the probability that his daughter had been stabbed by her husband rather than organising a prompt and comprehensive examination of the objective evidence.the applicant also gave several suggestions as to further potential witnesses to be questioned, the specific type of the knife which could have been used to stab his daughter, and the circle of persons who might possess such a weapon.27.  on 2 october 2013 the deputy chief of the investigative department of the poltava police informed the applicant that no new leads had been uncovered, but his suggestions would be taken into account in further investigation.
9.  on the same date the police interviewed k.m., who was k.s.’s girlfriend and had been present at the scene of the murder.the applicant’s alibi was that on the day of the murder he had visited his father’s friend v.j.the prosecution relied on the following evidence: statements from s.s., k.m., s.m., a.m. and v.j., the record of the formal confrontation between the applicant and v.j., the results of forensic examinations, including a biochemical examination which had shown the presence of gunshot residue on the clothes worn by the applicant on the day of the murder, and the records of various investigative actions.the regional court made a decision to compel the witnesses to attend a rescheduled hearing on 29 june 2010. the enforcement of the decision was assigned to the police.23.  on the same date the regional court held a hearing and, stating that its decision to compel the witnesses, including k.m., had remained unenforced, it decided to order them to appear at the next hearing, to be held on 22 july 2010.in doing so, it stated, in particular, the following: “examination and evaluation of the evidence: on 1 july 2009 ... [the applicant] made a confession ... and, having surrendered a gun, stated that he had shot at [k.s.’s] car that night ... in the course of the investigation [the applicant] did not accept the charges against him stating that his deceased brother [v.m.]]; he had been in ... [v.j.’s] house ... at the trial [the applicant] pleaded not guilty ... the crime committed by [the applicant] is proven by the following evidence collected in the case: the statement of the victim’s legal heir, the witness s.s. ... ... the pre-trial statement of the witness k.m.by which he entirely denied [the applicant’s] statement that at the time of the murder [the applicant] had been in his house.maintained his statement during the confrontation with [the applicant] ... ... the record of the examination of the scene of the incident ... ... the record of the examination of the body ... ... the record of the examination of the ... car ... ... the record of the seizure of [the applicant’s] clothes ... ... the record of the photo line-up ... according to which k.m.had identified [the applicant] ... ... the record of ... the confession and surrender of the gun ... the conclusion of the forensic medical examination [concerning k.s.’s injuries] ... [other forensic evidence] the conclusion of the biochemical forensic examination ... that gunshot residue was discovered on [the applicant’s] clothes worn on the day of the incident.[material evidence] ˮ 27.  the applicant lodged an appeal, complaining, inter alia, that k.m., the sole eyewitness to the incident and whose pre-trial statement had been the only evidence directly incriminating him in the offence, had not been examined in court.28.  on 20 december 2010 the criminal court of appeal took over the case and scheduled the first hearing in the case for 11 january 2011.the court of appeal granted the application as far as the question of k.m.’s presence was concerned and summoned her to appear at the next hearing.31.  on 26 january 2011 the court of appeal upheld the applicant’s conviction, relying on the same body of evidence as the regional court.32.  on 22 february 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law, complaining, inter alia, about the lack of an examination of the witnesses against him, both in the regional court and the court of appeal.
12.  the government also submitted an administrative offence record drawn up at 4.30 p.m. on 2 april 2011, according to which the applicant had been warned, under article 298 of the code of administrative offences, for violation of the rule regulating the organisation and holding of gatherings.in particular, he stated that on 2 april 2011, while he had been detained in the exercise yard of the temporary detention centre of the ndpo with other arrested persons, he had been beaten by s.n.the two witnesses, who had also been arrested on 2 april 2011 and detained in the temporary detention centre of the ndpo, confirmed that on 2 april 2011 the applicant had been beaten by s.n.claimed that he had not used force against the applicant and that, in any event, he had not been on the premises of the ndpo between 1 and 7 p.m. on 2 april 2011 when the applicant had been taken there.they each stated that none of the persons arrested on 2 april 2011 had been placed in the exercise yard of the temporary detention centre and that none of them had been beaten.19.  on 20 and 22 april 2011 the investigator separately questioned two police officers, i.m., who had participated in the applicant’s arrest on 2 april 2011, and i.s., who was the neighbourhood police officer for the area where the applicant was arrested.the relevant part of the decision reads as follows: “as no appearance of a criminal act was disclosed in the material collected during the inquiry at the request of hajili mustafa mustafa oglu, who claimed that on 2 april 2011 he had sustained injury as a result of a beating by the deputy head of the ndpo, s.n., the institution of criminal proceedings should be refused.” 21.  on 5 january 2012 the applicant lodged a complaint against that decision with the nasimi district court, arguing that the prosecutor’s decision was unsubstantiated.the applicant also complained that the prosecutor had failed to give any explanation as to the circumstances in which the injury had been caused.22.  it appears from the transcript of the court hearing of 16 january 2012 that in the proceedings before the nasimi district court the applicant’s lawyer asked the court to hear t.y.in reply to the lawyer’s requests, the investigator in charge of the case stated at the hearing that the ndpo’s security cameras were only for surveillance purposes and did not record.the court held that, although the expert had noticed a bruise on the applicant’s body, it had not been established that the injury had been inflicted by s.n.the ndpo had replied to its request relating to the examination of the video recordings that the security cameras in question had not contained a memory card and, therefore, the video recordings had been automatically deleted one month later.the applicant further complained about the conflicting explanations given by the investigator and the nasimi district court as to the impossibility of obtaining video recordings from the ndpo’s security cameras.whereas the investigator had explained that those cameras were simply for surveillance purposes and did not record, the first-instance court had indicated in its decision that the impossibility was due to the absence of memory cards in the security cameras, which led to automatic deletion of the video recordings one month later.25.  on 6 february 2012 the baku court of appeal dismissed the appeal and upheld the nasimi district court’s decision of 24 january 2012. the appellate court’s decision made no mention of the applicant’s particular complaints.
... in the thickness of the muscles in the area of the left side of the abdomen, in the projection of the spleen, bruising measuring 10 x 9 cm was discovered... the blood sample taken from suren muradyan at the hospital was sent to the ministry of defence of armenia and the national security service of armenia for a bacteriological examination... the following reply, dated 21 august 2002, was received from military unit no.3.  the following injuries were identified as a result of the forensic medical examination of suren muradyan’s corpse: old and new bruises to soft tissues and muscles in the area of the left side of the abdomen, spleen rupture and bruising ... [and] an abrasion on the right side of the forehead.... of the above-mentioned bodily injuries the old and new bruises to soft tissues and muscles in the area of the left side of the abdomen [and] spleen rupture and bruising ... were inflicted by blunt objects or tools having a limited surface; judging by the nature of the old and new bruises to soft tissues and muscles in the area of the left side of the abdomen it can be said that the old bruises are more than about 8-10 days old, while the new bruising is about 1-2 days old.the abrasion on the right side of the forehead was inflicted while alive by a blunt object having a limited surface and is considered a minor bodily injury... 4.  as indicated above, the death occurred more than 8-10 days after the infliction of the main injuries (the above-mentioned old bruising in the area of the left side of the abdomen, in all probability accompanied by an initial sub-capsular rupture of the spleen and absorbent haemorrhage).34.  on 25 september 2002 investigator g. decided to assign a panel forensic medical examination in order to determine the scope of responsibility of the military unit and the hospital doctors for suren muradyan’s death, including the timeliness and accuracy of the diagnosis and the treatment provided, the timeliness of his transfer to hospital and whether they could have detected the injuries revealed by the post-mortem examination.45.  by a letter of 19 march 2003 the minister of defence of nagorno karabakh filed a motion with the syunik regional court requesting that a non-custodial sentence be imposed on officer d.h. and that he stay under the control of the military unit command, taking into account his long and diligent service in the armed forces, the report/request of the command of formation no.91204602) was taken over by the military prosecutor’s office of armenia and assigned to investigator h. 59.  on 12 september 2003 the applicant lodged a complaint with the military prosecutor’s office of armenia, claiming that the investigation was flawed and had failed to reveal those responsible for his son’s death, despite the fact that there was sufficient evidence that he had died as a result of ill‑treatment by the three officers, v.g., d.h. and k.z.was questioned and stated that he had not provided the full story in his previous testimony and that during the argument between him and suren muradyan on 21 july 2002 he had grabbed the latter’s left wrist with his right hand and started shaking it briskly, during which suren muradyan’s fist had touched the left side of his abdomen in the area of the spleen.had held in his hand the deceased’s forearm or part of his wrist, those parts must have touched the front wall of the deceased’s abdomen during the blow, while the injuries, namely the rupture and the bruising to the soft tissues of the abdominal area, were caused by direct contact with officer v.g.’s fist; contact between the deceased’s wrist or forearm with that area could not have caused the sub-capsular rupture.71.  on 12 october 2004 the panel of experts produced their opinion in reply to the questions posed by the investigator’s decision of 2 september 2004. as regards the responsibility of the military unit and the hospital doctors, the experts found that they had failed to reach a timely and accurate diagnosis and to provide adequate medical treatment.81.  on 24 november 2004 the senior assistant to the general prosecutor decided to dismiss the applicant’s challenge of 19 november 2004. this decision stated, inter alia: “on 10 july 2003 the criminal case [concerning suren muradyan’s death] was transferred from the hadrut garrison military prosecutor’s office to the investigative division of the military prosecutor’s office of armenia, where following an investigation it was disclosed that from 22 to 25 july 2002 [officers d.h. and v.g.]alleged that during the argument of 21 july 2002 he, infuriated by [suren muradyan’s] behaviour, had grabbed his hand and shaken it briskly, during which his hand had touched [suren muradyan] in the area of the spleen.” the decision further referred to the expert opinion of 12 october 2004 and specifically its finding that suren muradyan had sustained bruises to muscles and a sub-capsular rupture of his spleen as a result of the blow sustained during the argument of 21 july 2002. the senior assistant to the general prosecutor concluded that the arguments raised by the applicant had been examined in the course of a thorough and objective investigation by the military prosecutor’s office and his challenge was therefore unfounded.88.  on 21 and 22 february and 5 and 10 march 2005 the investigator posed a number of questions, suggested by the applicant, to the four forensic medical experts who had produced the opinion of 25 january 2005. three of the experts were unable to answer the applicant’s question about whether it was possible for his son, who on 21 july 2002 had allegedly been ill with malaria and had an enlarged spleen, not to complain, have fever or shiver and to feel well.in reply to the applicant’s question about whether it was possible for his son, whose spleen was enlarged and already ruptured, not to complain for three days of any pain, to feel healthy, participate in exercises and to play the trumpet, two of the experts were unable to provide an answer, the third expert stated that it was only a sub-capsular rupture and not a full one, and the fourth expert stated that it was possible for him not to complain if the sub-capsular rupture had been small, and possible to complain if had been big.107.  on 4 august 2006 the court of cassation decided to dismiss the applicant’s appeal and to grant that of the prosecutor, finding that the sentence imposed on military unit doctors a.h. and s.g. had not been proportionate to the gravity of the offence and remitting that part of the case for fresh examination.
8.  in june 1997 the applicant lodged a claim with the labour disputes commission of the smz, seeking salary arrears.9.  on 22 july 1997 the nakhimovskyy district court of sevastopol (“the nakhimovskyy court”) instituted enforcement proceedings.the applicant received the full amount of the award in two instalments, on 6 february and 28 november 2001 respectively.10.  on 19 may 1998 the applicant brought a claim in the nakhimovskyy court, seeking compensation for the smz’s failure to pay her salary arrears in a timely manner.11.  on 25 august 1998 the court awarded her uah 1,709.74 (about eur 369 at the material time) in compensation for the period 1 december 1996 to 25 july 1998. the judgment was not appealed against and became final.13.  on 9 april 2001 the president of the sevastopol court lodged with the presidium of the same court a request for supervisory review (protest) of the nakhimovskyy court’s judgment of 25 august 1998. on 27 april 2001 the presidium allowed the request, quashed the judgment and remitted the case for fresh consideration.15.  in the meantime, on 17 march 1999 the applicant lodged a new claim with the nakhimovskyy court, seeking compensation for the smz’s failure to pay her salary arrears during the period 26 august 1998 to 17 march 1999.17.  the applicant appealed in cassation, contending that her claim concerned new circumstances, in particular the new period of delay in payment of her salary arrears.on 6 june 1999 the sevastopol court quashed the decision of 19 may 1999 and adopted a new decision discontinuing the proceedings, relying on the same grounds as the first-instance court.19.  on 14 june 2001 the applicant requested the nakhimovskyy court to examine her claims of 19 may 1998 and 1 march 2001 jointly.20.  on 30 august 2001 the court, following a request from the applicant, ordered an expert examination in the case and suspended the proceedings.21.  on 25 march 2002 the applicant amended her claim and requested compensation for the non-payment of her salary arrears during the period 1 december 1997 to 28 november 2001.22.  on 4 july 2002 the expert’s report was submitted to the court and the proceedings were resumed.it held that she had failed to lodge her claims within the three-month limitation period provided by article 233 of the labour code, which had started to run on 6 june 1997, the day the labour disputes commission had awarded her salary arrears.24.  on 20 may 2004 the sevastopol town court of appeal upheld the judgment of 28 january 2004. on 28 november 2006 a panel of three judges of the supreme court rejected the applicant’s request for leave to appeal in cassation.
4.  the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in sofia.5.  the applicant’s father owned a house with a yard and a garage in sofia.6.  pursuant to a decision of the mayor issued on 27 july 1978, the property was expropriated for the purposes of constructing a residential building.the order, based on section 98 (1) of the territorial and urban planning act (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство – “the tupa”), provided that the applicant’s father was to be compensated with a two-room flat and a garage in a building which the municipality planned to construct.7.  in a supplementary decision of 19 february 1979, based on section 100 of the tupa, the mayor specified the exact location, size and other details in respect of the flat to be provided by way of compensation.as no mention was made of a garage, the applicant’s father applied for judicial review of that decision.in a final judgment of 21 june 1979 the sofia city court found in his favour and referred the case back to the administrative authorities with instructions to specify the exact garage to be provided as compensation.8.  in 1982 the flat in question was constructed and handed over to the applicant’s father.9.  after 1992 the applicant’s father filed numerous requests with the municipal authorities asking them to specify the exact garage to be given to him.by a letter of 12 january 2008 the chief architect of sofia informed him that no buildings with garages earmarked for the purpose of compensation were being constructed at the moment.10.  in 2008 the applicant’s father brought an action for damages under the state and municipalities responsibility for damage act (закон за отговорността на държавата и общините за вреди) for unlawful failure on the part of the sofia municipality to fulfill its obligations to build and provide him with a garage.the action was dismissed in a final judgment of 21 june 2011 of the supreme administrative court, on the grounds that no unlawful failure to act on the part of the authorities had been established.11.  in the meantime, on 7 april 2008 the applicant’s father passed away.the applicant is his only heir.
the first applicant was chairman of the youth committee of the pfpa and a journalist for the azadlig newspaper.the second applicant was chairman of the jalilabad district branch of the pfpa and had also been a candidate of the pfpa-musavat political bloc in the parliamentary elections of 2010. the third and sixth applicants were bodyguards for a chairman of the pfpa, mr a.k.in particular, the second and third applicants were arrested during a demonstration on 20 october 2012 and the fourth and fifth applicants were arrested during a demonstration on 26 january 2013. the second and fourth applicants were also arrested during a demonstration on 11 march 2013.in addition, the fourth applicant was an organiser of a protest scheduled for 23 february 2014. according to him, he had created a facebook group calling for the resignation of the baku city mayor, who had allegedly insulted the azeri nation in a speech by saying that the only man in the country was the president.9.  all the applicants were arrested in either february or march 2014. the fourth applicant was arrested on 22 february, the first, second and third applicants on 27 february, and the sixth applicant on 5 march.10.  according to the official records: (a)  the first applicant was arrested for disobeying a lawful order of a police officer to stop swearing loudly without addressing anyone in particular; (b)  the police approached (stopped) the second and sixth applicants because they had been noticed “behaving suspiciously”, the third applicant because he was suspected of committing a traffic accident, the fifth applicant because there was a complaint against him by a certain ms k.n., and the fourth applicant because there was “information” about him.11.  all the applicants contested the official version of their arrest: (a)  the first, second and third applicants claimed that they had been approached by police officers and had been requested to follow them to a police station or office, and that they had obeyed those requests.furthermore, the first and second applicants argued that the reasons given by the police officers for arresting them had been different from the official versions.the fifth applicant claimed that he had been arrested in the evening of the day before the officially recorded date and had spent the night in custody.14.  according to a record (protokol) issued by a police officer (who had arrested the fifth applicant and prepared an administrative offence report on him) and signed by that police officer and the fifth applicant, a state-funded lawyer was proposed to the applicant, but the applicant refused his assistance.18.  according to the documents in the respective case files, the first, third, fifth and sixth applicants refused the assistance of state-funded lawyers and decided to defend themselves in person.the third applicant argued that the police’s allegation that they were investigating a car accident was a lie and that the police had wanted to frame him.23.  during the hearings with regard to the first, second, fourth and fifth applicants only the police officers who, according to the official records, had arrested the applicants and/or issued administrative offence reports on them were questioned as witnesses.27.  on various dates the applicants lodged appeals with the baku court of appeal, presenting their version of the facts surrounding their arrests, and arguing that they had been unlawfully arrested for their political activity, including their active participation in demonstrations (the first, second, third, fifth and sixth applicants) or the comments they had posted on social media (the fourth applicant).30.  on various dates the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicants’ appeals and upheld the decisions of the respective first-instance courts, stating that the conclusions reached by those courts were correct (see appendix).
4.  the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in iğdır.5.  on 14 january 2005, while the applicant was serving as a conscript in the army, he fell from the roof where he was on guard.subsequently, he was treated in various civilian and military hospitals.according to a medical report dated 4 may 2005, the applicant was diagnosed as suffering from a left parietal craniotomy and was declared unfit for military service.6.  on 8 july 2005 the applicant applied to the ministry of defence for compensation for his injury.7.  following a tacit dismissal of the claim by the administrative authorities, the applicant initiated compensation proceedings in respect of the injuries he had sustained during his military service before the supreme military administrative court on 1 november 2005. he sought 20,000 turkish liras (try) (approximately 12,400 euros (eur)[1]) in respect of pecuniary damage and the same sum in respect of non-pecuniary damage.8.  an expert report dated 4 october 2007 assessed the applicant’s pecuniary damage at try 58,384 (approximately eur 36,260).9.  on 19 october 2007 the applicant asked the court to increase his initial claim via an amendment (ıslah), stating that he had only become aware of the true extent of his pecuniary damage when he had received the expert’s report.10.  on 28 november 2007 the supreme military administrative court ruled in favour of the applicant and awarded him the full amount of his initial claim in respect of pecuniary damage, namely try 20,000. it awarded him a further try 12,000 in respect of non-pecuniary damage.however, the court dismissed the applicant’s application for an amendment, considering itself bound by the initial claim.the court stated in particular: “the purpose of an amendment is to rectify a procedural act.having regard to the judgment of the constitutional court published in the official journal of 4 november 2000, we must conclude that, in civil law, injured persons are entitled to seek additional compensation once an expert report has been issued.however, in the proceedings before the supreme military administrative court, the time-limits of one year [from the date when a claimant becomes aware of the impugned act] and sixty days from the date of referral of the administrative authorities apply.under section 46(4) of the supreme military administrative court act, the amount claimed cannot be rectified once those deadlines have passed.consequently, the applicant’s amendment claim must be rejected for being out of time ...” 11.  by a judgment of 16 april 2008 the supreme administrative court dismissed the applicant’s application for rectification of its previous decision.
13.  in 1967 the property comprising the church building and the adjoining courtyard, which had belonged to the first applicant, was entered in the land register as having been transferred to the ownership of the lupeni i romanian orthodox parish (“the orthodox parish”).article 3 of that legislative decree provided that the legal status of property that had belonged to the uniate parishes and that was in the possession of the orthodox church was to be determined by joint committees made up of representatives of both uniate and orthodox clergy.under the amended decree, in the event of disagreement between the members of the clergy representing the two denominations in a joint committee, the party with an interest in bringing judicial proceedings could do so under “ordinary law” (drept comun, see the procedure referred to in paragraphs 41 and 121 below).in a final judgment of 24 november 2004, ruling on an appeal on points of law (recurs) by the first and second applicants, the high court of cassation and justice (“the high court”), quashed the court of appeal’s judgment and sent the case back to that court to be examined on the merits.126/1990 which gave the courts jurisdiction to rule on the merits of cases concerning properties that had belonged to the uniate parishes and were in the possession of the orthodox church (see paragraph 42 below), the court of appeal upheld the second applicant’s appeal and sent the case back to the county court.23.  the county court asked the parties to organise a meeting in order to decide the fate of the church building in question, and to inform it of the outcome of the negotiations by 25 april 2007. the parties met on 20 april 2007 without reaching an agreement.comparing the parties’ title deeds in respect of the property in question, it noted that the greek catholic party had been entered in the land register as owner of the property from 1940, and that in 1967 the orthodox church had entered its ownership right to the same property, transferred to it under decree no.126/1990, to the effect that the legal situation of places of worship and parsonages ... must be determined taking account of the wishes of the worshippers in the community that is in possession of the properties”.126/1990 ... a distinction is made between two situations: (a) that in which the property is in the ownership of the state ... (b) that in which the places of worship and the parishes have been taken over by the romanian orthodox church and in respect of which [the question of] restitution will be decided by a joint committee made up of representatives of the clergy of the two denominations, a committee which will take account of the wishes of the worshippers in the communities in possession of these properties.in the light of those provisions, the court of appeal, examining an action for recovery of possession of a place of worship, correctly applied the criterion of the wishes of the (predominantly orthodox) worshippers of the community in possession of the property, while simultaneously emphasising the unlawfulness of the reasoning of the first-instance court, which had merely compared the title deeds and ignored the special law... however, it appears that there are 24,968 orthodox worshippers and 509 greek catholic worshippers in lupeni, that the worshippers who were obliged to transfer to the orthodox church in 1948 do not wish to return to the greek catholic church and that an attempt has been made to resolve [the dispute] through the joint clerical committee (according to the minutes of 20 april 2007 ... the orthodox party had indicated that the request for the return of the place of worship could not be granted, having regard to the wishes of the worshippers in the parish and the fact that since 1948 the place of worship has been administered by the orthodox believers)... the fact of supplementing article 3 [of legislative decree no.126/1990] with a paragraph stating “if the committee does not meet within the period established in its mandate, or if the committee does not reach a conclusion or if one of the parties is dissatisfied with the decision taken by the committee, the party with an interest in bringing judicial proceedings may do so under ordinary law” does not mean that actions for restitution governed by the special provisions are transformed into applications to establish title under ordinary law.the priority to be given to the criterion of the worshippers’ wishes was decided by the legislature, which wished in this way to regulate an area which concerns the buildings assigned to a particular use (places of worship), [and so] the court is not entitled to criticise the law.126/1990 and the criterion of the worshippers’ wishes, the constitutional court has stated that the text did not infringe the principle of democracy of the romanian state, nor that of the freedom of religious denominations (cc decision no.49/1995)... in the court of appeal’s view, the fact that the state unlawfully dispossessed the greek catholic church of its places of worship in 1948 cannot be remedied – in a state subject to the rule of law – by committing the opposite error, that is, by failing to take account of the wishes of the majority of worshippers at the point of adopting the given measure.126/1990 and its subsequent amendments), and the hope of obtaining title to property is not to be equated with a possession...” 34.  in a separate opinion, one of the judges sitting in the case noted that the legislature’s reference to ordinary law could not be reduced to a purely procedural dimension, but was to be interpreted as the application of a rule of substantive law.
27.  a psychiatric assessment was also ordered by the investigating judge, who appointed a panel of three psychiatrists, drs g., b. and m. the panel of experts examined the applicant and drew up a report dated 30 october 2007, in which they concluded: “we consider that [the applicant] was in a severe state of anxiety and depression which encouraged her to act as she did and profoundly impaired her judgment, without destroying it altogether.... the accused was not suffering at the time of the events, and is not currently suffering, from a mental disorder or a severe mental disturbance or defect making her incapable of controlling her actions.” 28.  in an order of 17 june 2008 the indictments division (chambre des mises en accusation) of the brussels court of appeal, upholding an order made by the investigating judge on 19 may 2008, committed the applicant to stand trial in the assize court for the following offence: “... in nivelles, on 28 february 2007, having knowingly, intentionally and with premeditation, killed the following persons: - [y.m.], born on 9 august 2003.” 29.  the indictment of 19 october 2008, drawn up by the principal public prosecutor, ran to fifty-one pages and gave an account of the precise sequence of events, the steps taken and evidence obtained during the investigation, and the forensic medical reports; a substantial part of it also focused on the applicant’s personal history and family life and the motives and reasons that had prompted her to carry out the killings, particularly in the light of the expert assessments of her psychological and mental state.30.  the applicant’s trial took place in the assize court of the province of walloon brabant from 8 to 19 december 2008. at the start of the trial the indictment was read out by the advocate-general representing the prosecution, and the nature of the offence forming the basis of the charge and any circumstances that might aggravate or mitigate the sentence were likewise indicated.they began by noting by way of introduction: “[the first question, concerning the applicant’s ability to control her actions at the time of the events and at present] is regularly the most difficult and controversial because of the ‘all or nothing’ nature of the answer that has to be given regarding inability to control one’s actions, so much so that some psychiatrists have for that reason declined to produce expert reports in criminal cases.... currently ... she remains fragile and there is still a chance, particularly because mourning is impossible, that she will experience a further episode of mental disturbance making her incapable of controlling her actions: the possibility remains that she may attempt suicide ... conclusions the mental examination of geneviève lhermitte prompts the following conclusion: the accused was suffering at the time of the events from a severe mental disturbance making her incapable of controlling her actions, and is currently suffering from a severe mental disturbance warranting long-term treatment.34.  on 18 december 2008, after the submissions of the prosecution and the parties had been heard, the jury was called to answer the following five questions put to it by the court’s president: “1st question (principal question as to guilt) is the accused geneviève lhermitte, present before this court, guilty of having knowingly and intentionally killed [y.m.3rd question (principal alternative as to the commission of an act classified as a serious crime, to be answered by the jury only if it has answered the 1st question in the negative) is it established that the accused geneviève lhermitte, present before this court, committed the act classified as a serious crime of having knowingly and intentionally killed [y.m.4th question (subsidiary to the 3rd question, to be answered by the jury only if it has answered the 3rd question in the affirmative) is it established that the act classified as a serious crime referred to in the 3rd question was premeditated?5th question (principal question as to social protection, concerning the accused’s current mental state, to be answered by the jury only if it has answered the 1st question in the affirmative or the 3rd question in the affirmative) is it established that the accused geneviève lhermitte, present before this court, is suffering either from a mental disorder or from a severe mental disturbance or defect making her incapable of controlling her actions?” 35.  counsel for the applicant did not raise any objections to these questions.the following day, after withdrawing to deliberate on their own without the judges, the members of the jury answered “yes” to the first two questions, concerning the applicant’s guilt, and “no” to the last question, concerning her current mental state.... regard being had to the specific circumstances relating both to the accused’s character and to her living environment, the genuine difficulties experienced by her do not constitute mitigating factors, given the extremely serious nature of her acts.” 37.  as an ancillary penalty, the applicant was stripped of all titles, ranks and functions she held and was permanently deprived of certain rights in accordance with articles 19 and 31 of the criminal code as in force at the material time.as regards the fact that the questions to the jury had not dealt with each of the five homicides separately but had considered them as a whole, it observed in particular that the parties had agreed to the wording of the questions put to the jury.it also pointed out that the requirement for the verdict to take the form of a simple “yes/no” answer to the questions put to the jury was laid down in article 348 of the code of criminal procedure.in response to the applicant’s argument that no reasons had been given for the jury’s disagreement with the experts’ unanimous opinion that she had been suffering from a severe mental disturbance making her incapable of controlling her actions at the material time and at the time of the trial, the court of cassation held: “in noting the accused’s cold-blooded manner and her determination to carry out her crimes, the judgment indicates the reason why the assize court did not accept that the perpetrator had been suffering from any mental disturbance making her incapable of controlling her actions at the time of the events.
15.  in all, the evidence presented before the court consisted of the following: on behalf of the applicant: - the affidavit of the applicant, as well as his oral testimony (where he noted the good relationship that had existed between him and the plaintiff and categorically denied any involvement in the robbery, during which he had been at home sleeping, and claimed that the plaintiffs had instituted the case only in response to the proceedings his company had lodged against mr z., in which they had eventually been successful; following these proceedings mr z. had started telling neighbours who had been robbed that he (the applicant) had been responsible; he related that the morning following the incident he had been surprised to see the police on the road at the salibas’ shop, close to mr z.’s house and, after hearing what had happened, he had repeatedly tried to call mr z. to offer a helping hand.since he had not been able to get through, he had gone to the house where he had been greeted warmly at the entrance by mr z., who had recounted what had happened during the night including a reference to three persons who mr z. had claimed had been watching the roof intermittently for a period; some days later, while the applicant had been visiting a relative in hospital with his family, they had also visited ms z.; mr z. had been happy to see him (the applicant) and had told him not to worry about the money he had been owed as only a little had been stolen and it had not even been worth the beating they got; the applicant further noted that he had been surprised about ms z.’s written testimony, given the relationship of mutual respect they had had, and he wished to cross-examine her; he further recounted how he had been called out to mr z.’s house during the night only once, and that he had never fallen off a ladder, contrary to what had been alleged by mr z. he further referred to certain jobs completed in the house and to a number of named individuals who could have seen the safe; he stated that the only times he had avoided mr z. had been when the latter had failed to pay him; he noted that contrary to what mr z. had alleged, he had had no connection to arms or drugs (save for possessing a hunting rifle with the relevant police permits, which he had no longer used); he stated that he had not stopped work on one of mr z.’s properties of his own motion, but because mr z. had told him to do so; the applicant had also explained this to n.s.t (an architect); the applicant also contradicted various elements of mr z.’s affidavit; in particular he denied ever having been told about buckets of gold by mr z., and reference to such gold had only been made by mr z. during the proceedings lodged against him, and by the police one time when they had questioned him (the applicant)); - the affidavit of the applicant’s wife (she recounted that the applicant had only left the house twice during the night since 1989 – once to go to the z. family’s premises following an urgent call-out, and once to go to another client; she also recounted their visit to ms z. after the robbery and in what circumstances they had met prior to the robbery; she lastly explained how surprised and hurt she was about mr. z.’s actions in their regard).- the two affidavits of the applicant’s two brothers (f. and s.) and the oral testimony of f. (f. confirmed that he had worked everywhere in the house, including next to the safe, together with other workmen from his company and that other named individuals had had access to the house as they had also rendered services there; he also denied that he had ever spoken to w.b.he further stated that when questioned by the police two years after the incident they had asked him whether he had been aware of the position of the safe and the buckets of gold; in his oral testimony he confirmed that he had fallen off a ladder once in mr z.’s house contrary to mr z.’s statement alleging that it had been the applicant who had fallen); (s. testified that the brothers had stopped work on one of the projects because mr z. had not confirmed that he had wished them to continue and had failed to pay sums already due, and in respect of which they had thus sued mr z. s. also contradicted other events recounted by mr z. in his testimony and noted that he had never discussed due payments with w.b.)on behalf of the plaintiffs: - the two affidavits of mr z. in the first affidavit mr z. explained the history and the good relationship he had had with the applicant’s family and how much the z. family had cared for and trusted the applicant.he stated that at the time of the robbery the saliba brothers had been working on project d. but works had been stalled; that the applicant’s sisters had gone to his office worried and in fear of the applicant, who they said was clever and armed; mr z. explained that a few weeks before the robbery the applicant had been working at the house, including on the roof, and at one point, while distracted, the applicant had fallen off a ladder; mr z. explained that on some occasions both the applicant and his brother had had access to the door of his roof and had known how to open it, and had also worked close to the safe.mr z. stated that in more recent years it had been only the applicant who had attended to jobs in the house and who had come during the late hours of the night, coming promptly and not charging them, even though he usually charged for all his services, even minor ones – thus, he had been the only one in the world, and nobody else, who had the knowledge of the house as it would be at night time.he stated that the working relationship had ended and that the applicant had gone to the house a couple of hours after the robbery; he had offered no help and had just shown his face; nor had he offered any help when he had gone to visit ms z. in hospital, with his wife and daughter who, had not been known to the couple.he considered the applicant’s wife’s affidavit as totally untruthful; likewise the applicant’s brothers’, in particular in connection with the reasons why work on project d. had stopped – he noted that the real reason had been the robbery and the fact that the applicant had realised he had been caught – and in connection with their exchanges with w.b.(to the effect that robbers had targeted the safe, which they had tried to remove entirely until they had found the key to it in her handbag; she stated that absolutely nobody had known about the safe before the robbery as nobody had entered that very private area of the house; she further stated that it had been only the applicant who – in the three years before the robbery – had continuously and at all times of day and night entered all parts of the house as he had been their trusted handyman, and that sometimes he had been accompanied by his brother and that they had both known about the safe.an employee of the z. family (who testified that the saliba brothers had been the trusted electricians and plumbers of the z. family and they had stopped working on any of the z. family’s properties after the robbery (unlike other workers); he stated that the brothers had once asked him why mr z. had not been paying them as mr z. had told them that compared to the gold he had not even a breadcrumb had been taken.stated that he and other neighbours had been robbed while being clients of the applicant who ran a shop on the same road where they lived – this fact was known in the area); - evidence of police inspectors s.g. and j.c. (s.g. confirmed that at the time of the incident they had not known who the robbers had been: j.c. stated that the investigators had spoken about the applicant in june 1995 and that subsequently he had been questioned (amongst others – five people altogether) as a person with the knowhow to commit such a robbery, as well as a result of mr z.’s claim to the effect that he had mentioned the buckets of gold only to the applicant.these arguments based the applicant’s guilt on the fact that i) he had fallen off a ladder; ii) that he had invited mr and ms z. to his daughter’s wedding; iii) that he had not informed mr and ms z. about the demise of his father; iv) that he had been paid for work by means of land; v) that he had sent the z. family a postcard; vi) that the applicant had fallen out with his brothers; and vii) that the applicant had been “silent and absent”.26.  as to the award of damages, the court of appeal noted that mr z.’s testimony had been made under oath; the list of jewellery had been drawn up with the assistance of an expert (although he had not confirmed it under oath); thus, mr z. could not be blamed for not presenting further evidence of the damage, particularly since some items had been inherited and others purchased long before, as well as because certain documents had also been in the safe and had been stolen during the robbery.39. in 2015, since they had not yet received payment from the applicant, the z. family instituted civil proceedings against the applicant’s brother f., asking the court to declare him responsible for the same robbery and asking the court to order (in solidum with the applicant) the payment of the same damages liquidated by the court of appeal in its judgment of 6 october 2009.
the municipality reclaimed the building, and the applicants’ title to the real property in question was annulled as a result of civil proceedings brought against them by a prosecutor on behalf of the municipality.according to the government, the judgment has not been enforced and the applicants continue to reside in the rooms they had bought.the privatisation plan was approved by the municipality and the regional property fund signed the plan on its behalf.8.  as a result of a number of reorganisations of stroitel, the title to the building in question was transferred to the closed joint-stock company, stroitel-m. subsequently, separate rooms in the building were resold to third parties, including the applicants.the information concerning the applicants’ titles to the property can be found in the appendix below.10.  on 23 august 2002 the samara region commercial court found the samaraavtotrans privatisation plan and the agreement of 10 november 1993 – which the regional property fund and stroitel had entered into, and which partly concerned the transfer of the title to the building to stroitel – null and void.11.  on an unspecified date the promyshlenniy district prosecutor, acting in the interests of the municipality, brought an action against stroitel, stroitel-m and the owners of the rooms in the former dormitory building, including the applicants.referring to the invalidation of the privatisation of samaraavtotrans, the prosecutor submitted that the subsequent transactions relating to the building were also null and void, and asked the court to return the title to the building to the municipality.12.  according to the applicants, on 27-28 october 2003 the promyshlenniy district court of samara (“the district court”) dismissed the prosecutor’s claim.on 20 january 2004 the samara regional court (“the regional court”) quashed that judgment and remitted the matter to the district court for fresh consideration.14.  on 18 may 2006 the presidium of the regional court quashed the judgments of 14 june and 2 august 2005 by way of supervisory review, and remitted the matter to the district court for fresh consideration.the court recognised that the owners of the rooms were bona fide purchasers, but ordered that the title to the building be transferred to the municipality.the municipality, the true owner of the building, had not authorised the purchase of the rooms in the building by their current owners.accordingly, the sale of the building in the absence of authorisation by the municipality meant that the municipality had lost possession against its will, and could recover its property from bona fide purchasers.19.  on 10 december 2010 and 16 june 2011 the oktyabrskiy district court of samara granted her claims and awarded damages in the amount of 600,000 russian roubles (rub) to each of the applicants.
13.  the applicant has a criminal record which includes, inter alia, a conviction in 2000 for grave disturbance of public order and a suspended sentence of twenty days’ imprisonment, a conviction in june 2005 sentencing him to twenty days for committing violence against a public servant in the performance of his office, and a conviction in february 2007 for the same kind of offence, for which he was sentenced to three months’ imprisonment.15.  by a judgment of 10 june 2010 the city court in odense (retten i odense) found him guilty, in part jointly with others, of 18 counts of offences including drug trafficking and drug dealing contrary to article 191 of the criminal code with regard to a significant amount of hashish (more than 100 kg in total, in addition to an attempt to import a large supply from holland) and an attempt to buy 200 g of cocaine, all committed in the period from 2006 until 9 september 2009. in addition he was convicted of coercion by violence and threats, blackmail, theft, handling stolen property, escaping while under arrest and possession of weapons.16.  when sentencing the applicant to five years’ imprisonment the city court took into account, in particular, the significant amount of hashish and cocaine; that the latter was a “hard drug”; the huge profit that the applicant had obtained from the resale; the long period concerned; the applicant’s absolute leading role, notably in relation to the drug dealers under him, whom he had subjected to violence and threats; and that as a member of a gang, he had delivered hashish for resale to various towns in the region.the city court noted that the seriousness of the crimes spoke heavily for his expulsion without suspension, but having regard to his wife, who stated that she could not follow her husband to lebanon, and his eight children in the country, the court did not find that there was sufficient basis for an unsuspended expulsion order.19.  on appeal, by a judgment of 30 march 2011 the conviction was upheld in part by the high court of eastern denmark (østre landsret) and the sentence was increased to six years’ imprisonment due notably to the nature and quantity of the drugs, the extent of the drug offences committed and the applicant’s leading role.since the applicant’s arrest in september 2009, she and the children had spent one and a half months in syria in 2010, and two months in 2011. during the spring of 2011 she had gone alone to syria for seven or ten days because the sister had fallen ill. 23.  during the summer of 2009 the applicant began negotiations to buy an apartment in syria because his wife and children went there quite often.25.  statements obtained from the children’s department at the municipality and the children’s schools and day-care institutions recounted that several of the eight children had serious problems, including of a psychological and educational nature.26.  according to a police report of 9 august 2011, based on interceptions carried out during the criminal proceedings against the applicant, it was established that in the period from 21 april 2009 to 10 september 2009, thus a period of less than 5 months, there had been nine hundred and sixty‑seven calls to and from overseas numbers on the applicant’s and his wife’s home telephone.the applicant explained in this connection that the calls to lebanon had mainly been to people from denmark who had been on vacation in lebanon and that the calls to syria had been to his sister.29.  it observed that the applicant had been convicted of drug trafficking offences under article 191 of the penal code and attempt thereof on five counts for 59.5 kg of hashish for resale (count 53a); 23 kg for resale (count 56); not less than 15 kg for resale (count 58); entering a deal to buy 200 g of cocaine for resale, which failed (count 60); and an attempt to smuggle in a large amount of hashish from holland, which failed (count 61).32.  the applicant was a stateless palestinian who had entered denmark in 1993 at the age of 23. he had been sentenced to six years’ imprisonment for comprehensive and organised resale of large amounts of hashish, for attempting to buy 200 g of cocaine, and for attempting to smuggle in hashish.37.  the supreme court further noted that the applicant still had ties to lebanon, where his mother and sister lived and where the applicant had lived until he entered denmark at the age of 23. he also had ties to syria, where a sister and her family lived, and where the applicant had stayed for three weeks in 2007, for four weeks in 2008, and in 2009. before his arrest, the applicant had set about buying an apartment in syria for the family to use during stays there.moreover, she had regular contact with the applicant’s sister and family in syria, and she had spent several vacations there, for instance in 2008 and 2009 as well as one and a half months in 2010 and two months in 2011. she had eighteen siblings in denmark.despite regard for his spouse and children in denmark, we therefore find that he should be expelled with a permanent ban on his entry, see section 32, subsection 2 (v), of the aliens act.” 40.  the minority of one judge found “as found by the majority, [the applicant] is guilty of drug offences of particular gravity.44.  in the meantime, on 13 august 2013, the national police had submitted the applicant’s case to the danish immigration service (udlændingestyrelsen) for a decision as to whether, upon return, the applicant would risk treatment as described in section 31 of the aliens act.
the fact that his wife and her father had been late for the party and the subsequent strained conversation he had had with her, coupled with his work-related anxiety and the feeling that the party had not gone as planned, had amplified the accumulated emotional tension and exhaustion.35.  on 17 september 2009 m., an investigator from the investigative committee at the prosecutor’s office of the russian federation, addressed the minister of the interior with a recommendation on measures to be taken with a view to rectifying the circumstances that had been conducive to the crime being committed.in the course of the psychological examination it had been established that one of the reasons for his psychologically traumatic situation had been his promotion to the position of chief of the tsaritsino branch of the moscow department of the interior.improper performance of duties by staff members of the human resources services of the agencies of the interior and their perfunctory attitude towards recruitment and the promotion of staff had led to persons unfit due to their personal and professional qualities being promoted to senior positions.had been accepted to serve in the police and subsequently promoted to chief of the tsaritsino branch of the moscow department of the interior, even though the relevant medical data had been available at the institutions that provided medical care to the staff of the agencies of the interior.there had thus been a breach of section 19 of the police act, sections 130 and 131 of the order of the ministry of the interior of 14 july 2004 and section 9.7 of the order of the ministry of the interior of 14 december 1999.40.  having regard to the irregularities in the functioning of the ministry of the interior which had contributed to the offences committed by d.e., the court ruled that it would draw the attention of the minister of the interior to the said irregularities and invite him to take measures aimed at their rectification.44.  on an unspecified date the first and second applicants instituted proceedings against the ministry of the finance, the federal treasury and the moscow department of the finance for damages, arguing that they had suffered injuries as a result of the unlawful actions of a state official.the court stated that under articles 52 and 53 of the constitution and articles 1064 § 1 and 1069 of the civil code, the state was liable for the unlawful actions of a state official performed in the course of his duties.the court found that in the case at hand d.e.’s unlawful actions that had caused damage to the first applicant had taken place between 12.30 and 1.20 a.m. at the ostrov shopping centre, outside d.e.’s working hours and the territorial jurisdiction of the tsaritsino branch of the moscow department of the interior.the fact that at the relevant time he had held the position of chief of the tsaritsino branch of the moscow department of the interior and had had the rank of major did not constitute grounds for the state’s liability under article 1069 of the civil code, as it had been established that d.e.had been dressed in police uniform; (ii) he had used cartridges that had belonged to the tsaritsino branch of the moscow department of the interior; (iii) under section 18 of the police act a police officer carried out his or her duties irrespective of the time, place or his or her position; and (iv) d.e.had been dismissed for discrediting the police meant that his actions had been incompatible with the status of a police officer, but not that he had performed the actions that had caused damage to the first applicant in the course of his duties.51.  on 15 november 2010 the third applicant underwent a polygraph test to assess her perception of the police officers after the events of 27 april 2009. according to the results of the test, on 27 april 2009 she had taken d.e.according to the results of the examination, police uniform affects a person’s behaviour as in general people tend to display loyalty and obedience towards symbols of authority due to the latter’s legitimacy and conventionality and their fear of reprisal in the event of their refusal to obey.
documented bruises on the deceased’s head behind the left ear, at the corner of his right eye, on the right cheek and on the right side of the lower jaw.the investigator based his decision on the reports filed by doctor m. and the officers who had discovered mr antonov’s body, the report on the inspection of the cell where mr antonov had been found and on his body, and on his medical file.14.  on 22 august 2007 the city prosecutor p. quashed the decision of 28 july 2007 and ordered a further inquiry into the circumstances of mr antonov’s death.referring to the first applicant’s complaint, he considered it necessary to determine the existence and origin of the injuries on mr antonov’s body.he noted that it was necessary to obtain information concerning mr antonov’s health, to determine whether the medical assistance provided to him had been sufficient and prompt and to establish whether it had been known that mr antonov had intended to commit suicide.lastly, the prosecutor noted that the inquiry had failed to take into account the injuries on mr antonov’s head and that it was necessary to determine their origin and whether they had had any connection with his death.he again questioned doctor m. about the state of mr antonov’s health on 22 july 2007. the doctor explained that following the treatment he had been given mr antonov had been in a satisfactory condition and that it had been possible to leave him alone in a cell.22.  on 18 january 2008 the first deputy head of the regional investigative committee quashed the decision of 8 november 2007 and ordered a further inquiry, noting that the prosecutor’s instructions of 23 september 2007 had not been followed.relying on the materials of the previous inquiries, the investigator confirmed the earlier finding that mr antonov had committed suicide.the investigator could not establish the cause and time of the injuries on mr antonov’s body, but he noted that they were not related to his death.26.  the investigating authorities subsequently refused to open a criminal investigation into mr antonov’s death on 25 october 2008 and 2 january 2009. on 8 december 2008 and 12 january 2009 respectively the supervising prosecutor quashed those decisions and ordered a further inquiry into the matter, noting each time that the inquiry had been incomplete and the findings contradictory.in particular, on 8 december 2008, the regional prosecutor noted that the reports of 23 july 2007 and 23 october 2008 concerning the inspection of the cell where mr antonov had been found had given different and mutually contradictory descriptions of the layout of the cell.the investigator questioned the correctional colony officers who had been on duty on 22 july to 23 july 2007 and had seen or observed mr antonov on those days.the investigator noted that the cell where mr antonov had been found dead had been mistakenly indicated in the inquiry case file as no.on 11 march and 27 april 2009 the dzerzhinskiy district court of novosibirsk and the novosibirsk regional court respectively upheld the investigator’s findings on mr antonov’s death.
8.  the applicant submitted that during his pre-trial detention he had not been examined by a dentist and had not received any dental treatment because, as he had been informed, the remand prison neither possessed any dental equipment nor employed a dentist.while in the correctional colony, the applicant had been unable to obtain any dental treatment for extended periods of time because the dental drill and x‑ray scanner were broken.the applicant produced statements written by five inmates with whom he had been detained in the same penal institutions from 2007-2014. the statements corroborated his account of the lack of effective dental treatment.9.  the applicant also submitted that he had received dental treatment for the first time on 8 june 2011 in the correctional colony.although the applicant was diagnosed with periodontitis on 19 february 2009, it was not until 20 november 2013 that treatment of the disease had been prescribed.a medical certificate issued by the applicant’s dentist on 27 june 2014 confirmed the presence of dental prostheses for eight teeth and the absence of another ten.12.  the applicant brought the issue of inadequate medical treatment to the attention of various domestic authorities, including the head of the remand prison, the tomsk regional prosecutor’s office, and the federal service of execution of sentences (“the fsin”), but all to no avail.13.  the government submitted that the applicant had undergone medical examinations in each penal facility and had been provided with the requisite medical treatment.2, extracts from the applicant’s medical file, lists of medicines and medical appliances available at the respective penal institutions, staff lists, and the penal institutions’ medical licences.on 19 february 2009 the applicant was examined by a dentist for the first time after his placement in detention on 4 december 2007, and he was diagnosed with periodontitis.on 3 february 2011 the applicant raised his dental problems during a visit to the head of the medical unit but there was no entry in the medical file indicating that the applicant’s complaint had been investigated.between 3 june and 20 july 2011 he visited the dentist on seven occasions, during which he was diagnosed with gingivitis of the front teeth and dental caries, three permanent dental fillings were put in, the gingivitis was treated and the tartar build-up was removed.on 1 and 8 december 2011 the dentist diagnosed the applicant as having chronic periodontitis and found that the oral cavity required sanitisation.meanwhile the dentist confirmed the diagnosis of inflammatory degenerative periodontitis, prescribed treatment, extracted another tooth, removed a dental bridge and cleaned the tartar build-up.17.  the government did not contest the veracity of the statements made by the applicant’s former cellmates.
7.  on 28 may 1997 the applicant was indicted before the split county court on charges of murder, while a.b., d.d., g.a.8.  on 19 july 2000 the split county court, composed of a panel of two professional judges and three lay judges, acquitted the applicant and found the other accused guilty as charged.upon an appeal by the split county state attorney’s office, on 5 december 2002 the supreme court quashed the judgment in respect of the applicant and dismissed the charges against the other accused on account of the statutory prescription period.9.  in the fresh proceedings a panel of two different professional judges and three different lay judges of the split county court heard evidence from a.b.in the presence of the applicant and his defence lawyer on 18 february 2004. however, since one of the lay judges changed during the proceedings, the trial had to start afresh.at a hearing held on 10 july 2007 the applicant agreed that a.b.’s statement could be read out and on the same day the split county court again acquitted the applicant.gave oral evidence in the presence of the applicant and his defence counsel.was replaced by another lay judge, j.b. at a hearing held on 8 july 2010 that panel heard evidence from a.b., in the presence of the applicant and his defence counsel.was the only witness who said that he had seen the applicant attacking the victim.a request by the applicant for the trial panel to hear the witness in person was denied on the grounds that the witness was undergoing treatment for alcoholism in a psychiatric institution and that any absence from the institution would have a negative effect on his treatment.12.  in an appeal of 5 august 2011, the applicant, inter alia, challenged the veracity of the evidence given by a.b.the applicant countered the reason given by the trial court for not requesting a.b.to come to the hearing by submitting that the witness’s psychiatric treatment was scheduled to be completed in about two months and that such a delay would not affect the applicant’s trial.13.  on 27 march 2012 the supreme court upheld the judgment of 16 june 2011. the relevant part of the supreme court’s judgment reads: “the accused is not right in [alleging] that the first-instance court committed a serious breach of the rules of criminal procedure when it, without the [defence’s] consent, read out the statements of witnesses a.b.(page 967 of the case file), who was questioned several times in these criminal proceedings, because a letter from the rab psychiatric hospital shows that he was undergoing medical treatment, namely that ‘... the medical treatment is ongoing and possible absence would not contribute to the overall therapeutic procedure ...’ (page 965 of the case file).” 14.  a subsequent constitutional complaint by the applicant was dismissed by the constitutional court on 12 july 2012.
27.  n., the paramedic who had provided the applicant with first aid on 6 august 2002 at the police station, gave the following statements as a witness: the applicant had complained of headaches, loss of hearing in the left ear, pain in the chest, stomach and left hip and shortness of breath.28.  on 23 october 2002 the prosecutor’s office ordered a forensic medical opinion to establish the origin of the applicant’s injuries, stating that at about 2 p.m. on 5 august 2002 the applicant had been hit in the right hip by v. with a spade handle, and that the applicant had alleged to have been punched multiple times by police officers on his way to the staropoltavskiy district police station, where he had allegedly been taken in the boot of a police car.29.  m., an expert from the volgograd regional forensic medical bureau and a., a radiologist from the volgograd regional hospital examined the applicant’s medical records, x-ray images of his skull and temporal bones taken on 24 and 28 october 2002 and x-ray images of his ribcage taken on 23 october 2002. in their report, dated 17 december 2002, they established that the applicant had a closed head injury in the form of mild bruising on the brain and a fractured left temporal bone, further complicated by traumatic otitis of the left ear.and s. (see paragraphs 25-27 above and paragraph 33 below), the applicant’s medical records and x-ray images of his ribs, temporal bones and skull dated 23, 24 and 28 october 2002. s. concluded that on 5 august 2002 the applicant had received the following injuries: a fractured left temporal bone with a rupture of the left eardrum, a displaced fracture of the eighth left rib and a fractured sixth left rib, and an abrasion on the left of the chest.the expert concluded that all the injuries could have been inflicted in the manner alleged by the applicant, given their nature, number and location, the mechanism of their formation, the means of their infliction, notably by punching and kicking, the positions of the victim and attackers in relation to each other, and the direction of the blows.the decision also included statements by the applicant saying that v. had hit him in the left hip with a spade handle and that he had punched him back in the face, that he had travelled to the police station in the boot of a police car after being thrown in by police officers, that during the journey the officers had stopped the car and beaten him up, punching him in the head and chest, after seeing that he had dented the boot lid, and that they had assaulted him again at the police station.8.  decision of 10 march 2005 terminating the criminal proceedings against police officers s. and sh., annulled on 9 september 2005 40.  according to a letter from the volgograd regional prosecutor’s office dated 3 november 2005, a new decision terminating the proceedings was issued on 10 march 2005 and annulled on 9 september 2005. according to a letter dated 17 may 2005, the volgograd regional prosecutor’s office had in the meantime requested the district prosecutor’s office to inform the applicant of the results of the investigation and report back before 4 june 2005.the report also noted other irregularities, such as the failure of the prosecutor’s office to send copies of the decisions taken in the case to their supervisory authorities or the information centre of the ministry of the interior, such as the decision of 9 february 2004.53.  the experts considered that the medical records described in the previous expert reports contained no objective confirmation as to the diagnosis of traumatic otitis of the left ear, such as injuries or bleeding in that area, and concluded that the ringing and impaired hearing of which the applicant had complained had been explained by his chronic otitis.12.  decision of 30 april 2012 terminating the criminal proceedings against police officers s. and sh., annulled on an unspecified date 54.  on 30 april 2012 the investigative committee terminated the proceedings in accordance with article 24 § 1 (2) of the ccrp, because none of the elements of a crime were present in respect of the actions of police officers s. and sh.. the decision was based, inter alia, on the following new statements received during the additional investigation in 2012.the decision stated that the location of the dents was different from where the applicant had said he had dented the lid, that the police officers had been unable to provide any explanation as to the dents, and that it was now impossible to examine the car as it had been written off.63.  relying on the results of the 2012 forensic medical examination, the decision stated that the only injuries confirmed were the abrasion on the chest and bruising to the ribs, and that the applicant could have received them in the fight with v. as had been confirmed by v. in 2012.65.  in his report of 29 may 2012, ordered by the investigating authority on 7 march 2012, a forensic psychologist found that the applicant had a tendency to use fantasy and invention in order to fill gaps in his memory, and that during his examination by the expert he had displayed signs of giving already prepared statements, hiding information or giving false information about the conflict situation between him and t. on one side and his brothers and e. on the other.in addition to the evidence set out in the previous decision, the decision of 3 june 2012 relied on statements by e.’s daughter that after the incident between the applicant and v. the applicant had attacked her, throwing her to the ground and kicking her about six times.68.  it was concluded, as in the previous decision, that the applicant’s allegations of police ill‑treatment had not been based on real facts and that the only injuries confirmed in 2012, namely the abrasion on the chest and bruising to the ribs, could have been received by the applicant in the fight with v., as had been confirmed by v. in 2012.
6.  on 3 september 2005 a demonstration was held in the gemlik district of the city of bursa by the association for the solidarity of prisoners’ and convicts’ relatives (tutuklu ve hükümlü yakınları yardımlaşma ve dayanışma derneği – “tuhay-der”) in order to protest about the conditions of detention in prisons, and in particular those of abdullah öcalan, the leader of the pkk (the workers’ party of kurdistan), an illegal armed organisation.7.  on 5 september 2005 a group who had attended the demonstration in gemlik returned to cizre, a district of şırnak, and a gathering was held in front of the building of the cizre branch of the people’s democratic party (demokratik halk partisi – “dehap”).the applicant was charged with disseminating propaganda in favour of a criminal organisation and its goals, proscribed by article 220 § 8 of the criminal code, on account of his speech on 5 september 2005. the public prosecutor submitted that the following passages in the speech constituted propaganda in favour of an illegal organisation: “... we want peace in this country.11. the cizre criminal court held nine hearings on the merits of the case and obtained a report by an expert on the video-recordings of the gathering of 5 september 2005, which stated that the applicant had made a speech to a crowd.14.  according to the report, dated 21 may 2007, on the examination of the police video-recordings of the gathering of 5 september 2005 submitted by the expert to the first-instance court, the applicant had made the following speech: “... friends, i would like to say a few words about how grateful we are to you.as a result of the arbitrary security measures taken by the security forces and the fact that we were forced to wait two and a half hours at each checkpoint for identity checks, we were not able to travel as fast as we wanted.we condemn with contempt the mentality which obstructed the meeting in gemlik; we condemn with contempt the fact that mr abdullah gül, the minister of foreign affairs, called us ‘provocateurs’ as well as the mentality which prevented the peace meeting from taking place and which blocked and attacked the crowds.those who are against unity and solidarity in this country and those who do not want this country to reach modernity, that is to say, who obtain an unjustified gain out of this war, prevent us from having peace ... as you know, mr abdullah öcalan, the leader of the kurdish people (his speech is interrupted by the slogan ‘biji serok apo’ (‘long live president öcalan’) called for a ceasefire six years ago.the court noted that those who disseminated propaganda in favour of the pkk were expressing their support and approval for the pkk, whose methods were those of terrorism and violence.the court accordingly considered that the dissemination of propaganda in favour of that organisation essentially amounted to incitement to violence and the use of terrorist methods.the first-instance court further noted that it was a well-known fact that during illegal demonstrations and meetings pkk members and supporters disseminated propaganda by way of waving photographs of the leader of the pkk and yellow, red and green pieces of cloth, symbolising the so-called flag of the pkk.the court thus concluded that on 5 september 2005 the accused had disseminated propaganda by acting in support of the pkk’s aims and by their acts in front of the building of the cizre branch of the dehap.17.  as regards the applicant, the diyarbakır assize court also noted that he had referred to mr öcalan as “the leader of the kurdish people” and to members of the pkk who had been killed as “guerrillas”.the court also found it established that the applicant had directed the demonstrators who had chanted slogans in favour of the pkk, waved yellow, red and green pieces of cloth and carried photographs of abdullah öcalan.5532, which had entered into force on 18 july 2006, was more favourable to the applicant than the previous version of the same provision in force on the date the applicant had committed the acts that constituted the basis for his conviction (see paragraph 19 below).
7.  an outpatient forensic psychiatric examination of the applicant was ordered in the course of the pre-trial investigation.8.  on 27 october 2003 the dmitrov town court of the moscow region (димитровский городской суд московской области) (“the town court”), having considered the applicant’s complaint of unlawful apprehension and deprivation of liberty between 2 and 3 july 2003, ruled in her favour.the court reasoned that the detention had been unlawful, since the sanction for the crime she was suspected of did not provide for any form of deprivation of liberty.9.  on 4 november 2003 the prosecution made an application for the court to order an involuntary forensic psychiatric examination of the applicant at the forensic psychiatry centre.the relevant part of its order reads: “by virtue of paragraph 1 of article 203 of the code of criminal procedure, a defendant may be placed in a psychiatric hospital if a forensic psychiatric examination requires his assessment in the hospital.... the court considers that it should allow the application by the investigator, ms d., to place [the applicant] in [the forensic psychiatry centre] for a forensic psychiatric evaluation, because [the applicant] is in need of such a hospital examination.” 11.  the applicant and her representative did not attend the hearing, because they had not been summoned to it.14.  on 15 january 2004 the applicant was also charged with criminal slander of certain judges during the hearing of 29 december 2003. the proceedings in respect of the two criminal cases were joined.on 13 april 2004 a panel of psychiatrists issued a report, concluding that the applicant suffered from “paranoid personality development”, and that she had not been able to understand or control her actions during the events of 22 december 2002 (contempt of court) and 29 december 2003 (criminal slander).16.  two weeks later on 27 april 2004 the moscow regional court (московский областной суд) (“the regional court”) held a hearing on the applicant’s appeal against the the town court’s decision of 4 november 2003 authorising psychiatric examination, and rejected it.as regards the applicant’s complaint about the hearing taking place in her absence, the regional court noted that article 165 of the code of criminal procedure provided for ex parte hearings where there was judicial authorisation of investigative actions, including internment in a psychiatric facility for forensic examination (as set out in article 203 of the code).17.  on 14 september 2004 the moscow city court (московский городской суд) (“the city court”) adopted decisions in two sets of criminal proceedings against the applicant.the first decision terminated the criminal proceedings relating to the contempt of court charges in respect of the events of 22 december 2002. the applicant’s statements, while offensive, were found to have been lacking the degree of insult requisite for incurring criminal liability.in the second decision, the city court established the principal facts of the events of 29 december 2003. concluding that the applicant had acted in a state of insanity, it terminated the criminal proceedings against her and ordered her to undergo compulsory medical treatment in a psychiatric facility.on the same day an application to discharge the hospital order and discontinue the compulsory treatment was sent to the town court.22.  on 22 may 2006 the town court scheduled the hearing of the application for the next day.
8.  in the testimonies she gave to the police after the criminal investigation had been opened (see paragraph 15 below), the applicant specified that in the course of the conflict mrs sh.10.  on 30 july 2002 the applicant was taken by ambulance to the emergency unit of the ternopil town municipal hospital, being admitted there at 5.30 p.m. according to the medical records, at the time of the applicant’s admission she was diagnosed with a brain concussion but no other traumatic injuries.the forensic experts also found that the applicant had sustained a brain concussion and had a bruise on the right side of her chest.she also testified that on 29 july 2002 the applicant and the applicant’s husband had come to her house and demanded the interest on the above amount.20.  on 13 january 2003 the expert commission of the ternopil regional bureau of forensic medical examinations confirmed the findings of the expert examination of 4 september 2002. in addition, the experts noted that the applicant’s brain concussion and the bruise had been inflicted by a blunt object and could not have been sustained by falling.the experts also stated that the dynamics of the applicant’s clinical picture corresponded to her allegation that the injuries had been inflicted on her on 30 july 2002. they finally concluded that the brain concussion had been caused by a series of blows to the head.23.  on 25 february 2003 the deputy head of the investigation office of the ternopil town police department terminated the criminal proceedings against mr and mrs sh.two accounts of events were noted in that decision, one suggested by the applicant and another one put forward on the basis of the statements of mr and mrs sh.it was concluded that, in view of the conflicting witness statements, it was impossible to establish whether the incident had occurred on 29 or 30 july 2002 and the police did not have sufficient evidence to prosecute mr and mrs sh.maintained that on 29 july 2002 the applicant had come to their house together with her husband and had demanded the interest on the above amount.27.  in particular, in the decision of 5 may 2003 the deputy head of the investigation office of the ternopil town police department ordered that a reconstruction of the incident be staged with a view to establishing the facts of the case and in order to support or rebut the conflicting statements of the witnesses.in a later decision, of 8 december 2004, a senior prosecutor from the ternopil regional prosecutor’s office noted, inter alia, the need to also question the ambulance personnel who had conveyed the applicant to the emergency unit on 30 july 2002.he testified that on 30 july 2002 he had been driving his taxi and had picked up the applicant and her husband on the street where the house of mr and mrs sh.29.  on 17 january 2004 the first deputy ternopil city prosecutor (перший заступник прокурора міста тернополя) noted that the investigating officer had failed to follow instructions and take the investigative measures required by the decision of 5 may 2003 (see paragraph 27 above).by the first decision the police terminated the criminal proceedings against mr and mrs sh., reiterating the reasons given in the decision of 4 april 2003. by the second decision the criminal investigation of the case was stayed until the identity of the person who inflicted the injuries on the applicant could be established.
7.  on 4 october 2005 s. complained to the prosecutor’s office of the autonomous republic of crimea (“the arc”) (прокуратура автономної республіки крим) that the applicant and u., a prosecutor’s assistant, had extorted 5,000 united states dollars (usd) from him for the purpose of carrying on a fishing business.17.  on 21 february 2006 the feodosiya court rejected the applicant’s request to change the preventive measure to an undertaking not to abscond, noting that the applicant was accused of having committed a serious crime, and might abscond or hinder the investigation.19.  on 14 september 2006 the court of appeal of the arc terminated proceedings in respect of one count of bribery concerning the applicant and upheld the remainder of the judgment.26.  on 6 march 2006 the applicant lodged a complaint with the feodosiya court about the conditions of his detention in the itt (overcrowding, no windows in the cell, no possibility of taking a shower, lack of out-of-cell activities).28.  on 20 march 2006 the feodosiya prosecutor’s office informed the applicant that some violations of the law by the feodosiya itt authorities had been established and that the relevant instructions had been given to remedy the situation, with no further details provided.30.  on 23 and 28 july 2006 the feodosiya prosecutor’s office sent the applicant a reply similar to that in the letter of 20 march 2006. according to the applicant, he did not receive these letters.31.  on 1 july 2006 the applicant complained to the court of appeal of the arc (“court of appeal”) about the failure of the feodosiya court to consider his complaint on the merits.he requested that the court of appeal oblige the latter to consider his complaint against the feodosiya itt on the merits and to bring disciplinary measure to bear on the respective judge of the feodosiya court.32.  on 1 august 2006 the court of appeal assigned the applicant’s complaint to the leninskiy district court of the arc (“the leninskiy district court”).33.  on 2 august 2006 the applicant complained to the prosecutor’s office of the arc about the alleged failure of the feodosiya prosecutor’s office to consider his complaints about conditions of detention.the court dismissed as unsubstantiated the applicant’s allegations that the failure of the feodosiya court to entertain his complaint amounted to a denial of access to a court.36.  on 12 october 2006 the applicant received a letter from the prosecutor’s office of the arc in which it referred to the responses given earlier to the applicant by the feodosiya prosecutor’s office.37.  on 12 december 2006 the court of appeal of the arc upheld the decision of 31 august 2006. it noted in particular that the applicant had submitted to the feodosiya court a complaint regarding the poor conditions of detention but not an administrative claim against the feodosiya itt for the protection of his rights, as was required by the code of administrative justice.39.  on 17 september 2007 the applicant lodged an administrative claim with the menskiy district court of the chernigiv region (“the mesnkiy district court”) against the feodosiya itt authorities claiming, inter alia, damages for the harm inflicted by the inhuman and degrading conditions of his detention.41.  on 23 november 2007 the menskiy district court rejected the claim as having been lodged outside the one-year time-limit set by the law, since the applicant had been transferred from the feodosiya itt on 5 september 2006.
6.  on an unspecified date the korça regional company for the distribution of electricity (ndërmarja zonale e shpërndarjes së energjisë elektrike) (“the defendant”) started the construction of a high-voltage line on the applicant’s plots of lands.on 8 march 2006 and 4 may 2007 the korça court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) and the supreme court respectively upheld that decision.9.  on 26 january 2006 the applicant brought an action against the defendant to bring the construction works to an end immediately, remove the high-voltage line and restore the site to its previous state.10.  on 30 january 2006 the bailiff in the case discontinued enforcement proceedings concerning the decision of 13 january 2006 on the grounds that the works had been suspended.11.  on 7 april 2006 the district court ordered the immediate termination of the works on the applicant’s plot of land, the removal of the high-voltage line and the restoration of the site to its former state (ndalimin e punimeve si dhe duke detyruar ana e paditur të heqë kabllot, të dy linjat dhe ta kthejë pronën në gjendjen e mëparshme).12.  on 10 august 2006 the applicant requested that the bailiff enforce the judgment of 7 april 2006, as upheld by the court of appeal on 27 june 2006. however, as the proceedings on the merits of the case were pending before the supreme court (see paragraph 11 above), on 8 september 2006 the supreme court provisionally decided to stay the enforcement proceedings.14.  on 16 may 2007 the constitutional court dismissed the appeal on the grounds that an examination of the applicant’s action on the merits was pending before the supreme court.15.  on 11 january 2008 the supreme court upheld in a final judgment the district court’s judgment of 7 april 2006 and the court of appeal’s judgment of 27 june 2006.16.  on 22 february 2008, following the supreme court’s judgment of 11 january 2008, the applicant again requested that the bailiff enforce the judgment of 7 april 2006.on 21 september 2011 and 25 november 2011 the defendant informed the bailiff that the applicant was prepared to solve the dispute with the authorities by way of a friendly settlement.19.  on 20 may 2008 the applicant filed a criminal complaint against the bailiff and the distributor energy operator (operatori i shpërndarjes së energjisë elektrike) (“dec”) for failure to comply with the judgment of 7 april 2006. it appears that on an unspecified date the court of appeal discontinued the proceedings by virtue of a final judgment.22.  on 7 may 2012 the district court decided to stay the proceedings and await the conclusion of the civil proceedings instituted by aec against the administrative decisions of 14 july 1995 and 14 june 1996 (see paragraph 24 below), which had recognised the applicant’s property rights.24.  on 6 february 2007 aec brought a civil action against the applicant to annul the administrative decisions of 14 july 1995 and 14 june 1996 on the grounds that the plots of land had belonged to and had been used by aec since 1960.26.  on 31 july 2008 the district court decided, at the applicant’s request, to stay the proceedings and await the conclusion of other civil and criminal proceedings instituted by the applicant.28.  on two other occasions aec and dec brought civil actions against the applicant to annul the administrative decisions of 14 july 1995 and 14 june 1996. on 17 april 2012 and 22 december 2014, respectively, the district court discontinued its examination of the actions on the grounds that aec and dec had failed to attend hearings for no good reason.
4.  the applicant was born in 1952 and lives in tirana.5.  on 18 june 2009 the applicant, who worked as general deputy director of state social service (zëvendës drejtor i përgjithshëm i shërbimit social shtetëror) at the ministry of work, social affairs and equal opportunities (ministria e punës, çështjeve sociale dhe shanseve të barabarta) (“the ministry”) was dismissed.6.  on 27 january 2010 the tirana district court accepted in part the applicant’s action against his dismissal.it ordered the applicant’s reinstatement and the payment of damages corresponding to five months’ salaries.by final judgment of 23 november 2010 the tirana court of appeal upheld the tirana district court’s judgment.7.  on 6 may 2011 an enforcement writ was issued.8.  from 2011 to 2014 the bailiff office unsuccessfully attempted the enforcement of the final judgment.9.  on 9 december 2014 the authorities finally paid the damages to the applicant.10.  on 8 april 2016 the state social service requested the ministry to examine the applicant’s reinstatement.on the same day the state social service addressed a letter to the department of the public administration, stating that the position of the deputy director was available.
6.  on 12 april 2005 the applicant company and another company, s., concluded an agreement by which the applicant company undertook to provide information and analytical services to s., and the latter undertook to pay for those services.7.  on 27 april 2006 the applicant company lodged a claim against s. with the kyiv commercial court, seeking recovery of an alleged debt under the above agreement, as well as the payment of penalties and legal fees.the court adjourned the hearing until 14 september 2006 without deciding on the admissibility of the counterclaim.10.  on 14 september 2006 the judge hearing the case accepted s.’s counterclaim for joint consideration with the original claim by the applicant company.at the same hearing, the judge granted s.’s counterclaim in part and rejected the original claim of the applicant company in full.11.  on 13 october 2006 the applicant company lodged an appeal on points of law against the judgment of 14 september 2006 with the higher commercial court of ukraine (“the hccu”).it argued that the proceedings before the first-instance court had not been adversarial, and had not complied with the principle of procedural equality between the parties: the first-instance court had not provided the applicant company with an opportunity to prepare and submit observations as to s.’s counterclaim or collect and provide evidence in defence.the applicant company requested that the impugned judgment be quashed and the case remitted to the first-instance court for fresh consideration.12.  on 9 november 2006 the hccu returned the applicant company’s appeal on points of law to it without considering the appeal on the merits, because the relevant court fee had not been paid in full.in the cover letter, the applicant company set out the circumstances which had resulted in its missing the deadline for appealing on points of law, and asked the hccu to extend the relevant time-limit and consider the appeal.apart from that information, the cover letter contained the date, name and address of the court to which it was addressed, the case reference number, the parties’ contact details, and the disputed amount which was the subject of the case.14.  on 19 december 2006 the hccu found that the applicant company had submitted the second appeal on points of law outside the time-limit provided for by article 110 of the code of commercial procedure, and had failed to enclose an application for an extension.relying on sub-paragraph 5 of article 111-3 § 1, the hccu declined to consider the applicant company’s appeal on points of law.15.  on 4 january 2007 the applicant company challenged the decision of 19 december 2006 before the supreme court, arguing that on 21 november 2006 it had in fact applied for an extension of the time-limit for lodging the appeal on points of law with the hccu.the application had been included in the text of the cover letter accompanying the appeal on points of law.
subsequently, the applicant was placed in a cell in which he was visited by a group of officers, including the prison governor and medical officer, with a view to completing the formalities related to the applicant’s transfer to that prison.the prosecutor based his decision on the information available from the applicant’s medical file and the written statements obtained from the prison staff, including the medical officer who had examined the applicant upon his arrival at the prison, and also from some of the prisoners who had been transferred to the prison on the same day as the applicant.18.  the courts at two levels of jurisdiction upheld the prosecutor’s findings, relying, in the main, on the material contained in the prosecutor’s file concerning the applicant’s complaint that he had been beaten.according to him, as the cells contained sanitary facilities, four bunks, a table and two benches, the applicant and his cellmates had very limited living space, which, given the fact that they spent twenty-three hours a day in the cell and were not allowed to take physical exercise, was humiliating and intolerable.(b)  submissions by the government 25.  according to the government, a part of the applicant’s submissions concerning the conditions of his detention, specifically his allegations that he had been detained in cells with poor sanitary and hygiene conditions together with inmates suffering from the open form of tuberculosis, that he had been escorted to a medical unit or a meeting place with a felt-lined bag over his head, and that while handcuffed he had been obliged to walk with his hands raised above his head, were untrue and not supported by any evidence.the prosecutor found that the medical assistance provided to the applicant by the administration of the prison had been adequate; the applicant was informed of this by a letter of 3 november 2005. the prosecutor’s finding was based on the information contained in the applicant’s medical file, according to which the applicant had received treatment for hypertension in october and december 2004, in january and february 2005, and between april and july 2005, which included the administration of inosine, nitroglycerinum and other medication.(b)  submissions by the government 32.  according to the information submitted by the government, throughout the period of his detention in the sizo and in sokalska prison the applicant had been examined by various doctors, including doctors from civilian medical institutions, and had been provided with treatment for different medical issues he had at the time, including hypertension.in reply, they provided the applicant with extracts of the provisions of the code on the execution of sentences of 2003 governing the conditions of detention of persons sentenced to life imprisonment.40.  the government challenged the trustworthiness of part of the applicant’s submissions concerning restrictions on family visits and telephone calls, specifically his allegations that family visits had lasted less than two hours, that he had not been allowed to make telephone calls between 15 october 2004 and 2 november 2005, that other restrictions had been imposed on his right to make telephone calls after 2 november 2005, that only three adults and one minor child or two adults and two minor children had been allowed to visit him at any one time in the cherkasy sizo, that only two adults and two minor children had been allowed to visit him at any one time in sokalska prison, and that those visits had taken place in the presence of a guard with a guard dog.in particular, the applicant was placed in solitary confinement for the period from 28 january to 15 may 2012; on an unspecified date all the documents in his possession and his pen were taken from him; and he was not given the opportunity to contact his relatives for two months, the exact calendar period not being specified.42.  the government in their turn contended that no letter to the applicant had been opened, that there had been no interference with his communication with the outside world, and that the applicant’s allegations of persecution for complaining to the court were wholly unfounded.43.  on 4 july 2002 the applicant lodged an application with the court, complaining, inter alia, under article 3 of the convention that he had been tortured by the police and under articles 6 and 7 of the convention that he had been unfairly convicted and that his sentence had not been based on the law in force at the material time.45.  in 2002-03 the applicant’s mother and wife, who were given leave to represent him during his trial (see paragraph 8 above) and after the trial by a ruling of 6 march 2003 issued by a judge of the cherkasy regional court of appeal, visited that court on several occasions with a view to obtaining copies of the documents from the applicant’s criminal case file.in particular, he was invited to submit copies of his written complaints to the national authorities concerning his alleged ill-treatment, a copy of the prosecutor’s decision concerning those complaints, a copy of his cassation appeal against the judgment of the cherkasy regional court of appeal of 23 august 2001, and copies of his written applications to have a witness on his behalf examined by that court.49.  meanwhile, the applicant lodged a complaint with the prydniprovskyy district court against the judges of the cherkasy regional court of appeal, challenging their refusal to provide him with copies of documents from his case file or to allow his relatives to represent him before the domestic authorities.
they were part of a public campaign “[f]or the consolidation of democratic forces in order to defend the constitution and the legal order” initiated before the presidential elections in march 2008.8.  on that day the applicants attended a gathering on academician sakharov prospekt, which had been organised by the second applicant and approved by the authorities.according to the applicants, at 3 p.m., at the end of the gathering, they started walking to the location of another authorised gathering which took place on chistoprudnyy boulevard between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. the government alleged that some 1,500 people took part in the procession, a figure contested by the applicants as grossly overestimated.a duty officer drew up an administrative offence statement (протокол об административном правонарушении) in respect of each of them on the basis of reports (рапорт) by police officers m. and u. the applicants were charged with breaching the established procedure for conducting public events and disobeying lawful police orders, offences under articles 20.2 § 2 and 19.3 of the code of administrative offences (протокол об административном задержании).according to the first applicant, members of the public who wanted to attend the hearing of his case were prevented from entering the court, which had been cordoned off by the riot police.12.  the justice of the peace examined police officers m. and u., who stated that after the public gathering the first applicant had participated in an unauthorised march down myasnitskaya street towards chistoprudnyy boulevard and had chanted “down with putin!”.when he had seen that the path had been blocked by the police he had turned back as ordered, but as he had walked away he had been arrested.13.  on the same day the justice of the peace found the first applicant guilty of both charges, establishing that he had marched among some 1,500 people in what had constituted an unauthorised public event.she based her findings on m. and u.’s witness statements and written reports, the administrative offence statements in respect of two charges and the report on the administrative arrest.she dismissed the applicant’s testimony as false, finding that it contradicted the police officers’ testimony and reports, and that the latter were trustworthy because they had “no vested interest”.14.  on 26 november 2007 the same justice of the peace considered the administrative charges against the second applicant.the justice of the peace examined only police officer u., who gave essentially the same testimony as in the first applicant’s case.the second applicant pleaded not guilty and alleged that he had been arrested while walking from the authorised meeting to the metro station.as in the first applicant’s case, the justice of the peace based her findings on u.’s witness statements and the written police reports.15.  on the same day the meshchanskiy district court of moscow examined and dismissed appeals lodged by the first and second applicant.
accordingly, if released, he might abscond and interfere with [administration of justice].” 13.  on 12 november 2008 the town court extended the applicant’s detention until 31 december 2008. the court reasoned as follows: “taking into account the fact that [the applicant] is charged with a serious offence which he committed whilst on parole, that he has a prior criminal record and that he might abscond, continue his criminal activities, and interfere with the administration of justice, it is necessary that [the applicant] remain in custody.” 14.  on 16 december 2008 the town court set the trial-date for 23 december 2008. the court also ordered that the applicant remain in custody pending examination of the case and noted as follows: “... according to the material submitted by the prosecutor, [the applicant] had been previously convicted.16.  on 22 may 2009 the town court extended the applicant’s detention until 8 september 2009 noting as follows: “having heard the parties’ arguments, the court concludes that, in view of the fact that [the applicant] is charged with a ... grievous offence ... which he committed whilst on parole, the court considers that, if released, he might abscond or continue criminal activities.accordingly, ... the detention imposed on [the applicant] cannot be lifted.” 17.  on 25 june 2009 the town court returned the case file to the prosecutor’s office for rectification of certain omissions and extended the applicant’s detention until 8 september 2009. the court referred to the gravity of the charges against the applicant and noted that the latter was charged with having committed a serious offence whilst released on parole.22.  during the subsequent hearings the court heard evidence from a certain p., police officers and., rom., ak., z., shch., and t. − who had taken part in the applicant’s arrest − the head of the police unit pl., lay witness r. − who had been present when the applicant was searched on 16 july 2008 − and forensic expert p., who had run a laboratory test on the heroin found on the applicant.24.  on 9 december 2009 the director of the company that provided the interpreters for the trial complained to the court that the applicant had threatened the interpreters who had earlier taken part in the proceedings.the presiding judge informed the parties that the interpreters who had earlier taken part in the proceedings had decided to refuse further engagement in view of the insults and threats made by the applicant.the presiding judge presented the report from the remand prison management stating that on 16 december 2009 the applicant had refused to be transported from the remand prison to the court-house for the hearing.the applicant stated that the presiding judge’s conduct clearly demonstrated that he was being pressurised by high-ranking law-enforcement officials to deliver an unlawful judgment in the applicant’s case and that his decision to remove the applicant from the courtroom would be unlawful and in contravention of the convention.the head of the interpreters’ agency reported that [the applicant] spoke chechen [in the courtroom] with the sole intention of insulting and threatening the interpreters.” 27.  the trial continued in the applicant’s absence.37.  following communication of the application to the government, on 4 february 2014 the acting head of the investigative committee of odintsovo town quashed the decision of 9 september 2009 and remitted the matter for further inquiry.52.  on 9 november 2010 the supreme court informed the moscow city prosecutor of the applicant’s injuries and forwarded the applicant’s complaint about the beatings in the remand prison.the major then told the orderlies to pull the applicant off the bed and continued the beatings, administering multiple blows to the applicant’s head and other parts of the body.63.  according to the applicant, at all times the cells in the temporary detention centre were overcrowded and the personal space available to the inmates fell short of the statutory minimum standard of 4 sq.68.  according to the applicant, on the days of the court hearings and on the days when there was a change of the applicant’s place of detention, he was woken up early and placed in an overcrowded holding cell.
10.  it appears that during the investigation the authorities learned that the applicant was wanted by the authorities of the republic of belarus for a murder allegedly committed in 2003 in minsk.without informing the hospital administration and without having received the results of the expert examination, the police arrested the applicant and took him to remand prison no.16.  on 13 august 2008 the kurgan town court, at the request of the kurgan prosecutor and in the absence of the applicant, ordered his detention pending the receipt of an extradition request from the belarusian authorities.that ruling was based on article 466 of the code of criminal procedure of russia (“the ccrp”) and article 61 of the convention on legal assistance and legal relations in civil, family and criminal matters (“the minsk convention”).17.  on 21 august 2008 the kurgan regional court quashed the order of 13 august 2008 in view of the applicant’s absence from the hearing before the town court.18.  a week later, this time after hearing evidence from the applicant, the town court, on the basis of the same legal provisions, ordered his detention until receipt of the extradition request from the republic of belarus.25.  in the meantime, on 29 august 2008, in the context of the criminal investigation into car theft, the kurgan town court ordered the applicant not to leave kurgan.the decision was based on the seriousness of the charges, the fact that the applicant had been on the run and had no permanent residence in russia.27.  on 22 november 2008 the town court extended the applicant’s detention until 5 december 2008, citing the seriousness of the charges and the lack of a permanent residence in russia.30.  on 26 may 2009 the regional court upheld the conviction and sentence, but amended the type of the detention facility where the applicant was to serve his sentence to a settlement colony.31.  it is clear from entries made by civilian doctors in the applicant’s medical history on 12 august 2008, the day of his arrest, that he was in satisfactory health; his body temperature, which had fluctuated for several days, was 37.7˚c; the pain syndrome was decreasing; his stitches were dry; and no signs of inflammation were present.the attending doctor explicitly noted that the patient had been taken from the hospital without the consent of the chief doctor.37.  the surgeon, having considered the time that had passed from the termination of the skeletal traction, removed the metal pin from the applicant’s leg.40.  the medical documents in the court’s possession cover the period up to 21 may 2009. they show that at that time the applicant was seen by the prison doctor on account of his chronic peptic and liver conditions.41.  as to the conditions of the applicant’s detention during that period, the government submitted that the applicant had been transferred between several cells of the remand prison, some of which were overcrowded.
8.  the article then mentioned the mother of mr s. (his full surname was given in the headline and in the article), a former deputy of the national parliament (the state duma), who at that time was standing in elections to the state duma.nurses remember that it was very hard to lift and turn her ...” 9.  the article also referred to the care home’s chief medical officer, mr m., as having stated that empathy – mercy – towards the patients was a necessary quality for the personnel in order to work in that institution, and that it was a particularly rare quality at that time which should be revived.it rejected as unfounded the claimants’ argument concerning a breach of their right to respect for their private life, noting that, by placing their relative, mrs s., in a state-owned medical institution for the elderly, the claimants had stepped out of the private sphere and into the public domain, and therefore the constitutional principle of the inviolability of private life was inapplicable in the circumstances.the court thus concluded that the sentence stating “...quite a few respectable people bring their ill relatives to the care home in an attempt to escape unnecessary troubles...” could not be said to be untrue, whether it was the applicant’s generalisation or a sentence relating to the claimants, as alleged by them.it also rejected as unfounded the claimants’ argument that the disputed publication had been propagandistic and had aimed to influence voters’ opinions; in this respect, it noted that the text of the article was socially oriented and contained general argument concerning the problems affecting ill and elderly people, with the specific example of the lesnaya dacha care home.the court also noted that the general statements of the care home’s chief medical officer concerning a lack of mercy for next of kin had had no link to the claimants or other members of the s. family.15.  on 28 june 2002, in supervisory review proceedings, the supreme court of russia quashed the judgment of 17 april 2000 and the decisions of 30 june 2000 and 30 may 2001, and sent the case back to the first-instance court for fresh examination.18.  the appellate court set aside the judgment of 20 may 2003 on the grounds of incorrect application by the first-instance court of the substantive law, and delivered a new decision.19.  in relation to the sentence stating “...quite a few respectable people bring their ill relatives to the care home in an attempt to escape unnecessary troubles...”, the tomsk regional court disagreed with the first-instance court’s view that the sentence was true and was not damaging to the claimants’ honour and dignity.in particular, the regional court noted that the headline of the article and the sequence of its sentences made it clear that the statement, along with the reference to the lack of mercy for next of kin, although generalised, related to the claimants.20.  the appellate court went on to examine evidence confirming the poor physical and mental condition of mrs s., and noted the claimants’ argument that they had placed her in lesnaya dacha because of the need to ensure proper medical assistance and care, rather than for lack of mercy.the appellate court also referred to the statement of a witness who had “explained that information disseminated in respect of the claimants, to the effect that mrs s.’s relatives had not taken care of her, had not corresponded to reality”.21.  it further found that the disputed information, namely that the claimants had placed their seriously ill close relative in the care home for the elderly because of a lack of mercy, and in order to avoid unnecessary troubles, was a statement that the claimants had breached their moral principles, and was therefore damaging to their honour and dignity, according to the resolution of the supreme court.the tomsk regional court thus concluded that the information in the publication that “...quite a few respectable people bring their ill relatives to the care home in an attempt to escape unnecessary troubles because of lack of mercy for their next of kin...” was untrue and damaging to the claimants’ honour and dignity, and ordered the applicant to pay 10,000 russian roubles (rub – approximately 285 euros (eur)) to each of the three claimants as compensation for non-pecuniary damage.24.  on 13 october 2004 the presidium of the tomsk regional court, in supervisory review proceedings, upheld the decision of 17 october 2003, endorsing its reasoning, but reducing the amount of the award in respect of non-pecuniary damage.
6.  by an indictment of 25 october 2007 the applicant, jointly with three co‑accused, was charged with violation of intellectual property rights under section 299 b of the penal code of a particularly aggravated nature, comprising professionally organised production, importation and sales, in which the defendants had cooperated on marketing substantial quantities of counterfeit goods in the form of designer knives, lamps and similar products.8.  by letters of 1 and 9 september 2009 a submitted his claim for legal costs to the city court for work performed from 2006 until 2009. by decision of 24 september 2009 the city court granted a fees in the amount of dkk 183,862.50 (approximately eur 24,700) plus vat and reimbursement of costs in the amount of dkk 2,060 which was provisionally to be paid by the treasury.the operative part of the judgment, including the matter of payment of legal costs, was read aloud when the judgment was passed.11.  a few days later lawyer b received a transcript of the judgment, which in the operative part relating to legal fees stated: “each of the accused is to pay the legal costs relating to them, including the fee to counsel appointed to them.” 12.  the applicant did not appeal against the judgment to the high court, nor did the public prosecution.13.  according to a court record of 5 january 2010, the city court approved the costs to be paid to b in the amount of dkk 247,200 (approximately eur 33,200) plus vat and reimbursement of other costs amounting to dkk 32,423. it was stated that the amount was to be paid by the applicant.in support thereof, and with reference to section 1008, section 2, of the administration of justice act, he submitted that the applicant had only played a minor role in the criminal case; that an extensive part of the production of evidence did not relate to him; that he had been acquitted of one count; and that the total fee was of a significant amount.this was the moment when the applicant became aware for the first time of the fees that had been granted to a.16.  on 26 january 2010, on behalf of the applicant, b extended his appeal of 17 january 2010 also to include the payment of costs to a, which in the applicant’s view should be paid entirely or partly by the treasury.17.  on 8 february 2010 the city court submitted a letter to b, with which was enclosed a copy of the judgment of 4 december 2009, which on 5 february 2010 had been rectified on page 90 in the operative part as follows: “the accused are to pay the legal costs, so that each of them pays the legal costs relating to them, including the fees for their appointed counsel.” 18.  the court records of 24 september 2009 and a’s letters of 1 and 9 september 2009 were also enclosed with the letter.19.  by letter of 11 february 2010, b informed the high court of western denmark that the applicant withdrew his appeal as regards the fees to be paid to b. moreover, he requested permission to submit further observations as regards the fee that the applicant had been ordered to pay to a.in his view, the time-limit for appealing against the decisions on the fees to be paid to a should, at the earliest, run from 25 january 2010, the date on which the applicant received the invoice from the police and thus became aware for the first time of the fees that had been granted to a.more specifically, it stated: “the interlocutory appeal does not concern the amount of the fee granted to the applicant’s two defence lawyers; it only concerns the city court’s decision that the applicant must pay the legal costs relating to him, including the fee to his appointed counsel.this decision was integrated in the judgment of 4 december 2009 and the applicant, who was present when the judgment was passed, was informed of the decision during that hearing.accordingly, the time-limit must be calculated from 4 december 2009, pursuant to section 969 of the administration act, even if the applicant only later learned how much the legal costs, including the fees for the defence counsel, amounted to.thus, the time-limit had expired when the interlocutory appeal was lodged on 17 january 2010.” 22.  leave to appeal to the supreme court was refused by the appeals permission board on 18 june 2010. ii.
8.  the applicant was detained in the remand prison during several periods between 7 april 2008 and 7 october 2009. at that time he was placed in cells nos.9.  according to the applicant, for most of the period of his detention, 184 days between 7 april 2008 and 11 february 2009, he was detained alone in cell no.throughout the entire period of his detention the applicant was allowed access to the exercise yard, which was dirty and dusty, for only fifty minutes a day.10.  during several periods between 23 april 2008 and 21 august 2009, amounting to 207 days in total, the applicant was held in the temporary detention unit.12.  as the applicant’s suffering continued, on 22 january 2009 an investigator asked the head of the remand prison to arrange for him to be examined by a dentist.according to the dentist, delay in the treatment could lead to grave complications, such as the loss of the chewing function, osteomyelitis and sepsis.14.  on 25 may 2009 the applicant was taken to a civilian clinic, where a dentist removed his lower dental bridge and one of the problem teeth.the dentist was unable to complete the treatment as the applicant had to be transported back to the detention facility.15.  in june 2009 the applicant brought a civil claim against the prison authorities, seeking dental treatment as advised by the doctor treating him and compensation for non-pecuniary damage.16.  between 24 december 2009 and 16 march 2010 a civilian dentist removed the dental crowns and bridges from twenty-two of the applicant’s teeth, extracted two teeth, and treated and shaped the remaining teeth for the forthcoming dental restoration work.in a letter to the head of the remand prison dated 30 march 2010, the dentist stressed that it was crucial to ensure that the applicant was transported to the clinic in line with the fixed schedule, starting from 13 april 2010. failure to do so would entail the necessity to start the treatment anew.the dentist also pointed out that the excessively long time the treatment had taken had already caused substantial suffering to the applicant and increased the risk of digestive problems.17.  having not been taken to the dentist as recommended, the applicant submitted several requests for the dental treatment, stating that he had lost the ability to chew and in addition to severe teeth pain he started experiencing stomach pain.on 17 june 2010 the authorities gave their approval for the applicant to be transported to the dentist.owing to the constant pain and the lack of teeth the applicant had to refuse prison food for several days.
7.  on 29 january 2014 the fokino town court of the primorskiy region convicted the applicant of murder and sentenced him to six and a half years’ imprisonment.9.  on his admission to a remand prison in january 2014, the applicant was given a general medical check-up by the doctor on duty, to whom he complained of lower back and joint pain.10.  according to the applicant’s submissions, which were not disputed by the government, he was put in an ordinary cell not equipped for wheelchair‑using detainees.12.  in february 2014 he was examined by a neurologist, who noted that one of his diagnoses was paraplegia, impairment in motor function of the lower extremities.14.  there is no information in the applicant’s file to suggest that the remand prison authorities gave him medication, an mri scan or radiography.on his arrival he was seen by a prison doctor who, in addition to the spinal and joint conditions, diagnosed him with coronary heart disease, angina pectoris and moderate hypertension disease.19.  on 27 august 2014 a specialist medical panel of the prison hospital concluded that the applicant was not eligible for early release, because none of his illnesses were included in the governmental decree containing a list of illnesses precluding offenders from serving their sentences.on the same day the applicant was discharged from the prison hospital.20.  on 2 october 2014 the olovyannaya district court dismissed the applicant’s application for early release, referring to the medical report of 27 august 2014. that decision was upheld on appeal by the zabaiykalsk regional court on 16 december 2014.21.  in the meantime the applicant lodged several complaints with the head of the prison medical authorities, the federal service for the execution of sentences and the federal supervisory service for healthcare and social development of the russian federation.the latter authority found a shortcoming in the applicant’s treatment, namely a failure to ensure he was examined by an orthopaedic traumatologist.23.  over the months that followed the applicant was regularly seen by prison doctors and provided with hypotensive drugs and pain relief drugs.24.  in the meantime he brought a civil claim against the medical authorities seeking compensation for damage to his health caused by inadequate medical treatment.having looked at the list of medical services provided to the applicant, the court concluded that he had been afforded adequate medical treatment.26.  on 1 september 2015 a neurologist ordered the applicant’s admission to the prison hospital, which would involve a train journey.
4.  the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in moscow.5.  on 13 october 2006 the zamoskvoretskiy district court in moscow remanded the applicant in custody on the charge of fraud.subsequently the district court extended the applicant’s detention on 8 december 2006 and on 2 february, 10 april, 29 may and 18 september 2007. each time the district court attached preponderant weight to the gravity of the charges against the applicant.on 21 may and 4 july 2007 the moscow city court rejected the appeals against the detention orders of 10 april and 29 may 2007, respectively.6.  the city court authorised further extensions of the applicant’s detention on 28 september and 26 december 2007. the supreme court rejected his appeals on 31 october 2007 and 15 february 2008, respectively.7.  on 14 february 2008 the case was submitted for trial.on 20 february, 30 june and 17 december 2008 and 18 march and 18 june 2009 the district courts in moscow prolonged the applicant’s detention pending trial, referring mainly to the gravity of the charges.the most recent extension order was issued for the period until 19 september 2009.8.  between 27 january 2007 and 16 may 2008 the applicant was detained in the iz-77/1 remand prison in moscow.the prison was filled beyond the design capacity and cells were severely overcrowded.he was later transferred to another remand prison in moscow.
19.  as the applicant’s wife stated that she had travelled through germany, a request to take back the applicant and his family was sent to the german authorities under the dublin convention of 15 june 1990 determining the state responsible for examining applications for asylum lodged in one of the member states of the european communities (“the dublin convention”).26.  the aliens office declared the request inadmissible on 5 april 2007 on the ground that the evidence adduced did not amount to exceptional circumstances for the purposes of section 9(3) of the act such as to warrant the lodging of the request in belgium rather than with the competent diplomatic mission or consulate, as was the rule.the applicant alleged a violation of articles 2 and 3 of the convention and argued that his serious health problems amounted to exceptional humanitarian circumstances as defined by the court in d. v. the united kingdom (2 may 1997, reports of judgments and decisions 1997‑iii), that he would not have access to treatment in georgia and that the discontinuation of treatment would lead to his premature death.55.  on 26 september 2007 the aliens office refused the request on the ground that, under section 9ter(4) of the act, the applicant was excluded from its scope on account of the serious crimes which had given rise in the meantime to a ministerial deportation order issued on 16 august 2007 (see paragraph 73 below).he alleged in particular that the aliens office had relied exclusively on the ministerial deportation order in excluding him from the scope of section 9ter of the aliens act, without investigating his state of health or the risk he ran of being subjected to treatment contrary to article 3 of the convention, and without weighing up the interests at stake as required by article 8 of the convention.57.  in a judgment of 20 august 2008 the aliens appeals board dismissed the applicant’s claims in the following terms: “it is clear from the wording of [section 9ter] that there is nothing to prevent the administrative authority, when dealing with a request for leave to remain on the basis of the above-mentioned section 9ter, from ruling immediately on the exclusion of the person concerned from the scope of the said section 9ter without first being required to take a decision on the medical evidence submitted to it, if it considers at the outset that there are substantial grounds for believing that the person concerned has committed any of the acts referred to in section 55/4, cited above.... as regards the alleged violation of article 3 of the convention, it should be observed that the decision complained of in the present application is not accompanied by any removal measure, with the result that the alleged risk of discontinuation of treatment in the event of the applicant’s return to georgia is hypothetical.” 58.  the aliens appeals board also dismissed the complaint under article 8 of the convention in view of the fact that the impugned decision had not been accompanied by any removal measure.as to the complaints alleging a violation of articles 2 and 3 of the convention, the aliens appeals board stated that the assessment of the medical situation of an alien facing removal whose request for regularisation had been rejected should be carried out, as applicable, at the time of enforcement of the removal measure.the applicant further argued that the aliens appeals board had breached the provisions of the convention by postponing until the date of enforcement of the removal measure the examination of the medical situation of an alien suffering from a serious illness who had requested leave to remain on medical grounds, without studying the specific risks.the conseil d’état held that, contrary to the applicant’s assertion, the grounds for setting aside advanced before the aliens appeals board had simply stressed, in a theoretical and general manner, that section 9ter of the act encompassed the application in domestic law of the obligation under articles 2 and 3 of the convention prohibiting the removal of a seriously ill person if such a measure was liable to result in death or inhuman and degrading treatment; no specific explanation had been given, however, as to how the applicant himself risked facing that situation.26565/05, echr 2008), the report concluded as follows: “on the basis of this medical file it cannot ... be concluded that the threshold of severity required by article 3 of the convention, as interpreted by the court, has been reached ... it appears from the medical file that the diseases to which the medical certificates refer ... do not disclose a direct threat to the patient’s life.it concluded as follows: “on the basis of [the] medical file it cannot therefore be concluded that the threshold of severity set by article 3 of the convention, which requires a risk to life on account of the applicant’s critical condition or the very advanced stage of his or her illness, has been reached (n. v. the united kingdom [gc], no.the disease cannot be said to be in the terminal stages at present ...” 69.  on 10 june 1999, on the grounds that the belgian authorities did not have responsibility under the dublin convention for examining the asylum application, the aliens office issued an order for the applicant and his wife to leave the country with a view to their transfer to italy.71.  the time-limit for enforcement of the order for the family to leave the country was extended several times during the first half of 2000 because of the need to treat the applicant’s tuberculosis (see paragraph 49 above) and the six-month course of anti-tubercular treatment required by the whole family.87.  on 28 july 2010 the court indicated to the belgian government that it was desirable, in the interests of the parties and the proper conduct of the proceedings before the court, to suspend enforcement of the order for the applicant to leave the country issued on 7 july 2010 “pending the outcome of the proceedings before the aliens appeals board”.
5.  on 7 march 2002 the cluj prefecture issued the applicant company with an operating permit, which was valid until 7 march 2005. the applicant company was required to apply for an extension of the permit if the initial conditions of operation did not change.7.  the applicant company also applied to the regional environment agency (“rea”) for an environmental permit, which according to the law had to accompany the application for extension of the operating permit.8.  rea registered the applicant company’s application but refused to accept the accompanying documents on the grounds that on 20 december 2004 a new order providing for the authorisation of activities with a significant impact on the environment had been adopted and the guidelines for implementing the new order had not yet been published.14.  following an inspection carried out at the applicant company’s headquarters, on 6 may 2005 the cluj finance inspectorate (garda financiară cluj) fined the company rol 25,000,000 (approximately 694 euros) and ordered the confiscation of rol 768,471,700 (approximately eur 21,347), representing the market value of the scrap iron collected for recycling between 8 march and 14 april 2005. the finance inspectorate based its decision (proces-verbal de constatare şi sancţionare a contravenţiilor) against the applicant company on article 13 (a) of emergency government ordinance no.15.  the applicant company lodged a complaint against the decision of the cluj finance inspectorate, claiming that the competent authorities were responsible for the delay in issuing the operation permit.the court dismissed the applicant company’s claim that liability for its situation lay with the authorities for failing to issue its environmental and operating permits in time, holding that such a claim would be relevant only within the framework of a tort action and could not be raised as a reason for exonerating a company that had committed an administrative offence.it pointed out that even after the publication of the guidelines for the application of the new order on 11 january 2005, rea had not acted effectively, as it had not written to the applicant company until 25 january 2005. moreover, rea had interpreted the applicant company’s application as a request for a new permit instead of for an extension of the existing permits, given that the operation conditions had not changed.it held that the applicant company had not complied with the obligation to lodge an application for a new environmental permit forty-five days prior to the expiry of the existing permit, as provided for by article 16 of the new order regulating the procedure for obtaining an environmental permit, namely order no.it concluded that the competent agency had issued the environmental permit within the ninety‑day deadline provided for by the new order and could not therefore be held liable for the damages incurred by the applicant company.23.  the applicant company lodged an appeal on points of law, pointing out that on 4 january 2005 when it had lodged its application for an extension of the operating permit, the guidelines for implementation of the new order had not yet been published.it also claimed that it had been unable to apply for a new permit forty-five days prior to the expiry of its existing environmental permit on 31 january 2005, as the new order had entered into force on 20 december 2004 and the relevant guidelines had not been published until 11 january 2005. the applicant company also complained that the first-instance court had interpreted article 16 of order no.in this connection, the applicant company pointed out that, like the previous order, the new order provided for the ope legis extension of an existing permit for up to five years if the company’s operating conditions had not changed.it concluded that even assuming that the administrative authorities were liable for non-compliance with the applicable legislation, the applicant company had had no right to continue an illicit activity in the absence of the authorisation required by law.25.  following a request lodged by the sole shareholder of the applicant company on 10 february 2010, the national chamber of commerce took note of the voluntary dissolution of the company.26.  in january 2013, before the court had communicated the applicant company’s complaints to the respondent government, the administrator and sole shareholder, mr teodor morar, informed the court of the company’s dissolution on 24 february 2010 and his intention to continue the procedure initiated before the court by the applicant company.
6.  at the relevant time the applicant was in charge of the alfa bank’s branches in the russian far east, the central office of which was in vladivostok.12.  on 28 september 2005 the pervorechenskiy district court of vladivostok dismissed the investigating authorities’ request to authorise the applicant’s pre-trial detention in the context of the first criminal case.it referred chiefly to the gravity of the charges, the fact that the accused had continued informally running a legal entity, was allegedly involved in criminal activity and that he had twice failed to comply with police summonses.15.  on 21 march 2006, relying solely on the gravity of the charges, the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 21 may 2006. the regional court upheld the order on appeal on 22 may 2006, stating that it had been issued in accordance with the law and duly reasoned.16.  over the following months the applicant’s detention was extended on several occasions, including on 2 march, 1 june and 3 september 2007. along with the gravity of the charges the courts based their decisions on the findings that “the circumstances which had initially warranted the detention had not changed” and that the applicant’s state of health, albeit poor, did not warrant his release.17.  in the meantime, in august 2006, the authorities completed the investigation in the second case and sent the case file, comprising 326 volumes, to the frunzenskiy district court of vladivostok for examination on the merits.to safeguard the applicant’s rights, the district court appointed one of the duty lawyers to represent him and paused the hearing to give her an opportunity to study the case file.when the hearing resumed, the applicant’s lawyer opposed to the extension of the detention, referring, among other things, to the applicant’s health problems and the fact that the address of his residence was known.on the grounds that the circumstances justifying the applicant’s remand in custody had not changed, the court extended the applicant’s detention until 4 march 2008.21.  according to the government, given the non-attendance of the applicant’s lawyer and the failures of the detention authorities to ensure the presence of the applicant, the proceedings were postponed on several occasions.they were eventually held on 7 february 2008. the regional court upheld the impugned decision, finding that the extension order was well-founded and that the district court had lawfully appointed legal aid counsel to represent the applicant in a situation where his ordinary counsel, who had been duly summoned, had failed to attend.23.  on 27 may 2008 the district court considered that there was no necessity for the further detention of the applicant as the investigating authorities had completed the collection of evidence, and the applicant could therefore no longer hamper the investigation.24.  neither the applicant nor the government provided the court with information about the outcome of the criminal proceedings.according to the information submitted by the parties, the trial was stayed on several occasions owing to the applicant’s inability to attend it on health grounds, as was confirmed by a prison doctor.29.  on the day of the applicant’s admission to the prison hospital the head of the therapeutic department established that the hypertensive disease had progressed to the most advanced stage.
4.  the applicant was born in 1976 and, prior to his arrest, lived in oblivskaya, rostov region.5.  on 22 october 2007 the applicant, a police officer at the time, was arrested on suspicion of drug dealing.6.  on 24 october 2007 the leninskiy district court of rostov-on-don authorised the applicant’s remand in custody.referring to the seriousness of the charges and the applicant being a police officer, the courts extended his pre-trial detention on the grounds that he might abscond, or interfere with the administration of justice, or put pressure on witnesses and other defendants.7.  the applicant lodged appeals against the detention orders.on 4 january and 22 february 2008 the regional court upheld the decisions of 29 december 2007 and 6 february 2008 in the applicant’s absence.the applicant and his lawyer were informed about the hearings but the applicant was not granted leave to attend.the applicant’s lawyer attended the hearing on 22 february 2008. the prosecutor was present and made submissions to the court.8.  on 17 december 2008 the district court found the applicant guilty of several counts of illegal drug dealing and sentenced him to fourteen years’ imprisonment.9.  on 10 june 2009 the regional court quashed the judgment of 17 december 2008 on appeal and remitted the matter to the trial court for fresh consideration.the court ordered that the applicant remain in custody.10.  on 15 july 2009 the district court scheduled a preliminary hearing of the case and ordered that the applicant remain in detention.on 18 november 2009, 29 january and 29 april 2010 the district court adjourned the hearing of the case.it further extended the applicant’s detention on the ground that he was charged with grievous criminal offences and might abscond.11.  on 6 may 2011 the applicant was found guilty.
6.  on 11 december 2008 the national anticorruption department instituted criminal proceedings against the applicant and a police officer for traffic of influence (trafic de influenţă).the applicant was accused, as a lawyer, of having requested and received money from a client in return for persuading certain judges, other than in the context of the judicial proceedings, to adopt a favourable judgment in his client’s case.7.  on the same day the case prosecutor authorised several police officers to enforce a warrant to appear (mandat de aducere) issued in the applicant’s name on the basis of articles 183 and 184 of the criminal procedure code.according to the warrant, the applicant’s presence was required in order to be heard as a suspect (învinuit) in the criminal investigation instituted in file no.8. on 12 december 2008 at 8 a.m. a police officer went to the applicant’s office in the city of oradea to enforce the warrant to appear.according to the police officer’s report, the applicant was shown the warrant to appear and was escorted to the police station in the nearby town of salonta.at 9.40 a.m. the applicant was handed over to two other police officers who escorted him to the timişoara office of the national anticorruption department (t.n.a.d.).according to the escorting police officers’ report, which was signed also by the applicant, he was handed over to the prosecutor at 11.40 a.m. 9.  according to the record of the statements the applicant made before the prosecutor, he was heard as a suspect by the prosecutor at the t.n.a.d.from 12 noon to 4.50 p.m. after the questioning the applicant was charged with the crime of traffic of influence.10.  according to the applicant, his phone, wallet and watch had been confiscated by the police officers and were held during this entire time.11.  by an order issued on 12 december 2008 the applicant was placed in police custody for twenty-four hours commencing at 5.10 p.m. 12.  on 13 december 2008 the prosecutor’s request for the placement of the applicant in pre-trial detention for thirty days was allowed by the timişoara court of appeal.the applicant complained before the court that he had been unlawfully deprived of his liberty from 8 a.m. to 5.10 p.m. on the previous day.the court considered that it was not competent to decide on this complaint and suggested that the applicant should have used the procedure provided by article 1401 of the criminal procedure code.13.  the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law (recurs) against that judgment, reiterating that he had been unlawfully deprived of his liberty.on 17 december 2008 the high court of cassation and justice rejected the applicant’s appeal on points of law as ill-founded without addressing his complaint regarding the lawfulness of his detention prior to his placement in police custody.
4.  the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in chișinău.5.  on 2 october 2008 the chișinău court of appeal delivered a judgment acknowledging the applicant’s entitlement to a disability pension.owing to the lack of an appeal, the judgment became final on 22 october 2008.6.  on 1 december 2008 the ministry of defence lodged an appeal on points of law.7.  on 4 february 2009 the supreme court of justice allowed the appeal on points of law, quashed the judgment of 2 october 2008 and remitted the case for a fresh examination on the merits.after several rounds of proceedings, on 2 march 2011 the supreme court of justice finally acknowledged the applicant’s entitlement to a disability pension.8.  meanwhile, after communication, the prosecutor general, following a request from the government agent, lodged an application for revision with the supreme court of justice, seeking the reopening of the proceedings and redress for the violation of the applicant’s rights.in those proceedings, the applicant claimed 29,069.17 moldovan lei (mdl) in respect of pecuniary damage, mdl 25,000 in respect of non‑pecuniary damage, mdl 29,784.60 for legal costs and mdl 4,000 for miscellaneous expenses.on 23 june 2011 the supreme court of justice found a violation of the applicant’s rights as a result of the quashing of the final judgment in his favour.it set aside the judgment of 4 february 2009 and the subsequent judgments adopted in the reopened proceedings and decided to restore the final judgment of 2 october 2008 in the applicant’s favour.the court then awarded the applicant mdl 15,000 (equivalent to 890 euros (eur)) in respect of non-pecuniary damage, mdl 15,000 for legal costs and mdl 1,000 for miscellaneous expenses.the court dismissed the applicant’s claims in respect of pecuniary damage, arguing that they could not be examined by direct application of article 41 of the convention.
11.  in response to a request lodged on 16 october 2001, the applicant was granted a disability pension (rokkantsági nyugdíj) later that same year on the basis of a retrospective finding that she had lost, as of 1 april 2001, 67% of her capacity to work on account of various ailments.in application of the new methodology, the applicant’s disability was assessed by an expert at 40% on 1 december 2009. without envisaging any procedure for rehabilitation, the assessment panel scheduled the next check-up of her medical status for 2012.13.  the government submitted that, under the new methodology, the applicant’s previous condition of 67% loss of working capacity would have corresponded to 54% overall health impairment.the applicant submitted that the connection suggested by the government between the scores of 67% in the old system and 54% in the new system was not based on any legal text.14.  as a consequence of the applicant’s newly assessed 40% level of disability, on 1 february 2010 the relevant pension insurance directorate withdrew her entitlement to the disability pension.15.  the nyíregyháza labour court heard the case, and appointed an expert with a view to obtaining an opinion as to the reasons for the difference in the scores.in an opinion of 16 february 2011, the expert submitted that the old score of 67%, as well as the new one of 40%, were correct under the respective methodologies; at any rate, the applicant’s condition had not significantly improved since 2007.16.  observing that the applicant had accumulated 23 years and 71 days of service time, the court retained the disability score of 40% and dismissed her action on 1 april 2011. the applicant was ordered to reimburse the amounts received after 1 february 2010. the court noted that the applicant’s next medical assessment was due in 2012. it drew her attention to the possibility of making a renewed application for disability pension should her health deteriorate.on 5 september 2011 the first-instance authority assessed it at 45%, scheduling the next assessment for september 2014. the second-instance authority changed this score to 50% on 13 december 2011, with a reassessment due in march 2015. such a level would have entitled her to disability pension had rehabilitation not been possible.in particular, instead of fulfilling a service period as required by the former legislation, the persons concerned had to have at least 1,095 days covered by social security in the five years preceding the submission of their requests.however, since her disability pension had been terminated in february 2010 (that is, she was not in receipt of a disability pension or a rehabilitation allowance on 31 december 2011) and, moreover, she had not accumulated the requisite number of days of social-security cover or demonstrated uninterrupted social cover, she was not eligible, under any title, for a disability allowance under the new system.instead of the requisite 1,095 days covered by social security in the five preceding years, the applicant had been covered for 947 days.according to the government, had the law not been so amended, the applicant would again have become eligible for a disability pension, since her health impairment was again assessed as exceeding the relevant threshold in 2012.23.  the applicant’s request was refused by the relevant authority of szabolcs-szatmár-bereg county on 23 november 2012 and, on appeal, by the national rehabilitation and social welfare authority on 27 february 2013. on 27 march 2013 the applicant filed an action with the nyíregyháza administrative and labour court, challenging these administrative decisions.25.  in 2011 and 2012 the applicant received a monthly housing allowance from the local municipality, in the amount of huf 4,100 (eur 14) in 2011 and huf 5,400 (eur 18) in 2012. the applicant also applied for the basic welfare allowance (rendszeres szociális segély), but her request was denied because she did not meet the statutory requirements.
8.  on 5 june 2013 the investigating judge of the solonyansky district court remanded the applicant in pre-trial detention until 4 august 2013 on the grounds that he was suspected of a serious crime, was unemployed, had no funds, did not live in the area and was not living at his official registered address.9.  on 21 june 2013 the applicant was charged with the robbery of g., committed together with v. 10.  on 21 june 2013 the pre-trial investigation ended and the case against the applicant and v. was referred to the solonyansky district court.the case was then transferred to the krasnogvardiysk district court in dnipropetrovsk (“the district court”).11.  on 2 august 2013 the district court remitted the case for further investigation and remanded the applicant in custody until 1 october 2013, noting that he had been suspected of a serious crime and might continue his criminal activities.12.  on 1 october 2013 the district court held a preliminary hearing in the case and extended the detention of the applicant and v. until 29 november 2013. it noted, without going into any detail or indication to which of the co-accused it referred, that “other preventive measures will not ensure the appropriate behaviour of the accused” during the trial.13.  on 26 november 2013 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 24 january 2014, noting that he and v. had been charged with serious crimes, did not live in the area and were unemployed.the court extended the applicant’s detention until 21 march 2014 on the same grounds as those given in its previous decision of 26 november 2013. as to his health problems, the court noted that he had been treated successfully for renal colic and was fit for trial.16.  on 19 march 2014 the district court rejected a further application for release lodged on 26 february 2014 and extended the applicant’s detention until 19 may 2014 on the same grounds as those given on the two previous occasions, adding that he was aware of the punishment for the crime he had been charged with and thus might obstruct the criminal proceedings to avoid criminal liability.17.  on 22 april, 17 june and 15 july 2014 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 20 june, 15 august, and 12 september 2014 respectively, on the same grounds as those given in its decisions of 26 november 2013 and 21 january 2014.19.  on 4 september 2014 the district court examined and rejected that application, extending the applicant’s detention until 2 november 2014. it repeated its previous reasoning, adding that he was aware of the punishment for the crime he had been charged with and thus might obstruct the criminal proceedings to avoid criminal liability.20.  on 30 september 2014 the applicant lodged another application for release, which was rejected on 9 october 2014. the district court repeated its previous reasoning, noting in addition as grounds for his detention that he was not studying.21.  on 31 october 2014 the district court rejected that application and extended the applicant’s detention until 29 december 2014, giving reasons similar to those given on 4 september 2014.22.  on 9 december 2014 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 6 february 2015, repeating the reasoning given in its previous decisions.23.  on 27 january 2015 the applicant and v. were convicted by the krasnogvardiysk district court of robbery and carjacking and sentenced to five years’ imprisonment.the court also decided to reduce the remainder of the prison sentence (namely the part not covered by the pre-trial detention) by half under the amnesty act.
the movable property was initially confiscated from a predecessor of the applicant during the german occupation of czechoslovakia in 1942 on the orders of the german secret state police, which considered him to be an enemy of the german reich.after the end of the second world war, the property was once again confiscated, in 1945, by the czechoslovak state under the beneš decrees as he was considered to be of german nationality.that expropriation was quashed on appeal by the national council in prague (zemský národní výbor) on 21 january 1947 after it had been established that the applicant’s predecessor was of czechoslovak nationality and had been loyal to the czechoslovak state.10.  on 27 october 2006 the district court ordered the national heritage institute to return to the applicant and his co-plaintiff certain movable property located in opočno castle.it found that the applicant’s predecessor had been the owner of the property on the critical date, that is 25 february 1948 (see gratzinger and gratzingerova v. the czech republic (dec.), no.it held that the property in question had been taken away from the applicant’s predecessor before 25 february 1948 and that therefore the legislation on restitution did not apply.during a hearing on 8 october 2007, the court did not raise with the parties any questions or elements of evidence but was merely listening to the comments of the parties on the decision of the first-instance court, after which the case was adjourned for delivery of a judgment.firstly, there was a letter of 24 june 1947 from the national administrator of opočno castle to his superiors, informing them about a visit by the applicant’s predecessor to the castle.the second piece of evidence was a decision by the ministry of agriculture of 30 april 1947 by which opočno castle had been declared state cultural property (hereinafter “the 1947 decision”).the 1947 decision had not been raised with the parties in the course of the hearing and the parties had not received an opportunity to comment on it.in its reasoning the regional court noted that it was aware of the existence of the document through the exercise of its functions.it noted the importance of the 1947 decision, but stated that the requirements of article 121 of the code of civil procedure had been met and that it was not necessary to prove facts which were generally known, or known to a court through the exercise of its functions.15.  on 22 april 2009 the district court dismissed the rest of the applicant’s restitution claim.in its reasoning it referred to the judgment of the regional court of 18 october 2007 and that of the supreme court of 11 february 2009.the court relied as evidence on a letter by the ministry of agriculture of 27 may 1957 referring to the 1947 decision.
11.  on 16 september 2011 in the case of the first applicant, then the next day, 17 september, in the case of the second and third applicants, the applicants left tunisia with others on board rudimentary vessels heading for the italian coast.according to the applicants, they were held in an overcrowded and dirty area and were obliged to sleep on the floor because of the shortage of available beds and the poor quality of the mattresses.those orders, which were virtually identical and drafted in italian with a translation into arabic, read as follows: “the chief of police (questore) for the province of agrigento having regard to the documents in the file, showing that (1)  on ‘17 [18] september 2011’ members of the police force found in the province of ‘agrigento’, near the border of: ‘island of lampedusa’, mr [surname and forename] born ... on [date] ... ‘tunisian’ national ... not fully identified, ‘undocumented’ (sedicente); (2)  the alien entered the territory of the country by evading the border controls; (3)  the identification (rintraccio) of the alien took place on/immediately after his arrival on national territory, and precisely at: ‘island of lampedusa’; whereas none of the situations [provided for in] article 10 § 4 of legislative decree no.286 of 1998; orders that the above-mentioned person be refused leave to enter and returned –  an appeal may be lodged against the present order within a period of sixty days from the date of its service, with the justice of the peace of agrigento.–  the director of the migration office will proceed, for the enforcement of the present order, with its notification, together with a summary translation into a language spoken by the alien or into english, french or spanish; and with its transmission to the diplomatic or consular delegation of the state of origin, as provided for by article 2 § 7 of legislative decree no.25.  in his reasoning the judge emphasised that the purpose of placing the migrants in the cspa was to accommodate them, to assist them and to cater for their hygiene-related needs for as long as was strictly necessary, before sending them to an identification and removal centre (centro di identificazione ed espulsione – “cie”) or taking any measures in their favour.the judge shared the public prosecutor’s view that the interpretation of the conditions concerning the grounds for and duration of the confinement of migrants in a cspa was sometimes vague.26.  according to the judge, the unstable balance on the island of lampedusa had been upset on 20 september 2011, when a group of tunisians had carried out an arson attack, seriously damaging the cspa at contrada imbriacola and rendering it incapable of fulfilling its purpose of accommodating and assisting migrants.as to the fact that, in the emergency situation, no formal decision had been taken to place the migrants on board the ships, the judge found that this could not be regarded as an unlawful arrest and that the conditions for the migrants’ transfer to cies were not satisfied.the calculation of a “reasonable time” for the adoption of that measure and for the migrants’ stay in the cspa had to take account of logistical difficulties (state of the sea, distance between lampedusa and sicily) and of the number of migrants concerned.27.  in so far as the complainants had alleged that the way in which the migrants had been treated had been detrimental to their health, the judge noted that the investigations had found that nobody on the ships had applied for asylum.moreover, as recorded in a press agency note of 25 september 2011, t.r., a member of parliament (mp) had boarded the ships in the port of palermo, and had observed that the migrants were in good health, that they were receiving assistance and were sleeping in cabins containing bed linen or reclining seats (poltrone reclinabili).in any event, the conduct of the police officers had been justified by a “state of necessity”, within the meaning of article 54 of the criminal code (see paragraph 34 below).29.  in the light of the foregoing, the preliminary investigations judge concluded that the case file contained no evidence of the physical and mental elements of the offences provided for in articles 323 and 606 of the criminal code.286 of 1998 (see paragraph 33 below) did not indicate any time-frame for the adoption of such orders, the judge took the view that a measure which by its very nature restricted the freedom of the person concerned had to be taken within a reasonably short time after the identification (fermo) of the unlawful migrant.
6.  the applicant and her partner began to cohabit in 2003. their daughter was born in november 2004. in the spring of 2006 the applicant felt that, in her view, the child’s father was behaving strangely with the child and that the child did not want to stay at home alone with her father.she was concerned that the pre-trial investigation by the police had not been complete and that the social workers would be responsible if something happened to her child while the meetings with the father were not supervised.moreover, concerning the visiting rights, the social worker explained that the decision of 4 september 2007 by the kouvola district court was still in force and that if the applicant was not satisfied with it, she would have to appeal against it in courts of law instead of complaining about it to the child welfare authorities.however, the applicant insisted on making the second report to the child welfare authorities, claiming that she had been threatened with loss of her custody rights if she did not allow the meetings with the father.18.  on 18 january 2008 the applicant submitted another child welfare report and the second report to the police, insisting on another investigation and stating that she suspected that someone was abusing her child during visits to the child’s father.21.  on 18 february 2008 the applicant lodged a complaint with the national authority for medico-legal affairs (terveydenhuollon oikeusturvakeskus, rättsskyddscentralen för hälsovården) about the fact that the child had not been heard at all during the pre-trial investigation in autumn 2007. the case was transferred ex officio to the regional state provincial office (lääninhallitus, länsstyrelsen).25.  on an unspecified date, the father of the child asked the police to investigate whether the applicant had defamed him as she had given false information about him to the social worker on 19 october 2007, claiming that the child was in danger of being sexually abused by her father during their upcoming meetings (see paragraph 17 above).he claimed that these allegations were not true and that the applicant’s motive for such accusations was that she wanted to have sole custody of the child and hamper the meetings between the father and the child.26.  on 17 february 2009 the public prosecutor pressed charges against the applicant for having insisted on 19 october 2007 that the child was in danger of being sexually abused by her father after the police had already investigated the matter and, on 15 october 2007, found no appearance of any crime.knew about the decision of the helsinki police department to stop investigating the suspected sexual abuse of a child, which investigation had been initiated solely on the basis of the information submitted by her.from the medical certificate of 15 october 2008, which was admitted as written evidence, it appears that the meetings between the father and the child had been supervised until 16 june 2007 and that thereafter until the filing of the police report on 29 august 2007 and the freezing of the meetings, there had been unsupervised day meetings only three times, lasting four hours each.must have understood that the insinuation was of such a kind that in any event it would come to the knowledge of [the child’s father] and that its content, being almost of the worst kind, was bound to cause him suffering.did not have any such reasons to make an insinuation towards [the father of the child] that she would have had a reasoned ground to do so without defaming him.” 28.  by letter dated 12 october 2009 the applicant appealed against the judgment of the district court to the helsinki appeal court (hovioikeus, hovrätten).the court found the following: “on the basis of the oral hearing held, the appeal court has no reason to assess the evidence differently than the district court.nor is there any reason to change the district court judgment as far as the conviction is concerned.” 30.  by letter dated 7 march 2011 the applicant appealed to the supreme court (korkein oikeus, högsta domstolen), reiterating the grounds of appeal already presented before the appeal court.
according to the applicant, he was ordered to strip naked in the presence of other inmates and escorting officers, to assume embarrassing positions (squatting), and to submit to a visual inspection of his body.6.  the strip-searches of the applicant were carried out on 9 december 2009, 8 and 11 june 2010, 22 february and 8 june 2011.8.  on 20 june 2012 the administrative district court (administratīvā rajona tiesa) dismissed the applicant’s complaints and terminated the proceedings.it held that the strip-searches had been objectively justified on security grounds and the manner in which they had been conducted had not gone beyond what had been required to ensure the efficacy of those searches.9.  on 13 september 2012 the administrative regional court (administratīvā apgabaltiesa) dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the ruling of the lower court.10.  on 5 november 2012 the senate of the supreme court (augstākās tiesas senāts) quashed the ruling of the appeal court and remitted the case to the first-instance court.the senate of the supreme court found that the strip-searches had had a legitimate goal, namely ensuring public safety, and had not been carried out in an abusive manner.however, the lower courts had not sufficiently addressed the applicant’s argument that he had been subjected to strip-searches in the presence of other persons.12.  on 13 may 2013 the administrative district court dismissed the applicant’s complaints and terminated the proceedings.13.  as concerns the strip-searches carried out on 9 december 2009, 8 and 11 june 2010, the court, on the basis of witness testimony, found that the applicant had been searched in the presence of one inmate and at least one additional escorting officer.however, taking into account that the applicant had not voiced any concerns in this regard during the first round of proceedings, the court concluded that “the strip-searches ... had not humiliated the applicant in the eyes of others or in his [own] eyes”.accordingly, the court could not establish a “significant violation” of the human rights guaranteed under article 95 of the constitution and article 3 of the convention.14.  as concerns the strip-searches carried out on 22 february and 8 june 2011, the court found that the evidence did not support the applicant’s allegation that he had been searched in the presence of other persons.the court dismissed the applicant’s further allegations (the presence of female officers, being exposed to the court’s staff and passers-by, unsanitary touching of his food) as unsubstantiated.15.   on 9 july 2013 the senate of the supreme court, by a final decision, dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the ruling of the lower court.
on 15 november 2005 the novomoskovsk court convicted the applicant of gang hooliganism committed against z. and sh., and gave him a suspended prison sentence of three years.on 10 february and 19 december 2006 respectively the court of appeal and the supreme court upheld the applicant’s conviction and sentence.according to the applicant, his conviction had been based on an incorrect assessment of the evidence.and two volunteer citizen guards (добровільна народна дружина), who were identified in the course of the ensuing proceedings (see paragraphs 9-11 below), entered the yard of the applicant’s house and, according to the applicant, assaulted him.in particular, he was punched, hit with a gas pistol and kicked in the head and torso and as a result briefly lost consciousness.according to the material available in the case (see paragraph 9 below), the volunteer citizen guards used force against the applicant while exercising their powers under the relevant regulations (see paragraph 13 below) in an attempt to take him to a police station in relation to the incident of 1 august 2004 (see paragraph 5 above).7.  subsequently, the applicant was admitted to novomoskovsk central hospital, where a physician found two bruises near the applicant’s right eye, a wound on the back of his head and numerous abrasions on the right side of his back.8.  on 1 august 2004 the applicant filed a complaint with the novomoskovsk police, seeking to have criminal proceedings instituted against those who had beaten him.9.  the applicant’s complaint was examined initially by the police and later by prosecutors.between december 2004 and march 2009 they issued a number of decisions rejecting the applicant’s complaint, finding, inter alia, that the applicant had been injured after disobeying the lawful orders of the volunteer citizen guards, who had lawfully resorted to force in order to take him to a police station in relation to the incident of 1 august 2004 (see paragraph 5 above).10.  on 12 march 2009 the novomoskovsk prosecutor opened criminal proceedings related to the applicant’s complaint and ordered the police to investigate the incident of 1 august 2004 at the applicant’s house.11.  in the course of the investigation the two volunteer citizen guards who had taken part in the incident on 1 august 2004 at the applicant’s house died.for that reason, the proceedings concerning those two people were terminated on 17 july 2009. on the same date the police terminated the proceedings concerning z. and sh., finding that there had been no elements of a crime in their actions.the police noted that two witnesses had stated that the volunteer citizen guards who had died had beaten the applicant on 1 august 2004.12.  on 16 december 2009 the police suspended the investigation, finding that it was impossible to identify any other people involved in the incident of 1 august 2004 at the applicant’s home.
5.  the applicant was born in 1986. he died on 3 november 2015. ms n. zīmele, the applicant’s grandmother, informed the court of her wish to pursue the proceedings on his behalf.6.  the relevant facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.8.  on 12 august 2011 the police arrested the applicant on suspicion of robbery.9.  on 15 august 2011 the police lodged an application with the ludza district court (ludzas rajona tiesa) for the applicant’s pre-trial detention in relation to the theft investigation.with regard to the suspicion of theft, he reasoned as follows: “there are reasons to suspect that [the applicant] has committed the crime under section 175(3) of the criminal law (krimināllikums) [theft] ... these suspicions are confirmed by the evidence gathered in the criminal case.” 11.  on 18 august 2011 the applicant appealed against that decision.with regard to the suspicion of theft, the judge stated: “the ... suspicion that [the applicant] has committed the crime ... is confirmed by the information contained in the file.” 13.  no appeal lay against the aforementioned decision.14.  on 19 september 2011 the public prosecutor charged the applicant with robbery, theft, involving a minor in theft and petty theft on the basis of the facts as alleged.15.  on 26 september 2011 the applicant familiarised himself with the case material.16.  on 28 september 2011 the prosecutor transferred the case to the ludza district court for adjudication.she set out the case against the applicant and detailed the evidence upon which the prosecution intended to rely.17.  on 17 october 2011 the investigating judge decided to keep the applicant in detention.he gave the following reasoning: “the accusation against [the applicant] of the crimes under sections 175(3) [theft], 176(2) [robbery], 180(2) [petty theft] and 172 [involving a minor in theft] of the criminal law ... is confirmed by the evidence gathered in the criminal case.” 18.  no appeal lay against the aforementioned decision.the judge stated as follows: “[the applicant’s] detention is based on the suspicion that he has committed the crime under section 175(3) of the criminal law [theft]... in other criminal proceedings [he] has been declared a suspect in relation to crimes under sections 180(1) [petty theft] and 176(2) [robbery] ... ... there has been no change in the reasons noted in the detention order of 16 august 2011 ... which had been re-examined in [the subsequent decisions]...” 20.  on 3 february, 19 june and 6 august 2012, the applicant complained to the ludza district court that it had failed to assess his detention in relation to the alleged robbery.21.  on 6 august and 2 november 2012, and on 25 january 2013 the judge decided to continue the applicant’s detention, using largely the same wording as in the previous decisions.in addition, she noted that the twenty-four-month period allowed by section 277(7) of the criminal procedure law (kriminālprocesa likums) for detention had been observed because the applicant had also been accused of an especially serious offence, robbery, under section 176(2) of the criminal law.
5.  on 9 june 2004, the applicant, 69 at the time, was walking in the centre of kharkiv and was hit in the face by a pellet fired from an air gun.6.  the applicant was admitted to hospital the same day and the pellet was removed from her face.the doctors noted in the applicant’s medical file that she had a gunshot wound on the infraorbital region of her face.7.  later that day she lodged a criminal complaint with the police.the applicant alleged that the shot had been fired from a particular flat in a building in the centre of kharkiv.9.  on 2 july 2004, at the request of the police, she was examined by an expert, who concluded that the applicant’s injury was of a minor degree and might have been caused by a gunshot.on 31 october 2005 the applicant underwent an additional medical examination, which confirmed the previous conclusion.10.  by decisions of 22 march and 8 december 2005 and 9 august 2006, the police refused to open criminal proceedings, stating that it was not possible to identify the offenders and that the applicant’s allegations that the shot had been fired from a particular location were unfounded.they further found that there had been no serious breach of public order in the applicant’s case and noted that the applicant could have lodged a criminal complaint directly with a court in the framework of private prosecution proceedings.despite her repeated requests, the applicant was not given access to the police investigation file related to the incident of 9 june 2004.11.  on appeal by the applicant, those decisions were annulled by different prosecutors and the courts generally on the grounds that the police enquiry had fallen short of the requirements of a full and objective examination of the circumstances of the case.it was noted that the police had failed to examine the relevant evidence, including the pellet, and that the case contained elements of the crime defined by article 296 of the criminal code (hooliganism).in particular, on 21 august 2007 the dzerzhynskyy district court of kharkiv ruled that the case should be returned to the prosecutors for further investigation.13.  by a letter of 21 august 2009, the deputy prosecutor of the dzerzhynskyy district of kharkiv informed the applicant that the investigation case file had gone missing.her death was unrelated to the incident of 9 june 2004.
the audit covered the period june 2001 – june 2005. on 4 march 2008 the tax agency applied to the county administrative court (länsrätten) in stockholm for permission to take coercive measures in respect of sns under section 8 of the act on special coercive measures in taxation procedures (lagen om särskilda tvångsåtgärder i beskattningsförfarandet, 1994:466 – hereafter “the coercive measures act”), in particular the search and seizure of certain documents and other material.the agency therefore considered that it could not continue to investigate the ownership issue and the accuracy of certain business costs unless it obtained access to documents that showed the swiss company’s relationship to the swedish companies and their owners and leaders as well as the swiss company’s role in the business activities.8.  not considering it appropriate to order sns to provide the required documents, the tax agency further requested that the application for coercive measures should not be communicated to the company and that it should not be notified of the court’s decision before the measures had been undertaken, as there was a risk that the documents to be searched and seized could be withheld or destroyed.agreeing with the tax agency, the court considered that there was a substantial risk that documents could be withheld, corrupted or destroyed and that, having regard to mr jurik’s connection with sns and the two addresses in question, there was good reason to assume that the documents relevant to the audit of sns were to be found at those addresses.present were mr carl lindstrand, a lawyer of the applicant law firm, representing mr jurik (who was at the time in switzerland), and – towards the end of the search – mr roland möller, who, as an associate of the law firm, had been the liquidator of sns and who was also the designated person to be served writs on behalf of draupner in sweden.in regard to the applicant, it stated that, while the appealed judgment did indeed allow the use of coercive measures on the premises of the applicant law firm, the reason for this was not that the law firm was the subject of the measures but that it could be assumed that documents relevant to the audit of sns would be found there.on 3 july 2008 the court dismissed an appeal in the same matter lodged by mr jurik, noting that he had not previously been a party to the case and could not therefore join the proceedings at the level of the supreme administrative court.the agency stated as reasons for its decision that draupner had had transactions connected to sns, its subsidiary company, that there had been special reasons to search for material at the applicant law firm as two of draupner’s representatives, mr jurik and mr möller, had offices there and that the risk of corruption of material was acute in view of the fact that, during the ongoing enforcement, it had become apparent to persons involved which transactions and connected documents were to be examined.22.  on 19 september 2008 the administrative court of appeal quashed the tax agency’s decision to dismiss the appeal and the county administrative court’s judgment and referred the case back to the county administrative court.25.  by a letter dated 14 march 2008, the day of the search of the flat and the law office, and received by the county administrative court on 17 march 2008, the applicant requested that those parts of the material seized and copied at the flat that could concern the law firm be exempted from the audit.29.  by a judgment of 22 august 2008 the administrative court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal and agreed with the lower court that the applicant did not have legal standing concerning the requested exemption of documents, as the coercive measures had not been directed against the law firm.furthermore, the available evidence in the case showed that he was the representative of the company and that the flat where the search and seizure had taken place constituted the company’s business premises.noting that the burden of proof rested with the audited party, the court considered that the company had not demonstrated that the documents were covered by any of the exemptions under the act.the appellate court agreed with the county administrative court’s assessments that the material, including the hard disk drive and the usb memory stick, had been seized on draupner’s business premises, that there was, accordingly, a presumption that it was included in the audit and eligible for the tax agency’s examination and that the burden of proof for exemptions rested with the company, even though a modest level of evidence was sufficient.44.  the applicant and mr jurik made a complaint to the parliamentary ombudsman (justitieombudsmannen) against the handling of the case by the tax agency, the county administrative court and the administrative court of appeal and assessments made by these instances.
10.  during the period from the end of september 2006 to the end of january 2007 identity checks of georgian nationals residing in russia were carried out in the streets, markets and other workplaces as well as at their homes.some of the georgian nationals against whom expulsion orders were issued left the territory of the russian federation by their own means (for further details as to the background of the case see georgia v. russia (i), cited above, § 45).in the subsequent years the first applicant, her husband and the children had been back and forth several times between the russian federation and georgia.a)  the applicants’ version of the subsequent events 19.  according to the applicants their train was stopped by russian migration officers on 22 november 2006 at approximately 10.30 pm near the russian/azerbaijani border and all georgian nationals were asked to get off the train with their belongings.due to the cold weather and her advanced pregnancy the walk and the bus ride were particular difficult for the first applicant.21.  once the group arrived in derbent, the migration officers asked the group to accompany them to the migration service office.23.  at daybreak, the police officers asked the group to go to the migration service office again, where they spent the whole day waiting outside at a temperature of 5o c. 24.  in the evening the first applicant’s health deteriorated, her children were crying and coughing and no shelter, water or food was offered by the authorities.25.  according to the applicants the migration officers regularly visited the flat, but the first applicant’s complaints about her worsening health were to no avail.the fifth applicant stayed with the other georgians, as her birth certificate had expired on 14 november 2006. however, they were stopped by the customs officers who indicated that the court’s expulsion decision only concerned the first applicant and not her children.28.  on 3 and 4 december 2006, after having gone back and forth to the migration service office, and with the help of an employee from the consulate service of the georgian embassy in moscow, the first applicant finally obtained transit visa for her children and all other necessary documents, so that all five applicants could leave for georgia.29.  several national broadcasting television companies reported on the georgians’ situation in derbent on a daily basis between 1 and 7 december 2006. b)  the government’s version of the subsequent events 30.  according to the government the border control services, which conducted immigration controls in the trains going to the republic of azerbaijan, did not bring any georgian nationals to the migration services on 22 or 23 november 2006. however, on 23 november 2006 the name of the fifth applicant was registered by the line division of the interior at derbent station in the register of passengers put off trains.32.  further investigations by the russian authorities revealed, according to the government, that the first applicant temporarily resided in a house in derbent with the consent of the house owners.according to the testimony of the house owners the first applicant lived there free of charge, was not accompanied by children and no police officer or other official visited the first applicant in the house.the last 5 kilometres to the border the applicants had to walk, as the bus driver had asked them to get off the bus: the first applicant and her youngest child, the fifth applicant, were able to take a taxi to the border, but the three other applicants had to continue walking; the temperature was below 3o c. 35.  after having arrived in georgia, the first applicant’s health was particularly bad.the birth history no 364/12, issued on the same date, stated that “the stress experienced by the pregnant mother during the expulsion could be considered a reason for the child’s death”.
7.  by a judgment of the kutina municipal court of 20 may 1994, which became final on 30 november 1994, the applicant was ordered to pay to the sellers (hereinafter “the creditors”) the equivalent of dem 17,000 in domestic currency, together with accrued statutory default interest (running from 15 december 1989) and the costs of the proceedings.specifically, they sought (a) the equivalent of 8,691.96 euros (eur) in croatian kunas (hrk), together with accrued statutory default interest running from 15 december 1989, (b) the costs of the above civil proceedings in the amount of hrk 1,860, together with accrued statutory default interest (running from 20 may 1994), and (c) the costs of the enforcement proceedings.9.  on 18 march 2003 the enforcement court issued a writ of execution (rješenje o ovrsi) in respect of the seizure and sale of the applicant’s immovable property, in particular his house, with a view to settling the creditors’ claim.11.  after two unsuccessful attempts on 16 february and 23 march 2005 to sell it through public auction, the enforcement court on 13 april 2005 at a third public auction sold the house and awarded it to the enforcement creditors for hrk 100,000. in so doing it relied on section 97(4) of the 1996 enforcement act, as amended in 1999, (hereinafter “the 1999 amendments”) under which at a third public auction a debtor’s immovable property could be sold without restrictions regarding the lowest price (see paragraphs 25-26 below).12.  since the creditors did not pay the purchase price within the set time-limit, on 28 november 2006 the court set aside its decision of 13 april 2005 and re-ran the third public auction.14.  following an appeal by the applicant, on 1 april 2009 the sisak county court (županijski sud u sisku) quashed the decision of 10 december 2008 to award the applicant’s house to mr d.d.it held that the enforcement court had misinterpreted section 97(4) and that the contested decision was in breach of section 6 of the enforcement act because that court had not sufficiently respected the applicant’s dignity and the requirement that the enforcement be the least onerous for the debtor (see paragraph 30 below).it noted that the purchase price was not sufficient to cover even half of the debt, which on 13 april 2005 had amounted to hrk 107,974.40[3], meaning that the sale of the applicant’s house had not achieved the main purpose of the enforcement proceedings – namely, the settlement of the creditors’ claim.the relevant part of that decision reads: “the enforcement debtor ... justly complains about the sale of the property [in question] ... for an amount significantly lower than its established value.... the enforcement court has to interpret the said provision in the light of the basic principles of [enforcement] procedure, as well as in accordance with the purpose sought to be achieved by the proceedings.by selling for hrk 50,000 property [worth] hrk 384,197 and awarding it to the buyer, the first-instance court breached section 6 of the enforcement act, which imposes the duty on an enforcement court, in carrying out an enforcement, to respect the debtor’s dignity and make [the enforcement] the least onerous for him or her.having regard to the fact that the creditors’ claim in these proceedings on 13 april 2005 ... amounted to hrk 107,974.40 and that now, on account of the lapse of time and accrued [default] interest, it is [even] higher ..., given that the established value of the property is three times higher than the debt, and since the price offered at the last public auction would not settle even half of the debt, it is reasonable to conclude that accepting the said offer was in breach of section 6 of the enforcement act and that it cannot be held that the sale in question was carried out with a view to achieving the purpose of enforcement proceedings – namely, settling the creditor’s claim.” 15.  in the resumed proceedings the enforcement court again scheduled a third public auction, which was held on 12 may 2009 and at which the applicant’s house was again sold to d.d.18.  by a decision of 20 december 2010 the sisak county court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of 3 june 2009 to award the applicant’s house to d.d.the relevant part of the county court’s decision, which was served on the applicant’s representative on 12 january 2011, reads: “it is not disputed that on 3 june 2009 a third public auction was held, at which the debtor’s property was sold for hrk 70,000. the third public auction was carried out in accordance with section 97(4) of the enforcement act, which provides that if a property is not sold at a second auction, the court shall, within 15 to 30 days [of the second auction], schedule a third auction at which the property may be sold without restrictions regarding the lowest price [calculated in proportion to its] established value.” 19.  on 11 february 2011 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint alleging violations of his right to equality before the law and his right of ownership, as guaranteed by article 14 paragraph 2 and article 48 of the croatian constitution (see paragraph 22 below).21.  meanwhile, by a decision of 14 february 2011 the enforcement court distributed the proceeds of the sale to the enforcement creditors, and by a decision of 18 may 2011 ordered the applicant’s eviction from the house.
4.  the applicant is a community of owners of a building located in madrid.5.  on 13 june 1991 l., the co-owner of a house located next to the applicant’s building, filed a complaint before the madrid municipality, complaining that a dividing wall belonging to the applicant’s building and two other buildings located next to it was in poor condition.6.  on 25 april 1994, in view of the “serious risk of harm” posed by the poor condition of the wall, the municipality repaired it motu proprio.7.  on 30 august 1994 the applicant received a decree issued by the municipality on 29 july 1994, informing it that the repairs had been carried out in view of the “serious risk of harm” posed by the condition of wall in question, and ordering it to pay a provisional amount of 18,030.36 euros (eur).8.  on 21 october 1994 the applicant initiated proceedings opposing the municipality’s demand, contesting the necessity of the urgent repairs.9.  on 29 october 1994, before the madrid high court of justice, the applicant brought a first set of judicial administrative proceedings (recurso contencioso-administrativo) against the decree of 29 july 1994, complaining of the shortcomings of the procedure which had led to the municipality repairing the wall.10.  on 18 march 1996 the municipality asked the applicant to pay the remainder of the amount owed: the final cost of the repairs minus the amount already paid as a provisional amount.11.  on 16 july 1996, before the madrid high court of justice, the applicant initiated a second set of judicial administrative proceedings (recurso contencioso-administrativo), contesting the amount of the requested payment and asking for a suspension of its obligation to pay that amount.that decision was confirmed by the madrid high court of justice and the supreme court on 11 july 1997 and 23 february 2001 respectively.14.  on 9 december 2004 the madrid high court of justice ruled against the applicant, on the grounds that the repairs had been carried out by the municipality in view of the poor condition of the wall and the “serious risk of harm” present at that time, which had given the municipality no other choice but to repair it and then ask the applicant for payment in respect of the costs incurred.the madrid high court of justice also confirmed the amount set for the costs of the repairs.15.  on 3 march 2005 the applicant lodged a cassation appeal with the supreme court, which was declared inadmissible more than four years later on 29 may 2009. this decision was served on the applicant on 9 june 2009.16.  on 10 december 2009 the applicant lodged an amparo appeal with the constitutional court.17.  on 31 january 2010 the community of owners agreed to authorise mr. garcía caballero to act on its behalf in the framework of the judicial proceedings concerning the costs of the repairs to the wall.18.  by a decision of 28 april 2010 the constitutional court declared the amparo appeal inadmissible on the grounds that “the constitutional significance of the appeal had not been justified”.
some of the georgian nationals against whom expulsion orders were issued left the territory of the russian federation by their own means (for further details as to the background of the case see georgia v. russia (i) [gc], no.8.  the applicant entered the territory of the russian federation on 1 june 2006 on a multiple entry business visa, valid until 27 may 2007. on 4 october 2006 immigration officers stopped the applicant on the street, checked his identity documents and brought him to the department of the interior in the vykhino district of moscow, where he was detained.on 5 october 2006 the kuzminskiy district court of moscow fined the applicant (rub 1,000) for failure to observe the applicable registration procedure and ordered his administrative expulsion from the russian federation.10.  the applicant entered the territory of the russian federation on 6 july 2000 under the visa-free regime and settled in the village of mescheryakovka in the arkadakskiy district of the saratov region.on 12 october 2006, after friends of the applicant had paid the administrative fine and bought him an aeroplane ticket to armenia for the next day, the applicant was released.12.  the applicants entered the territory of the russian federation in december 2002/january 2003 and lived there without the required visa, at the latest since 25 december 2003. on 6 october 2006 both applicants were apprehended by the police and brought to the ivanovskoye police station of the department of the eastern administrative district of moscow.14.  the applicant entered the russian federation on an unknown date on a multi-entry business visa, valid until 15 august 2007. she had registered her place of residence through a private agency and received a certificate valid until 16 march 2007. on 11 october 2006 the applicant was apprehended by police officers for an inspection of her identity documents and was brought to the vykhino police station in moscow, where she was subsequently detained.the second applicant had a temporary document issued by the consulate of georgia, authorising his residency in the russian federation until 5 november 2006. on 11 october 2006 the applicants were apprehended by police officers for an inspection of their documents and brought to the vykhino police station in moscow, where they were subsequently detained.(c)  nato shavshishvili (born on 18 march 1956) 16.  the applicant had lived in russia since 2005 and had a visa and registration valid until 19 october 2006. on 18 october 2006 the applicant left the russian federation by her own means.the first applicant had a visa valid from 8 may 2006 until 7 may 2007. the second applicant had a visa valid from 30 june 2006 until 19 june 2007. both applicants were in possession of registration certificates, valid until respectively 8 november 2006 and 30 december 2006. the applicants left the russian federation on 19 october 2006 by their own means.(f)  gocha khmaladze (born on 17 december 1968) 22.  the applicant had lived in the russian federation since 2001. he had a visa valid until 30 august 2007 and a registration certificate that had expired on 18 september 2006. on 11 october 2006 the applicant was arrested by police officers and was brought to the department of the interior in the vykhino district of moscow, where he was detained.after the decision of the district court the applicant was transferred to the centre for temporary detention of aliens no.he had a valid visa until 1 march 2007. on 3 october 2006 the applicant was apprehended by officers of the department of the interior of the mozhayskiy district of moscow and brought to their station, where he was detained.on the same day the kuntsevskiy district court of moscow fined the applicant for not observing the applicable registration procedure and ordered his detention and expulsion.for the relevant time the applicant had a visa and registration, valid until respectively 8 october 2006 and 28 february 2007. the presnenskiy district court of moscow decided that the expulsion decision of 2004 had included a five year ban from entering the russian federation.
k. referred to the fact that the board over a long period had received several complaints regarding mr a’s conduct at the housing cooperative and to his conviction by oslo city court (tingrett) of 10 march 2006 for violent assault and frightening and disturbing behaviour vis-à-vis neighbours at z street 14 b and 14 c; and the fact that it followed from the judgment that mr a’s residence was z street 14 c. in a letter of 2 june 2006 attorney b. disputed inter alia that mr a had an address in z street 14 c. 8.  on 2 september 2008, the board held a meeting.14.  in meting out the sentence, the city court attached considerable weight to the fact that mr a had twice (last time in 2003) been convicted for a number of offences of a similar nature, that he had actively approached the victims, and that his conduct to a great extent affected people in their homes and closest environment, thereby destroying the victims’ and their families’ feeling of safety and wellbeing at their homes and in the near vicinity....” 17.  in an additional indictment of 14 april 2008, mr a was charged under the same provision as follows: “at around 18h15 on saturday, 12 january 2008, in the staircase of the garage building of z street 14c, oslo, he hit and/or pushed mr d.h. in the chest with clenched fists so that the latter fell backward towards a wall, whereupon he pulled mr d.h. by his arm/or jacket into the building.” 18.  by a judgment of 23 june 2008, the city court convicted mr a of the above charges.it found proven, not that he had taken a strangulation grip on mrs t.l.b., but that he had intentionally pushed her against a door or a wall with one hand; that he had pushed mr h.f. or hit him in his chest but not that he had hit him hard; and that he had held around mr d.h.’s chest and had pushed him against the wall, both in the staircase and in the garage but that he had not hit mr d.h. the city court observed that, while all three offences would normally warrant the imposition of fines, mr h.f.’s advanced age and frailness were an aggravating factor as were the number of the offences adjudicated as well as the fact that mr a had been convicted in the past for similar and in part more serious offences.from section 5-23 of the housing cooperative act, it clearly followed that it was the applicant, as the owner of the apartment in question, who was the person whom the housing cooperative ought to address in all cases concerning the owner’s duties and responsibilities.it followed from the case-law and legal doctrine that the owner was to be identified with the members of his or her household, both in the sense that faults on their part were relevant and that an eviction measure would also concern them; it was not possible to limit a request for an eviction order to concern only one or some of the members of a given household or to concern only the owner and not the other occupants.it was only after the housing cooperative x’s request to the applicant of 19 may 2004 for confirmation that mr a would not move to the estate that attorney b. had responded in the affirmative by letter of 26 may 2004. she was then well informed that it was precisely the matters regarding her son which was the reason for the board’s request for confirmation that he would not move into the flat.40.  as regards the applicant’s allegation that the conditions had improved and that both she and mr a were prepared to negotiate on alternative default measures, the city court noted that the housing cooperative’s communications to the applicant had led to tirades of phone calls and e-mails with accusations against members of the board and complaints to different public institutions.maintaining in the main her arguments before the city court, she requested that the housing cooperative x’s action be dismissed; in the alternative, she argued that the request for compulsory sale was unlawful in that no evidence had been adduced to show that she had defaulted her obligations vis-à-vis the housing cooperative or, in any event, that any such default had been substantial.in the further alternative, she submitted that, after refusing to dismiss the suit, the city court had failed to refer her case for examination according to the ordinary procedure (involving in principle an oral hearing) and had wrongly considered her objections against compulsory sale as being clearly groundless; therefore, she asked the high court to quash the city court’s decision and to refer the case back for re-examination in accordance with the ordinary procedure.for instance, amongst other things, at times he was positioning himself more or less in the background in order to suddenly ambush by getting very close to and to some extent hindering the passage of the person he was talking to, while raising his voice and using threating body language and mimicking.” 55.  the city court had further referred to the fact that mr a in connection with a criminal case in 2003 had undergone a thorough expert examination, which had inter alia concluded that he had extensive, systematic perceptions and experiences of conspiracy that were almost impossible to influence.57.  in the high court’s assessment, the matters for which the applicant’s son had been convicted constituted by their nature, their number and the extent of the period in which they had been committed – namely from 29 july 2005 until 12 january 2008 – when seen as a whole, such default as fulfilled the conditions for requiring that the flat be vacated according to section 5-23(1) and the imposition of compulsory sale pursuant to section 5-22(1).60.  the high court found that the conditions for the imposition of default measures under sections 5-22 and 5-23 had in any event been fulfilled on 14 april 2009 when the order of sale was sent to the applicant, which – as also held by the city court – was the decisive time for the assessment (see paragraphs 9 and 41 above).69.  in conjunction with the above proceedings, the applicant and/or mr a unsuccessfully pursued multiple other matters regarding the sale of the applicant’s apartment (request for replacement housing; miscellaneous complaints regarding the office of the execution and enforcement commissioner’s (namsmannen) handling of the sale; a demand of access to documents in the possession of obos; disqualification of all police officers employed at the court of the office of the city recorder; mr a’s compensation claim against the state on account of the police having communicated information about him to obos allegedly in breach of their duty of confidentiality; his compensation claim against obos for its manner of processing information pertaining to him; his demand that obos remove from its archives and destroy a police report related to him; and his request for access to a file in obos’s possession) as well as a request for the joinder of these proceedings and an oral hearing.on 20 may 2015, having examined the matter in the light of rule 44 § 3 of the rules of court, the president of the first section (to which the application was allocated at the time) decided to refuse the request as she considered, having regard to the state of the proceedings in the case, that the intervention requested would not be in “the interest of the proper administration of justice”.
9.  the present application concerns an action brought by the applicants before the dunajská streda district court on 11 april 2005, which was registered under the file no.owing to a dispute over the aforesaid real property in the context of these two sets of auxiliary proceedings, the main proceedings were stayed on two occasions.following this, the district court held several hearings, dealt with the applicants’ application to modify the claim and tried to serve the court documents on one of the defendants, whose address was unknown.12.  on 28 september 2006 the district court stayed the proceedings pending the outcome of the first set of auxiliary proceedings (see paragraph 18) and this decision was upheld on appeal with final effect on 27 september 2007. subsequently, the applicants lodged an appeal on points of law to no avail.13.  between 9 september and 1 december 2008 the district court monitored the first set of auxiliary proceedings and once those were finalised it resumed the main proceedings on 20 march 2009. the district court then dealt with the applicants’ applications to modify the claim, it ordered the taking of expert evidence, scheduled a number of hearings, and traced the defendants’ whereabouts in order to serve the court documents on them since they were continually changing address.14.  on 17 september 2012 the district court stayed the proceedings for the second time pending the outcome of the second set of auxiliary proceedings (see paragraph 21).the applicants appealed this decision unsuccessfully and the decision on staying the main proceedings became final on 16 january 2014. the main proceedings have not been resumed since their interruption.15.  the applicants complained before the constitutional court about the length of the main proceedings on two occasions.i. ús 291/2010) rejected their first complaint as manifestly ill-founded on the grounds that the proceedings had been stayed between 2006 and 2009 pending the outcome of the first set of auxiliary proceedings.it examined the procedural steps taken by the district court following the applicants’ first constitutional complaint until 17 september 2012, when the district court had stayed the main proceedings for the second time.the constitutional court further stated that the applicants’ arguments about the unfairness of the domestic courts’ decisions on the staying of the proceedings were manifestly ill-founded.it also noted that they had failed to raise some of their arguments about the alleged unfairness and the lack of reasoning before the lower courts, in particular before the appellate court.19.  in april 2003, the applicants jointly received a domestic award from the constitutional court amounting to the equivalent of 2,656 euros (eur) in damages for the breach of their right to a hearing within a reasonable time in the context of those proceedings (file no.21.  the second set of auxiliary proceedings commenced on 14 march 2011 and once again related to a dispute over the validity of the purchase agreement concerning the aforesaid real property (file no.10816/12), the court established of its own motion that on 7 may 2015 the applicants had challenged the length of the second set of auxiliary proceedings (file no.
10.  during the period from the end of september 2006 to the end of january 2007 identity checks of georgian nationals residing in russia were carried out in the streets, markets and other workplaces and at their homes.11.  the applicant was born in 1959 in senaki (georgia) and married to mr tengiz togonidze, a georgian national born in 1958. together they had lived in st petersburg since 2004. in april 2006 mr togonidze had started suffering from coughing fits, shortness of breath and thickening of the aorta walls.14.  at about 3.30 p.m. on 4 october 2006 the nevskiy district court of st petersburg ordered mr togonidze to be expelled from the russian federation and detained at the st petersburg special detention centre for aliens pending his administrative expulsion on the ground that he had infringed the residence rules governing foreign nationals, namely article 18.8 of the code of administrative offences.16.  the sanitary conditions of the cell were very poor, as the toilets were only separated from the rest of the cell by a partition measuring 1.1 m at one side, and there was a lack of fresh air.in addition the detainees were accompanied by 20 officers of the special police force of the main internal affairs directorate (omon) on the bus and two further police cars escorted the bus on the way to the airport.20.  the conditions of transport in the bus were very difficult, with no air conditioning, and although the journey lasted between eight and nine hours, the officers who had been accompanying the detainees had not allowed them to open the windows.21.  on 17 october 2006 between 7 and 8 a.m. the bus arrived at the airport and around 8.30 a.m. mr togonidze, whose health had deteriorated during the bus ride, was allowed to leave the bus upon the request of mr pataridze, who was awaiting the georgian nationals at the airport.a called ambulance was unable to resuscitate him and he was declared dead at 10.20 a.m. 24.  on 18 october 2006 the bureau of forensic medical examination of the moscow health department conducted an autopsy of mr togonidze’s corpse and indicated that his death was caused by tuberculosis.this time finding that, owing to detecting methadone in the urine and blood of mr togonidze (see paragraph 26 above) and finding three injection marks on his corpse, there was evidence for repeated use of narcotics for a long period of time.in particular it was held that the dismissal was premature and that it should be established whether any narcotics were found on mr togonidze, the amount of methadone taken by him, whether such a dose could be lethal, why mr togonidze’s health deteriorated during the bus ride and whether he received adequate health care during his detention and transfer to the airport.36.  based on the documents provided by the government, and in particular on the autopsy report and the report of the forensic chemical examination, the applicant submitted her own medical report regarding her husband’s death.the report was compiled by a forensic pathologist, dr john clark – a former lecturer at different universities in the united kingdom and chief pathologist for the united nations international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia (icty) – supported by a forensic toxicologist, dr hilary hamnett.37.  the experts pointed out that the russian authorities gave the cause of death as methadone intoxication based on the fact that methadone was detected in the blood and urine of mr togonidze and that he had three injection marks on his body.as regards the needle punctures they pointed out that the injection mark at the bend of the left elbow stemmed most probably from the resuscitation attempts at the airport, in which intravenous drugs were given, and that the other two marks, on the lower third of the left shoulder, appear as a very unusual site for self-injection of drugs.38.  as regards the forensic chemical examination the experts indicated that the applied analyses appear not to have been carried out according to international recommendations and that the level of methadone was only measured in the urine and not in the blood.
according to a record dated 6 march 2010 relating to the carrying out of operational measures and the seizure of physical evidence (əməliyyat tədbirlərinin keçirilməsi və maddi sübutun götürülməsi haqqında protokol), the applicant was arrested by the police at 11.30 p.m. on 6 march 2010 in sumgayit, on the basis of operational information that he was in possession of narcotic substances.8.  on 10 march 2010 the sumgayit city court, relying on the official charges brought against the applicant and the prosecutor’s request to apply the preventive measure of remand in custody (həbs qətimkan tədbiri), ordered the applicant’s detention for a period of two months, calculating the period of detention from 9 march 2010.according to the applicant’s lawyer, he made an oral complaint at the hearing before the sumgayit city court in the presence of the sumgayit city deputy prosecutor, complaining that the applicant had been ill-treated in police custody.14.  on an unspecified date in april 2010 the lawyer informed the ombudsman of the applicant’s ill-treatment in police custody and the investigator’s failure to order a forensic examination of the applicant.15.  following a conversation between the applicant and agents from the ombudsman’s office in a temporary detention centre, on 22 april 2010 the ombudsman requested that the prosecutor general’s office carry out a forensic examination of the applicant and conduct an effective investigation into his allegation of ill-treatment.16.  by a letter of 7 may 2010, the prosecutor general’s office informed the lawyer that the complaint submitted by the ombudsman concerning the applicant’s alleged ill-treatment by the police would be examined, and he would be informed of its outcome.24.  in the meantime, on an unspecified date the applicant’s lawyer had lodged a complaint with the sumgayit city court under the procedure concerning the review of the lawfulness of procedural actions or decisions by the criminal prosecuting authority under article 449 of the code of criminal procedure.he complained, in particular, that the applicant had been ill-treated in police custody, that the investigator had failed to reply to his complaints concerning the ill-treatment, and that the applicant’s procedural rights had been violated within the framework of the criminal proceedings.25.  in the proceedings before the sumgayit city court the judge heard the applicant, the two other co-accused, the applicant’s lawyer, the police officers involved in the applicant’s arrest, and the two investigators who had been in charge of the applicant’s case.although the police officers denied the ill-treatment allegation, the investigator who had replaced the first investigator in charge of the case stated that he had also noticed the signs of a beating on the applicant’s body during his questioning.t76/2010 that the applicant was examined by the forensic experts in the presence of his lawyer on 23 june 2010. during the examination the applicant stated that he had been tortured in police custody, and gave a detailed description of his ill-treatment.the court further held that the investigator who had replaced the first investigator in charge of the case had also stated before the court that he had noticed injuries on the applicant’s body when he had questioned him.30.  on 24 august 2010 the applicant’s lawyer lodged a complaint with the prosecutor general’s office and the ministry of internal affairs, complaining that the investigating authorities had failed to investigate the applicant’s ill-treatment, despite the explicit acknowledgment of the fact of the ill-treatment by the court decisions of 25 june and 27 july 2010.he complained, in particular, that the prosecuting authorities had unlawfully refused to investigate the applicant’s ill-treatment, despite the explicit acknowledgment of the fact of the ill-treatment by the relevant court decisions.the appellate court justified its decision by relying on the gravity of the charges and the risk of the applicant’s absconding from the investigation.
according to the applicant, three police officers handcuffed him and kicked him in the face and on the head during the arrest.11.  on 28 december 2004, in response to a complaint by the applicant, the investigator looking into the matter noted that the applicant had resisted arrest and that the police officers had had to use force on him.12.  on 30 december 2004 a forensic expert examined the applicant and documented the following injuries: “bruises around the right and left eyes and on the right part of the head; haemorrhage ... on the left of the lower lip; bruises on the nose, right cheek, forehead and right knee joint.” 13.  in the expert’s opinion, the injuries had been inflicted between three and eight days before the examination and had not caused any serious damage to the applicant’s health.17.  on 25 february 2005 the oktyabrskiy district court of samara extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention until 23 april 2005. the applicant remained in custody pending the conclusion of the investigation and trial.in establishing the applicant’s guilt, the court relied, inter alia, on the recordings of the intercepted mobile telephone calls between the defendants.according to the applicant, the court refused to provide him with access to the judicial authorisation for the interception of his mobile telephone communications.as regards the interception of the defendants’ mobile telephone calls, the court noted as follows: “it is clear from the material in the case file that the regional court authorised the interception of the [defendants’] telephone communications ... pursuant to [the applicable legislation], information about covert operational and search activities is classified as a state secret.the arguments in the [defendants’] statements of appeal that the decision [authorising interception] had not been included in the case file raise no issue under the law.the [appeal court] dismisses as unsubstantiated the defendants’ complaints that violations committed [by the police] in the course of the interception and recording of their telephone communications should render that evidence inadmissible.the [appeal court] discerns no violations of [applicable laws] in the course of the storage, transfer, inspection of, and listening to, the audiotapes containing the recording of the defendants’ telephone communications.the results of [the interception of the defendants’ telephone communications] were submitted to the investigator and the court in accordance with an instruction prepared on the basis of [the applicable legislation].” 21.  from 26 to 31 december 2004 the applicant was detained in a temporary detention centre.(a)  description provided by the government 23.  the government provided copies of the prison’s population register for each day of the applicant’s detention in the remand prison and the relevant floor plans.m) number of inmates number of beds from 31 december 2004 to 1 march 2005 8 24.  according to information submitted by the governor of the remand prison, the applicant was provided with a mattress, a pillow, a blanket, bed linen, towels, cutlery, a mug and a bowl.the distance from the toilet to the dining table was at least 1.5 m. (b)  description provided by the applicant 26.  according to the applicant, his cells were at all times overcrowded.many cells in the remand prison were infested with cockroaches and bedbugs 30.  according to inmate k., he was detained in cell 61 from february to march 2006. he provided a description of the conditions of detention which reproduced verbatim the statement made by inmate ye.
5.  the facts of the applications, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.7.  on 6 may 2003 the first applicant was stopped by a customs officer at a moscow international airport and found to be in possession of 10,200 euros (eur) and 8,755 us dollars[1] (usd) which he failed to report on his customs declaration.8.  on 4 december 2003 the golovinskiy district court in moscow convicted the first applicant of smuggling and issued a confiscation order in respect of the foreign currency he had carried on him.on 5 february 2004 the moscow city court upheld the judgment on appeal.9.  further to an application from a deputy moscow prosecutor, on 5 december 2008 the presidium of the moscow city court amended the judgment.noting that there was no evidence that the confiscated currency had been the instrument of a crime or had been criminally acquired, it cancelled the confiscation order and ordered the confiscated money to be refunded to the first applicant.10.  on 3 june 2009 the amount of 628,750 russian roubles (rub)[2] was credited into the first applicant’s bank account.11.  the first applicant sued the ministry of finance, seeking to recover the interest accrued on the retained amount during the period from 6 may 2003 to 3 june 2009, which he assessed at rub 458,777.it awarded the first applicant rub 11,719.20[3] in respect of the period from 2 april 2009 when his representative had submitted the bank details to the ministry of finance until 3 june 2009 when the transfer had been made.the district court did not say anything about the part of the claim concerning the previous six-year period.14.  on 11 october 2004 the customs officer at a moscow international airport stopped the second and third applicants as they were carrying eur 14,600 and 14,980 euros in cash, respectively, which they had not reported on their customs declarations.15.  on 14 and 16 february 2006 the golovinskiy district court in moscow found the second and third applicants guilty as charged and issued confiscation orders.on 10 april 2006 the moscow city court upheld the conviction on appeal.16.  on an application from a deputy moscow prosecutor, on 26 august 2011 the presidium of the moscow city court amended the judgments in respect of the second and third applicants.noting that there was no evidence that the confiscated currency had been the instrument of a crime or had been criminally acquired, it cancelled the confiscation orders and ordered to refund rub 526,471.62 to ms sumann and rub 540,174.30 to mr sumann.
7.  in autumn 2004 the applicant met a.h. in january 2005 he moved out of the flat he had lived in with r. 8.  on 31 october 2005 a.h. gave birth to their daughter, m. 9.  on 25 september 2006 the applicant filed a petition for divorce.r. did not agree to a divorce, declared that she loved the applicant and asked the court to dismiss the divorce petition.most of them were of the opinion that the marriage seemed happy until autumn 2004. only the applicant’s mother, his two colleagues and his cousin recalled minor arguments between the spouses.14.  on 17 february 2009 the lublin regional court refused to grant the divorce to the applicant.the court held that he was the only person responsible for the breakdown of his marriage because he had failed to respect the obligation of fidelity.the court did not find it credible that problems had already begun within the first year of the marriage.15.  the marital situation had subsequently changed when the applicant had met a.h. he had no longer wished to have a child with his wife.the court noted contradictions between the testimony given by the applicant, who had referred to the alleged serious problems in marital life prior to 2004 on the one hand, and the decision to treat r.’s infertility in summer 2004 on the other.16.  the court acknowledged that there had indeed been “a complete and irretrievable marriage breakdown” within the meaning of article 56 § 1 of the family and guardianship code.17.  the court emphasised that under article 56 § 3 of the family and guardianship code, a divorce could not be granted if it had been requested by the party whose fault it was that the marriage had broken down, if the other party refused to consent and the refusal of the innocent party was not “contrary to the reasonable principles of social coexistence” (zasady współżycia społecznego) within the meaning of article 5 of the civil code.it referred to the case-law of the supreme court to the effect that a refusal of consent to a divorce was to be presumed to be compliant with those principles unless there were case-specific indications to the contrary.the court emphasised that she had repeatedly stated during the proceedings that she was ready to reconcile with him despite the fact that he had a child with another woman.19.  the court stressed that the duration of the applicant’s new relationship could not by itself be considered to be a sufficient reason for granting the divorce.he argued, inter alia, that the court had erred in holding that a spouse’s refusal to consent to a divorce could be disregarded only when it was of an abusive nature or was dictated by hostility towards the spouse seeking the divorce.22.  the applicant did not request to be served with the written grounds for the appellate judgment.
under the relevant legislation they had to accept that the flats were occupied by tenants with a regulated rent and that they could charge them no more than the maximum amount of rent fixed by the state.the relevant legislation precluded them from unilaterally terminating the leases, or selling the flats other than to the tenants (“the rent‑control scheme”).7.  the situation of the applicants is structurally and contextually the same as in bittó and others v. slovakia (no.8.  it is in dispute between the parties in the present case what amount of rent the applicants would be able to receive by letting their flats under free‑market conditions.9.  in that connection, the government submitted an expert’s opinion drawn up in 2010 in relation to all four applications (“the government’s expert opinion”), according to which the monthly free-market rent for flats comparable to the applicants’ was between 6.13 and 6.48 euro (eur) per sq.the regulated rent in the flats owned by the applicants ranged between eur 0.80 and 1.7 per sq.m. according to those calculations therefore, the regulated rent of the flats possessed by the applicants corresponded to some 14-26% of the market rent in 2010. the relevant data are set out in appendixes 2‑5 (columns g‑i).10.  the applicants for their part relied on different sources of information to support their contention that the regulated rent was disproportionately low compared with similar flats to which the rent-control scheme did not apply.11.  the applicants maintained that in 2007 the regulated rent ranged between eur 76 and 84 a month whereas the average free-market rent for comparable flats in a similar location was eur 956 a month.they submitted an expert’s opinion which showed that the difference between the general rental value of the property and the regulated rent they actually received was eur 88,431.53 for the period between 2000 and 2011.12.  the applicants submitted that in 2010 the regulated rent for their flats amounted to eur 95 and 105 a month, whereas the monthly free-market rent for comparable flats was eur 616. they relied on data from the national association of real estate agencies (“the narea”).depending on the period and the relevant law in force, the regulated rent represented some 5-13% of the market rent for comparable flats in the area.they further submitted that the sum which they and the other co‑owners had invested in repairing the building was ten times the income they obtained from letting the flats under the rent‑control scheme.he submitted that the market rent in the same area in 2005 was between eur 305 and eur 366 a month for the single-room flat and between eur 396 and eur 488 a month for the two-room flats.14.  the applicants submitted that the regulated rent for their flats ranged between eur 38.5 and 104 a month in 2010. relying on data from the narea, they maintained that the market rent for comparable flats in the area amounted to approximately eur 616 a month.
6.  the applicant was born in 1980 in tetovo and lives in golema rečica in the municipality of tetovo in “the former yugoslav republic of macedonia”.7.  on 1 july 1999 the applicant married a national of “the former yugoslav republic of macedonia”, born in 1978, who arrived in switzerland in 1990 and who also held a permanent residence permit.10.  on 16 december 2004 the supreme court of the canton of zurich convicted the applicant of homicide with indirect intent (eventualvorsatz) and serious violations of the rules of road traffic.on 4 october 2000, while he was engaged in a car race on a public road with an acquaintance, the applicant, driving at a speed of at least 170 kilometres per hour, lost control of his car and crashed into a lamppost, which caused the death of his passenger.that court took the view that the applicant, by agreeing to engage in the race, had deliberately taken the risk of killing him.15.  on 27 july 2009, after having heard the applicant, the migration office of the canton of zurich revoked the applicant’s permanent residence permit.after considering the circumstances of the case, it concluded that the public interest in the applicant’s removal outweighed his interest in enjoying his family life with his wife and children in switzerland.17.  on 10 february 2010 the administrative court of the canton of zurich dismissed the applicant’s appeal lodged on 20 october 2009. it considered that the applicant had committed a serious criminal offence, that he was not well integrated in switzerland despite the length of his stay, that expert prognosis regarding the likelihood that he would reoffend was positive but did not rule out any such risk, that he spoke albanian and was familiar with the culture in “the former yugoslav republic of macedonia”, where he spent parts of his childhood and which he had visited since.moreover, the court noted that the applicant’s wife was a national of “the former yugoslav republic of macedonia” as well, knew albanian and the country’s culture, and was not well integrated in switzerland either.observing that the couple’s children were five and nine years old and thus of an adaptable age, it concluded that the applicant’s wife and children could reasonably be expected to relocate to “the former yugoslav republic of macedonia” with him.moreover, the court considered that the applicant could reasonably (re-)integrate in “the former yugoslav republic of macedonia”, considering that he spoke albanian, was born there and had spent a part of his childhood there and had visited the country since.the federal supreme court concluded that the public interest in the applicant’s removal outweighed the applicant’s interest in remaining in switzerland and enjoying respect for his family life there, also noting that his wife and children had a choice between either following him to “the former yugoslav republic of macedonia” or remaining in switzerland and maintaining contact through short but regular visits.it considered that the offence committed by the applicant was particularly serious and that he continued to be a serious threat to public order, notwithstanding his mostly good behaviour since the commission of the offence and positive personality development.it noted that the applicant could ask for a temporary suspension of the entry ban for humanitarian or other important reasons (article 67 § 5 of the federal act on foreign nationals) and that the applicant’s wife, who originated from “the former yugoslav republic of macedonia” herself, could visit him there together with their children and also maintain contact by various means of communication.24.  in august 2015, i.e. after almost four years, the applicant’s wife and children returned to switzerland to avoid the expiry of their permanent residence permit pursuant to article 61 § 2 of the federal act on foreign nationals (see relevant domestic law and practice paragraph 27) and because their socioeconomic living conditions in “the former yugoslav republic of macedonia” were difficult.
5.  the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in the kyiv region.6.  on 15 august 2006 the applicant got involved in a drunken brawl with a stranger and beat him to death.according to the applicant, he was arrested on 20 august 2006. an internal police inquiry established the date as 22 august.the official arrest record gives the time and date of his arrest as 6.45 p.m. on 24 august.8.  on 25 august 2006 the sovetskiy district court in omsk remanded the applicant in custody.on the same day he was seen by a medical expert who noted two abrasions on his forehead that could have been caused by a solid blunt object four to six days prior to the examination.9.  on 28 december 2006 the applicant was convicted of murder and sentenced to nine years’ imprisonment in a high-security facility.10.  on 21 january 2007 the applicant asked the prosecutor to investigate his allegation that police officers had beaten him up after his arrest.on the following day the decision was quashed and an additional inquiry was ordered.since then the investigative authorities and courts issued and subsequently quashed at least eight decisions to open criminal proceedings into the alleged ill-treatment.referring to the statements from three police officers and from the investigator all of whom denied any ill-treatment or intimidation, the decision of 31 december 2009 concluded that the applicant’s allegations were unsubstantiated because the expert had determined his injuries to have been caused no later than 21 august, that is to say, three days prior to his arrest.on 28 july 2015 the prosecutor of the sovetskiy district in omsk annulled the decision of 31 december 2009 and ordered an additional inquiry which should establish whether or not the applicant had been brought to the police station already on 20 august 2006 and whether or not the specific police officer described by the applicant had been on duty on that day.11.  between 26 february 2007 and 30 october 2009 the applicant served the sentence in ik-9, a correctional institution in omsk.on the latter date the applicant was transferred to ik-3 where he stayed until 26 march 2010. the dormitories in which the applicant slept were overcrowded, affording at times no more than 1.5-1.7 sq.on 26 march 2010 the applicant was transferred to liu-2, a medical facility, where he appears to have stayed until the end of his sentence on 23 august 2015. the premises of the facility were overcrowded and afforded no more than 1.8 sq.
the court observed that the essential issue in the case was whether the applicant was entitled to a higher rate of pay, equivalent to that paid to the german employees working in similar positions at the material time.in so far as the applicant relied on the provisions of the international agreement of 1990 (see paragraph 6 above) and argued that it should serve as the basis for setting his rate of pay, the court observed that this agreement was of a public-law character.besides, in his view, the court had violated the provisions of the above‑mentioned international agreement, according to which the rates of the applicant’s pay should be comparable to those received by the german workers occupying the same positions.in the final part of the written grounds for the judgment the court of appeal stated that the position of the opole regional court as to the substance of the case was supported by the wording of the international agreements and existing domestic case-law.this part of the court’s reasoning read as follows: “as to the substantive grounds for the court’s legal view expressed in the judgment under appeal, it should be stated that it finds support in the content of the agreement between the governments of the republic of poland and the federal republic of germany on the secondment of workers of polish companies to carry out construction work (journal of laws 1998/84, items 474 and 475) as well as in the hitherto interpretation of this agreement in judicial decisions (see, e.g., iii a pa 29/00 wrocław court of appeal, decision of 31 may 2000).” 12.  on 10 december 2002 the applicant challenged one of the judges, alleging his partiality.as to the rate of the applicant’s pay, the court reiterated the reasoning of the judgment of 19 june 2000 and dismissed the claim (see paragraph 8 above).in the supreme court’s view, the court of appeal had not sufficiently clarified the meaning of those contracts in the light of statements made by the polish company concerning the applicant’s employment conditions and the obligations imposed on the company by the provisions of german law to which those statements referred.22.  on 8 december 2006 the wrocław court of appeal, having taken into account the recommendations of the supreme court, again dismissed the applicant’s appeal lodged against the regional court’s judgment of 24 may 2004. the court reiterated that the applicant was entitled to the rates of pay fixed in his employment contract.besides, in his view, the court had disregarded the provisions of the applicable international agreement (see paragraphs 6 and 8 above), according to which the applicant’s rate of pay should have been comparable to that received by the german workers occupying the same positions.he further complained that the appellate court had failed to take heed of the interpretation of the applicable law expressed by the supreme court in its previous judgment as to the applicable rate of the applicant’s salary.the applicant further complained that in the written grounds for its judgment the court of appeal had failed to provide reasons for which it had disregarded the interpretation of relevant applicable provisions made in the past by the supreme court – a substantive question which had been crucial for the outcome of the case.the supreme court noted that the appellate court, contrary to the applicant’s objection, had followed the interpretation of the applicable law expressed by the earlier judgment of the supreme court (pronounced on 29 november 2005) given in the same case.26.  additionally, the supreme court noted that the interpretation made by the lower courts of the applicant’s contract of employment, seen as a whole, had taken into account the applicant’s employer’s declarations submitted to the german authorities and also a wealth of other evidence in so far as it had been relevant for the determination of the applicant’s working conditions and remuneration.27.  the supreme court further observed that the applicant’s remuneration had been set at the level of the minimal remuneration of german employees performing similar work determined on the basis of the law on collective bargaining.28.  in so far as the applicant complained in his cassation appeal of the alleged failure of the courts to take further evidence and of the assessment of the evidence they had carried out, those complaints could not be examined in the context of those proceedings.
8.  on 5 september 2014 the applicant was charged in absentia with participation in the extremist religious movement hizb ut-tahrir al islami and activities threatening the constitutional order.on the same day the authorities ordered his pre-trial detention and issued an international search and arrest warrant bearing his name.10.  on 22 january 2015 the applicant was further charged with organising a local branch of hizb ut-tahri al islami in one of the regions of uzbekistan.11.  on 23 january 2015 the uzbek prosecution authorities requested the applicant’s extradition on the above charges.the request included assurances regarding the proper treatment of the applicant, which were formulated in standard terms.12.  on 21 may 2015 the applicant’s extradition in respect of certain charges was authorised by the deputy prosecutor general of the russian federation.13.  the applicant challenged this decision in the courts, arguing that he belonged to a vulnerable group and therefore faced a real risk of treatment contrary to article 3 at the hands of the uzbek authorities.14.  on 13 october 2015 his appeals were dismissed by a final decision of the supreme court of the russian federation.without reference to any relevant evidentiary material, the supreme court considered that the applicant’s claims were hypothetical and lacked specific indications regarding the level of risk, and observed that the situation in a requesting state might change over time.it also found that the assurances of the uzbek authorities were satisfactory.15.  on 5 june 2015 the applicant lodged a request for refugee status, referring to persecution in uzbekistan on religious grounds.the applicant challenged this decision in the courts, referring inter alia to the risk of ill‑treatment.18.  on 25 december 2015 the meshchanskiy district court of moscow ordered the applicant’s expulsion for violating the migration rules.the applicant’s appeal, which referred to the risk of ill-treatment, amongst other factors, was dismissed by the moscow city court on 24 february 2016.no information concerning the outcome of these proceedings was supplied by the parties.
5.  the applicants were born in 1961, 1963 and 1966 respectively and live in the town of taganrog.6.  on 2 july 2001 the neklinovskiy district court of the rostov region found the applicants guilty of various offences but declared that they need not serve their respective sentences because the case was time-barred.on 2 october 2001 the rostov regional court upheld the judgment on appeal.7.  on 31 january 2002 the presidium of the rostov regional court quashed by way of supervisory review the decisions of 2 july and 2 october 2001 and discontinued criminal proceedings against the applicants.it found that the courts had not been in a position to decide on the applicants’ guilt because the whole case had been time-barred.8.  the applicants sued the ministry of finance of the russian federation for, among other things, compensation in respect of non‑pecuniary damage in connection with their prosecution.9.  in its judgment of 1 march 2005 the taganrog town court of the rostov region rejected their claims.it reasoned as follows: “... the court finds that, since the applicants’ guilt of the commission of the above‑mentioned crimes was established, the use of the measure of restraint was justified.this being so, the court has no reason to grant the applicants’ claims for compensation in respect of the non-pecuniary damage resulting from their unlawful detention and the obligation not to leave their usual place of residence....” 10.  on 11 may 2005 the rostov regional court upheld the judgment of 1 march 2005 on appeal.it stated that: “ ... the first instance court, in reaching its decision refusing to grant the applicants’ claims for compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damage, correctly assumed that the decision of the presidium of the rostov regional court dated 31 january 2002 cleared them of liability on non-exonerating grounds.in the court’s view, since the applicants’ guilt of the commission of the above-mentioned crimes was established, the application of the measure of restraint during the investigation was justified.the court’s conclusion is a correct one, made following the examination and proper assessment of the legally relevant circumstances of the case....”
10.  the court ordered experts from the białystok office of the family consultation centre (rodzinny ośrodek diagnostyczno-konsultacyjny ‑“the rodk”) to prepare an opinion on the suitable form and frequency of the applicant’s contact with his son.in the view of the experts, taking into account the necessity to ensure the proper development of the child, contact between the applicant and the child should take place four times a month and last two hours on each occasion.20.  the experts opined that an increase in contact, as requested by the applicant, was not advisable, on account of the limited level of communication between him and the child, the child’s age and history, and the strength of the child’s ties with the mother and maternal grandparents.21.  the applicant contested the experts’ findings and alleged that the opinion should have been prepared with the assistance of a specialist in deaf education and a psychologist specialising in the needs of deaf people.27.  having regard to all the evidence, and in particular the expert opinion, the court found that the requested change to the contact arrangements would not be in the child’s best interests.35.  the applicant contested the lower court’s finding that the child’s paternal grandmother was a stranger to him; he argued that the child would not be exposed to stress in the event of contact without the mother’s presence and outside her home in view of the fact that the child attended nursery school and was cared by a neighbour a few times a week.it concurred with the lower court that there was no justification for a change to the existing arrangements since the applicant already had the possibility of regular contact with his son and if used this would enable the parties to strengthen their ties.it stressed that the priority of the court in such cases was to take into account the interests of the child, not the interests of either of his or her parents.38.  it further underlined that the presence of the mother during visits was necessary in order to ensure the child’s sense of security since the mother was the primary carer, with strong ties to the child.the communication barrier was a real obstacle to the forging of ties between the applicant and his son and it could not be disregarded, given that the interests of the child were of primary consideration, overriding the individual interests of the parents.42.  the court relied on the opinion prepared by the experts of the rodk for the purposes of the proceedings.in the view of the experts, the mother of the child properly exercised her parental authority, in particular with respect to the child’s needs, the necessity of treatment, and the development of the child’s social skills.the court further took into account the fact that the child was being raised by the mother, the parents lived apart, and there was a communication barrier between the applicant and the child.the court found that it was not necessary to give the applicant the possibility to have a say in matters concerning the child’s medical treatment since these were sometimes urgent – therefore, it was the mother, with whom the child lived, who should decide on them.in the view of the regional court, the limitation of the applicant’s parental authority was in the interests of the child.
4.  the applicant was born in 1988 and is detained in saransk.5.  on 3 august 2009 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of the rape of a girl, who was also a minor.6.  on 5 august 2009 the staroshaygovskiy district court of the mordovia republic remanded him in custody.he remained in pre-trial detention pending investigation and trial on the grounds that he was accused of a serious crime, might reoffend, abscond, destroy evidence, threaten witnesses, or interfere with the investigation.7.  on 24 december 2010 the supreme court of the mordovia republic found him guilty as charged.8.  on 4 october 2010 the applicant, acting for himself, submitted his first letter to the court.9.  on 4 august and 4 october 2010 he provided two powers of attorney authorising mr frimu, one of his cellmates, to represent him before the court.
10.  by a letter of 13 august 2008, the public education department of the canton of basle urban (erziehungsdepartement des kantons basel-stadt) advised the applicants that under section 91 (9) of the education act of the canton of basle urban (see paragraph 24 below), they were liable to a maximum fine of 1,000 swiss francs (chf) (around 923 euros (eur)) each if their daughters did not comply with the obligation to attend school.13.  by a letter of 28 july 2010, the education authorities ordered the applicants to pay a fine of chf 350 (about eur 323) per parent and per child (a total of chf 1,400 chf – about eur 1,292) for acting in breach of their parental duties (see section 91 (8) and (9) of the education act of the canton of basle urban, paragraph 24 below).15.  drawing on its leading decision of 24 october 2008 (see federal supreme court judgment 135 i 79; paragraph 29 below), the federal supreme court, by a judgment of 7 march 2012, dismissed an appeal by the applicants, holding that the authorities’ refusal to exempt their daughters from mixed swimming lessons in primary school had not breached the applicants’ right to freedom of conscience and belief.it cited, firstly, section 22 of the education act of the canton of basle urban, which stated that gymnastics was one of the compulsory lessons in primary school, and section 139 of the same act, stating that at least three hours of the pupils’ weekly timetable was to be spent in physical education.it further stated that, in accordance with section 68 of the act, the precise organisation of this subject, especially the various lessons and the number of hours allocated to them, was set out in the curriculum, point 9.2.4 of which provided that swimming formed part of compulsory gymnastics and sports lessons.17.  the federal supreme court then pointed out that pupils could be exempted from lessons or from certain subjects, and any such decision was to be taken by the school authorities at the request of teachers or of persons responsible for the children’s education (section 66 (5) and (6) of the education act; see paragraph 24 below).it noted that detailed information on exemptions was set out in point 34 of the school regulations (schulordnung) of the canton of basle urban, and that the arrangements for dealing with religious issues in schools were included in a recommendation (handreichung) that had been issued by the education department of the canton of basle urban in september 2007. it added that, under point 5.1 of that recommendation, exemption from swimming classes could only be granted to pupils who had reached the age of puberty.it also indicated that from the sixth year of school (that is, generally when pupils had reached the age of twelve), girls and boys attended physical education and swimming lessons separately (point 5.3 of the recommendation).18.  the federal supreme court further held that the applicants’ argument that the recommendation had no legal validity was irrelevant in this case, in so far as, in its view, the recommendation was in any event merely a tool to assist in balancing the competing interests involved in reaching a decision on an exemption request.it also considered the fact that swimming was not taught in all the canton’s schools and that ice-skating, which also appeared as a lesson in the curriculum, was not taught at all in practice, to be irrelevant in assessing the legal basis.19.  as to the public interest and the proportionality of the interference, the federal supreme court upheld the lower court’s judgment to the effect that it was of paramount importance to ensure that children were integrated, irrespective of their origin, culture or religion.it further considered that the interference was lessened by the fact that the swimming lessons were mixed only until the age of puberty, and that the impact of the measure was attenuated by the accompanying measures (separate changing rooms and showers, and the option of wearing a burkini).20.  the federal supreme court also found irrelevant the applicants’ argument that their children were receiving private swimming lessons, holding that what was at stake for the children was not simply learning to swim, but also submitting to the conditions surrounding the teaching itself (äussere bedingungen des unterrichts).the refusal to grant an exemption in the present case thus corresponded to its new practice, according to which educational obligations were, in principle, to be recognised as prevailing over compliance with the religious precepts (religiöse gebote) of one part of the population.21.  having regard to the foregoing factors, the federal supreme court concluded that the refusal to grant an exemption from the mixed swimming classes had not breached the applicants’ right to freedom of religion.
it noted the deflation of the balloon of the catheter (balonaşul sondei de întubaţie), applied after post-operatively to prevent the ingress of blood into the lungs, as a possible cause of the presence of blood there and in his airways.14.  on 12 october 2006 the superior commission of the mina minovici forensic institute examined all the documents and approved the conclusions of the commission for confirmation and supervision of the iaşi forensic institute.the expert noted, among other things, that the child’s preparation for surgery had not been appropriate as his examination before anaesthesia had been “very superficial”; in this respect the committee noted the lack of a radioscopy of the lungs, of an ekg and an exploration of the necessary time for blood coagulation.20.  the committee further stated that the presence of blood in the child’s airways could not be explained on the basis of the documents and statements in the file.it noted that all the doctors and the nurses who had given evidence stated that the balloon of the intubation catheter had been leak‑proof (etanche); however, the fact that the cause of death had been the presence of blood in the child’s lungs could only lead to the conclusion that such statements had been inaccurate.it stated that the cause of death had not been the presence of blood in the child’s lungs owing to a lack of adequate post-operative monitoring, but the post-operative reaction of a child with pre-existing medical conditions (cardiac congenital malformation, hepatic dystrophy, renal stasis, mesenteric adenopathy and hemorrhagic enterocolitis) mentioned in the medical records kept by the child’s paediatrician.they asked, among other things, whether the pre-existent medical condition of the child had influenced his unfavourable post-surgical evolution and whether administration of a general anaesthetic had been the right option, given the age and the diagnosis of the child.34.  on 30 september 2008 the prosecutor’s office of the brăila county court decided to discontinue the criminal proceedings against dr p.a., finding, in the light of evidence gathered in the case, that there had been no element of criminal negligence in his conduct.it considered that although a new forensic report had not been produced, the decision of the superior committee of the national college of doctors provided enough information concerning the cause of death, which had been the presence of blood in the child’s airways owing to the balloon of the tracheal catheter not being tight enough.some of them maintained that the blood in the lungs could be explained by the resuscitation attempts and that the balloon of the catheter had been kept tight all the time after surgery.it noted that the conclusions of the extrajudicial report were in total contradiction to the conclusions of the medical report of 8 november 2005 and the conclusions of the commission for confirmation and supervision of the iaşi forensic institute.however, based on the evidence in the file, it was not possible to explain when the blood had entered the child’s airways because of the deflation of the catheter’s balloon.noting that the lower courts had not examined the allegation made by the child’s parents that they had not given their consent for surgery and the general anaesthesia, the appeal court sent the file back to the brăila district court.it held that no causal link existed between the death of the child and the presumed omission of the medical authorities to obtain the applicants’ informed consent for the administration of a general anaesthetic.on the grounds that, under article 337 § 1 of the ccp, only the prosecutor could ask for the extension of the investigation to other persons while the proceedings were pending before the courts.
5.  the applicant was born in 1969.6.  on 27 june 2005 a criminal investigation was initiated into a theft allegedly committed by the applicant in the republic of uzbekistan.on 12 september 2005 an investigator ordered the applicant’s arrest and placed him on the list of fugitives.7.  it appears that in the meantime the applicant moved to the russian town of perm.on 23 january 2007 a prosecutor issued a decision to detain the applicant pending resolution of the extradition request in his regard.the decision referred to article 61 of the convention on legal assistance and legal relations in civil, family and criminal matters (signed in minsk on 22 january 1993 and amended on 28 march 1997, “the minsk convention”).on 25 january 2007 the prosecutor wrote to the prison authorities asking them to hold the applicant in detention until further notice.8.  on 19 february 2007 the uzbek authorities requested the applicant’s extradition.on 6 march 2007 the prosecutor applied to the court for authorisation of the applicant’s detention pending extradition.he again relied on article 61 of the minsk convention and articles 97‑101, 108 and 466 § 1 of the code of criminal procedure of russia (“the ccrp”).on 9 march 2007 the leninskiy district court of perm authorised the applicant’s detention pending extradition.the district court did not set a limit on the length of the applicant’s detention.it referred to article 108 of the ccrp.on 27 march 2007 the perm regional court upheld the decision on appeal.9.  it appears that on 10 july 2007 the applicant was handed over to the authorities of the republic of uzbekistan.
6.  on the day of the incident a private security guard was called to the office premises where mr pashaliysky was later found dead in order to investigate a brawl reportedly happening there.in particular, no expert dna analysis had been carried out on the material found under the victim’s nails; several key witnesses had not been questioned about the reasons for their presence in the office in which the victim had been killed on the day in question and about the reason for the return to the office of one of them during the evening of the same day; no confrontation had been held between two of those witnesses, despite several discrepancies between their respective statements; and no information had been collected about the state in which the police officers had found the accused at the time of his arrest.on 20 april 2001 the prosecutor returned the case to the investigating authorities for further investigative measures, giving specific instructions aimed at the remedying of the deficiencies in the investigation.11.  the case file was sent to the sofia city court on an unspecified date in november 2003. both applicants were named as private prosecutors and the second applicant, at her request, also as a civil party seeking non‑pecuniary damages.12.  at the start of the trial the defendant’s lawyer claimed that the indictment was defective because it did not contain a clear description of the offence with which the defendant had been charged; the lawyer sought, without success, the return of the case for further investigation.claimed that the indictment had been entirely silent about the manner in which he was considered to have killed the victim, there being no description of the circumstances in which the victim was killed.2 of 2002 of the supreme court of cassation (see paragraph 21 below), he claimed that these procedural flaws were fundamental and that the court should have returned the case to the investigation stage.14.  on 18 july 2008 the sofia court of appeal accepted that the indictment had not contained a description of how the accused had killed the victim and that this had been a fundamental procedural defect which had prevented the defendant from effectively exercising his rights.the court then quashed the first-instance court sentence and returned the case to the pre-trial stage so that the procedural flaw in question could be redressed.the witnesses were then heard again in the course of the trial so that the applicants could exercise their rights as private prosecutors.the applicants complained about the delay to the inspectorate of the supreme judicial council, asking that disciplinary sanctions be imposed on the new presiding judge.the inspectorate replied on 21 february 2012. it acknowledged that the criminal proceedings in the case had lasted eleven years and recognised that this was incompatible with the requirement of a reasonable length of proceedings.17.  on an unspecified later date the new presiding judge was sent back to the court from which she had been transferred and the case had to begin anew once again.the sofia court of appeal carried out a thorough analysis of the witness statements given at first instance, of the record of the examination of the murder scene conducted on the day after the killing, of the search and seizure measures, and of the conclusions of the numerous expert reports, the autopsy, etc.following this, on 22 december 2014 the appellate court upheld the guilty verdict and sentence, but lowered the amount in damages to be paid to the second applicant to around eur 8,000. following a cassation appeal by s.v.
6.  on 28 january 2007 the applicant, at the material time a member of the shakhtarsk district council and president of the local branch of the party of regions, read out a letter at a meeting attended by over forty party members and inhabitants of the village of zolotarevka which contained the following text: “to the member of the shakhtarsk district council, president of the district branch of the party of regions, mr lykin v.v., from the inhabitants of the village of zolotarevka ... we, the inhabitants of zolotarevka ... appeal to you with indignation concerning the election and performance of the deputy president of the shaktarsk district executive committee, mr g. sh.he came to work in the morning, but then hid in his illegal firms in makeyevka or in the computer centre in kharsyzk, while continuing to receive his salary and bonuses.mrs a. stated that she was one of the authors of the letter, and that she agreed with all the allegations contained in it.he maintained in particular that the applicant had had no right to read out the letter, which had contained unverified defamatory information accusing him of criminal and corrupt conduct.as the purported authors of the letter had signed it without indicating their full names or address details, it should have been disposed of without any follow-up as an anonymous application within the meaning of the citizens’ applications act.also submitted that the applicant had given him a photocopy of the disputed letter before the zolotarevka meeting, and had warned him about his intention to read it out.11.  on 17 september 2007 the shaktarsk court declared that the applicant had been at fault in defaming g.sh., and awarded the latter 200 ukrainian hryvnias (uah) in respect of non-pecuniary damage.in particular, the court found that the letter should have been treated as an anonymous application by citizens within the meaning of section 5 of the citizens’ applications act.instead of not pursuing the allegations in the letter, the applicant had acted unlawfully in making it public without verifying the serious accusations against g.sh.he argued that the citizens’ applications act was not applicable to the facts of the case.in particular, reading out and discussing the content of a letter from voters at a political party gathering could not be deemed an official follow‑up in respect of an anonymous application by citizens within the meaning of the above instrument.himself had confirmed that uah 30 per household had been collected for the renovation of the water supply conduit, and that the boiler-room equipment in the kindergarten had been dismantled upon his orders.13.  on 3 december 2007 the donetsk regional court of appeal upheld the judgment of the shaktarsk court.it found that the court had rightly concluded that the letter had been anonymous, as it was not possible to identify the authors from the signatures contained therein, and that it had been addressed to the applicant as a public official rather than a private individual, hence the citizens’ applications act had been properly applied.furthermore, the trial court had rightly concluded that the applicant had not verified the accuracy of the accusations contained in the letter as required by article 302 of the civil code of ukraine, and had therefore been liable for disseminating defamatory statements against g.sh.
the third applicant submitted that as he had been a member of the “medre[k] political party”, he had been dismissed by his employer after that party had lost the 2010 election in ethiopia to the “ehadeg party”.14.  when the vessel was passing through the suez canal, the insurer tried to arrange with the egyptian authorities that the applicants could disembark in egypt, but the authorities refused the request.15.  following the vessel’s arrival in tuzla on 3 february 2012 the turkish authorities and a representative of the office of the united nations high commissioner for refugees (“the unhcr”) in turkey met with the applicants on board the vessel.their allegations of persecution in their home countries written in the amharic and tigre languages were passed by the vessel’s insurer to the representative of the unhcr office in turkey.17.  on 24 february 2012, sometime before the vessel anchored in the port of mykolayiv, a non-governmental organisation “faith, hope, love”, which at the time was based in odesa and assisted refugees and asylum‑seekers under a contract with the unhcr, contacted the head of the border control service in the southern region of ukraine informing him that there were two nationals of eritrea and a national of ethiopia on board the vessel and that, according to the unhcr, they might require international protection.20.  according to the applicants, during the discussion they expressed the wish to seek asylum in ukraine and started filling in asylum applications with the help of one of the border guards who had knowledge of english.however, sometime later the border guards stated that they could not accept the asylum applications from the applicants, as the applicants were on board a vessel flying the flag of a foreign state.the government submitted copies of reports drawn up by the border guards who had been present at that meeting, which indicated that the meeting had lasted for five hours and that the applicants had stated that they needed time to decide whether they wished to request asylum in ukraine.the head of the border-guard unit stated in her report that she had explained to the applicants that “in the circumstances the border guards had not been able to accept asylum applications from them”.22.  on 28 february 2012 the applicants, allegedly having been misled by the vessel’s captain who was acting on the instructions of the ukrainian border guards, signed type-written statements in english, according to which they had boarded the vessel with the aim of reaching sweden “in search of better living conditions” and that they did not “need the status of refugee, addition[al] [or] temporary protection in ukraine”.in particular, the captain stated that he and the first applicant had prepared the statements and had given them to the other applicants to sign.she stated that the applicants risked removal to saudi arabia, for which the vessel was scheduled to depart on 3 march 2012. in their submissions before the court, the government did not contest this statement.she essentially requested the court to indicate to the government of ukraine that the applicants should be allowed to leave the vessel and should be granted access to a lawyer and to the asylum procedure.28.  the parties have not informed the court about the outcome of the applicants’ asylum applications lodged in march 2012; nor have they provided any further details as regards their examination by the migration authorities.32.  on 12 august 2015 the ordms refused the first applicant’s application, principally for the same reasons as in the case of the second applicant.
7.  on 27 may 1996 tods murray commenced legal proceedings against arakin in the outer house of the court of session (the first-instance civil court in scotland in respect of claims over a certain value) for payment of 32,696.75 pounds sterling (“gbp”) in respect of fees relating to a dispute against arakin’s former accountants.first, the proceedings to establish tods murray’s fees, which ran from 8 october 1996 to 2 october 2008 (in this the courts were assisted by the auditor for taxation, an expert officer of the outer house who advises the court on disputes concerning legal fees); second, proceedings in respect of arakin’s allegations of fraud against tods murray running from july 2001 to 22 january 2004; third, proceedings concerning the principal claim and counterclaim which ran from 9 january 2009 to 14 november 2012; and fourth, proceedings settling the overall costs of the case (excluding the fraud proceedings) which ran from 14 november 2012 to 13 november 2014.10.  on 8 october 1996, the outer house ordered a detailed account of the fees owed to be produced to the auditor for taxation, in order for the amount of the fees due in respect of the litigation in question to be determined.12.  the parties objected and from april 1998 the outer house which was responsible for overseeing the taxation proceedings, held a number of hearings to settle the procedure and deal with the notes on objections, and also to hold a preliminary debate in the claim and counterclaim (the third proceedings).16.  between june 2001 and april 2002, the outer house sought to regulate the procedure in relation to the notes of objection lodged by both parties in respect of the accounts and dealt with other motions lodged by the applicant.in the course of 2002 and 2003, the court heard various incidental motions by the applicant who increased the sum sought in the counterclaim to gbp forty-five million.18.  the allegations of fraud made by the applicant having been determined, the outer house on 24 march 2004 ordered a two-day hearing on the notes of objections for 7 june 2004, which finally concluded on 12 november.it concluded, inter alia, that none of the allegations were well-founded; that the applicant had made representations which he knew or ought to have known were incorrect; that the hearing had taken an inordinate length of time because the applicant had persistently resorted to irrelevant lines of inquiry and had been disorganised in his presentation; that the hearing had been used as a vehicle to air grievances going beyond its scope and to advance the applicant’s interests in other litigation; that the applicant’s approach had been reckless; and that he had had no reasonable grounds for his asserted belief in the truth of the allegations.between 2004 and 2009 the amounts remained unpaid and the matter proceeded on the basis that the only issues to try were contained in the principal claim.3.  the third set of proceedings: the principal claim and the counterclaim (a)  the preliminary determination of the legal issues (the “legal debate”) 29.  following the conclusion of the taxation proceedings, the outer house heard the parties on several occasions between 9 january 2009 and 22 october 2009 to determine future procedure and finally listed an eight‑day hearing of legal issues to commence on 1 december 2009. by the time of the hearing the applicant sought over gbp sixty-two million in his counterclaim.it further noted: “throughout the course of this protracted litigation mr mcnamara has sought to revisit arguments and allegations which have not found favour with the court on previous occasions ... many of the issues which mr mcnamara has sought to argue before us cannot be argued competently before us now.” 36.  it held that it was not open to it to revisit the various decisions it had made previously concerning aspects of the litigation in the context of interim appeals.38.  the applicant did not appear at the hearing on 22 july 2013. the outer house granted a further one-week adjournment in order to allow the applicant a “final opportunity to appear”.the clerk of court and tods murray’s solicitors sought to bring the hearing, which had been re-listed for 29 july 2013, to the applicant’s attention by e-mail, telephone and by personal attendance at the applicant’s home address.he has thereby caused the pursuer unnecessary expense...” 41.  it also awarded an additional fee to tods murray to reflect the “huge amount” of correspondence and documents sent to the tods murray’s solicitors by the applicant, much of which was irrelevant, the complexity of the proceedings, having regard to the “number, difficulty and novelty of the questions raised”, the skill time, labour and specialist knowledge required of the solicitors and the accusations of deception, incompetence and bad faith levelled against individual solicitors at tods murray.the appeal was refused on 16 july 2014. on 13 november 2014 the applicant was found “liable in the expenses” (that is, liable for the costs) of that appeal.
1 was transferred: according to the government’s submissions, he was transferred on 18 september 2013, whereas the applicant argued that he was transferred on 3 december 2013. according to the material in the court’s possession, applicant no.it had consisted of three cells on the first floor and two sanitary facilities situated outside the cells.the cells had been equipped with beds but had no blankets.the applicants further stressed that the cells had been filthy and that there had been inadequate access to natural light.7.  detainees had been confined to their cells and had not been allowed to spend time outside, which had affected their psychological health.they had had to ask permission from the guards to use the restroom.the police station had not had the necessary means to transfer detainees to a hospital in case of emergency.10.  on 19 november 2013 the applicants had lodged a complaint with the public prosecutor, complaining of the conditions of their detention but had not received a reply.11.  the government submitted that menemeni police station had been housed in a building constructed in 2008 on the basis of quality specifications necessary to ensure proper conditions of detention.they submitted two contracts with cleaning companies for the building for the periods in question: one from 10 june 2013 to 10 august 2013 and the other from 11 august 2013 to 11 october 2013. the contracts included cleaning the detention areas and the sanitary facilities every day and disinfecting the detention areas once a week.13.  when the number of detainees had allowed it, drug addicts had been detained separately from the rest of the detainees.in addition, the staff at menemeni police station had made every possible effort to accommodate detainees’ needs by painting the facilities often, cleaning or replacing the bedding and by resolving any problem in general that might have risen.14.  regarding recreational activities, the government stressed that detainees had had unlimited access to telephone cards and that it had been standard practice for them to receive newspapers and magazines.15.  the government confirmed that the applicants had not been provided with meals but had received 5.87 euros a day to order food from restaurants, given that police stations did not have any cooking facilities.17.  the government pointed out that the applicants had not referred to or adduced any evidence that they had needed medical treatment which they had not received.
in the decision, it was noted that the applicant had come to ukraine in 2005 for a private visit; that after the expiry of his residence permit he had remained in ukraine illegally; that he had not requested an extension of his residence permit; that he had no relatives in ukraine; that he had no work permit; that he had earned his life working at a market in kyiv; and that he was “known to the police”.26.  in their written submissions made in the course of those proceedings, the police reiterated the findings in the decision of 17 march 2010 and requested the kyiv administrative court to order the applicant’s immediate forcible removal and his placement in a facility for temporary detention of foreigners and stateless persons for the period necessary to prepare the removal.27.  on 18 may 2010 the kyiv administrative court heard the case in the absence of the parties, having noted that the applicant had submitted a written statement that he did not wish to be present and that he agreed with the expulsion decision, and also that the police were not able to attend the hearing because of their high workload.28.  according to the applicant, he was informed of the decision of 18 may 2010 on 25 november 2011. on 29 november 2011 a lawyer submitted an appeal on the applicant’s behalf, together with a request for renewal of the ten-day time-limit, to the kyiv administrative court for further transfer to the kyiv administrative court of appeal.the applicant complained that the expulsion decision of 17 march 2010 had been taken in violation of articles 2, 3 and 5 of the convention, given the human rights situation in palestine, and in violation of the domestic procedure.36.  after another round of examination by the courts at the first and appeal levels of jurisdiction resulting in a decision ordering the applicant’s forcible removal from ukraine, in february 2014 the case was sent back to the start again by the higher administrative court, for the same reasons as in its decision of 3 october 2013.38.  the court held that the applicant’s forcible removal from ukraine would be in violation of his right to respect of family life as guaranteed by article 8 of the convention, having regard in particular to the fact that the applicant was married to a ukrainian national.the applicant also argued that the examination of his application had not been thorough and objective, as his questioning had been formalistic and no additional information had been sought concerning the general situation in palestine or the applicant’s personal circumstances from other state authorities, such as the state security service, or from the applicant himself, to check the reliability of his submissions.in that regard, he referred to the reports of amnesty international and human rights watch concerning the human rights situation in palestine in 2012. the applicant also contended that the migration service had disregarded that, as a palestinian refugee registered with unrwa and outside its field of operation he was entitled to the same protection in ukraine as refugees under the united nations convention relating to the status of refugees of 1951.in particular, the court noted that the material relating to the applicant’s asylum proceedings demonstrated that he did not run an individual and real risk of persecution by the palestinian authorities, as hamas and fatah had entered into negotiations concerning a transitional government for palestinian territories; he had not been subjected to such persecution at any time; the applicant had not provided any evidence that he would not be able to avail himself of the protection of his country of origin; he had travelled freely to and from palestine; all his family lived there; and he did not face criminal prosecution there.relying on the latter ground, the court found that the applicant had missed the time-limit for lodging an asylum application pursuant to article 5 of the refugees and persons in need of complementary or temporary protection act of 2011. on the whole, the court found that it had been for the applicant to provide documents or persuasive arguments demonstrating that he had run a real and personal risk of persecution, which he had failed to do.in particular, he stated that his allegations of risk of persecution by hamas and by the israeli authorities were, inter alia, supported by the fact that his passport had been issued by the palestinian authority associated with fatah, by his registration card issued by the unrwa, and by various international reports, which neither the migration service nor the court of first instance had sought to obtain or examine.46.  on 4 december 2012 the court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal, having agreed with the first-instance court in that the applicant had failed to substantiate his asylum application as required by the national law and pertinent international documents, including the european union council directive of 1 december 2005 on minimum standards on procedures in member states for granting and withdrawing refugee status and the guidelines on procedures and criteria for determining refugee status under the 1951 geneva convention, issued by the unhcr in 2011.48.  on 7 february 2013 the higher administrative court rejected the applicant’s cassation appeal, having found no elements demonstrating that the lower courts had erred in the application of substantive or procedural law or that review of the evidence in the case was required.the court in particular found that, although the arguments on which the applicant’s new application for asylum had been based were the same as in the applicant’s initial application, the new application needed to be reconsidered in the light of the decision of the desnyanskyy district court of 29 october 2014 and on the basis of the new act on the legal status of foreigners and stateless persons, which had entered into force on 25 december 2011. it therefore ordered the state migration service to reconsider the applicant’s new asylum application.
in the course of the trial, the applicants argued that the agent would have been unable to see any other customs officers from her work-station, that none of the alleged acts had been filmed by the cameras installed at their workplace, and that the officers’ numbered rubber stamps could have been used by other people.the court further relied on customs documents stamped using the personal rubber stamps of specific customs officers, comparing these with the testimony of the truck drivers, the records of service rotations and the database linking the applicants to the times at which the interviewed truck drivers obtained their customs clearance.the district court stated: “as regards the defendant roman bátěk, he is incriminated by the relevant documentary evidence referring to counts 2 and 3 of the indictment and counts 4 and 5 of the indictment, from which it is apparent that he used a rubber stamp with the number 005 and that his personal number was 20627, these numbers appearing on the relevant documents.the above fully corresponds to the report from the defendant’s employer regarding the placement of the defendant, i.e. where ‒ that is to say at which work-station ‒ he was positioned at the time concerned.as to counts 4 and 5 of the indictment, the defendant bátěk is also incriminated by a police officer of the czech republic who saw the defendant accepting a bribe and recorded this fact in the corresponding document, produced in evidence, which also corresponds with the testimony of the undercover agent given before the court.as regards the defendant radek blažej, he is incriminated by the documentary evidence produced as regards counts 6 and 7 of the indictment, specifically the control sheets showing his personal number 16898 and rubber stamp number 090. he is also incriminated by the testimony of the romanian driver [c.d.]as to count 9 of the indictment in relation to the defendant karel elsner, the witness stated that on 10 november 2003 he gave a bribe at a particular time and ‒ by checking the driver and the documentation relating to his border crossing ‒ it was established who had cleared him and who had stamped his documents, from which it is clearly apparent that it was the defendant elsner who carried out the administrative measures concerned and hence received the bribe.as to count 10 of the indictment, karel elsner is also mentioned in the anonymous agent’s report.” 12.  the district court explained that the truck drivers’ statements were read out at the hearing pursuant to article 211 § 2 b) of the ccp.the drivers had been interviewed in the presence of a judge during the pre-trial stage of the proceedings, because it had been deemed necessary to take the step of obtaining their testimonies as an urgent or non-repeatable measure since they were foreign nationals and it would have been almost impossible for the court to reach them at a later stage.14.  on 22 march 2007 the brno regional court (krajský soud) rejected the applicants’ appeal as unsubstantiated, arguing as follows: “(...) the hearing of an undercover police agent as a witness is in practice exceptional, occurring only in the particular circumstances of a specific case and in the interests of proper clarification and vindication of particularly serious criminal actions and the conviction of the perpetrators thereof.in the instant case, the provisions of the ccp regulating the agent’s testimony were not violated and the allegations of some of the defendants that the agent had been heard as an anonymous witness in order to allow her to consult her notes or another person are unsubstantiated.the allegations of the defendants that the witnesses did not even know the content of the records they had signed, and that they had been forced to testify and promised immunity if they stated particular facts, are not substantiated by the case file, and no other facts corroborating these allegations have been ascertained.it is apparent from the file that the truck drivers were questioned in the presence of an interpreter and in the presence of judges of the břeclav district court (...).15.  the applicants filed a constitutional appeal alleging a violation of article 6 §§ 1 and 3 d) of the convention and complaining about the depositions of the truck drivers and the anonymous witness.it stated that the complaints raised at the previous instances had been properly addressed and that the courts had provided sufficient justification to show that the evidence had been obtained in accordance with the provisions of the ccp.
12.  during the same hearing the applicant’s lawyers asked the trial court to order a second forensic medical report in an attempt to establish the nature and seriousness of the injuries sustained.according to the prosecutor, there were therefore grounds to consider that that might be related to the injuries which had been inflicted on the applicant in 1995. the daugavpils court upheld the prosecutor’s request and ordered the third forensic medical examination.a medical panel was asked to comment on what kind of trauma had caused the injuries; whether the applicant had lost his sight as a result of the injuries inflicted on him in 1995; to what extent he had been incapacitated before the injuries and their severity.in the light of the above, the report did not establish a direct causal link between the injuries inflicted on the applicant in 1995 and his loss of sight.accordingly, the trial court decided as follows: “to recognise the [applicant’s] rights to compensation from the state for material, pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage caused by the criminal offence, and to remit (nodot) the question of the precise amount to be awarded/enforced (piedzīt) to the court to decide in civil proceedings”.in the claim the applicant relied on the operative part of the judgment of the daugavpils court (see above), section 27 of the law on police and various provisions of the civil law which regulated tort liability.24.  on 2 february 2006 the riga regional court, acting as a first‑instance court, relied, amongst other provisions, on article 92 of the constitution and section 27 of the law on police, and accepted the applicant’s civil claim in part.the court referred to the findings of the experts in the criminal proceedings and stated that the applicant’s bodily injuries caused by the police officer might have been the reason for the worsening of his eye disorder (myopia) that had resulted in a rapid deterioration of his sight and eventually complete loss of vision.26.  on 27 september 2006 the supreme court reviewed the case following appeals by the applicant, the state police and the ministry of the interior.the supreme court analysed all the medical data before it concerning the applicant’s health and concluded that the state police were liable to pay pecuniary damages to the applicant for his medical expenses under section 2347 of the civil law.30.  in a letter dated 21 october 2010 addressed to the government, the supreme court stated that there were no grounds for the national courts to extend the scope of the applicant’s claim and decide on the awarding of non-pecuniary damages on the following grounds.in order to determine whether the consequences of the alleged injuries were those stipulated in the legal provision, the domestic courts had to establish the essential conditions of tort liability, namely (i) unlawful conduct, (ii) damage, (iii) a causal link between the unlawful conduct and damage claimed and (iv) fault.according to the supreme court, no such obligation could be inferred from any other legal acts on the account that the subject matter of the present civil dispute did not concern the public law obligation which the latvian state had undertaken in the area of human rights.32.  furthermore, the supreme court indicated that in the applicant’s case the ten-year statutory limitation period for claiming damages had started to run on 11 march 2003, the day the final judgment in the criminal case became effective.in that regard the supreme court referred to the judgment of 16 december 2009 in the so-called “talsi tragedy” case, in which it ruled that a person has the right to receive compensation for violations of his or her human rights.
at the time of making that request, c. had been living and working in the united kingdom but arrived back in the czech republic for the purpose of her interview on 8 august 2006. her employment and the distance between the place of her employment and prague, where she was interviewed, made it impossible for her to travel more often to the czech republic, where she did not feel safe anyway, given the prior events.... i arrived in the czech republic on the basis of an agreement with the police authorities of [the czech republic] and upon the advice of my employer, ..., who is a police officer, after the actions of [the applicant] reached such an intensity that i started to be really scared.” she further stated that the applicant had not come to terms with the fact that she had broken off their intimate relationship.she also stated that on 29 december 2005, between 12 noon and 4.30 p.m., she had been present in the applicant’s flat, where he had tied her to the bed, partially undressed the lower part of her body, and threatened to drug her with heroin, to carry her out from the flat in a large bag and to hand her over to unspecified persons to be trafficked to turkey for 100,000 czk (eur 3,622) unless she promised to resume their intimate relationship, which she had broken off on 25 december 2005. according to her, the applicant had threatened to take pornographic pictures of her or to record a porn movie with her, which he would then send to her employer in the united kingdom and the company which had acted as intermediary in finding her a job in the united kingdom.as the intimidation continued, c. filed a criminal complaint at a police station in the united kingdom on 7 june 2006. she also stated: “upon the advice of the police in the united kingdom, on 8 june 2006 i changed my mail address, after 9 june 2006 i also changed the number of my mobile phone and at the advice of my employer, i have also the confidential employment that [the applicant] or his eventual messengers could not contact me.on 31 october 2006 the judge ordered the compilation of a list of communications carried out from several of the applicant’s other mail-boxes in the period from 25 december 2005 to 30 june 2006, and also the provision of information on the total number of communications logged in these mailboxes between 25 december 2005 and 18 october 2006. on the same day, the judge ordered the compilation of a list of outgoing telephone calls from the applicant’s land line on 9 june 2006 between 11 a.m and 3 p.m. 16.  on 5 april 2007 criminal proceedings were initiated against the applicant for unlawful restraint (omezování osobní svobody) in concurrence with coercion (vydírání), defamation (pomluva) and false accusation (křivé obvinění).she said that she had advised her ... to immediately cut off all contact with [the applicant] ... i told her about what [the applicant] had done to my daughter at christmas 2005 and she essentially replied that [the applicant] had also told her about it and that she had strictly forbidden him to ever do such a thing again ... [c.] told me that in december 2005, when she was in his flat, [the applicant] had tied her up, threatened to kill her, to traffic her, to make a movie of her taking drugs or a porn movie; he had also searched through her handbag and taken a piece of paper with her home address or had written it down, had searched through the address book in her mobile phone and had accessed her electronic mail box after forcing her to give him the password ...” 20.  the investigation having been concluded in may 2008, the applicant was indicted for coercion under article 235 §§ 1 and 2 of the criminal code on 16 june 2008. this legal classification of his criminal acts was more serious than that indicated in the notice served on him on 20 april 2007, when he had been charged with deprivation of personal liberty under article 231 §§ 1 and 2 of the criminal code in conjunction with coercion under article 235 § 1 of the criminal code.which was available to the court ... in his expert opinion, the expert concluded that it was absolutely possible and posed no problem for the defendant to use previously prepared straps to tie the victim to bed and partially undress the bottom half of her body, and that it was absolutely possible and posed no problem for him to tie her up in the manner she had described ...” 27.  on 13 february 2010 the applicant appealed, raising a number of procedural, factual and interpretational complaints.29.  the hearing before the municipal court was held on 30 march 2010 in the absence of the applicant, who had apologised in writing on 29 march 2010 indicating that he could not attend the hearing due to serious personal and family reasons, but agreeing that the court carry out merely the procedural acts allowed by article 263 § 5 of the ccp and asking, at the same time, to postpone the hearing afterwards.the testimony of the victim was not the only convincing evidence against the applicant on which the district court based its conclusion about the defendant’s guilt, since the defendant’s criminal acts are also proved by a chain of indirect evidence corroborating the testimony of the victim and confirming the credibility of her statements.the testimonies given by [c.] and her mother ... regarding the relevant facts correspond to the content of the criminal complaint filed by the victim at the police station in surrey, united kingdom ... on 7 june 2006. the defendant’s complaint that the unreliability of the victim is proved by the fact that she did not confide earlier in her mother or a close female friend about his alleged behaviour is ill-founded: the evidence taken clearly shows that the victim and her mother did not previously have a particularly close relationship since she did not confide in her mother about her relationship with the defendant.... the reliability of the victim and the veracity of her testimony is also corroborated by the emails included in the ... these emails, which were submitted to the police by the victim, correspond case file to her testimony as to the timeframe and the contents ... it is hardly possible for the municipal court to believe that the victim would systematically and for many months beforehand prepare all the evidence ... in order to be able to file a criminal complaint against the defendant.consequently, the defendant’s complaint concerning the unreliability of the victim is ill-founded ... as a result, the district court correctly believed the testimony given by the victim in relation to this matter, considering her testimony in general to be credible ... the defendant’s behaviour and verbal aggression, as documented in the emails and sms messages sent by him escalated at a later stage, prompting the victim to file a criminal complaint and change her contact details because she was afraid of the defendant’s behaviour after he threatened to harm her mother and brother....” 32.  in respect of the applicant’s complaint concerning c.’s interview, which was conducted as an urgent and non-repeatable measure under article 158a of the ccp, the municipal court noted that: “the victim was duly interviewed in the presence of a judge ..., with the unrepeatability of the measure being determined by the long-term residence of the witness in the united kingdom.the justification of such a procedure and the unavailability of the witness were confirmed by the efforts of the district court to secure her attendance at the main hearing, which the witness repeatedly failed to attend, providing a written statement to the effect that she was residing abroad on a long-term basis and would not be able to attend the main hearing in the foreseeable future.therefore, the municipal court deemed legal the procedure applied by the district court whereby, after exhausting the possibility of examining the victim in the main hearing for unavailability due to her residence abroad, it read out the statement she had made ... in the pre-trial proceedings in accordance with article 211 § 2(a) of the code of criminal procedure.
14.  on 30 september 2002 a warrant was issued for the purposes of a police hearing of r.c., following which he was first questioned officially on 2 october 2002. on that occasion he confirmed his wish to make disclosures on high-profile individuals in the organised crime circles, including the applicants, and, in particular, on the attack on the armoured van in waremme.20.  the applicants were released on licence in the absence of sufficient evidence to prolong their pre-trial detention, under decisions taken by the indictments division of the liège court of appeal, on 30 october 2003 in respect of the first applicant and on 27 november 2003 in respect of the second applicant.he provided the investigators with information which he had obtained from l.m., in particular stating the names of those involved in the attack, including the applicants, and mentioning that the attack had been prepared a long time in advance by a different team and that one of the weapons discovered in one of the vehicles abandoned at the scene of the crime had been purchased by l.m.41.  during the proceedings the applicants filed conclusions contesting, pursuant to article 6 § 1 of the convention, the lawfulness of the prosecution inasmuch as it had been based on the statements of r.c.... 44.  by interlocutory judgment of 2 july 2010, the assize court declared ill-founded the applicants’ request that their prosecution be declared inadmissible, and ordered the immediate continuation of proceedings.... 49.  on 28 september 2010 the jury found the applicants guilty, in particular, of the attack on the b.z.the main reasons for the jury’s decision were subsequently summarised as follows in a statement of reasons issued by the assize court that same day: “the [first applicant’s guilt] regarding his involvement in the attempted robbery in waremme on 12 january 1998 transpires from the concurring statements of [r.c.article 6, cited above, does not prohibit ... the judge from using in evidence a statement by a witness under police protection pursuant to articles 102 to 111 of the code of criminal procedure, even where such witness is an informer who has decided, after having provided information under informer status, to testify officially in court.” 53.  the applicants submitted that r.c.’s use of the status of informer and then that of witness, given that confidentiality had been observed in respect of his contacts as informer with the police, had amounted to a violation of the principle of adversarial proceedings, because his statement had been used in evidence against them, especially since that witness had received a bounty in the context of his informer status.the court of cassation dismissed those arguments as follows: “an official statement by a person having previously provided information under informer status does not infringe the general principle of law relating to compliance with the rights of the defence, given that it has the effect of making the witness statements subject to inter partes debate and that the confidentiality requirement set out in article 47decies, § 6 of the code of criminal procedure does not cover evidence referred to the trial court.the appellant’s submission to the effect that the confidentiality of the informer’s involvement has the effect of removing the evidence which the latter provided against him from the inter partes debate is therefore unjustified.” 54.   the court of cassation gave the following reply to the applicants’ criticism of the fact that the procedure for granting a threatened witness assistance and protection is not subject to court supervision and, owing to its confidentiality, prevents the defendant from establishing that the financial assistance provided is tantamount to the covert purchase of witness statements: “article 6 of the convention requires the prosecuting authorities to communicate to the defence all the relevant evidence in their possession for or against the defendant.the right to disclosure concerns neither the measures taken in order to protect witnesses at risk of reprisals, on pain of exposing the latter to the danger which those measures are supposed to prevent, nor the management of a police officer’s contacts with an informer, on pain of jeopardising the implementation of that specific investigative method.the limits on the disclosure of those confidential data are adequately offset by the oral adversarial proceedings conducted before the jury, since the case-file presented to the latter comprises no elements other than those communicated to the defence and the latter has had an opportunity before the trial court to criticise the statements received against the defendant, as regards both their content and their origin.the judgment lawfully decides that the lack of supervision by an independent and impartial court of the procedure for granting protection to threatened witnesses has no impact on the fairness of the proceedings.” 55.  the first applicant complained that the statement of reasoning of 28 september 2010 had been based on two indirect witness statements whose authors had been paid to testify against the applicants.the court also dismissed the second applicant’s argument concerning the insufficiency and irrelevance of the evidence used by the jury to corroborate the statements given by the protected witnesses.56.  finally, the first applicant complained that the judgment of 30 september 2010 determining the sentence had not taken account of the abnormal length of the proceedings against the applicants when the sentence was passed.the court of cassation had dismissed the argument on the grounds that the assize court, on the basis of the specific circumstances of the case, had legitimately ruled that the proceedings had not been excessively lengthy.
for years, first in the trade union association of judges [associação sindical dos juízes], then [as a member of] the high council of the judiciary [conselho superior da magistratura – hereinafter “the hcj”], and lastly [sitting on] the supreme court of justice, this person – of whom the majority of portuguese people have never heard – has been weaving a web of connections, of back-scratching, of favours and undertakings (there is an even worse word, but i will avoid it) which enabled him yesterday to stick into his somewhat tousled mane the peacock feather he has been lacking: the presidency of the supreme court of justice.the man didn’t do this out of the goodness of his own heart: at the same time that he was acting as a trade unionist (he asked for an increase in his salary and that less work be given to judges ...) he acted as someone who wanted to overthrow the regime (by wanting to sit on the council of state [conselho de estado]) and added the glittering (due to the amount of accumulated tallow) hat of “resister” of reforms in the judicial sector.whether it is, i don’t know ... but it is clear that if [a person] has a key role in the admission of a or b to an [organisation], then when [that person] has a vote he is going to vote for the person who admitted him.” 9.  between 2001 and 2006 several articles on the system of elections to the post of president of the supreme court of justice were published in the media within the context of elections held within that period.11.  during the proceedings the first applicant attempted to prove, inter alia, (i)  that he had based his opinion on the different articles that had been published in the media on the elections to the supreme court of justice, on information obtained from a source whose identity was confidential, and on conversations he had had with different people from the judiciary (including judges who had challenged the results of the competition for posts as judge in 2004); (ii)  that the article concerned an issue of public interest; and (iii)  that he had written it in good faith.it is stated as a fact – as a manner of behaviour on the part of the plaintiff: that the plaintiff helped those who elected him to rise to the post of member of the supreme court of justice, given the function that he exercised throughout his life as a union leader and as both a member and vice-president of the high council of the judiciary.the defendant further argues that the opinion expressed in the editorial was based – given the lack of transparency of the whole procedure – on his knowledge of the ongoing public debate about the election of the president of the supreme court of justice, of the functioning of the high council of the judiciary, and of the plaintiff.the facts established concern the publication of several articles on the above-mentioned topics ... however it is not understood how or to what extent these articles allowed the applicant to reach the conclusion that: “for years, first in the trade union association of judges then [as a member of] the high council of the judiciary, and lastly [sitting on] the supreme court of justice, this person – of whom the majority of the portuguese have never heard – has been weaving a web of connections, of back-scratching, of favours and undertakings (there is an even worse word but i will avoid it) which enabled him yesterday to stick into his somewhat tousled mane the peacock feather he has been lacking: the presidency of the supreme court of justice.in fact, it was proved that in the letter he distributed to his colleagues, the plaintiff, as a candidate for the presidency of the supreme court, defended the enshrinement – through a constitutional revision – of the president of the supreme court as a permanent member of the council of state, as well as the improvement in a timely manner, consistent with the economic situation of the country, of the remuneration of members of the supreme court of justice.19.  on 13 november 2012 the lisbon court of appeal delivered a new judgment in which it upheld its previous judgment of 9 november 2010. as to the facts, the lisbon court of appeal considered, inter alia, the following to have been established: (i)  the plaintiff had been the only candidate for the post of president of supreme court of justice and had previously been a member and the vice-president of the high council of the judiciary; (ii)  several articles had been published in the press and in blogs (in the periods preceding and following the election) about judge n.n.and his electoral programme and past elections for the presidency of the supreme court of justice; (iii)  on 6 august 2008 the newspaper público had published an interview with p.m., a member of the supreme court of justice, in which he had questioned the system of elections to the post of president of the supreme court of justice on the grounds that it could be distorted in so far as the hcj’s functions included the grading of judges who ascended to the post of member of the supreme court; (iv)  with regard to a past competition to the supreme court of justice, the daily newspaper diário de notícias had, in 2004, published two different articles in which it had raised questions about the grading of judges by the hcj and the possible power strategy involved; in one of the articles (for one of which a judge of a court of appeal who had participated in the competition had been interviewed and for which a document known to judges had been consulted) it had been mentioned that judge n.n.had already mustered support for his election in the next elections for the post of president of supreme court; (v)  in 2001 público had published an editorial [by the then editor] criticising the system of electing the president of the supreme court and of hcj judges; with regard to the latter, criticism was made of judge n.n.’s lobbying on his own account of while exercising his functions as union leader; (vi)  the first applicant’s editorial had received both positive and negative comments in the press and in blogs; (vii)  the first applicant had had knowledge of the different articles which had been published in the media before the elections and had spoken to different people about them, judge n.n.20.  as to the analysis of the merits of the case, the relevant parts of the judgment read as follows: “... in the present case, it is important to take into account [the fact] that the person referred to in the ... text written by the defendant is a public figure, being the fourth-highest-ranking figure of state: the president of the supreme court of justice.in fact, starting with the latter, the expressions “which enabled him yesterday to stick into his somewhat tousled mane the peacock feather he has been lacking” and “... and added the glittering (due to the amount of accumulated tallow) hat of ‘resister’ of reforms in the judicial sector” seem to manifestly extend beyond the right to inform and to criticise, attacking the plaintiff’s personal dignity within his private sphere ... ... in sum, the above-mentioned segment [of the editorial article] exceeds the proportionality inherent in the legitimate purpose of debate and critical information ... that is not the case when the defendant attributes corporatism, conservatism and atavism to the plaintiff.in pecuniary damages, the lisbon court of appeal held as follows: “in the instant case, the non-pecuniary damage, reflected in the violation of the right to a good name and the reputation of the plaintiff, given its severity ... had ... a negative impact in the personal sphere, including his family and professional circle, of the plaintiff.as such, the severity of what the defendant wrote did not have an impact on the professional future of the plaintiff ... in this context, it is also important to take into account the average amount ascribed to the value of life under the case-law of the supreme court of justice (which is nowadays increasing): eur 60,000. in the light of the above, and under the applicable legal framework, it is appropriate to award the amount of eur 60,000.” 22.  on 21 november 2012 and 6 december 2012 judge n.n.
6.  the decision became final on 25 february 2000 when the supreme court of justice dismissed the appeal on points of law lodged by the applicant.8.  the applicant described the conditions of his detention as follows: -  there was no water during summer days; -  he was placed with smokers (in the court-room and for few days during detention) although he did not smoke; -  the windows were covered with bars and thick galvanised wire which rendered the ventilation of the cell impossible; -  he was transported to court hearings in small dirty vans, with no ventilation or natural light; -  from 2009 until the date of the last information received (22 july 2014) he had been held with five other inmates in a 17.65 sq.9.  based on the documents presented by the prison administration, the government explained that during his stay in giurgiu prison the applicant had occupied the following cells, all non-smoking: - cells nos.m and which he shared with a maximum of five other detainees, between 26 january 2009 and 5 august 2010, between 12 august and 6 september 2010, between 7 march and 28 april 2011, between 20 may and 22 august 2011, between 29 august 2011 and 3 february 2012, between 9 february and 2 april 2012, between 7 may and 23 july 2012, between 2 august and 13 september 2012, between 4 october 2012 and 4 march 2013, between 11 march and 11 april 2013, between 18 and 29 april 2013, between 7 may 2013 and 7 february 2014 and between 21 february and 22 july 2014.m and which he shared with another person, between 21 and 26 january 2009, between 6 september and 10 october 2010, between 12 and 20 may 2011 and between 7 and 21 february 2014.the detainees collected the trash and cleaned the cells twice every day.11.  the inmates received the hygiene products from the prison administration and had access to warm water twice every week.13.  according to the government, from 21 february 2014 onwards the applicant had been sharing the cells with a maximum of four other persons, in compliance with the decision adopted on 31 january 2014 by the giurgiu district court (see paragraph 15 below).15.  by two decisions of 29 august and 21 november 2013 the post-sentencing judge for giurgiu prison noted that the applicant was no longer held with smokers.the judge also considered that because of the large number of inmates held in that prison, it was impossible to ensure more personal space for the applicant.he also concluded that in so far as the inmates were responsible for cleaning their cells, the presence of bugs was not the authorities’ fault, but that of the prisoners.on 31 january 2014 the giurgiu district court ordered the giurgiu prison administration to ensure the applicant 4 sq.16.  the applicant also complained before the post-sentencing judge for slobozia prison, that while he was held in there, from march to may 2013, he was again placed in cells with smokers.on 7 october 2013 the post‑sentencing judge dismissed the request as having been lodged after the expiry of the ten-day time-limit provided for by law no.17.  ruling on a similar complaint lodged by the applicant about his stay in a cell with smokers from 8 to 11 march 2013 in rahova prison, the post‑sentencing judge for this prison decided, on 19 march 2013, that no measure could be imposed on rahova prison as the applicant was no longer there.
5.  on 3 may 2000 the applicant company applied to the linz-land district administrative authority (bezirkshauptmannschaft – daa) for the permission to modify its facility site by constructing a loading zone and a noise protection wall.6.  on 12 july 2001 the applicant company lodged an application for transfer of jurisdiction, because the daa had not rendered a decision within the statutory six-month time-limit.7.  by decision of 23 july 2001 the daa granted the applicant company permission to modify its facility site and dismissed the objections lodged by persons living in the vicinity of the site (hereinafter, “the neighbours”).8.  on 18 december 2001 the upper austria regional governor (landeshauptmann von oberösterreich – hereinafter, “the regional governor”) lifted the daa’s decision because of lack of jurisdiction, and on 19 december 2001 he dismissed the applicant company’s application for transfer of jurisdiction.9.  the applicant company appealed against the latter decision, but its appeal was dismissed by the federal minister of economy and labour (bundesminister für wirtschaft und arbeit – hereinafter, the “minister”) on 20 august 2002.10.  the administrative court (verwaltungsgerichtshof) lifted the minister’s decision on 17 december 2002 and held that the regional governor was the competent authority to decide on the matter.11.  on 16 october 2003 the minister lifted the regional governor’s decision of 19 december 2001 and held that the latter was competent to decide on the merits of the applicant company’s case.12.  meanwhile, on 14 january 2002 the daa had granted the applicant company permission to modify its facility site and dismissed the neighbours’ objections.13.  on 22 december 2003 the regional governor lifted the daa’s decision because of lack of jurisdiction, and granted the applicant company the permission.14.  on 26 january 2004 the neighbours appealed against this decision to the minister.15.  on 1 september 2004 the applicant company filed an application for transfer of jurisdiction, because a decision had not been reached within the statutory six-month time-limit.16.  on 7 september 2004 the administrative court ordered the minister to take a decision within three months.on 11 november 2004, upon request by the minister, it extended the time-limit by another six months.17.  on 11 may 2005 the administrative court refused another request by the minister for an extension of the time-limit and assumed jurisdiction.after having requested an additional statement from an official expert (amtssachverständiger) on 14 october 2008, the administrative court dismissed the neighbours’ appeal as being unfounded by judgment of 1 july 2010 (served on the applicant company’s counsel on 28 july 2010).
the reason for the demonstration was that riots had broken out between roma and non-roma families of the municipality on 25 july 2012. following that incident, seventeen people were questioned by the police, and an enhanced police presence was ordered in the municipality, with the constant surveillance of streets inhabited by the roma community.invoking the crimes committed by members of the roma community, he demanded the reintroduction of the death penalty and threatened the roma community that if the criminality continued, jobbik would return to devecser.15.  according to the applicants, the police were present during the demonstration but remained passive and did not disperse the demonstration; nor did they take any steps to establish the criminal responsibility of the demonstrators.the report of the police’s contact officer noted that the organiser of the demonstrations, mr g.f. had not been able to keep the events under control and had been unwilling to confront the participants.17.  on 21 september 2012 the minister of the interior, reacting to a letter from civil society organisations, informed the public that the conduct of the police had been adequate and that forty people, including five demonstrators, had been questioned by the police.the commissioner found it regretful that the police had failed to identify the perpetrators on the spot, which was inconsistent with their task of preventing and investigating crimes and with the right to dignity, non-discrimination and physical integrity.20.  on 22 november 2012 the police department dismissed the applicants’ complaint, finding that the conditions for dispersal of the demonstration had not been met, since any illegal or disorderly conduct on the part of the demonstrators had ceased within ten minutes.the police department held that the demonstration had remained peaceful, since, apart from the throwing of stones, no actual conflict had broken out between the police, the demonstrators and members of the roma minority.as regards the failure of the police to carry out identity checks on demonstrators and to hold suspects for questioning (előállítás), the police department found that such measures would only have aggravated the situation and strengthened the demonstrators’ hostility towards the police.furthermore, the commander of the operation had been right not to apply measures against certain individuals, since that would have led to a clash between the demonstrators and the police, endangering not only the police themselves, but the local residents too.it added that, in any event, the potential infringement of the applicants’ fundamental rights had been caused not by the alleged inactivity of the police, but by the conduct of the demonstrators.iii of 1989 the dispersal of demonstrations was a possibility rather than an obligation for the police and restrictions on the fundamental rights of others did not in themselves justify the restriction of the right of assembly.the court went on to find that the police had been under an obligation to respect the principle of proportionality and had been right to conclude that dispersing the march could have caused more serious prejudice to the roma community than allowing the demonstration to continue in a controlled manner.27.  the applicants, together with the hungarian helsinki committee, lodged a criminal complaint concerning the speeches delivered at the demonstration and the attacks to which the roma community had been subjected.28.  the investigation into incitement against a group was discontinued by the police department on 24 september 2013. the police department considered that although the content of the speeches had been injurious to the roma minority and was morally reprehensible, it could not be classified as a crime.
had most likely been copied and pasted into the report itself, the two documents having the same page settings, wording, spelling and grammar mistakes; and there was no proof that the first applicant had ever studied the case file in the court’s archives or requested copies of the documents in order to produce the expert report, therefore the report was probably based solely on information provided by m.g.s.it was formulated as follows: “based on article 100 of the rccp, in view of the prosecutor’s application issued on 20 october 2005 and the investigative work which has been presented, namely: the minutes attesting to the decision of the prosecutor to initiate criminal investigations ex officio, confirmation of the proposal to initiate criminal investigations against cacuci floare in relation to the offence of intellectual forgery as set out in article 289 of the criminal code, and the forensic reports included in the file, [the court] authorises that a home search (percheziție domiciliară) be performed at the suspect’s place of residence, [the suspect being] cacuci floare, daughter of ..., born on ..., in oradea, ..., in the bihor district.16.  the prosecutor’s notes in the search report produced on that occasion at the place of residence of the first applicant state that the first applicant was asked to surrender the items used to commit the alleged offence of intellectual forgery, namely the computer, the printer, and the documents on which the second expert report was based (articles 96-99 of the rccp, see paragraph 45 below).17.  the applicants argued that, while the copy of the search report handed to them at that moment had made no mention of the manner in which the seized items had been sealed, the copy in the criminal file contained supplementary information on page 4, mentioning that the objects had been put in a sealed cardboard box labelled mai (the ministry of internal affairs) 15980.21.  according to the applicant, on 18 november 2005 she was summoned to the cluj district police headquarters to participate in the unsealing of the computer on 21 november 2005. she went there with her lawyer, where they noted that the sealed box was different to the box which had been used at her house during the search (see paragraphs 16-17 above).24.  on 24 november 2005 the head prosecutor of the prosecutor’s office attached to the district court of oradea dismissed the first applicant’s claims, finding that the complaint against the search measure itself was inadmissible, given the lack of specific legal provisions allowing for such an appeal, while the complaint concerning the carrying out of the search was ill-founded.the prosecutor also stated that the investigating authorities had been obliged to seize all pieces of physical evidence found at the search location, irrespective of who owned them, and that the pieces not belonging to the suspect had been returned to their owner at the end of the criminal trial.26.  concerning the body search, namely the search of the first applicant’s bag, the prosecutor submitted that the relevant forensic rules set out clearly and authoritatively that such a search had to be performed before the start of a home search, “so as to preclude any potential act of aggression against the authorities or self-aggression, but also so as to locate and collect any potential corpora delicti thus hidden by the searched person (in [this] case, documents)”.30.  in the first set of proceedings, started by the first applicant on 23 december 2005, the oradea district court gave its judgment on 29 june 2006, dismissing the first applicant’s complaint as inadmissible in respect of the search measure itself, and ill-founded in respect of the manner in which the search had been carried out.in particular, it referred to the fact that the limits of the search warrant had been exceeded as follows: the warrant had only been issued in respect of her home, and not in respect of the registered office of the second applicant; no warrant had existed in respect of her purse or mobile phone; certain items, like her personal notebooks, had been seized even though they had no connection with the criminal charge.the court further stated that the search had been carried out in compliance with the domestic legal provisions and in the presence of the prosecutor, the applicant and her lawyer, and no objections had been raised at the material time.in relation to the written evidence given by the first applicant in the form of the forensic accounting report, the court held that the report was a collective piece of work produced by the three experts appointed in the case.even if evidence had been adduced proving that only one of the experts had personally studied the file in the court’s archives, it could not be inferred that the work had been done by the first applicant exclusively and in the absence of consideration of all the relevant documents and consultation with the other experts.with reference to the documents found at the first applicant’s residence during the search carried out on 21 october 2005, the court stated that they had not been in her possession unlawfully, as all of them had been given to her by the police for the purpose of allowing her to produce the relevant forensic accounting reports.41.  the first applicant filed several criminal complaints against the relevant prosecutors and police officers who had requested and carried out the search of 21 october 2005 with various domestic authorities (the romanian senate, the high council of the judiciary and the ministry of internal affairs), accusing them of abuse of office for carrying out the search in breach of articles 100-111 of the rccp (see paragraph 46 below).
5.  the applicant was born in 1961. according to the latest information in the court’s possession, he was serving a sentence in the pravieniškės correctional home.7.  in a letter of 12 june 2006 sent to the applicant at the pravieniškės correctional home, the ministry of education and science wrote that information about the study programmes could be found on the website <www.aikos.smm.lt>.the website states the following about the aims of the “aikos” system: “aikos is an open system for providing information, consultation and guidance, the main aim of which is to provide information about opportunities for learning in lithuania.aikos provides the possibility of searching information about professions, qualifications, studies and study programmes, educational and science institutions and rules of admission... aikos allows users to submit a question to a consultant and to receive a reply ... the information provided in the central part of the aikos website under the sections ‘i wish to learn’, ‘i wish to study’, ‘i wish to improve my qualifications’ reflects only the current and most pertinent information relevant to the current academic year and is aimed at those who wish to enter university, vocational school, or a secondary school, or who wish to improve their qualifications.the latter information on the aikos website is renewed monthly...” 8.  on 28 june 2006 the applicant wrote to the pravieniškės correctional home authorities, noting the reply by the ministry and asking to be granted internet access to a website “where there was information from the ministry about studies, as well as to [the applicant’s] email accounts hosted on the internet sites <www.one.lt> and <www.yahoo.com>”.according to the prison governor, “given that the ministry’s reply did not satisfy [the applicant], the latter should write to the ministry again, so that he is provided with a comprehensive reply”.10.  the prison governor also informed the applicant that the request to have internet access could not be granted because at that time none of the legislation allowed the prisoners to use the internet or to have a mailbox.14.  in their written response to the court, the pravieniškės correctional home authorities noted that, although prisoners had a right to address requests and complaints to the state authorities under article 100 of the code of the execution of sentences (see paragraph 29 below), this meant correspondence by regular post and not via electronic communication.the same was true regarding the prohibition in the 1st annex of the code of the execution of sentences of the prisoners’ possession of topographic maps (see paragraph 30 below).15.  the prisons department also asked the court to dismiss the applicant’s complaint, arguing that although article 96 of the code of the execution of sentences permitted prisoners to use computers (see paragraph 29 below), this did not encompass the right to internet use.having reviewed the legal provisions regulating prisoners’ conditions of detention, the court pointed out that the prisoners could communicate with state institutions by postal correspondence and that their letters had to be sent via the prison authorities (see paragraph 33 below).the court also observed that the requirements were set by order of the prison authorities and were therefore mandatory for the applicant, as he was under an obligation to obey prison orders.he also argued that the lower court had ignored the fact that the core of his complaint was the restriction of his right to education and the right to obtain information.the supreme administrative court lastly noted that if prisoners had access to the internet, the prison authorities would be hampered in their fight against crime by being unable to fully monitor the prisoners’ activities.however, the court found that the conditions of the applicant’s detention had been satisfactory overall, except for a few minor details, and that the gravity of those violations was not such as would amount to inhuman or degrading treatment.
7.  the applicant alleged that, between 24 november 2004 and 2 october 2008, while he had been under a closed prison regime in arad prison, he had been taking his daily three hours of exercise in outside yards which lacked access to toilets or running water.especially during the hot days of summer the situation could have been described as inhuman and humiliating, because he had been forced to satisfy his physiological needs together with other prisoners along the fences of the yard, in the same place where they were supposed to walk and breathe fresh air.8.  the applicant alleged that he had on numerous occasions asked the arad prison administration to provide sanitary facilities and running water in the recreation yards.9.  on 4 june 2008, the applicant lodged a new complaint asking the prison authorities to equip the recreation yards with running water and toilets.the prison authorities noted on the applicant’s request that in fact he had been allowed to take water with him during his daily exercise and he had also been able to go to his cell in order to satisfy his physiological needs during this time.they further noted “at the moment renovation works are under way in the yards.” 10.  on 16 july 2008 the post-sentencing judge in arad prison rejected a complaint on the same matter lodged by the applicant.276/2006 on the execution of sentences did not provide for the right to have access to sanitary facilities and water during the prisoners’ daily outside exercise.276/2006 as well as the provisions of article 3 of the convention, the applicant made a complaint against the above-mentioned decision before the arad district court.he also sought compensation for non-pecuniary damage in respect of the inhuman treatment he had been suffering during his daily exercise since 24 november 2004 in arad prison.the arad prison administration maintained before the court that the law did not provide for an obligation to equip the recreation yards with sanitary facilities.12.  in a final judgment of 28 october 2008 the arad district court found that the applicant had indeed been deprived of access to a toilet and drinking water during daily exercise, and that this was in breach of article 48 of law 275/2006, which regulates prisoners’ right to daily exercise.in view of the evidence before it, the court allowed the applicant’s complaint and ordered the arad prison authorities to ensure the applicant’s right to daily exercise in a yard provided with sanitary facilities and drinking water.13.   in the meantime, on 23 october 2008 the post-sentencing judge in arad prison had studied another complaint lodged by the applicant in respect of another alleged breach of his rights.in this context the post-sentencing judge held that he was not competent in law to deal with the applicant’s request for compensation for non-pecuniary damage.16.  in a letter dated 2 june 2014, submitted by the government, the national administration of prisons mentioned that the recreation yards of arad prison could not technically be equipped with sanitary facilities because the prison lacked a sewage collection and disposal system.
10.  on 25 november 2008 the applicant company asked the ptuj district court to provide it with the case-file concerning the charges against the driver.it further informed the applicant company that the lorry had been seized in accordance with section 220 of the criminal procedure act read in conjunction with section 186(5) of the criminal code and that no decision could be made on the return or confiscation of the lorry until a decision on the merits had been issued.it held that confiscation was possible only if one of the conditions set out in the second paragraph of section 73 of the criminal code were met, namely the existence of reasons of general security or morality.the district court considered that that condition had not been met, taking into account the fact that there was no indication that the applicant company knew about the transportation of the illegal material.on 21 may 2009 the maribor higher court modified the first-instance judgment and, relying on sections 73(3) and 186(5) of the criminal code, ordered the confiscation of the lorry.it held that the legislative framework provided for mandatory confiscation in cases of drug-related criminal offences since the nature of their commission, their magnitude and the dangerous consequences thereof called for the extension of coercive measures to persons who were not the perpetrators of the criminal offence, irrespective of whether or not the owners of the vehicle knew what the perpetrator had been transporting.the higher court explained that in accordance with section 73(2) of the criminal code, objects used in the commission of a criminal offence could be confiscated even when they did not belong to the perpetrator, in so far as the third party’s right to claim damages from the perpetrator was not thereby affected.13.  on 17 july 2009 the applicant company lodged a constitutional complaint against the aforementioned decision and an initiative for review of the constitutionality of section 186(5) of the criminal code, alleging a violation of its property rights.it complained in particular that it had not known that the lorry was being used for illegal purposes, adding that the first-instance court had explicitly established its non-involvement in the commission of the criminal offence at issue.thus, according to the applicant company, the measure complained of constituted a punishment and an unjustified and disproportionate interference with its property and that it had not had the opportunity to participate in the criminal proceedings.in reviewing the contested legislation, the constitutional court confirmed the higher court’s view that section 186 of the criminal code provided for mandatory confiscation of vehicles used for the transportation and storage of drugs or illegal substances in sport, regardless of their ownership.according to the constitutional court, drug-related criminal offences sanctioned under section 186 of the criminal code represented a great evil and an extremely high degree of threat not only from the perspective of the individual, but also from the perspective of society as a whole; the purpose of the impugned measure was to prevent the commission of such criminal offences in the future and thus to protect important legal values in society, such as health and life – especially of young people.the constitutional court stressed that the nature of the criminal offences in question, the manner in which they were committed and their consequences justified the interference with the ownership rights of all owners of the means of transport used for drug-trafficking, regardless of their potential involvement in the criminal activities at issue, adding that a different regulation governing the confiscation of goods would diminish considerably the possibilities for effectively preventing the criminal offences in question.15.  balancing the general interests in question with the property rights of the applicant company, the constitutional court held that the measure complained of did not amount to an excessive interference despite the fact that the applicant company had had no effective possibility for preventing the misuse of its property for criminal purposes and had not participated in the commission of the criminal offence.under the general rules of tort law, the injured owner had the possibility and the right to exact compensation from the person responsible for the damage.
according to the courier, the summons could not be served as the house was closed up and no one was living there.on 3 june 2008 the court of first instance, acting on the basis of article 78 of the code of civil procedure (hereinafter, “the ccp” – see paragraph 15 below), ordered information concerning the proceedings to be published in a daily newspaper called 24 hours.the decision was taken in the absence of the applicant, whose whereabouts, according to the ruling, could not be established.no specific time-limit for that restriction of the applicant’s parental rights was given in the ruling.the court again stated that the applicant’s whereabouts were unknown and ordered the information about the proceedings to be published in 24 hours.unlike the first set of default proceedings, the summons was sent twice to the applicant at the address he had registered at.9.  it appears from the case file that the custody and guardianship authority, which represented the interests of the child in the above proceedings, made its own attempts to contact the applicant.in conclusions submitted to the tbilisi city court, the authority noted that during its visit to the applicant’s registered address it had learnt from neighbours that he had sold the house in 2003 and left for moscow.both default decisions were sent to the applicant’s registered address and, as they could not be served, were consequently published in 24 hours according to the procedure provided for in article 78 of the ccp (see paragraph 15 below).he stated that he had learnt about the decisions only in may 2012. he also explained that he had not been living in georgia at the material time, which his former partner had well known.the court ruled, with reference to articles 71 § 3 and 422 of the ccp (see paragraphs 15 and 17 below), that the applicant had been duly informed about the proceedings via public notifications in a newspaper and that there was therefore no legal basis to set the impugned decisions aside.it noted that the applicant had been registered at the address where the summonses had been sent and that for the purposes of the proceedings the courts had been justified in using that very address.12.  that decision was upheld by the tbilisi court of appeal on 31 october 2012. it reasoned that the domestic courts had been right to send the summonses to the applicant’s only available registered address.furthermore, as it had not been possible to serve the summonses on the applicant, the procedure of delivering a summons via a public notification, as provided for in article 78 of the ccp, had been duly employed.13.  in his last communication with the court on 15 december 2014, the applicant stated that he could still not have any contact with his daughter.
6.  according to the applicant, on 10 january 2007 at approximately 10.30 p.m. the applicant and k. were walking down the street in their town.7.  the individuals who had arrested the applicant took him to an office on the third floor of the police station, where they punched and kicked him and insulted him, shouting that “all ingush should be crushed”.during the questioning, he told the investigator about the arrest (abduction) and the planting of the grenade.9.  according to the government, on 10 january 2007 at around 10.15 p.m. the police officers asked the applicant to go with them to the police station.the police officers then took the applicant to the police station, where he was subjected to a medical examination due to his inebriated state.10.  on 11 january 2011 the investigator questioned the police officers who had carried out the applicant’s arrest.police captain t. submitted that the decision to arrest the applicant had been taken on the basis of “operative” information received on 10 january 2010 that the applicant was in possession of firearms and ammunition and that he was the leader of a group of young people of ingush ethnic origin who disturbed peace in the town and provoked tension between ingush and ossetian population.he stated that the policemen had stopped the applicant in the street, and had then put him in the car and taken him to the police station, where they had searched him and found a grenade.the medical expert documented the following injuries: “a bruise near the upper edge of the right shoulder blade measuring 4.5 by 4 cm ...[;] similar bruises on the rear surface of the chest at the level of the sixth to ninth ribs measuring 10 by 8 cm and on the rear surface of the chest at the level of the tenth to eleventh ribs measuring 8 by 6.5 cm; [bruises] near the sixth to eighth vertebrae measuring 8 by 1.5 cm”.the expert concluded that the bruises resulted from the impact of blunt solid objects, possibly at the time and in the circumstances indicated by the applicant.14.  on 16 february 2007 the prosecutor’s office discontinued the criminal investigation against the applicant on the charge of illegally possessing a grenade and advised him of his right to “rehabilitation”.the prosecutor found as follows: “the investigative actions were conducted in violation of [the rules of criminal procedure] and the proceedings should be discontinued in view of the following: the case file contains no information as regards the reasons for the [applicant’s] arrest; [the applicant] was not searched at the place of his arrest ...; instead, the search was carried out at [the police station]; in contravention of [the rules of criminal procedure], ... the taking of the [applicant’s] fingerprints was not documented ... ; the case file contains no evidentiary material as regards the examination of the grenade or the detection and recovery of the fingerprints; accordingly the findings set out in the forensic dactyloscopic expert report must be regarded as inadmissible evidence ... .” 15.  on 19 february 2007 the deputy municipal prosecutor opened a criminal investigation into the applicant’s unlawful arrest and detention at the police station.on 1 march 2007 the applicant was given victim status in respect of the crime and questioned as to the events of 10 january 2007.18.  on 12 january 2015 the deputy regional prosecutor studied the evidence in the applicant’s case file and identified the following defects in the investigation: (1) the investigating authorities had failed to complete all the necessary actions in order to clarify the facts in connection with the alleged ill-treatment; (2) no findings had been made as regards the existence of the applicant’s injuries; (3) the contradictions in the statements made by the forensic medical expert and the applicant had not been reconciled; (4) the investigating authorities had failed to question the forensic medical expert and the forensic expert who conducted a dactyloscopic examination; (5) the investigating authorities had failed to establish whether the police had conducted an internal inquiry in response to the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment; (6) the investigating authorities had not conducted a face‑to-face confrontation between the police officers and the applicant in order to reconcile the contradictions in their statements; (7) the investigating authorities had failed to identify the persons who had been present at the police station when the applicant was searched.20.  according to the government, on 19 march 2009 the primorskiy district court of novorossyisk found the applicant guilty of robbery and sentenced him to two and a half years’ imprisonment.
and her boyfriend were invited to the clejani mayor’s office, where they met with the deputy mayor, a representative of the department for social assistance from the mayor’s office, the chief police from the clejani police office, and two police officers from the neighbouring commune of bulbucata and the town mihăileşti.several other people were also present in the house at that time: i.b.’s sons, the fifth and the sixth applicants; i.b.’s partner, the seventh applicant; and c.i., i.b.’s daughter-in-law, along with her minor children i.a.b.witnessed that the sixth applicant, who had become scared and started running towards the back yard, was hit in the buttocks by a bullet fired by one of the policemen.15.  relying on the findings of the domestic courts, the government made the following submissions as to the incident in question.as the boyfriend had a criminal record of violent crime and as the boacă family members were known to the police for being violent, the local police team was reinforced by a team of five members of the r.i.s.19.  at that point, the boacă family became violent: the seventh applicant shouted “nobody leaves alive” and the men picked up bats and knives, threatening l.n.’s and the police officers’ physical integrity.they described in detail the police operation and the harm sustained by the boacă family members, including the destruction of their property.the prosecutor in charge took statements from the eight police officers who had participated in the events: the chief of police, the two local policemen and the five members of the rapid intervention squad.and the fifth applicant had informed the court officer that romano criss had taken on their defence case and that they would go to the prosecutor’s office if summonsed.24.  according to the police’s mission statement and the report of the operation, the police officers had been equipped with firearms and tear gas and had used them in self-defence.25.  the investigators concluded in their report that the use of force had been proportionate and had lasted only as long as the boacă family continued to be violent.the prosecutor considered the force used to have been only defensive and employed in order to allow the policemen to leave the premises safely with l.n.the prosecutor also concluded that the injury sustained by the sixth applicant was not consistent with a gunshot wound and was thus irrelevant for the purposes of the investigation.the seventh applicant, who had also expressed her wish to participate in the proceedings after i.b.’s death, did not object to the interlocutory judgment of 12 october 2010. she did not participate in the ensuing proceedings.31.  on 14 december 2010, based on the evidence in the file, the bucharest court of appeal dismissed the appeal.
5.  a list of the applicants is set out in the appendix.6.  on 23 december 2011 the applicants, political activists, participated in a demonstration organised by the political party “politics can be different’” (lehet más a politika).the demonstrators blocked the entrance of a car park adjacent to the parliament building by chaining themselves to each other and to concrete columns situated next to the entrance.7.  following the incident the budapest main police department opened criminal investigations against twenty-nine persons, including the applicants, on charges of violation of personal liberty under article 175(1) of act no.iv on the [old] criminal code.8.  on 9 march 2012 parliament enacted act no.xii of 2012 (“the amnesty act”) (see paragraph 12 below), which entered into force on 10 march 2012.9.  on 29 march 2012 the budapest main police department discontinued the criminal investigation against the twenty-nine suspects, pursuant to article 190 §§ 1 (e) and 2 of the code on criminal procedure on the grounds that they had been granted amnesty.the applicants did not appeal against that decision.10.  on 6 september 2012 six of the applicants, ms bende, ms kalocsai, ms ámon, ms székelyné rákosi, mr moldován and mr gajárszki, lodged a constitutional complaint requesting the constitutional court to declare sections 1, 2 and 4 of the amnesty act unconstitutional as infringing the right to their reputation and the principle of presumption of innocence.11.  the constitutional court declared the complaint inadmissible.it reasoned that the complaint did not raise any constitutional-law issues of “fundamental importance”, since it was based on an erroneous interpretation of the law.the constitutional court pointed out that the language employed by the act could not be interpreted as establishing that the applicants had indeed committed the offence.in any event, the complaint was time-barred since it had been lodged outside the statutory 180 days’ time-limit following the entry into force of the legislation.
some of the applicants had had to comply with additional requirements laid down in the agreement between the united states of america and the russian federation regarding cooperation in adoption of children (“bilateral agreement on adoption”) upon its entry into force on 1 november 2012. they then applied to the competent russian authorities who, except in those cases where the adoption proceedings had focussed on a particular child from the outset, provided them with information concerning the children who were available for adoption.pursuant to article 17 of the bilateral agreement on adoption, it should have remained in force until one year from the date on which one of the states parties informed the other party of its intention to terminate the agreement, and this move therefore caused confusion regarding the validity of the agreement and the outcome of the pending adoption cases involving prospective adoptive parents from the united states.21.  on 10 january 2013 news agencies including the bbc and ria novosti reported that the russian president’s press secretary had stated that the bilateral agreement on adoption was still in force on that date and that it would remain valid until early january 2014. on the afternoon of the same day the russian ministry of external affairs posted a comment on its website stating that russia had not merely suspended the bilateral agreement on adoption but had terminated it, and that a communication to this effect had been handed over to the united states embassy in moscow on 1 january 2013.27.  on 2 july 2013 the parliamentary assembly of the organization for security and cooperation in europe (osce) adopted a resolution on intercountry adoption in which it called on member states “to recognize the foundational bond between prospective adoptive parents and the child and to honor and protect these nascent families” and urged them “to resolve differences, disputes, and controversies related to intercountry adoptions in a positive and humanitarian spirit” so as “to avoid any general, indiscriminate disruption of intercountry adoptions already in progress that could jeopardize the best interests of the child, harm the nascent family, or deter prospective adoptive parents from pursuing an intercountry adoption” see paragraph 301 below).47.  the us applicant initiated the adoption procedure in december 2011. having completed the necessary steps for intercountry adoption within the united states, the us applicant was registered in the russian state databank as a prospective adoptive parent on 8 november 2012. she was assisted by the authorised adoption agency “hand in hand”.60.  the us applicants, who have two biological children and one adopted child, initiated the procedure to adopt another child in march 2012. having completed the necessary steps for intercountry adoption within the united states, they were registered in the russian state databank as prospective adoptive parents on 17 august 2012. they were assisted by the authorised adoption agency “hand in hand”.140.  the us applicants initiated the adoption procedure in july 2012. having completed the necessary steps for intercountry adoption within the united states, the us applicants were registered in the russian state databank as prospective adoptive parents on 11 december 2012. they were assisted by the authorised adoption agency “global adoption services inc.”.she decided to adopt another child and initiated the adoption procedure in may 2012. having completed the necessary steps for intercountry adoption within the united states, the us applicant was registered in the russian state databank as a prospective adoptive parent on 9 october 2012. the us applicant was assisted by the authorised adoption agency “international assistance group inc.”.190.  according to the us applicants, they submitted the adoption application to the kaliningrad town court, and the hearing was scheduled for 17 january 2013. on 28 december 2012 they were informed that the hearing had been cancelled due to the adoption of law no.204.  the us applicant initiated the adoption procedure in early 2012. having completed the necessary steps for intercountry adoption within the united states, the us applicant was registered in the russian state databank as a prospective adoptive parent on 15 november 2012. the us applicant was assisted by the authorised adoption agency “adopt a child inc.”.234.  the us applicant initiated the adoption procedure in july 2011. having completed the necessary steps for intercountry adoption within the united states, she was registered in the russian state databank as a prospective adoptive parent on 19 september 2012. the us applicant was assisted by the authorised adoption agency “adopt a child inc.”.248.  on 12 november 2012 the st. petersburg city court stayed the proceedings on the grounds that certain documents were not enclosed and instructed the us applicants to submit them by 11 december 2012. at the us applicants’ request, the deadline was subsequently extended to 15 january 2013. according to the us applicants, after the entry into force of the bilateral agreement on adoption, they had to comply with additional requirements introduced by the agreement.268.  the us applicant initiated the adoption procedure in 2008. as the adoption agency’s licence was later revoked, she had to restart the procedure in 2011. having completed the necessary steps for intercountry adoption within the united states, the us applicant was registered in the russian state databank as a prospective adoptive parent on 25 june 2012.as certain documents were not enclosed, the proceedings were stayed and the us applicants were instructed to submit the documents requested by 10 january 2012. the term was then extended to 9 february 2012. as the us applicants failed to submit the documents, on the latter date the adoption application was returned to them without examination.289.  on 6 november 2012 the ivanovo regional court stayed the proceedings on the grounds that certain documents, such as confirmation of the us applicants’ registration in the state databank and the girls’ entry permits for the united states, were not enclosed.
6.  the following summary of the background of the case and the events in austria is based on the submissions by the applicants.11.  towards the end of her two-year contract, the first applicant’s employers informed her that they wished her to stay, and offered her better pay, more days off and a telephone of her own, as well as permission to visit her family, provided that she recruited someone to take over her job while she was away.owing to the incentives and the prospect of improved working conditions, she asked the second applicant to take over her role in dubai during the time she was away.12.  while the first applicant was in the philippines, she received threats from her employers that if she did not return to dubai to work, she would be banned from ever going back there, and the second applicant would be subjected to ill-treatment.21.  when the third applicant told her employer that she wished to return to the philippines, she was told that she would have to pay the cost of the flight and the agency fees, which her employer knew she could not afford at that point.24.  the night following the incident – that is, two or three days after their arrival in austria – the applicants left the hotel with the help of n., who had organised a car to pick them up in a side street near the hotel and take them to a “safe place”.27.  on 4 november 2011 the vienna public prosecutor’s office (staatsanwaltschaft wien) discontinued the proceedings under article 104a of the criminal code (strafgesetzbuch – hereinafter “the cc”) relating to human trafficking (see paragraph 35 below), pursuant to article 190 § 1 of the code of criminal procedure (strafprozessordnung – hereinafter “the ccp” – see paragraph 36 below).there had been no indication in the case file that any of the criminal actions exhaustively listed in article 104a of the cc had occurred in austria, particularly since the offence had already been completed in dubai (zumal das delikt bereits in dubai vollendet wurde), and the accused were not austrian citizens.the relevant parts of the decision read (translation from german): “the decision to discontinue [criminal proceedings] requires – by implication – that the facts of a case are sufficiently clear, or a lack of indication that investigations would be promising.there is no reason for further prosecution if, on the basis of the ... results of the investigation, a conviction is no more likely than an acquittal ... according to article 64 § 1 (4) of the cc, if austrian interests have been harmed by the offence or the perpetrator cannot be extradited, austrian criminal laws apply independently of the criminal laws of the place where the crime was committed, for example in relation to the offence of kidnapping for ransom under article 104a of the cc.owing to the fact that the applicants spent approximately three days in vienna, the conditions regarding the fulfilment of the elements of the crime under article 104a § 1 (2) of the cc have not been met, since the relevant acts relating to the exploitation of labour must be committed over a longer period of time; therefore, the commission of the offence in austria is ruled out.austrian interests are engaged if either the victim or the perpetrator is an austrian citizen, or if the criminal acts have a concrete connection to austria, or if an obligation arises under international law in relation to the prosecution of certain offences.the applicants’ argument that the elements of the crime under article 104a of the cc had also been fulfilled in austria therefore fails, and the plea that the alleged criminal actions against them by their employers in dubai ... would lead to an obligation on the part of austria under international law is likewise not convincing.however, they alleged that because of the high risk of having to pay the costs of the proceedings because the employers did not reside in austria, they withdrew the action.32.   the ngo lefö not only assisted the applicants in filing a criminal complaint against their employers, but also supported them in applying for a special residence permit in austria for victims of human trafficking, under the former section 69a of the residence act (niederlassungs- und aufenthaltsgesetz – see paragraph 46 below).
7.  on 13 march 2007 the applicant was interviewed on the telephone by m.z., a journalist from rzeczpospolita, a national daily newspaper, on the subject of lustration of journalists which at that time was widely commented on in the media.9.  on 26 and 27 march 2007 a legal representative of a.m., an editor-in chief of gazeta wyborcza, one of the biggest daily newspapers, sent a legal letter to the applicant, offering to settle the issue amicably provided that the applicant published a relevant apology.it further determined the exact length of the apology (not smaller than 10 x 15 cm) and ordered the applicant to pay pln 10,000 (approximately eur 2,380) to a charity and pln 1,500 (approximately eur 357) in court fees.13.  during the proceedings the court questioned the applicant, the plaintiff and the journalist m.z.the court did not take into consideration two private expert opinions on language analysis provided by the applicant and a.m. the court further stressed that while the parties’ representatives had questioned these opinions they had not asked for a court-appointed expert on linguistics nor requested that their experts be heard by the court as witnesses.15.  the applicant claimed before the court that the phrase used in the interview was an acceptable journalistic summary of a.m.’s opinions and his set of views demonstrated during numerous public appearances.the court referred to the polish language dictionary of 1996 according to which a colon was used in particular to introduce direct quotations such as in the present case.the court further went on to examine whether the statement could have been treated as an acceptable paraphrase, and considered, referring to the same polish dictionary, that it was not possible to paraphrase a set of moral views.in conclusion the court held that a.m.’s personal rights had been breached because the applicant had failed to prove that he was acting within the existing legal order.17.  on the applicant’s appeal, on 15 october 2008 the warsaw court of appeal (sąd apelacyjny) upheld the first-instance judgment and ordered the applicant to pay pln 1,170 (approximately eur 278) in court fees for the proceedings before the second-instance court.consequently, the court considered that the phrase used by the applicant had breached the plaintiff’s personal rights, in particular his credibility, reputation and good name, showing him as petty-minded.in particular, he referred to article 10 of the convention, and pointed out that the court of appeal had failed to obtain an expert opinion on linguistics.lastly, the court explained that the phrase in question had not ceased to be informative with reference to the personality of the parties.21.  the applicant paid pln 10,000 (approximately eur 2,380) to a charity in october 2008. at the same time he also arranged for the publication of an apology in rzeczpospolita, for which he paid pln 3,502.62 (approximately eur 900).22.  during the proceedings against the applicant, several thousand people signed a letter titled ‘defending freedom of expression’, which was handed to the ombudsman on 21 november 2008. they argued that a publicist had a right to express this type of opinion about other participants in a public debate.
5.  on 26 august 1998 the wels regional court (landesgericht) issued an arrest warrant against the applicant, as he was suspected, inter alia, of having committed aggravated fraud on a commercial basis in several countries together with numerous other suspects, and of being a member of a criminal organization.7.  on 14 january 1999 the wels public prosecutor’s office (staatsanwaltschaft) filed a bill of indictment against the applicant.the applicant’s objection against it was dismissed by the linz court of appeal (oberlandesgericht) on 26 march 1999.8.  on 13 january 2003 the applicant filed a request under section 91 of the courts act (gerichtsorganisationsgesetz) for the setting of a time-limit (fristsetzungsantrag) in order to accelerate the proceedings.9.  on 29 october 2003 the court decided to separate the proceedings against the applicant from those against the other accused.11.  in march and july 2004 the applicant filed further requests under section 91 of the courts act.127/05), complaining under article 6 of the convention about the length of the criminal proceedings against him.on 9 june 2008 the applicant and the government agreed on a friendly settlement of that case against a payment of 12,300 euros (eur) by the government.13.  on 4 september 2008, following the issuance of the above‑mentioned strike-out decision, the applicant requested the wels regional court to discontinue the proceedings against him, or in the alternative to set a new date for a hearing as soon as possible.the applicant failed to attend because he had fallen ill. during that hearing, the public prosecutor lodged the request that another expert opinion be obtained, to which the wels regional court acceded.15.  the following oral hearing was set for 21 october 2009, but was cancelled because the court-appointed expert had informed the court that he would need three to five more weeks to finalise his opinion.following an urgent reminder which the wels regional court had sent to the expert, it learned on 18 october 2010 that the expert had passed away.16.  on 1 september 2011, 17 november 2011 and 13 december 2012, the applicant filed further requests under section 91 of the courts act, which were dismissed by the linz court of appeal on 7 november 2011, 1 february 2012 and 2 january 2013 respectively.in its last decision, the court of appeal observed that the expert opinion had been finalised and submitted to the trial court on 19 december 2012.17.  on 28 may 2013 the wels regional court acquitted the applicant from all charges, partly because his guilt could not be proven, partly because the public prosecutor had withdrawn the indictment.
1-3, other jehovah’s witnesses, the representation of the pennsylvania watchtower in georgia and the union of jehovah’s witnesses, lodged an administrative complaint with the mtatsminda-krtsanisi district court in tbilisi against the ministry of the interior, the governor of marneuli, the marneuli chief of police and his deputy and twelve other police officers involved in the case.13.  on 18 june 2002 the applicants lodged an appeal with the tbilisi regional court complaining that the court of first instance had ignored the fact that the police had turned back the jehovah’s witnesses but had allowed father basil and his supporters to go through the same checkpoints.19.  on 27 november 2000 the two applicants, together with the representation of the pennsylvania watchtower in georgia and the union of jehovah’s witnesses, lodged an administrative complaint with the mtatsminda-krtsanisi district court against the ministry of the interior and the police officers involved.in the court’s opinion, it had not been established that the police officers in question had prevented the religious meeting from being held at mr aliev’s home, confiscated the religious books and taken the two applicants to the police station in order to forbid them from performing religious rites in accordance with their faith.claiming that their rights guaranteed by article 19 of the constitution and articles 9 and 14 of the convention had been breached, they asked that the ministry of the interior issue a public apology and bring disciplinary proceedings against two of its staff who, in their opinion, had failed to comply with their professional duties, as provided for in the police act.it further noted the following: “it is also well known that many of jehovah’s witnesses blatantly violate the requirements of article 19 § 3 of the constitution and frequently impose their opinion and belief on others, thus violating their rights.” then the court set aside the three witness statements in favour of the applicants on the ground that those people had not been eyewitnesses.in addition, it noted the following: “the first two witnesses are jehovah’s witnesses and the applicants’ friends, and they have an interest in having the case decided in the applicants’ favour.” as the applicants had not submitted any other valid evidence (medical reports, torn-up religious literature, or other items), their allegations were held to be ill-founded.it concluded that, in the absence of sufficient evidence to the contrary, there had been no damage to the applicants’ dignity or any infringement of their right to freedom of religion, which ruled out the application of article 1005 § 1 of the civil code and the granting of compensation.35.  according to the applicants, the appeal court took into consideration an oral statement by e.k., who had claimed that he did not recognise a white car with the registration number daq 492, which mr dzamukov had nonetheless identified as being that in which the two police officers had been patrolling at the time of the incident in question.36.  after postponing the hearing several times on account of the absence of the defending parties, the supreme court examined the applicants’ appeal on points of law in written proceedings, and dismissed it on 17 october 2003. it criticised the applicants for failing to bring criminal proceedings against the police officers.the supreme court stated that acknowledging that the police officers had failed in their professional obligations in the impugned manner (attacking and assaulting the applicants) would be equivalent to recognising, in the context of administrative proceedings, their criminal guilt, which would be contrary to the law.49.  on 30 april 2001 the jehovah’s witnesses who had been victims of the attack, including the three applicants named above, as well as the representation of the pennsylvania watch tower in georgia and the union of jehovah’s witnesses, filed an administrative complaint with the mtatsminda-krtsanisi court against the ministry of the interior, mr th.a., the chief of rustavi police, mr l.g., the head of the police station involved in the case, and mr k.z., a police officer.55.  questioned by the mtatsminda-krtsanisi district court, a representative of the ministry of the interior argued that it had not been established that the police had been present at the scene and asked that the applicants’ complaint be dismissed.it considered it established that the applicants had been attacked by a group of individuals led by mr bluashvili on 27 march 2001. it considered, however, that the applicants had not demonstrated that the police had been present at the scene or that they had watched passively as acts had been committed against property and the applicants’ rights to freedom of religion.nonetheless, in the same decision, the court acknowledged that, after having been informed of the attack, the police officers had gone to the scene, which had resulted in a decision to place the attackers under investigation.
the second applicant was born in 1948 and lives in moscow.5.  the applicants sued the trest zhilishchnogo hozyajstva municipal company (мп «трест жилищного хозяйства» – hereinafter “the municipal company”) in two unrelated sets of civil proceedings.6.  on 22 january 2003 the korsakovskiy town court of the sakhalin region (hereinafter “town court”) granted the claim by the first applicant for salary arrears and ordered the municipal company to pay him 1,270 euros (eur).the judgment became final on the same date, but remained unenforced.7.  on 1 march 2004 the town court granted the claim by the second applicant for compensation for the damage to her health sustained as a result of the acts of one of the municipal company’s employees.the court awarded the applicant eur 16,256. the judgment became final on 25 may 2004. it was partly enforced in 2004 and in 2006-07; the applicant received eur 11,888.8.  on 7 may 2007, in the course of insolvency proceedings in respect of the municipal company, the commercial court of the sakhalin region (hereinafter “the commercial court”) granted the second applicant’s claim for compensation of lost income and dismissed the remainder of the applicant’s claims.on 18 july 2007 the commercial court discontinued the appeal proceedings on the grounds that the municipal company had been liquidated.the commercial court relied on articles 49 § 3 and 63 § 8 of the civil code of russia as interpreted by the plenary supreme commercial court in ruling no.9.  the municipal company was incorporated as a municipal unitary company set up by a decision of the local authority and provided heating supply and maintenance services in respect of municipal housing.the municipal company had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to it by the local authority in order to carry out its statutory activities.10.  according to the second applicant, on 27 april 2002 the local authority withdrew most of the assets from the municipal company’s economic control.the assets were subsequently transferred to a newly created company; the debts remained with the municipal company.11.  on 27 september 2005 the municipal company was declared insolvent and it was put into liquidation.on 7 may 2007 the commercial court ended the liquidation proceedings.
the article also included a comment by the applicant on the lawsuits in question: “in a way it is quite interesting [to note] who has lodged [civil] claims against me so far: two agents and one their fierce defender” (“swoją drogą to ciekawe, kto mnie dotychczas pozwał do sądu: dwóch agentów i jeden ich zaciekły obrońca”)” 8.  on 19 march 2008, a.m. brought a civil action in the warsaw regional court (sąd okręgowy) requesting legal protection of his personal rights.the expert was asked in particular to reply to the question of whether the phrase “two agents and one their fierce defender”, in the context of the case, constituted a statement of fact or an opinion.14.  the warsaw regional court noted that the applicant, when formulating the statement in question, referred in particular to a number of published statements made by a.m. in which he had criticised the lustration law.while the applicant in his statement had not specified who in his opinion had been “an agent” and who “their fierce defender”, from the nature of the publication and taking into account the readers’ general knowledge it was clear that it was the plaintiff who was considered to be “the fierce defender of two agents”.at the same time, the court accepted that had the applicant used a more general formulation and referred only to a.m.’s attitude towards the lustration law such words could have fallen within the limits of acceptable criticism and it would not have been necessary to protect a.m.’s personal rights.20.  on 11 march 2010 the warsaw court of appeal modified the first‑instance judgment and ordered the applicant to pay pln 10,000 (approximately, eur 2,380) to the charity and pln 2,845 (approximately eur 677) in court fees.consequently, the court considered that the phrase used by the applicant had breached the plaintiff’s personal rights (in particular his good name) and had conflicted with the values espoused by him.22.  the court referred to the ongoing public debate in poland about the necessity of lustration in order to explain and disclose the role of various special services after the world war ii.it noted that in the context of that debate the phrase that someone was “a fierce defender of ... agents” suggested that that person had defended them, justified their actions and searched for a way to absolve them from any responsibility in the eyes of the public.24.  with reference to the sum to be paid to the charity the court noted that the applicant was a highly educated university professor holding numerous public offices.the court further held that the sum of pln 1,000 to be paid to charity was symbolic and that pln 10,000 was a more appropriate sum, given the circumstances of the case – especially considering that it was not an excessive burden for the applicant.26.  on 24 march 2011 the supreme court (sąd najwyższy) refused to entertain the applicant’s cassation appeal on account of the lack of important legal issues to be considered in the case.27.  on 19 april 2010 a.m.’s representative instituted enforcement proceedings in the warsaw district court aimed at compelling the applicant to comply with the obligations imposed by the warsaw court of appeal’s judgment of 11 march 2010.28.  on 15 june 2010 the warsaw district court ordered the applicant to publish the apology ordered by the warsaw court of appeal in rzeczpospolita.after the applicant failed to comply with that order, on 10 june 2011 the warsaw district court allowed a.m. to publish the apology in rzeczpospolita in the applicant’s name and ordered him to cover the fee for its publication in the amount of pln 23,124 (approximately eur 5,505).
20.  on 26 march 2013 the lugoj prosecutor’s office noted the victim’s family’s requests for a murder investigation and decided to refer the case to the timiş prosecutor’s office, which had the competence to investigate the allegations.29.  on 27 january 2014 a superior prosecutor attached to the timiş prosecutor’s office allowed the victim’s mother’s challenge, quashed the decision of 26 november 2013 (see paragraph 27 above), and referred the case back to the lugoj prosecutor’s office.33.  on an unspecified date the victim’s mother informed the lugoj prosecutor’s office that her challenge had not concerned police officer c.a., who was investigating the case after the reopening of the proceedings, or the prosecutor who was supervising the aforementioned police officer.in her statement she had acknowledged that she had been given a copy of the technical expert report produced in the case and that she had no objections in respect of the appointed expert or the content of the report.40.  the report also held that according to i.m.r.’s statement the time which had elapsed between the moment he had checked (s-a asigurat) that the first applicant’s husband was at a safe distance from the tree and the moment the victim was hit by the said tree was very short.41.  the report further held that r.s., the witness proposed by the victim’s mother, had stated that he had been at work at the time of the accident and had been informed about the victim’s death by telephone.42.  the report noted that according to the technical expert report the main cause of the accident was the victim’s failure to position himself at a safe distance from the tree and to maintain permanent visual contact with i.m.r.50.  on 27 june 2014 a prosecutor attached to the lugoj prosecutor’s office decided to close the criminal investigation in the case on the grounds that there was no evidence that the suspects had committed the alleged offence.at the same time it disjoined part of the case and referred it back to the gavojdia police department in order to continue the investigation and identify the perpetrators of the alleged offences.only one of the witnesses had testified that he had seen the second applicant on the ground at the site of the incident and that the latter had told him that l.d.56.  the prosecutor also noted that even though the victims of the incident had later declared that they knew the identity of the perpetrators, at the time of the incident and after the police had arrived they had been unable to identify the perpetrators and had stated that they did not know their identity.it held that the investigating authorities had heard evidence from the victims, the suspects and the witnesses in the case and had correctly established the facts of the case.moreover, they voiced their concern that the investigations initiated into the first applicant’s husband’s death and into the incident of 30 june 2013 had been suppressed and delayed because of the family relationships between one of the suspects and several local police officers.65.  on 8 and 13 february 2013 ldiacr informed the romanian ministry of the interior and the timiş county police department about the applicants’ and their family’s allegations, including the alleged family relationships between one of the suspects and several local police officers, and asked them for an investigation.2.  the denunciation for abuse of office lodged against the police officers involved in the investigation concerning the death of the first applicant’s husband 68.  on 8 february 2013 ldiacr initiated proceedings before the timiş prosecutor’s office denouncing an abuse of office (abuz în serviciu) allegedly committed by the local police officers involved in the investigation of the first applicant’s husband’s death.
the child was to live with her mother, and her father could see her on the first and third weekend of every month, for thirty days during the summer, and for a week during the winter or spring.6.  on 25 november 2009, upon a request by the child’s father for a change in the contact regime between him and his daughter, the first instance civil court approved another agreement between the parents, which extended the duration of the father’s weekend contact by a few hours.the parents also agreed that the father would collect the child from her mother’s home in kazanlak, bulgaria, and would take her back to the same location; the father could spend his time with the child at one of two specific addresses in bulgaria, located in koprivshtitsa and srednogorovo respectively.7.  on 18 march 2009 the first applicant brought a claim under article 72 of the 1985 family code before the varna district court, seeking the court’s authorisation for the child to leave the country in the absence of her father’s agreement.notwithstanding the above, the first applicant specified that, in the event that the court did not grant her application for permission for the child to travel, she would remain in bulgaria to care for her as a responsible parent.more specifically, the reasons given were that the mother could not show that she had a fixed place of residence abroad, or a secure income with which to ensure her daughter’s well-being, and that the child’s absence from bulgaria would pose an obstacle to the father’s exercise of his contact rights.in view of the strained relationship between the two parents, the court considered that permission for the child to travel abroad with only her mother should be granted for the whole of the child’s infancy, that is, until she reached majority.other courts considered that when a parental consensus was missing, granting permission for unlimited travel abroad was only going to cause further disturbance and resentment in the relationship between the parents, which was likely to result in additional disputes between them, and this was not in the interests of the child.13.  examining the present case, the court relied in particular on its well‑established and binding case-law, according to which permission for a child’s unrestricted travel abroad with one parent only could not be granted because, as a matter of principle, that could never be in the best interests of the child.more specifically, there was a risk that a parent applying for such permission could take the child to countries which were in a state of war or where there was a high risk of natural disasters, thus endangering the child’s well-being and depriving the state of the opportunity to ensure his or her protection.also, if the parent took the child to a country which was not a member of the european union, or with which bulgaria had no reciprocal agreement regarding legal assistance, the authorities would not be able to ensure that the contact rights of the other parent were enforced.importantly, the first applicant had not sought in court a change in the regime for contact between the child and the father with a view to her and the child moving their primary place of residence to the united kingdom.in any event, the first applicant had presented in the proceedings before the court only her personal assertions in respect of her future in the united kingdom, but no evidence to demonstrate the facts she claimed.however, as this was not the case, in view of the young age of the child, the court found that it was not in her interest for her mother to be granted permission to take her abroad at any time, for an unlimited duration and to unknown destinations throughout the period before the child reached majority.16.  on 18 december 2011, a little over a year after the final judgment of the supreme court of cassation on the issue of the child’s travel, the first applicant and her partner, who was still living in the uk, married in bulgaria.
27.  on 26 april 2006 the zaporizhya regional court of appeal allowed the defence’s request to have the proceedings held in camera to prevent public disclosure of information concerning the network of informants and required all the defence lawyers and representatives to undergo security clearance to continue taking part in the proceedings.the conviction was mainly based on the records of the crime-scene inspection and the testimonies of the applicant’s co-defendants, which the trial court found to be corroborated by witness statements, and other evidence in the case.it was established during the relevant investigation that the applicant’s son had been taken to the sbu’s premises at the applicant’s request and had not been arrested or detained and had been returned to his relatives as soon as the decision to arrest the applicant had been taken; and that the applicant had raised no complaints during his son’s stay at the sbu.it was also noted in the relevant resolution that the applicant’s wife had refused to provide her son’s medical file to prove her allegations concerning the worsening of his state of health and that there had been a contradiction in the applicant’s statements and between his and his son’s account of events.it was also observed in that letter that no violations of domestic law by the sbu officers had been established by a number of investigations into the events complained of and that the applicant’s son had stayed with the applicant at the sbu’s premises from 13 to 14 september 2003 at the applicant’s own request.the fact that the applicant’s son had remained in the sbu’s premises for about twenty-four hours after the applicant’s initial arrest, without his relatives having been informed of his whereabouts and with no medical assistance provided in view of the stress he had been under, was listed among the violations referred to by the court.48.  during the proceedings in his criminal case before the court of appeal and the supreme court the applicant and his wife repeatedly requested, referring to the separate ruling of 25 october 2005 by the district court (see paragraph 45 above), that measures be taken to bring the respective officers to trial for the unlawful detention of their son.49.  on 22 december 2008, in its judgment upholding the applicant’s conviction, the court of appeal observed that the complaint related to the unlawful detention of the applicant’s son had been considered by the prosecutor’s office and no corpus delicti under criminal law had been found on the part of the sbu officers.they contested the statement that the applicant had shared a cell with smokers and those suffering from infectious diseases, pointing to the applicant’s failure to provide the respective evidence and called attention to the fact that there had been a special isolation wing in the sizo for detainees suffering from such diseases.76.  on 22 december 2003 and 9 january 2004, after a number of enquiries, the sbu informed the applicant’s wife that the applicant’s state of health was compatible with detention and that the sizo had all the necessary facilities to provide the applicant with qualified medical assistance.78.  on 2 june 2004, in reply to the applicant’s lawyer’s query about the medical assistance provided to the applicant, the sizo informed the lawyer that his state of health was compatible with detention and that he was under the regular supervision of the sizo medical staff.79.  on 15 august 2004 the applicant’s wife asked the prosecutor’s office to provide truthful information about the applicant’s state of health and stated that adequate medical assistance could not be provided to the applicant in the sizo in view of the absence of the relevant medical specialists at the detention facility.80.  on 24 november 2004 the prosecutor, having conducted an investigation into the matter and having studied the applicant’s medical file, replied to the applicant’s wife that her complaint appeared to be unfounded and that adequate medical assistance was being provided to the applicant in the sizo.82.  on 7 september 2005, following enquiries made by the court upon the lawyer’s request, the sizo provided the court with a certificate, according to which the applicant was under the permanent supervision of the sizo medical unit and did not necessitate medical examination by specialists other than those practising in the sizo.it was established in the course of that examination that the applicant had been under the close supervision of the sizo medical unit and, when the need had arisen, of outside doctors; that twice a year, owing to his diseases, he had undergone a medical checkup; that all his complaints had been adequately addressed; and that his state of health had been compatible with detention.
8.  on 7 november 2000, in the light of the chosen route across the quarry, the bad salzungen mining authority (bergamt) declined to approve the applicant company’s entire operation plan (hauptbetriebsplan) for the years 2000-02, an administrative prerequisite to operate and continue operating a quarry.the applicant company had to bear the costs of relocating the plant, including the removal of machinery and the construction of roads and buildings.9.  on 26 may 2003 the land of thuringia issued a planning decision (planfeststellungsbeschluss) for the construction of the motorway, which stated, inter alia, that it would be too costly and time consuming to circumvent the applicant company’s land.it requested the annulment of the planning decision; in the alternative that it be stipulated in the planning decision that the applicant company be compensated for the interference in its quarrying operation; or in the alternative that it be stipulated in the planning decision that the land of thuringia was obliged to take over the quarrying operation, the remaining land and the mining licence.it changed the wording that “the amount and scale of the compensation [had to] be agreed upon in a private-law agreement” and “if the parties d[id] not reach an agreement, the expropriation authorities [would] determine the compensation in separate compensation proceedings” into the wording that “the seizure [inanspruchnahme] entitle[d] to compensation” and that “the amount and scale of the compensation w[ould] not be decided on in the planning decision”.subsequently, the applicant company and the land declared the matter resolved (erledigt) and the federal administrative court therefore decided in 2004 to discontinue the proceedings.13.  on 26 march 2008 the administrative office of thuringia land (landesverwaltungsamt) expropriated the part of the applicant company’s land on which the motorway had been built and decided that the federal government should compensate the applicant company by a payment of some eur 865,000. that amount included about eur 22,800 in compensation for the land value as farmland and some of the costs of the relocation of the plant (new infrastructure, transport of machinery and opening the ground of the new mine).15.  on 18 february 2009 the meiningen regional court dismissed the applicant company’s request and – on the request of the federal government – reduced the amount of compensation to about eur 22,800. it held that only the value of the expropriated land – not taking into account that there existed a limestone deposit underneath it – had to be compensated.while the acquired mining rights constituted “property” under article 14 of the basic law, the holder of a mining licence could not rely on making unhindered use of his or her mining rights; he or she could only operate under the limitations stipulated, inter alia, under section 124(3) of the federal mining act.it held that the construction of the motorway had not led to a loss of the applicant company’s mining rights but only to a factual impairment in the exercise of those rights which followed from the preference given to transport infrastructure projects.the clarification of the planning decision had not generated a claim regarding the impairment of the applicant’s mining rights and the business operation linked to it, including the landfill.it rejected the claim for compensation for the alleged interference with the mining right, mainly relying on section 124(3) of the federal mining act, and in particular on the grounds that an interference with the rights of an established and operational business enterprise (eingriff in den eingerichteten und ausgeübten gewerbebetrieb) should not be compensated either.referring to its case-law, it reiterated that it made no difference that the applicant company was the owner of the land and, at the same time, the holder of the mining licence.mentioning that for reasons of proportionality the planning decision might in a case like the present one call for a formal expropriation of the mining rights with corresponding compensation, it found that such a claim – as well as the issue of disproportionality as such – should have been raised in the proceedings concerning the planning decision before the federal administrative court (see paragraph 10).lastly, it observed that the loss of future profits from the landfill was a mere hope for future returns and could thus not be considered a “property right” under article 14 of the basic law, but fell only under article 12 of the basic law (right to exercise one’s profession).
8.  the applicants alleged that the prison had held 2,400 prisoners while it had been designed to accommodate 700. the applicants had been detained in wings a, b, d and e in various cells which all had measured 9 sq.9.  the toilet facilities had been partially separated from the rest of the cells.cells had been dirty and overrun with cockroaches and other pests and no attempt had been made to exterminate them.10.  the inmates had been confined to their cells for sixteen to seventeen hours per day, as recreational or educational activities had not been provided.more specifically, inmates had been required to stay in their cells as follows: from 6.30 p.m. (on average) to 8.30 a.m. and from 11.30 a.m. to 2.45 p.m. every day.11.  moreover, the prison had been understaffed and had not been able to secure the prisoners’ safety.13.  the government asserted that irrespective of the number of prisoners in each cell, which in any case had not been constant, prisoners had had access to a large yard daily from 8 a.m. to 12 p.m. and from 3 p.m. to thirty minutes before sunset.the prison had had a central heating system and hot water had been available on a daily basis in the morning and in the afternoon.the cells had been regularly disinfected and had been cleaned twice a day by cleaning crews consisting of detainees.15.  as regards prisoners’ meals, the government submitted the menu of two random weeks to demonstrate that they had been comprised of a variety of food.meals had been served in the cells and prisoners had eaten at in-cell tables.16.  prisoners had been able to play sport and each prisoner had had a personal television set with a headset.in addition, they had had the opportunity to take up one of the 640 jobs available, to take part in educational courses or to attend the “second chance” school.the renovated room of the reading club and the events hall of the “second chance” school had been available as recreational areas.17.  all the detainees had had access to the prison’s infirmary which had been open twenty-four hours per day and there had been twenty doctors of different specialities, including two psychiatrists who had offered consultations to the prisoners.
the applications were worded as follows: “in the course of the proceedings, the need has arisen to carry out a search and seizure in [the applicants’ house, the first applicant’s car, and the photography studio], since the available evidence gives probable cause to suspect that [these places] contain items of relevance to the case – items relating to the subject matter of the case.i therefore ... ask for permission for an investigator to search [these places] with a view to finding and seizing the above-mentioned items.” 11.  between 3.30 and 4 p.m. the same day, a judge of the plovdiv district court, sitting in private, issued three warrants authorising the searches and seizures in the following terms: “the submitted materials make it clear that it is necessary to carry out a search and seizure in [these places] with a view to finding the items set out in the application[s] ‑ relating to the forging of identity documents and others, relevant to the case which is the subject matter of the criminal proceedings.” 12.  at about 9 a.m. the following day, 14 march 2014, just as the first applicant was leaving his house, he was intercepted by three police officers, two in plain clothes and one in uniform.according to the applicants, the police did not identify themselves, roughly pinned down and handcuffed the first applicant behind his back, scared his two daughters, the third and fourth applicants, who were minors, and then searched the house in a rude and chaotic manner, without presenting the warrant authorising them to do so.according to the government, whose account was based on a statement informally obtained from one of the officers who took part in the search, the first applicant attempted to run back to the house, possibly to conceal evidence, and was only handcuffed for that reason.15.  according to the applicants, after the search the officers dragged the first applicant into the street, bent over with his hands handcuffed behind his back, in sight of many neighbours and passers-by.the officers then put the first applicant in a police car and drove to the photography studio, very close to the corner of a busy pedestrian street in the centre of plovdiv, which they searched between 11.35 a.m. and 12.30 p.m. they again refused to allow the first applicant to acquaint himself with the search warrant.the government denied this, noting that if that had indeed been the case, the first applicant would not have been able to sign the search records and produce a handwritten statement in the police station.18.  in the statement the first applicant explained, inter alia, that he used the email account in which the police were interested (see paragraphs 7 and 8 above) to exchange computer files, mostly image files, with clients of his photography studio.he stated that he agreed to provide access to the account for the needs of the investigation, so that the police could subject the messages in it relating to the turkish national to examination by an expert, and then gave his password.in his report, submitted the following day, 21 march 2014, the expert said that he had copied all the files from two of the cards and that the third card did not contain any files.21.  on 6 june 2014 the investigator asked the same expert to copy the data from the laptop computer seized in the applicants’ house to an external hard drive and to inspect the three desktop computers seized in the photography studio for the presence of software or files which could be used for the forging of documents.in his report, submitted on 18 june 2014, the expert said that he had copied 192,610 files with a total size of 333,204 megabytes from the laptop computer to an external hard drive, which he enclosed with his report, and that his inspection of the desktop computers had revealed that two of them contained software programs which could be used to edit image files, and that the third computer was defective and could not be booted up.on 20 march 2014 the prosecutor’s office partly allowed the request and ordered the return of some of the items – two cameras, two flash memory cards, and two video cameras – but only after the police had made copies of their contents.on 7 april 2014 he appealed to the plovdiv regional prosecutor’s office, complaining of the refusal of the lower prosecutor’s office to order the return of the remainder of the seized items.the remainder of the seized items were given back to the first applicant a little more than three months after the seizure, on 18 june 2014, immediately after their contents had been inspected by the expert (see paragraph 21 above).
as to the land on which the shop was built, the court observed that it was not part of the rental contract and thus its inclusion in the privatisation of the shop was a matter of discretion for the municipal authorities.following a complaint lodged by the applicant with the governor of the burgas region, the latter revoked the mayor’s order on 18 april 2000, finding that the mayor had not been competent to dispose of municipal property without a prior decision of the municipal council to that effect.following a complaint lodged by the applicant with the prosecutor, on 27 may 1999 the latter established that the buyer had acted in an abusive manner and ordered the police to assist the applicant in regaining possession of the shop.the last-instance court found in particular that the buyer had not acquired ownership of the shop and that, in any event, the applicant was protected by the privatisation act in that she could not be evicted from the shop pending the examination of her privatisation proposal.in two letters dated 5 march 2009, sent respectively to the applicant and the municipality, the privatisation agency observed that the question about the demolition of the shop had not been raised in the proceedings before the courts.22.  in the second set of proceedings the applicant sought both pecuniary and non-pecuniary damages stemming from the failure of the municipal council to decide on her privatisation request by implementing the final court judgments ordering it to offer to sell the shop to her.23.  she specified that she sought pecuniary damages in respect of: the rent she had had to pay between january 1998, when her request to privatise the shop should have been granted, and february 2006, when the shop had been demolished; those of her belongings that had been destroyed together with the shop; the loss of income resulting from the impossibility of collecting rent from a company with which she had concluded a contract on 17 january 2006 in respect of part of the shop; and the impossibility of increasing her investment by buying the plot on which the shop stood and by building upon it.24.  in addition, the applicant sought non-pecuniary damages in respect of the intense stress and emotional suffering that had led her to fall into a lasting and severe depression, which had been the result of the shop’s demolition and of the failure of the municipal council to sell it to her, despite the final judgments.26.  as to the merits, the court held that the claim for pecuniary damages was unjustified and also that there was no causal link between the municipal council’s refusal to privatise the shop and the applicant’s claims for loss of financial opportunity as a result of the impossibility of buying the land and building on it.the court held that the applicant’s suffering had been caused by the municipal council’s tacit refusal to act upon the final court judgment of 2008. the applicant had succumbed to depression, which had manifested itself in acute feelings of hopelessness and a perception that any future efforts would be futile, as well as in feelings of helplessness, insomnia, a disturbance of memory functions, and attention disorder.29.  the last-instance court further held that, as regards the first final court decision in the applicant’s favour (that of 4 november 2003) it had not created obligations on the part of primorsko municipal council, given that the respondent party required to act under that decision had been the tsarevo municipality (see paragraph 7 above).in particular, the court held – without elaborating further – that the applicant had failed to prove both the existence of actual damage and the causal link of any such damage to the municipal council’s refusal to privatise the shop by offering to sell it to her.the reason was that she had not had a valid contract with the municipality at any of the times when she had requested the latter to sell the shop to her, because the contract concluded in 1993 had expired prior to those times.36.  on the basis of the above, the supreme administrative court quashed the lower court’s judgment and dismissed the applicant’s claims in a final judgment on 3 december 2014. it also held that the applicant had to pay to the municipal council about eur 4,000 for legal costs and expenses.38.  the supreme administrative court found her request admissible but rejected it as unjustified (неоснователна) in a final decision of 2 june 2015. on 25 november 2015 the bailiff invited the applicant to voluntarily comply with the final judgment of 3 december 2014, indicating that failure to pay the sum due would result in the forced sale of items of the applicant’s personal movable and immovable property.
the hcj’s decisions were submitted to parliament or to the president of ukraine (depending on which of those authorities had appointed the applicants to the post of judge) for the final decisions on their dismissals.it rejected the applicant’s contentions that the dismissal proposal had not been based on the real facts and that the chairman of the court had been biased against him and had interfered with the applicant’s professional activity.15.  on 13 october 2009 the court suspended the proceedings pending the outcome of the proceedings concerning the lawfulness of the hcj’s decision.the hcj concluded that the facts of the case suggested that the applicant had dishonoured the judicial profession and cast doubt on his objectivity and impartiality.the hac further found that the applicant’s right to participate in the plenary session of parliament had not been respected and declared the parliamentary resolution in respect of the applicant unlawful.in that regard the hac referred to article 11 of the code of administrative justice (“the caj”) considering that it was prevented by that provision from examining the case beyond the scope of the claims.52.  on 17 may 2012 the hac rejected as unfounded the applicant’s claim against the hcj and parliament concerning her dismissal, noting in particular that the hcj decision of 1 march 2011 had been earlier reviewed by the hac.55.  the applicant instituted proceedings in the hac challenging the resolution of parliament and arguing that the conclusions of the hcj were unfounded and unlawful.63.  on 21 june 2011 the hac left the applicant’s claim against the hcj without consideration, finding that the applicant had missed the deadline for challenging the hcj decision without a valid reason.as to the proceedings in parliament, the hac found that the applicant’s right to participate in the parliamentary procedure had not been respected and declared the parliamentary resolution in respect of the applicant unlawful.the hcj noted that the applicant had on several occasions taken leave without obtaining the relevant approval from the court administration; he had failed to appear in the office without valid reasons; he had prevented his judicial assistant from performing his functions; he had refused to take cases for consideration; and he had not complied with the requirement to submit income-tax declarations.the hcj noted that the applicant had on several occasions taken leave without obtaining the relevant approval from the court administration; he had failed to appear in the office without valid reason; he had refused to take cases for consideration; he had delayed the examination of criminal cases; he had prevented his judicial assistant from performing his functions; and he had not complied with the requirement to submit income-tax declarations.the hcj noted that the applicant had on several occasions taken leave without obtaining the relevant approval from the court administration; he had failed to appear in the office without valid reason; he had refused to take cases for consideration; he had shown disrespect to the officers of the court registry; and he had not complied with the requirement to submit income-tax declarations.the hcj noted that the applicant, as a member of a panel of judges, had participated in the consideration of a criminal case and the adoption of the judgment in that case.it noted, among other things, that the hcj had repeatedly postponed the hearings due to the applicant’s failure to appear and had properly informed the applicant of the hearings.
5.  between march 1995 and july 1996 the applicant underwent outpatient treatment for overactive thyroid at the state oncology centre in lviv.she was treated by dr s. 6.  in july 1996 the applicant’s health deteriorated; she was examined at the state endocrinology centre in lviv and was diagnosed with hypothyroidism.the applicant told the doctors that her hypothyroidism resulted from the treatment with a radiopharmaceutical, j-131 (radioactive iodine), which dr s. had administered to her between march 1995 and july 1996. the doctors from the endocrinology centre recorded in the applicant’s medical file that the applicant suffered from hypothyroidism resulting from the treatment with radiopharmaceuticals.eventually, the applicant lost her thyroid and was recognized as suffering from the second highest official degree of disability.7.  on 10 october 1997, at the applicant’s request, dr s. issued her a certificate stating that throughout 1996 the applicant’s treatment included injections of a radiopharmaceutical, namely radioactive iodine j-131.dr s. did not specify the dosage or dates on which the applicant had received the injections.8.  in may and june 1998 the applicant complained to the lviv department of the ministry of health (“the department”) that the radiopharmaceuticals administered to her by dr s. had seriously damaged her health.9.  the department invited the applicant to undergo a medical examination at one of the hospitals in lviv, however she refused.the department checked the records of the oncology centre and found that they contained no data as regards the applicant’s alleged treatment with radiopharmaceuticals.that being the case, the treatment mentioned in the certificate of 10 october 1997 had been inadequate.10.  in july 1998 the applicant complained to the lviv prosecutor’s office that dr s. had treated her with j-131, that the treatment had been inadequate and that it had destroyed her thyroid.11.  in january 1999 an official investigation was launched into the applicant’s complaint which was carried out initially by the prosecutors and later by the police.in the course of the investigation the applicant, dr s. and a number of other persons were questioned.a number of decisions were taken rejecting the applicant’s complaint principally for the reason that, according to the forensic reports, it was impossible to establish the cause of the destruction of the applicant’s thyroid.the most recent decision in that regard was taken by the frankivskyy district court in lviv on 18 january 2016, by which it instructed the police to carry out further investigation in the applicant’s case, finding inter alia that the police had failed to examine all pertinent evidence and that an additional forensic examination was necessary.
in her will she left half of the apartment to the applicant’s niece and the remaining property to the applicant and his sister in equal parts.therefore invoked article 6.66 of the civil code (see paragraph 23 below) and asked the court to annul the renouncement as being contrary to the interests of the applicant’s creditors.the applicant argued that he had renounced his part of the inheritance for the benefit of his sister who had paid all the expenses of their mother’s funeral.accordingly, the court annulled the renouncement on the grounds that it violated the interests of the applicant’s creditors (see paragraph 23 below).however, the court held that there was insufficient evidence to find that the applicant had de facto accepted the inheritance and dismissed that part of the claim.12.  on 3 february 2010 the applicant received notice from the kaunas district court that the civil case and both his and d.l.’s appeals had been referred to the kaunas regional court, and he was asked to submit a reply to d.l.’s appeal within twenty days.13.  subsequently the applicant asked the kaunas regional court to proceed with the examination of the case in his absence – the applicant stated that he had presented all his arguments in his appeal and in his reply to d.l.’s appeal and had nothing else to add.the court upheld the findings of the first-instance judgment that the applicant had acted in bad faith by renouncing the inheritance while being insolvent and owing money to his creditors (see paragraph 10 above).the kaunas regional court also found that since his mother’s death the applicant had been using the car previously owned by her and on that basis the court concluded that the applicant had de facto accepted the inheritance (see paragraph 21 below).submitted that although the court in previous proceedings had acknowledged that the applicant had de facto accepted the inheritance (see paragraph 14 above), the applicant had not formally completed that acceptance and his sister had remained the official heir to their mother’s estate.asked the court to annul the applicant’s sister’s rights to one half of the inheritance and to recognise the applicant’s rights to that property.the court found that the total value of the applicant’s mother’s estate (the car and the savings) had been ltl 6,860 (approximately eur 1,987), and that the applicant’s sister had spent ltl 7,817 (approximately eur 2,264) on their mother’s funeral.on that basis, the kaunas district court held that the applicant’s sister had not inherited any property which could have been used to cover the applicant’s debt to d.l., and thus there were no legal grounds to satisfy d.l.’s claim.18.  in march 2011 the applicant submitted a complaint to the commission on judicial ethics and discipline concerning the judge of the kaunas district court who had examined the civil case (see paragraph 10 above).19.  in august 2011 the applicant petitioned the prosecutor general to investigate the actions of the judges of the kaunas district court and the kaunas regional court.
8.  the applicants, mr khamtokhu and mr aksenchik, were born in 1970 and 1985 respectively.they are currently serving life sentences in the yamalo-nenetskiy region of russia.9.  on 14 december 2000 the supreme court of the adygea republic found the first applicant guilty of multiple offences, including escape from prison, attempted murder of police officers and state officials, and illegal possession of firearms, and sentenced him to life imprisonment.10.  on 19 october 2001 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the first applicant’s conviction on appeal.11.  on 26 march 2008 the presidium of the supreme court of the russian federation quashed the appeal judgment of 19 october 2001 by way of supervisory review and remitted the matter for fresh consideration.12.  on 30 june 2008 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the first applicant’s conviction on appeal.the court reclassified some of the charges against him but the life sentence remained unchanged.13.  on 28 april 2010 the tomsk regional court found the second applicant guilty on three counts of murder and sentenced him to life imprisonment.14.  on 12 august 2010 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld that conviction on appeal.
8.  on the same day the applicant was served with an official notice that he was suspected of a breach of road traffic safety regulations which had resulted in the death of other persons (article 281 § 5 of the criminal code) and of a failure to provide assistance to persons in a life-threatening situation (article 144 of the criminal code).if i do not receive any reaction from the police chief, i believe that further efforts to improve the work of the police will be impossible and i will be ready to step down myself.” the police commissioner general told journalists that he “accepted responsibility” because “the chief is responsible for what happens in the police organisation”.it also published an article entitled “both [the police commissioner general] and [the minister of the interior] must resign”, providing comments from the leaders of the main political parties about who should take political responsibility for the accident and for the “ineffective road traffic safety policy”.in an official statement issued on the same day, the president of lithuania stated: “over the past few days the whole of lithuania has shared the pain of [the three families] who lost their children in an accident caused by a police officer.13.  many more articles in the press reported on the accident, the suspicion that the applicant had driven while being drunk, the funerals of the three children, reactions within the village, public protests in front of skuodas police station, previous traffic accidents caused by police officers, and the resignations of the minister of the interior and the police commissioner general.14.  on 29 december 2007 the applicant was charged with a breach of road traffic safety regulations while being under the influence of alcohol which resulted in the death of other persons (article 281 § 6 of the criminal code) and with a failure to provide assistance to persons in a life-threatening situation (article 144 of the criminal code).however, it was transferred to the klaipėda district court because two of the skuodas district court judges had participated in the pre-trial investigation and the chairperson of the court had previously worked with the applicant’s father.the court heard testimony from the applicant, his colleague m.k., who had been in the car with the applicant at the time of the accident, and another colleague v.j., who had been driving in a different car and had helped the applicant to leave the scene of the accident.the court held that since the applicant had deliberately hidden from the authorities during that period and had only given himself up the morning after the accident (see paragraph 7 above), he could not use the negative blood and urine tests to his advantage.a court-appointed expert examined the tyre marks at the scene of the accident, the damage done to nearby objects and the positions in which the three children had been found, and reconstructed the course of events of the accident.the court concluded that the accident had been caused by the excessive speed of the applicant’s car and not by the weather or the actions of the children.the court noted that the applicant had not shown any interest in the condition of the three children or called an ambulance but had immediately fled the scene of the accident.the court also took the applicant’s character and his behaviour during and after the accident into account: he had been under the influence of alcohol, three people had died as a result of his actions, he had fled from the scene of the accident, had not expressed any remorse, had attempted to mislead the court by providing contradictory testimony, and his actions had discredited the authority of the police.25.  in response to the applicant’s complaints concerning the lack of a fair trial, the klaipėda regional court stated that the media interest in the case had been understandable owing to its sensitive nature and that the media could not be prevented from reporting on public hearings.however, the court held that the first-instance judgment had been well-reasoned and based on reliable evidence, so there were no grounds to find that the judges had been influenced by the media or the statements of any of the officials.
5.  the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in vilnius.6.  on 5 march 2009 the applicant and his grandmother’s neighbour, 88‑year-old j.s., signed a contract on lifelong maintenance (išlaikymo iki gyvos galvos sutartis).transferred the rights to her apartment to the applicant, who undertook to take care of her until she died by providing her with food and medication, looking after her apartment, walking her dog, and providing any other necessary assistance.lodged an application with a court to terminate the contract on the grounds that the applicant had not fulfilled his obligations and had not been taking proper care of her.the applicant objected to the termination and argued that he had complied with the terms of the contract.relying on the testimony of several witnesses, on 29 january 2010 the vilnius regional court, in an oral hearing at which both the applicant and j.s.8.  the applicant appealed, arguing that he had complied with the terms of the contract and that it should therefore not have been terminated.on 11 october 2010 the court of appeal held an oral hearing at which j.s.’s lawyer was present but the applicant and his lawyer were not.according to the government, a notification letter was sent to the applicant on 21 september 2010. during the hearing the court noted that the applicant had been notified of the hearing (apie posėdį pranešta) and proceeded to examine the case in his absence.the court of appeal delivered its judgment on 22 october 2010, upholding the first-instance judgment in its entirety.9.  the applicant lodged a cassation appeal with the supreme court.he complained, inter alia, that he had not been duly notified of the hearing before the court of appeal and had thus been unable effectively to defend his interests.the applicant submitted that he had received the notification about the time and place of the hearing by standard (non-registered) post only on 14 october 2010, when he had found it in his letter box.however, on 4 november 2010 the supreme court refused to examine the applicant’s cassation appeal as raising no important legal questions.the applicant lodged two other cassation appeals, but on 6 december 2010 and 10 january 2011 the supreme court refused to examine them, citing the same grounds as previously.
7.  on 17 december 2002 the novo mesto district court, at the request of the police, issued a warrant to search the applicant’s premises on the basis of a suspicion that he had exchanged the chassis numbers of two cars in order to be able to register the second one, bought in austria, and smuggle it through the state border without paying customs duties.as it could not determine the date the debt had been incurred, it based its findings on the regulations in place on 23 may 2003, when the department for investigative matters had found that custom duties for the car had not been paid.21.  on 14 march 2005 the applicant instituted proceedings against the republic of slovenia before the ljubljana district court, claiming compensation for the pecuniary losses sustained due to the seizure of his car in the criminal proceedings.the court, basing its decision on the exclusionary rule, ordered that all the evidence collected on the basis of the unlawful seizure, including the reports and testimony of experts, should be excluded from the file.he alleged that the decisions on the unlawfulness of the search warrant and the discontinuation of the criminal proceedings had to be considered as new evidence which could influence the outcome of the proceedings.they also argued that the customs proceedings had not taken an unduly long time as they had lasted only from 27 may 2003 to 7 july 2003. the applicant argued, inter alia, that the order which had led to the seizure of the car had been unlawful and that it therefore gave rise to a liability on the part of the state for any damage resulting from it.he stated that the car that had been seized had been remodelled in his own repair shop and that he had not yet finished the remodelling or necessary paperwork by the time of the seizure.the court noted that it was not bound by the findings of the criminal court that the seizure had been unlawful, but, basing its conclusion on its own assessment, it concluded that the seizure had been ordered on the basis of gossip and newspaper article and that all the other information relating to the alleged offences had been obtained on the basis of the unwarranted seizure.however, the court found that the causal link between the unlawful seizure and the damage incurred by the applicant had been broken because the applicant would in any event have been unable to use the car for several reasons.firstly, the applicant, as a professional driver and owner of the repair shop, should have known that any remodelling of the car required a new technical inspection and registration, which the applicant had not done before the seizure.he noted that, in any case, the car had been seized while it had still been in the process of remodelling and that he had intended to register it at the end of the process.the ljubljana district court had been right in holding that the applicant would not have been able to use the car owing to the illegal importation of the car parts and the incorrect registration procedure.34.  the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law (revizija), challenging the conclusions of the court in respect of the break in the causal link and arguing that the loss had already been incurred before the issue of customs duties had arose.35.  on 17 december 2009 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law, confirming that the link in causality had been broken because the applicant had imported some of the car parts in violation of customs regulations.he argued that by virtue of the courts’ decisions, in particular their position on the causal link, his human rights, including his right to compensation under article 26 of the constitution, and the principle of the rule of law had been violated.
5.  in 1961 the applicants’ predecessors were deprived of certain land in favour of the state.6.  on 26 january 2006 the niš municipal court ordered pik niš (the debtor), a company predominantly comprised of socially-owned capital, as the end user of that land, to pay the applicants specified amounts on account of the compensation for the land in question.7.  on 25 october 2006 and 1 february 2007 respectively, upon the applicants’ request to that effect, the niš municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the applicants the enforcement costs.this judgment became both, final and enforceable by 16 august 2006.8.  only one applicant, mr tomislav đorđević, never lodged an enforcement request.9.  on 3 june 2009 the niš commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor (st. 10/09).10.  only one applicant, ms milica nikolić jajčević, duly submitted her claims therein.11.  these insolvency proceedings are still ongoing.12.  on 2 march 2009, 31 august 2009 and 9 june 2010 respectively, all applicants lodged their constitutional appeals.13.  on 17 march 2011, 4 april 2012 and 23 may 2012, respectively, the constitutional court found a violation of the right to a hearing within a reasonable time in respect of all applicants, except mr tomislav đorđević.however, the court did not award the applicants any damages, merely stating that the applicants “had not claimed non-pecuniary damages”.14.  the constitutional court dismissed the appeal in respect of one applicant, mr tomislav đorđević, since he had failed to request enforcement of the judgment in question.
her written declaration, bearing the same date and read aloud at the hospital in the presence of her doctor, the chief physician and the head of the hospital department, is worded as follows (english translation of the original russian version): “i, the undersigned... have given birth to a boy in the ... maternity hospital in moscow.on the basis of the foregoing and in accordance with section 16(5) of the federal law on civil status and article 51(4) of the family code, i hereby give my consent for the above couple to be entered in the birth record and the birth certificate as parents of the child to whom i have given birth...” 15.  in the days following the child’s birth, the first applicant moved with him into a flat in moscow, rented by her in advance.19.  in a note of 2 may 2011 – which was not filed in the proceedings before the court – the italian consulate in moscow informed the campobasso minors court, the ministry of foreign affairs and the colletorto prefecture and municipality that the paperwork in respect of the child’s birth contained false information.21.  on 5 may 2011 the prosecutor’s office opened criminal proceedings against the applicants, who were suspected of “misrepresentation of civil status” within the meaning of article 567 of the criminal code, of “use of falsified documents” within the meaning of article 489 of the criminal code and of the offence set out in section 72 of the adoption act, since they had brought the child to italy in breach of the procedure provided for by the provisions on international adoption contained therein (see paragraph 67 below).mrs paradiso stated that the woman who had given birth to the child had waived her rights to him and had consented to him being referred to on the birth certificate, drawn up in russia, as the son of mr campanelli and mrs paradiso (a copy of the informed consent, given on 27 february 2011 by the woman who gave birth to the child, is on file in these proceedings).mr campanelli and mrs paradiso requested primarily that the court award them temporary care of the child with a view to subsequent adoption; in the alternative, they requested the suspension of these proceedings pending the criminal classification of the offences, and the suspension of the above-mentioned criminal proceedings against them and of the proceedings before the campobasso court of appeal to challenge the refusal to register the child’s birth certificate; again in the alternative, they requested the suspension of these proceedings under section 14 of law no.indeed, in order to be able to talk of gestational or traditional surrogacy (in the latter, the surrogate mother makes her own ovules available) there must be a biological link between the child and at least one of the two intended parents (in this specific case, mr campanelli and mrs paradiso), a biological link which, as has been seen, is non-existent.” in the court’s view, the applicants had thus placed themselves in an unlawful situation: “it follows that by bringing a baby to italy, passing him off as their own son, in blatant infringement of the provisions of our legislation (law no.184/1983), which are not within the jurisdiction of this court, it is noted that the agreement entered into between mrs paradiso and the company rosjurconsulting had unlawful elements since, given the terms of the agreement (the delivery of mr campanelli’s genetic material for the fertilisation of another woman’s ovules), it was in breach of the ban on the use of assisted reproductive technology (a.r.t.)184/1983, which provide not only that the intended adoptive parents must apply to an authorised body (section 31) but also for the involvement of the commission for inter-country adoption (section 38), the only body competent to authorise entry and permanent residence of a foreign child in italy (section 32).” the court therefore found it necessary, first and foremost, to put an end to this unlawful situation: “it is therefore necessary, above all, to prevent this unlawful situation from continuing, since to maintain it would be equivalent to ratifying unlawful conduct in open violation of the provisions of our legislation.it is also pointed out that the fact that mr campanelli and mrs paradiso (and in particular mrs paradiso) have put up with the hardships and the difficulties of a.r.t (mrs paradiso has also stated that during one of these interventions her life was at risk) and have preferred, despite being in possession of an approval for inter-country adoption, to circumvent italian legislation on this subject gives rise to the doubt and the fear that the minor child may be an instrument to fulfil a narcissistic desire of mr campanelli and mrs paradiso or to exorcise an individual or joint problem.in the court of appeal’s opinion, it was not appropriate to await the outcome of the criminal trial or of the proceedings brought by the applicants to challenge the refusal to enter the particulars of the birth certificate in the register.in particular, the court noted the following facts: the first applicant had spread a rumour that she was pregnant; she had gone to the italian consulate in moscow and implied that she was the natural mother; she had subsequently admitted that the child had been born to a surrogate mother; she had stated to the carabinieri on 25 may 2011 that the second applicant was the biological father, which had been disproved by the dna tests; she had thus made false statements; she had been very vague as to the identity of the genetic mother; the documents concerning the surrogate motherhood stated that the two applicants had been seen by the russian doctors, which did not correspond to the fact that the second applicant had not travelled to russia; the documents relating to the birth did not give any precise date.45.  in november 2012 the public prosecutor transmitted the decision regarding the preventive seizure to the minors court and indicated that a conviction under section 72 of the adoption act would deprive the applicants of the possibility of fostering (affido) the child and of adopting him or other minors.by way of introduction, the court of appeal dismissed the objection raised by the guardian to the effect that the applicants did not have standing to bring an action before that court; it acknowledged that the applicants had standing to bring proceedings in that they were referred to as the “parents” in the birth certificate that they wished to have entered in the civil-status register.in the court of appeal’s view, given that there was nothing to show that the child had russian citizenship, the applicants’ argument that italian law was inapplicable ran counter to section 33 of the private international law act, which stated that the legal parent-child relationship was determined by the national law governing the child at the time of his or her birth.
9.  according to the applicant, he was arrested again on 14 september 2001. however, the arrest report refers to 15 september 2001. on 18 september 2001 the kirovsky district court of donetsk (hereafter “the district court”) extended the applicant’s arrest until 25 september 2001. on the latter date the district court ordered the applicant’s detention on remand.13.  according to the applicant, the decisive evidence against him, namely the aforementioned bloodstained shirt and the hoe, which was believed to be the murder weapon, were not sealed during the investigation, as required by the relevant rules of procedure, and were later replaced with other items more consistent with the charges against him and consequently more incriminating.18.  on 9 december 2002, in the course of the applicant’s study of the case file, which at the material time consisted of two volumes, the district court found that the applicant was abusing this right by requesting simultaneous familiarisation with the court minutes and the audio and video recordings, and challenging the lawfulness of the minutes of the court hearings and how the case file was processed.according to the applicant, he was not provided with access to the audio and video records of the court hearings, some of the documents in the case file (for instance, minutes of the court hearings) were drafted in an improper manner (in his view he was not provided with the final version of court minutes but only with a draft version) in illegible handwriting, the case file was improperly processed, etc.20.  the applicant and his lawyer appealed against the judgment of 10 september 2002, challenging the conclusions of the forensic examinations and the testimonies of a number of witnesses, and alleging procedural shortcomings in the investigation and the trial.21.  on 11 july 2003 the donetsk regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”), pointing out a number of the inferior court’s shortcomings (for example, failure to establish how d.’s injuries had been caused and how the blood stain had appeared on the applicant’s shirt, failure to address the applicant’s version of events, etc.26.  according to the applicant, at several points during the trial and re‑trial he requested the summoning of certain witnesses (in particular, c., the investigator; an unidentified policeman who on 24 august 2001 escorted the applicant to the police station; a., the policeman in whose office on 25 august 2001 his bloodstained shirt had allegedly been produced; s., the policeman who signed the protocol on the examination and seizure of the aforementioned evidence), but to no avail.in convicting the applicant, the court took into account: (a)  the eye-witness testimonies to the fight between the applicant and d. on the morning of 23 august 2001. these stated that d. had sustained no injuries from the fight and that the applicant and d. had had these types of conflicts before; (b)  medical evidence of injuries on the applicant’s body.the court referred to the reports of 25 and 29 august 2001 stating that, according to them, the applicant’s injuries had been caused on “23-24 august 2001” and noted that, according to the applicant’s own explanation to the medical expert, these injuries had been caused by the fight with d. (see paragraph 40 below); (c)  the testimonies of those who discovered d.’s body; (d)  the testimonies by the applicant’s colleagues, according to which the hoe had been at their workplace on 23 august 2001, before the murder, but could no longer be found there on 24 august 2001, after the murder; (e)  the statement by l., the police officer who interrogated the applicant in august 2001, that the applicant had pleaded guilty but refused to confirm his confession in writing; (f)  the forensic cytological examination report of 7 september 2001 according to which the blood stain on the applicant’s shirt “could be from any person, including d.” and was not identified as being the applicant’s blood; (g)  the post-mortem examination report of 15 september 2001 according to which the injuries to d. could have been caused either by a blunt instrument or by a hoe; (h)  the forensic expert report of 9 october 2001 concluding that it was not possible to establish the features of the instrument with which d. was attacked but “the probability that the injuries to d. [had been] caused by the hoe under examination [could] not be excluded”; (i)  the additional forensic expert report of 9 july 2004 stating that blood would not have gushed out of d.’s injuries during the assault but could have spattered onto surrounding objects.in another special ruling given on the same day, the court informed the head of police of its subordinates’ failure to bring the applicant to the courthouse for the hearings scheduled for 9 march, 28 and 29 july and 2 august 2004 notwithstanding the court’s requests; such a failure, according to the court, had delayed the examination of the applicant’s case.37.  the text of the appellate court’s decision states that the hearing was held in the presence of the applicant and the prosecutor; no indication of the applicant’s lawyer’s presence at the hearing can be found.the report contains a typed statement by the expert to the effect that during the examination the applicant had said that he had sustained the injuries in the course of the fight with the victim.42.  according to the government, the applicant had not complained to the prosecutor of ill-treatment by the police and the investigator until 15 december 2001. in his description of ill-treatment the applicant stated that on 24 august 2001 l. had exerted pressure under the applicant’s ear with his finger, had slapped him with the palm of his hand on his forehead and had hit him on the nose with a passport; at the same time another police officer had pushed the applicant in the back with his hand, and had punched him below the knee and on his head.in particular, in reaching her conclusions in the latter decision the prosecutor took into account: -  the conclusions in the forensic report of 25 august 2001 (see paragraph 40 above), namely that the injuries had been caused before the applicant first came into contact with the police; -  the report of 12 june 2002 from the itt (the police detention facility) that in the period from 15 to 18 september 2001 no bodily injuries had been found on the applicant; -  the report of 29 december 2001 from the sizo (the remand prison), according to which the applicant did not complain and had no bodily injuries upon arrival; -  the explanations offered by the police officers and the investigator against whose actions the applicant had complained.48.  on 9 december 2005, having examined the applicant’s appeal against the judgment of 2 august 2004, the court of appeal remitted the case to the district court and ordered the local prosecutor’s office to hold an inquiry into the applicant’s complaints of alleged ill-treatment in the course of the pre-trial investigation.
9.  in 1998 the jurmala municipality land commission divided the property into two plots on the grounds that no one had requested the restoration of property rights to the land previously owned by m.g.349, which retained one of the plots (hereinafter “the contested property”) as state property, transferred it to the ministry of finance, and obliged the ministry to register it in the land register (see paragraph 41 below).14.  meanwhile, on 21 march 2001 the state real estate agency informed the prosecutor general that, in its opinion, the judgment of 2 february 2001 had infringed the interests of the state and was unlawful.the objection was based on the grounds that the jurmala city court had wrongly applied the land reform legislation, that it had not been competent to hear the case and that it had not taken into consideration the important evidence of order no.16.  on 1 august 2001, the senate of the supreme court upheld the prosecutor general’s objection, quashed the judgment of the jurmala city court and ordered a new adjudication of the case.the senate agreed in substance with the prosecutor general’s assessment that the jurmala city court had erred in choosing the applicable substantive law and that it had overstepped the limits of its competence.the claimant asked that the purchase agreement signed by the defendants be declared null and void ab initio, and that the rights of the state to the contested property be recognised.the senate further indicated that the appellate court had failed to adequately substantiate its finding that the state rather than the applicant was to be declared the owner of the contested property.and the applicant, to annul the registration of v.p.e.’s and the applicant’s property rights in the land register, and to recognise the state’s property rights.28.  after the applicant submitted an appeal on points of law, the senate of the supreme court on 3 march 2004 quashed the supreme court’s judgment of 12 november 2003 and remitted the case to that court.the senate noted, inter alia, that the appellate court had ignored the applicant’s argument that it was necessary to decide on a reversal of the execution of the judgment of the jurmala city court.it upheld the ministry of finance’s application to recognise the state’s ownership rights over the contested property and to delete the entry in the jurmala land register on the applicant’s title.the supreme court noted that the applicant had obtained the property unlawfully (prettiesiski) because the jurmala city court had exceeded the limits of its competence when adopting the judgment of 2 february 2001. the ministry of finance, being the lawful owner of the contested property, could file a property claim against any person who had taken possession of its property.the supreme court considered that in those circumstances there was no need to address the applicant’s arguments concerning the alleged need to rule on reversing the execution of the jurmala city court’s judgment.32.  on 25 august 2005 a land register judge rectified the data and entered the judgment of 23 march 2005 as the basis of the ministry of finance’s title to the contested property.
in particular, as was apparent from the information retained on the applicant’s personnel file, in 1981 he had been declared unfit for military service in peacetime in accordance with article 5b of the then applicable 1973 diseases and handicaps schedule issued by the ministry of defence of the union of soviet socialist republics (“the ussr”).in view of the above and with regard being had to the reasons for the applicant’s dispensation from military service, in b.’s view the management had been correct in refusing the applicant’s application for promotion.14.  on 17 august 2000 the court rejected the applicant’s claim, having found that promotion of employees was within the employer’s discretion and there was no legal basis for obliging the defendant company to arrange the applicant’s promotion by way of court proceedings in a situation such as that of the applicant.he alleged, in particular, that the defendant company had had no right to enquire of the enlistment office in 1997 about the grounds for his dispensation, to use this information in deciding on his promotion and to disseminate it to his direct supervisor and other colleagues, as well as to communicate it to the court in the framework of the civil dispute.the trial court should have established whether it had been lawful to collect and use the applicant’s psychiatric health data in the manner and in the context in which it had been used; what the purpose of its processing had been and whether it had been justified, regard being had, in particular, to the fact that the data pertained to 1981. the court also noted that section 46 of the information act expressly restricted dissemination of confidential medical information.23.  in may 2002 the applicant further amended his claim, alleging that the defendant company had processed his health data in breach of: article 32 of the constitution of ukraine; sections 23 and 46 of the information act; section 40 of the legislative guidelines concerning protection of health in ukraine (“the health protection guidelines”); and sections 3 and 6 of the psychiatric assistance act.24.  on 17 may 2002 the central district court rejected the applicant’s claim, having requalified it in law as falling within the ambit of article 7 of the civil code of ukraine of 1963 as in force at the material time and found that the defendant company could not be held liable under that provision for having disseminated defamatory statements.25.  on 19 february 2003 the court of appeal of the arc (formerly the supreme court of the arc; hereinafter “the court of appeal”) quashed this judgment and remitted the case for a fresh consideration.it noted, in particular, that the central district court had arbitrarily requalified the applicant’s claims as falling within the ambit of article 7 of the civil code rather than addressing his arguments concerning the breach of the legal provisions to which he had referred.26.  on 23 july 2003 the central district court took a fresh decision rejecting the applicant’s claims, referring, again, to article 7 of the civil code and having found that there was nothing unlawful either in tavrida’s or its director’s personal conduct with respect to the processing of the disputed information.without referring to any legal provisions, the court noted that the director had been authorised to know the reasons for the applicant’s dispensation from military service, as this information had been a part of the personnel record compiled and kept by employers in the ordinary course of business.he further noted that in any event the court had had the authority to summon the proper defendants in the case, rather than dismissing it, and that both the trial and the appeal courts had never considered his main arguments on the merits.the communication of the relevant information by the human resources officer to the company director in connection with deciding on the applicant’s promotion had also been justified, because managers had been entitled to be apprised of their employees’ health, such information being necessary for ensuring a safe working environment.the defendants had obtained access to the disputed information in accordance with the law and processed it for the sole purpose of deciding on the applicant’s promotion; this processing had been carried out in good faith and so had not been unlawful.33.  the applicant appealed against this decision, alleging, inter alia, that using (in 1997 and 2000) the information concerning the reasons for his dispensation from military service in 1981 with a view to deciding on his promotion had been excessive; that the relevant information had been outdated, incomplete and impertinent; and that should his employer have wanted to check his health status, it should have referred him to a specialised medical commission.
5.  the applicant was born in 1962 and is detained in baku.6.  on 9 june 2008 the assize court (ağır cinayətlər məhkəməsi – hereinafter “the assize court”), sitting as a court of first instance for serious offences, convicted the applicant and his wife of fraud.the applicant was sentenced to nine years’ imprisonment with confiscation of property, and his wife to seven years’ imprisonment, suspended for five years on probation.7.  on 23 january 2009 the baku court of appeal (bakı apellyasiya məhkəməsi – hereinafter “the court of appeal”) overturned the judgment of 9 june 2008, reducing the applicant’s term of imprisonment to seven years and lifting the confiscation of property sanction.8.  the applicant lodged a cassation appeal with the supreme court (ali məhkəmə – hereinafter “the supreme court”).the prosecutor lodged a cassation protest in respect of the judgment of 23 january 2009 with the supreme court, requesting that it be set aside and the case remitted to the court of appeal.9.  the supreme court scheduled the first hearing for 10 june 2009 but adjourned the proceedings until 24 june 2009 at the request of the applicant’s lawyer who pleaded that he had not enough time to familiarise himself with the case-file and collect further evidence.10.  at the hearing of 24 june 2009 the applicant’s lawyer requested another adjournment referring to health problems and lack of time for familiarisation with the case-file.the supreme court scheduled the next hearing for 1 july 2009. according to the minutes of the hearing of 24 june 2009 provided by the government, the applicant’s lawyer was present when the court declared that his request had been granted and that the proceedings were adjourned until 1 july 2009.11.  on 1 july 2009, having examined the case in the absence of the applicant and his lawyer but in the presence of the prosecutor, the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and accepted the prosecutor’s application for supervisory review in part.the prosecutor made oral submissions during the hearing, seeking the dismissal of the applicant’s appeal.12.  the supreme court upheld the court of appeal’s judgment as regards the applicant’s conviction, but quashed his wife’s conviction, remitting that part of the case to the court of appeal for fresh examination.the supreme court found that proof of the applicant’s guilt had been duly established during the trial in the first-instance court and the court of appeal and that his actions had been properly classified under criminal law.citing article 419.4 of the code of criminal procedure, the supreme court’s decision stated that the examination of the case was possible in the absence of the applicant and his lawyer given that the lawyer had failed to appear despite having been duly notified and the applicant, who was serving his prison sentence, had made no request to attend.
7.  during the 1990s the applicant was a member of the liberation tigers of tamil eelam (“the ltte”) and participated in armed resistance against the sri lankan government.the applicant emphasised that, as a member of the ltte, he had participated in armed resistance against the government of sri lanka and had been ill-treated in detention.11.  in a decision taken on 1 june 2011, the federal migration office (“the fmo” – now the state secretariat for migration) held that the applicant and his wife did not fulfil the criteria necessary to obtain refugee status because they had failed to present sufficient evidence in support of their claim.13.  on 5 july 2011 the applicant and his wife appealed against the fmo’s decision to the federal administrative court, requesting that it annul the deportation order according to which the authorities of the canton of st gallen had to deport them no later than 27 july 2011, by force if necessary (pursuant to points 3, 4, and 5 of the operative part of the fmo’s decision of 1 june 2011).however, the applicant did not challenge the fmo’s decision refusing to grant him asylum or to recognise him as a refugee (points 1 and 2 of the operative part of the fmo’s decision of 1 june 2011).the court held that the fmo had violated the applicant’s right to be heard by refusing to grant him and his wife access to certain documents in its possession, namely a country report of 22 december 2011 on the conditions in sri lanka, which had been established during an official mission of the fmo in september 2010. nevertheless, since the fmo had provided the parties with access to these documents at a later date, the federal administrative court concluded that the original violation had been remedied.in particular, weighing the preponderance of the evidence (mit beachtlicher wahrscheinlichkeit), it held that neither the applicant’s submissions nor the official file indicated that he or his wife would be subjected to treatment contrary to article 3 of the convention if they returned to sri lanka.19.   on 6 december 2013 a representative of the swiss embassy and a senior protection officer of the unhcr visited the applicant in the prison governor’s office.24.  in his application to the court, the applicant pointed out that in a parallel case another tamil, mr y, had been deported from switzerland to sri lanka on 25 july 2013, that is to say almost a month before the applicant’s own deportation.25.  furthermore, on 2 august 2013 y’s lawyer had written to the swiss minister of justice and to the director of the migration office asking that all deportations of tamils to sri lanka be suspended.26.  the director of the fmo commissioned an external investigation into the expulsions of the applicant and y. the report delivered by prof. w. kälin on 23 february 2014 concluded that, due to a combination of several shortcomings of the swiss authorities, the individual risk of ill‑treatment of the two tamils in sri lanka had not been properly assessed.27.  in addition, the unhcr also carried out an assessment of the decision-making process of the fmo in the applicant’s case and identified a number of shortcomings.these consisted of, in particular, the prolonged lapse of time between the asylum application (may 2009) and the execution of the deportation order (august 2013); the fact that the situation in sri lanka had changed considerably after the end of the civil war in 2009; the involvement of several fmo employees in different phases of the decision-making process throughout an extended period of time; the fact that the applicant’s hearing had been partly held in a superficial manner and that the authorities had not conducted additional investigations.29.  on 10 december 2013 the fmo adopted an internal report on the arrest of the applicant by the sri lankan authorities.31.  subsequently, the fmo analysed the situation in sri lanka in the light of the results of its missions to that country, the case-law of international courts, the practices of other countries and the reports of international organisations.
24.  on 18 june 2014 the investigation department of the uzbek ministry of the interior informed the applicant’s father that the applicant had been arrested and placed in custody on 17 june 2014. on 25 june 2015 the applicant’s representative forwarded a copy of the notification to the court.the statement read, in particular: “as follows from the document of the call for urgent action published by amnesty international on 6 november 2014, after the forced return to uzbekistan, mr khamidkariyev was subjected to torture and other kinds of proscribed treatment and punishment for two months with a view to obtaining a confession to made-up charges – he was tied head down to a bar attached to a wall and beaten, as a result of which he had seven teeth knocked out and two ribs broken.” 50.  on 2 december 2014 the moscow city court examined the appeal lodged by the moscow fms against the judgment of 12 may 2014, quashed the judgment and upheld the moscow fms’s decision of 8 november 2013 owing to the fact that the applicant had not provided “convincing and irrefutable evidence of the existence of well-founded fears of becoming a victim of persecution in uzbekistan”.52.  by a letter of 1 july 2014 in reply to the court’s request for information of 10 june 2014, made at the same time as the indication of the interim measures (see paragraph 4 above), the government informed the court that “the relevant state bodies have been informed about the disappearance of the applicant and the indication by the court of the interim measures under rule 39 of the rules of court”.54.  the government also stated that on 10 june 2014 the basmannyy district department of the interior (“the basmannyy police”) had received a complaint about the applicant’s kidnapping from mr t. and that on 19 june 2014 a case file with the preliminary inquiry conducted on the basis of that complaint had been forwarded to the basmannyy district investigative unit of the moscow investigative department of the investigative committee of the russian prosecutor’s office (“the investigative authority”) “for further enquiry and the possible initiation of a criminal case”.68.  on 26 february 2015 the government, in reply to the applicant’s observations on the admissibility and merits of the application, submitted that they reaffirmed the position stated in their observations of 24 october 2014 and commented on the applicant’s just satisfaction claims.70.  following the court’s additional question to the government regarding the respondent state’s compliance with article 38 of the convention (see paragraph 6 above), the government submitted a letter which read as follows: “with reference to your letter of 24 april 2015 in respect of the above application, please find enclosed copies of the criminal investigation documents disclosed by the investigative authorities after a repeated request.7/2 at bolshoy kharitonyevskiy lane in moscow, in which mr khamidkariyev was travelling, and, having got in the said car against the will of the victim, kidnapped mr khamidkariyev, fleeing the scene of the crime in the said car to an unknown destination.” 78.  on 11 september 2014 the investigative authority requested the transport police to inform them whether any aeroplane or railway tickets had been issued in the applicant’s name between 1 june and 1 august 2014.815447. the decision stated that the applicant’s whereabouts had been established as he had been detained in a remand prison in tashkent, the scene of the incident had been inspected, seven witnesses had been questioned, various requests had been sent to the russian authorities and a request for mutual legal assistance had been sent to uzbekistan, but no reply had been received.81.  on 29 april 2015 the investigator’s superior at the investigative authority overruled the decision of 25 april 2015 to suspend the case and returned it to the investigator on the grounds that the suspension decision had been taken prematurely.89.  according to a russian translation of a document in uzbek of 10 february 2015 an investigator, k., at the ministry of the interior of uzbekistan asked the state customs committee of uzbekistan to provide information on “the facts of crossing the state border of uzbekistan” by the applicant between 1 june and 1 july 2014. a russian translation of the reply in uzbek by the state customs committee of uzbekistan of 12 february 2015 stated that there was no information in the customs’ database on the applicant crossing the uzbek border between 1 june and 1 july 2014. it was noted that the database was compiled on the basis of written statements by those crossing borders and could thus contain errors owing to differences in people’s handwriting.the answer to the question about the circumstances of the applicant’s arrest reads as follows: “on 14 june 2014 at about 7.30 a.m. in the yakkasarayskiy district of tashkent mr khamidkariyev was stopped with a view to checking his identity documents, however, given that he had no documents on him, the latter was taken to the yakkasarayskiy district department of the interior of tashkent, where it was established that mr khamidkariyev was wanted, accordingly, mr khamidkariyev was taken to the initiator of the search for him in the temporary detention facility of the ministry of the interior of uzbekistan, where the requisite documents were filled in.” 93.  on an unspecified date k. drew up a report on the actions performed under the request for mutual legal assistance.2 and 6) ... torture 13. the committee remains concerned that the definition of torture contained in the criminal legislation, including article 235 of the criminal code, does not meet the requirements of article 7 of the covenant, as it is limited to illegal acts committed with the purpose of coercing testimony and therefore in practice is restricted to acts of torture committed only by a person carrying out an initial inquiry or pretrial investigation, a procurator or other employee of a law-enforcement agency, and results in impunity for other persons, including detainees and prisoners.2 and 7) ... 14. the committee remains concerned about reports that torture continues to be routinely used throughout the criminal justice system; that, despite the existing legal prohibition, forced confessions are in practice used as evidence in court, and that judges fail to order investigations into allegations of forced confessions even when signs of torture are visible; that persons complaining of torture are subjected to reprisals and family members are often intimidated and threatened to ensure that complaints are retracted; and that the rate of prosecution is very low and impunity is prevalent (arts.2, 7 and 14) ... liberty and security of person 15. the committee remains concerned that the state party retains the 72-hour period of detention of persons suspected of having committed an offence before bringing them before a judge, and therefore welcomes the state party’s statement that the length of custody may be reduced to 48 hours in the future.it is also concerned about deficiencies in the application of the legislation governing judicial control of detention (habeas corpus) in practice, particularly allegations of: (a) forging the time or date of detention to circumvent the legal period of detention: (b) habeas corpus hearings in the absence of the detainee, especially in politically-related cases; (c) violations of the right of detainees to a lawyer, including to a lawyer of their choice, and deficient legal representation provided by state-appointed defence lawyers (arts.
5.  the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in syktyvkar, the komi republic.he is a musician and a jazz critic.6.  on 31 december 2007 the applicant published an article on his personal website about a local jazz festival and its president, mr y. the article contained a detailed description of the event and scathing criticism of mr y. using various derivatives of mr y.’s surname, the article mocked his professional qualities.the jazz festival was described as being “a shoddy piece of work” and mr y.’s delivery “crappy”.7.  mr y. sued the applicant in defamation, arguing that the article was insulting and harmful to his reputation.8.  on 14 august 2008 the syktyvkar town court found the applicant liable in defamation.the judgment consisted of the text of the article, a summary of the relevant domestic law, a two-page reproduction of the extracts from the article which had been mentioned in the statement of claim and two paragraphs of conclusions.they stated: “using a distorted form of the plaintiff’s patronymic and last name ... breaches the plaintiff’s right to a name and to a good name, which is unacceptable under the law.since the defendant committed a breach of the plaintiff’s intangible assets by way of distorting his patronymic and last name in a negative way, the latter shall have the right to compensation in accordance with article 152 of the civil code.[the contested extracts] undermine the honour and dignity of the plaintiff as a person, pedagogue and musician because they contain negative information about the plaintiff presented in an affirmative form.pursuant to article 152 § 1 of the civil code, the burden to prove the truth of the allegations is on the defendant, who did not submit any evidence to the court showing that the impugned statements were true.” the town court awarded the plaintiff 5,000 russian roubles (rub) in damages and directed the applicant to publish a retraction on his website.9.  on 23 october 2008 the supreme court of the komi republic dismissed an appeal by the applicant.it endorsed the findings of the lower court in a summary judgment.it held that article 10 of the convention had not been breached because “the defendant published statements on the internet which undermined the honour and dignity of the plaintiff as a person, pedagogue and musician and which contained negative information about him”.
according to the authorities, the applicant had added a handwritten note to the record which said, “we want counsel to be present during the compiling of the offence record”, and modified the date on which a copy of the record had been handed over to the defence.it was mentioned in the interview record that the applicant was (temporarily) residing in shagarovka village; the address on vokzalnaya street was mentioned as his official residence; the record also contained a note of the telephone number provided by the applicant.16.  on 27 september 2005 the investigator issued a decision, under article 113 of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccrp”) (see paragraph 50 below), ordering that the applicant be brought before her on 3 october 2005 at 10 a.m. it was noted that the applicant resided at his mother’s address and had previously failed to comply with summonses.the applicant was informed that his name was on the list of wanted persons and that he was to follow the police officer in order to be taken before the investigator with a view to enforcing the decision of 21 october 2005.it held as follows: “the court dismissed as having no legal basis [the applicant’s] allegation that the circumstances of the case required the drawing up of an arrest record under article 92 of the ccrp.[the applicant] was present in the police station and the department of the interior offices for two and a half hours to clarify some details relating to the investigation of the criminal case and to take a decision concerning the pending request regarding [the applicant’s] whereabouts.under article 5 of the ccrp, arrest is defined as a measure of procedural compulsion used by an enquiring or investigating officer for a period not exceeding forty-eight hours after the actual taking of the person into custody on suspicion of a criminal offence ... [the arresting officer] was a law-enforcement officer and thus the court has no doubts that his actions concerning [the applicant’s] escorting to the police station and then to the department of the interior were within the scope of his functional responsibilities.” 23.  the applicant appealed, arguing as follows.while agreeing with the court that the situation did not fall within the ambit of “escorting” under article 113 of the ccrp, he insisted that the court, in substance, had denied the fact of his “deprivation of liberty” and had failed to cite another applicable statutory basis for it.the police had acted on the basis of the investigator’s decision, the enforcement of which required [the applicant’s] escorting to the police.thus, the police’s actions could not be declared unlawful ... [the applicant] was kept in the police station and before the investigator for less than three hours, which means that he was not ‘arrested’ [or] ‘detained’ within the meaning of article 92 of the ccrp.” 25.  on an unspecified date in february or march 2006, the investigation was suspended.thus, he ordered that the applicant be brought before him on 25 december 2006 at 3 p.m. 36.  on 25 december 2006 the police arrived at the applicant’s office at around 2.45 p.m. and compelled him to follow them to the police station instead of the investigations department, which was situated elsewhere.at the police station, the applicant was locked in a room and then provided with a copy of the order of 22 december 2006. the applicant was again informed, in the presence of counsel, of his rights and the decision to carry out a forensic examination.it is unclear whether the applicant left the police station at 5 or 7 p.m. 37.  according to the government (who referred to the police station’s logbook), the applicant was kept in the police station without being locked up between 3 and 4 p.m. and was then taken before the investigator.before the beginning of the search [the applicant] made no request for counsel while having had access to the search order ... under [articles 38 and 182 of the ccrp] it is within the investigator’s purview to decide whether a search is opportune and, if so, to issue the relevant order, except for a search of residential premises.it is also up to the investigator to decide which documents or other evidence are important for the case ... [the applicant’s] allegation that the office ... was his ‘abode’ is unsubstantiated, within the meaning of article 139 of the ccrp ... thus there was no legal requirement to obtain a court order for the search.” 46.  on 29 november 2006, following an appeal by the applicant, the belgorod regional court upheld the judgment, endorsing its reasoning.
8.  on 4 may 2013 the oktyabrskiy district court of krasnoyarsk (“the district court”) remanded the applicant in custody.9.  on 11 june and 11 november 2013, and 14 february 2014 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 30 november 2013, 28 february and 28 may 2014 respectively.10.  on 4 april 2014 the district court convicted the applicant of robbery and sentenced him to three years and six months’ imprisonment.11.  during the hearings before the district court on 11 june, 26 july, 1 october, and 11 november 2013, and 14 february, 14, 21 and 27 march, and 2, 3 and 4 april 2014 the applicant was held in a metal cage.13.  on 30 june 2011 the novocheboksarsk town court of the chuvash republic convicted the applicant of embezzlement and the illegal acquisition, storage, transfer, transportation and possession of firearms and sentenced him to four years’ imprisonment.14.  on 11 february 2013 the leninskiy district court of cheboksary (“the district court”) convicted the applicant of fraud committed through abuse of position and sentenced him to a fine.15.  on 1 august 2013 the supreme court of the chuvash republic reduced the applicant’s fine.16.  however, on 18 october 2013 the presidium of the supreme court of the chuvash republic granted a cassation appeal lodged by the prosecutor of the chuvash republic and quashed the judgment of 11 february 2013 and the appeal decision of 1 august 2013. the case was remitted to the district court for fresh examination.17.  on 29 april 2014 the district court convicted the applicant on nine counts of fraud, acquitted him of a further four counts of fraud and sentenced him to seven years’ imprisonment, taking into account the fact that the applicant had not fully served the sentence imposed on him on 30 june 2011.18.  on 25 june 2014 the supreme court of the chuvash republic reclassified the nine counts of fraud on which the applicant had been convicted and sentenced him to seven years’ imprisonment.as regards the four counts of fraud of which the applicant had been acquitted, the supreme court quashed the judgment on appeal and remitted the case for fresh examination.19.  during the proceedings before the district court and the supreme court of the chuvash republic the applicant was confined in a metal cage.21.  on 17 september 2014 the cherepovets town court of the vologda region (“the town court”) remanded the applicant in custody.23.  on 12 december 2014 the town court convicted the applicant of inflicting grievous bodily harm and sentenced him to three years’ imprisonment.24.  the applicant was confined in a metal cage when the custodial measure was applied to him, when it was subsequently extended and during the trial.
7.  on 6 february and 4 march 2009 the applicant entered croatia from montenegro and deposited – on each occasion – the sum of eur 90,000 with a commercial bank in dubrovnik, without declaring these amounts to the custom authorities.8.  on 2 june 2009 the money laundering prevention office (ured za sprječavanje pranja novca) informed the financial inspectorate of the ministry of finance (ministarstvo financija, financijski inspektorat, hereinafter “the ministry”) that on 30 march 2009 the applicant had ordered a transfer of eur 95,000 from his bank account to the account of a certain mr s.k.9.  on the same day, 2 june 2009, administrative offence proceedings (prekršajni postupak) were instituted against the applicant before the administrative offences council (vijeće za prekršajni postupak) of the ministry for his failure to declare the sum of eur 180,000 while entering croatia, an administrative offence as defined in section 40(1) of the foreign currency act and section 74 of the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism act (see paragraphs 16-17 below).on the same day the administrative offences council ordered the bank to transfer eur 180,000 from the applicant’s account to the ministry’s account, to be kept there until the conclusion of the administrative offence proceedings.in his defence, the applicant explained that he had sold business premises in montenegro, and that he had intended to use the money gained from that sale to purchase a flat in podgorica (montenegro) from a croatian national, s.k., who had insisted that the money be paid to him from a croatian bank account.the applicant provided a written copy of the contract of sale in respect of his business premises dated 25 december 2007, and a preliminary agreement relating to the purchase of the flat in podgorica dated 18 march 2009.in particular, while the applicant had indeed submitted a preliminary agreement relating to the purchase of a flat in podgorica which had been concluded between himself and s.k., that agreement had been concluded two weeks after the commission of the offence, and the sale price indicated in it (eur 125,000) did not correspond to the amount he had brought into croatia.the administrative offences council also held that its decision to apply the protective measure was influenced by the fact that the applicant had been unable to provide sufficient evidence to justify his earlier money transfers to accounts in tunisia and jordan belonging to s.k.and s.k.’s wife, totalling eur 882,900 in the period between 2005 and 2008, and the fact that he had stated that he had opened a non-resident’s account in his name in order to do a favour to s.k., namely in order to transfer money from the sale of s.k.’s wife’s house, deposited on his account, to s.k.’s wife’s accounts.with respect to the scope of the confiscation and the amount of the fine, the administrative offences council held as follows: “with this type of administrative offence, what is important for the purposes of ordering a protective measure is whether the statements of the accused can be supported by relevant documents.if, in terms of amounts and dates, there is no link between the transfers whereby the accused acquired the funds and the business transactions for which those funds were intended, or if [those transfers] do not have a basis in lawful transactions, the administrative offences council cannot apply section 69(4) of the foreign currency act, which allows that, in particularly justified situations where special mitigating circumstances exist, the authority adjudicating on the administrative offence may decide not to confiscate or confiscate only in part the cash that was the object of the offence.earlier transfers from [the applicant’s] account and the motives for opening that non-resident’s account also influenced the decision to impose the protective measure ... in determining the amount of the fine the [administrative offences] council took into account [the applicant’s] admission of guilt and the absence of a criminal record as mitigating circumstances, and the value of the object of the administrative offence as an aggravating circumstance.[therefore] it imposed a fine which corresponds to the gravity of the offence.” 12.  the applicant appealed by arguing, inter alia, that the imposition of the protective measure of confiscation was disproportionate in the circumstances and therefore contrary to article 1 of protocol no.13.  by a decision of 23 december 2009 the high court for administrative offences (visoki prekršajni sud republike hrvatske) dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the administrative offences council’s decision, endorsing the reasons given therein.15.  by a decision of 9 december 2010 the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) declared the applicant’s constitutional complaint inadmissible on the grounds that the case did not raise a constitutional issue.
8.  on 2 february 2010 the supreme court of the bashkortostan republic quashed the applicant’s conviction and remitted the case for fresh examination.12.  on 18 march 2010 the trial court sent a letter ordering the applicant’s compulsory attendance the following day to the bailiff service in tuymazy.later on the same day, he was transferred to ufa and the judge of the sovetskiy district court was informed accordingly.15.  on 19 april 2010 the applicant’s lawyer lodged an appeal against the detention order of 19 march 2010, arguing that neither the applicant nor his lawyer had been apprised of the hearings of 4 and 19 march.16.  on 28 april 2010 the judge in charge of the applicant’s case decided that the latter should remain in detention.17.  on 10 may 2010 the applicant supplemented the appeal lodged against the decision of 19 march 2010.19.  on an unspecified date the president of the sovetskiy district court confirmed in a letter sent to the applicant’s lawyer that the summonses to the hearing of 4 march 2010 had been sent to the applicant and his representative on 26 february 2010 by ordinary post and that the case file did not contain any indication that they had actually been received by them.20.  on 26 august 2010 the supreme court of the bashkortostan republic confirmed the decision of 19 march 2010, finding that the applicant had been duly apprised of the hearings of 4 and 19 march 2010 at his place of residence.94 postponed the examination of the applicant’s criminal case to 11 october 2010 in view of his absence from the hearing without explanation.24.  on 11 october 2010 the justice of the peace ordered suspension of the proceedings and that a search for the applicant be conducted.on the same day, the applicant’s name was placed on the search list.26.  on 11 march 2011 the applicant submitted a complaint to the prosecutor of the krasnoyarsk region about his unlawful detention and the police’s failure to inform him about the reasons for his arrest.he referred in particular to their failure to provide him with a copy of the detention order of 11 october 2010 and stated that at the time of his transfer to minusinsk, krasnoyarsk region, on 7 march 2011 he had still not been informed of the reasons for his detention.33.  on 4 september 2013 the oktyabrskiy district court extended the applicant’s detention at a hearing at which the applicant was present.34.  on an unspecified date the applicant challenged the detention order of 4 september 2013. he referred to article 5 § 3 of the convention, arguing that the authorities had failed to bring him before a judge promptly after he was apprehended on 11 july 2013. he also referred to article 6 § 2 of the convention, arguing that the wording used in the detention order ran counter to the presumption of innocence.
the first applicant is the wife of mr shamkhan abubakarov, who was born in 1963. the second applicant is the wife of mr badrudi abubakarov, who was born in 1949.the volga and a number of other cars were at the side of the road when one of the ivfs suddenly turned and drove over the volga, and then drove off in the direction of staraya sunzha.9.  on the same day sh., an operational search officer from the grozny department of the interior (районный отдел внутренних дел (ровд)) (hereinafter “the rovd”), reported the incident to the head of the police station, stating that a volga had been driven over by an ifv carrying military servicemen.11.  the police also questioned mr i.a., who stated that he had been driving to staraya sunzha when he had seen a convoy of ifvs on the road and a volga on the kerb letting it pass by.17.  on 24 november 2002 the supervising prosecutor ordered the investigators to take a number of steps, including questioning numerous eyewitnesses to the incident such as local residents and the law-enforcement officers who had been manning the checkpoints through which the ifvs had passed to flee the scene.at the checkpoint manned by police officers from the grozny district police station he had been told that, two minutes prior to his arrival, three ifvs had passed through and driven in the direction of khankala, where the main military base of the federal forces was situated.he had gone to the military prosecutor’s office in khankala, where he had been told that an investigator had already gone to the scene and established that two of the ifvs had had the serial numbers 171 and 153; that after the ifv had driven over the volga, a serviceman had got out of one of the ifvs and checked that the car’s passengers were dead.the witness also stated that on 2 or 3 october 2002 mr a.e., who had worked as a driver at the khankala military base, had told him that at about 5 p.m. on 30 september 2002 he had seen three ifvs of the 78th regiment driving at high speed into the base.20.  on 28 may 2003 the rovd replied to the applicants’ request for information, stating that the investigation had established that that at about 4.30 p.m. on 30 september 2002 an unidentified person driving an ifv had had a collision with a volga being driven by shamkhan abubakarov and in which badrudi abubakarov had been a passenger.23.  on 25 october 2006 the deputy district prosecutor overruled the decision to suspend the proceedings as unlawful and ordered that the investigation be resumed and the investigators take a number of steps, including identifying the owners of ifv nos.25.  on various dates in october and november 2006 the investigators questioned a number of residents of berkat-yurt, all of whom stated that they had arrived at the scene shortly after the incident and that, according to eyewitnesses, the volga had been driven over by a military ifv.26.  on 16 november 2006 the investigators questioned mr a.d., who stated that at about 4 p.m. on 30 september 2002 he had seen a military convoy on the road between staraya sunzha and berkat-yurt and a volga at the side of the road letting the convoy pass by.28.  on 4 july 2007 the grozny district court of the chechen republic allowed the applicants’ complaint against the decision to suspend the investigation.the court stated that between the opening of the investigation on 1 october 2002 and its suspension on 1 december 2002 the investigators had failed to take the necessary steps to identify the perpetrators, limiting themselves to sending two unspecified requests for information to the military authorities, even though it was clear from the case material that after causing the accident the ifvs had entered the khankala military base.despite the supervising prosecutor’s instructions given on 25 october 2006, the investigators had only resent two requests for information to the military authorities and had again suspended the investigation on 25 november 2006, as they had received no reply.
wrote a receipt confirming that the applicant had paid him 1,700 us dollars (usd) in respect of pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage and that he had no claims against the applicant.10.  on 20 april 2004 the yuzhnoukrayinsk town court (“the yuzhnoukrayinsk court”) quashed the decisions of 25 and 29 march 2004. on 3 june 2004 and 5 april 2005 the mykolayiv regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) and the supreme court, respectively, upheld that ruling.he claimed compensation for pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage in respect of the following four issues: his arbitrary criminal prosecution, his unlawful arrest, the allegedly unlawful search of the company’s premises, and the seizure of the car as having amounted to his deprivation of property.he also observed, in the context of the complaint about his unlawful detention, that the conditions of his detention in the arbuzynka itt had been very poor (poor food and dirty linen, and impossibility to receive any parcels from the outside).12.  the applicant’s claim in respect of pecuniary damage included the amount of the debt owed by mr ts.to him, which the applicant estimated as being equivalent to the value of the impounded car.the court also awarded the applicant uah 25,000 (at the time equal to about eur 3,800) in respect of non-pecuniary damage.15.  by a letter of 6 july 2006 the court of appeal sent the applicant copies of the defendants’ appeals and informed him that he could comment on them by 14 july 2006. the letter also contained a court summons for 19 july 2006. as indicated on the post stamp, it was dispatched on 14 july 2006. the applicant received that letter on 19 july 2006.16.  on 19 july 2006 the court of appeal, following a hearing with the participation of the defendants, but in the applicant’s absence, quashed the judgment of 5 may 2006 and issued a new one.it agreed with the first-instance court’s conclusion that the applicant “had suffered distress as a result of the illegal actions of law-enforcement officials”, but considered the compensation award to be unreasonably high.the appellate court awarded the applicant uah 5,000 (around 750 euros at the time) in compensation for non-pecuniary damage and uah 1,000 in costs and expenses.in rejecting his claim for compensation in respect of pecuniary damage, the court noted that the car did not belong to the applicant and the state was not required to reimburse him money paid to a private individual.17.  neither the decision of the appellate court nor the verbatim records of its hearing contain any information regarding the notification of the applicant of that hearing.he complained, in particular, that he had received the summons on the day of the hearing before the appellate court, which prevented him from participating in it.19.  on 26 november 2007 the kherson regional court of appeal, acting as a court of cassation, rejected the applicant’s appeal on points of law with broadly couched reasoning that it was unsubstantiated.
d.d., father of the second applicant and grandfather of the first applicant, and his son p.r., father of the first applicant, owned a plot of land and a house in popovo.6.  by two decisions of the mayor of 9 may 1988 and 27 february 1989 the property was expropriated with a view to constructing a residential building.the decisions, based on section 98(1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973 (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство – hereinafter “the tupa”), provided that d.d.was to be compensated with a two-room flat in a building which the municipality planned to construct on the expropriated plot, and p.r.7.  in 1989 the expropriated house was pulled down and in 1994 construction work was started on the site.8.  by a supplementary decision of 19 april 1991, based on section 100 of the tupa, the mayor specified the exact location and size of the future flat to be offered to d.d.passed away in 1998 and 2002 respectively, and d.d.’s wife passed away in 2011. this left the two applicants as heirs of d.d., and the first applicant as sole heir of p.r.10.  on an unspecified date in 2005 the applicants requested that the mayor of popovo revoke the expropriation order in respect of their predecessors’ property, under paragraph 9(2) of the transitional provisions of the territorial planning act (закон за устройство на територията, see paragraph 17 below).after the applicants applied for judicial review, the refusal was upheld by the courts, in judgments of the targovishte administrative court (“the targovishte court”) and the supreme administrative court of 9 march and 11 july 2006 respectively.11.  following a fresh request by the applicants for the revocation of the expropriation order, in judgments of 10 november 2006 and 25 april 2007 the targovishte court and the supreme administrative court annulled a new tacit refusal on the part of the mayor, acknowledging that the preconditions for such a revocation had indeed not been met, but instructing the mayor to examine the applicants’ request under paragraph 9(1) of the transitional provisions of the territorial planning act, providing for the possibility of monetary compensation (see paragraph 17 below).12.  as the mayor failed once again to take a decision on the applicants’ request, on an unspecified date they challenged his new tacit refusal, which was annulled once again by the targovishte court and the supreme administrative court, in judgments of 27 september 2007 and 3 april 2008 respectively.13.  following that, on two occasions (3 june 2009 and 15 june 2010) the mayor refused expressly to revoke the expropriation order in respect of the applicants’ property.after the applicants challenged these refusals, they were found to be null and void by the courts, the first one in a final judgment of the supreme administrative court of 21 may 2010, and the second one in a judgment of the varna administrative court of 25 march 2011. the courts, finding that the fresh refusals were in contradiction with the earlier court judgments in cases between the same parties, sent the case back to the mayor, instructing him once again to examine it under paragraph 9(1) of the transitional provisions of the territorial planning act.14.  in april 2011 an expert commission of the municipality assessed the value of the expropriated property and set the amount of compensation to be provided to the applicants at 67,300 bulgarian levs (bgn).after the applicants challenged that amount, in a judgment of 21 december 2011 the targovishte court increased it to bgn 83,500.
5.  on 20 december 2005 a panel of judges and lay assessors of the odesa regional court of appeal, sitting as a first-instance court, found the applicant and eighteen other persons guilty of different crimes which they had committed as a gang in the odesa region between 1995 and 1999, including banditry, illegal possession of firearms, theft, robbery, burglary, infliction of bodily injuries and murder.the applicant’s conviction was based mainly on his co-defendant’s statements incriminating the applicant and on the fact that a number of objects stolen by the gang had been found in the applicant’s wife’s home during a search on 2 october 1999.6.  the trial court dismissed the applicant’s allegations that he had been ill-treated by the police at the pre-trial stage of proceedings, having relied essentially on the information provided by the prosecutor’s office, which had previously rejected the applicant’s complaint of ill-treatment as unsubstantiated, and by the authorities of the pre-trial detention centre, in which the applicant had been detained at the material time, that he had not had any injuries.during the trial he stated that he had an alibi and requested the trial court to summon a person who could testify that in june 1998 the applicant had been living in another region of ukraine and therefore had committed no crime in the odesa region during that period.that request was refused, as were two other requests, in which the applicant and his lawyer asked the trial court to summon other persons without indicating the charges which their requests concerned or explaining the importance of those persons’ testimony.9.  according to the applicant, the presiding judge on the panel of the court of appeal dealing with his case had not been impartial, as allegedly he and the investigator in the case had studied together at the same law school and one of the witnesses had been the judge’s relative.the applicant’s appeal against his conviction 11.  in order to prepare an appeal against his conviction, the applicant asked the court of appeal to give him time to study the case file which consisted of 171 volumes.the applicant’s request was granted and he was given the file to study on many occasions between march 2006 and february 2007. allegedly that period was too short and sometimes the applicant had to study the case file together with several other convicts in one cell.13.  in july 2006 the applicant asked the court of appeal to appoint a lawyer to assist him in the preparation of his appeal and in the proceedings before the supreme court, as he had no money to hire a lawyer.the applicant complained of the fact that no lawyer had been appointed to him in his amended appeal to the supreme court (see paragraph 12 above).14.  on 30 october 2007 the supreme court, having heard the applicant’s and his co-defendants’ appeals, found that the trial had been held in compliance with the procedure and that the first-instance court’s findings of fact had been based on sufficient evidence.the applicant stated, without providing any further details, that the dispatch of his letters to the court had been often blocked or delayed by the prison authorities and that he had not been allowed to make phone calls to his relatives.18.  the government submitted to the court copies of several reports of the sizo authorities concerning the applicant’s detention, according to which the applicant had been under special supervision as he had been considered inclined to commit self-mutilation (see also paragraph 10 above).19.  the government stated that the applicant’s letters had been duly dispatched by the sizo and prison authorities and that the prison authorities had joined to those letters copies of the documents from his prison file which the applicant had asked them to send.they further stated that the applicant had had full access to his criminal case file during the proceedings against him and that he had been able to collect copies of all the documents he had needed for his application.
4.  the applicants were born in 1944, 1964 and 1966 respectively and live in razgrad.5.  the first applicant and h.p., her husband and father of the other two applicants, owned a house with a yard and garage in razgrad.6.  by a decision of the mayor of 28 june 1988 the property was expropriated with a view to constructing a residential building.the decision, based on section 98(1) of the territorial and urban planning act (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство – “the tupa”), provided that the first applicant and h.p.7.  by a supplementary decision of 24 july 1991, based on section 100 of the tupa, the mayor determined the exact location, size and other details in respect of the garage to be offered in compensation, which was to be located in a residential building which the municipality planned to construct.had to pay for the cost of the garage that was not covered by the value of their expropriated property 4,479 old bulgarian levs (bgl).8.  on unspecified dates the flat due to be given to first applicant and h.p.9.  in 1996 the mayor of razgrad offered the first applicant and h.p.a garage in another part of the city.10.  the building where the garage offered to them was to be situated was never constructed.in 2006 the municipality authorised the construction of another building by a private investor in the same place, which did not include garages.11.  in a letter dated 18 august 2006 the mayor advised the first applicant and h.p.in reply, they stated that they did not want such compensation and insisted on receiving a garage.13.  on an unspecified date in 2010 the applicants brought an action in tort, seeking pecuniary and non-pecuniary damages for the allegedly unlawful failure on the part of the razgrad municipality to build and provide them with a garage.the action was dismissed by the supreme administrative court in a final judgment on 16 november 2011. it noted that the municipality had not acted unlawfully and had offered various solutions which the first applicant and her husband had rejected.
he supported his assertion with copies of contracts with well-known russian publishing houses and owners of a number of legal magazines, including one supervised by the secretariat of the president of the russian federation.8.  having received an assignment to write an article on prostitution and the fight against it in the khabarovsk region, on 12 may 2009 the applicant wrote to the head of the khabarovsk region police department by registered letter, asking for statistical data for his research.the relevant parts read: “[i am] interested in [receiving] information for the period between 2000 and 2009, in particular: - [information on] the number of people found administratively liable under article 6.11 of the ... code of administrative offences (prostitution), with a breakdown by sex, residence (residents of the khabarovsk region or visitors), nationality (nationals of the russian federation, foreigners or stateless persons) and the year [of the offence]; - [information on] the number of criminal cases instituted during the above‑mentioned period under articles 241, 242, 242.1 [and] 127.1 (cases related to sexual exploitation) of the ... criminal code, with a breakdown of the specific articles ... and the year [the case was opened]; - [information on] the number of individuals found criminally liable under articles 241, 242, 242.1 [and] 127.1 ... of the ... criminal code, with a breakdown by sex, age, educational background, permanent residence (residents of the khabarovsk region or visitors), nationality and period [in which the crime was committed]; - general information on sentences imposed on individuals found criminally liable under articles 241, 242, 242.1 [and] 127.1 ... of the ... criminal code ‑ the types of sentences and in how many cases they were imposed, and the years [they were imposed].in the absence of any response, on 26 june 2009 the applicant lodged a claim with the tsentralniy district court of khabarovsk (“the district court”), complaining that the police authorities had failed to provide him with the information he had requested and requesting for access.relying on the information act (see below) and article 10 of the convention, he argued that the officials’ implied refusal to provide him with the information had been unlawful as he had not asked for access to any confidential personal information, state secrets or information related to internal police working methods.he claimed that his request had related purely to statistical data of a general nature collected by the information centre of the khabarovsk region police department (hereinafter “the information centre”).11.  on 18 july 2009 the applicant received a letter from the head of the information centre, notifying him that information as specific as he had asked for could only be collected on production of a written order issued by a deputy minister of internal affairs, a head of a regional or municipal police department or their divisions or a prosecutor or investigator from a prosecutor’s office.general statistical data summarised by the information centre was provided to the federal service of state statistics and in particular its regional office for the khabarovsk region, to whom the applicant could apply for the statistical data.12.  on 19 july 2009 the applicant wrote to the khabarovsk region service of state statistics (hereinafter “the statistics service”) by registered letter, asking for the statistical data for his research.13.  on 23 july 2009 the head of the statistics service replied, stating that specific statistical information on the fight against prostitution had never been provided by the khabarovsk regional police department.14.  the applicant filed copies of his letters from the information centre and statistics service with the district court.the district court also stressed that the information requested did not touch upon the applicant’s rights and legitimate interests, so the authorities’ refusal to grant him access to such information had been lawful and well-founded under section 8(2) of the information act.16.  the applicant appealed, arguing, among other things, that the police authorities had exclusive possession of the information sought by him and that he had no other means, including through assistance from the statistics service, of obtaining the necessary data.in addition, he submitted that the fact that his rights and legitimate interests were not affected by the requested information had no bearing on the case as under russian law, it was not only those directly concerned who were granted access to public information.17.  on 16 september 2009 the khabarovsk regional court upheld the judgment of 4 august 2009. relying on section 8(2) of the information act, it concluded that the authorities were not obliged to provide the applicant with the information as it did not touch upon his rights and legitimate interests.
the decision read as follows: “taking into consideration that the garages on [a 1.3 km] stretch of the oktyabrskaya railway must carry out the function of a noise shield, the moscow testing section of the oktyabrskaya railway of the ministry of railways approves the construction of garages 5.5 metres away from the outer rail, on the following conditions: 2.  the construction of the garages shall be in strict compliance with technical safety rules for construction works in a railway zone; 7.  on 14 april 1994 the main directorate for architecture and planning of the architecture and urban development committee of the government of moscow (главное архитектурно-планировочное управление комитета по архитектуре и градостроительству г. москвы) (hereinafter “the moscow architecture and planning directorate”) issued a town-planning assignment (градостроительное заключение) for the design and construction of garages alongside the oktyabrskaya railway.13.  on 3 march 2003 the federal state unitary enterprise “oktyabrskaya railway of the mps” (“the oktyabrskaya railway of the mps”) concluded a lease agreement with the gsk in respect of the land occupied by the garages.clause 5.2 provided that the lease could be terminated unilaterally in the event of breach of the terms of the lease agreement by the gsk or failure to pay the lease for two months, and in the event that the land in question was required for the purposes of the railway, with one month’s prior notice.17.  on 14 july 2010 the rzd notified the gsk of the unilateral termination of the lease agreement, with reference to a need that had arisen to use the land in question for the purposes of the railway.the district court held as follows: “it follows from the case-file material that on 3 march 2003 the federal state unitary enterprise “oktyabrskaya railway of the mps” and the gsk signed a lease agreement in respect of a plot of land situated within a railway right of way [полоса отвода железной дороги] for the purposes of reimbursement of its maintenance costs, valid until 28 february 2004, which was subsequently extended on the basis of additional agreements.at present the lease agreement has been terminated, which is confirmed by notifications of 14 july and 26 august 2010 on the unilateral termination of the lease agreement with reference to the necessity to use the plot in question for the purposes of the railway.the case file contains a certificate provided by the plaintiff to the effect that the gsk had [paid rent under the lease] until 31 july 2007, and that since then no payments had been made for the use of the plot of land.the plot of land with cadastral number 77:02:21017:032 is intended for the operation and development of the railways, [it] is situated within a railway right of way ... before the lease agreement in respect of the railway right of way [between the rzd and the russian federation] was signed, the plot of land with cadastral number 77:02:21017:032 was classified as rail transport land in accordance with the transport land act approved by decision no.the revision of the borders and size of rights of way, the withdrawal of temporarily unused plots of land and their reclassification from one category to another is carried out by the competent authorities with the agreement of the railways, pursuant to the legislation of the russian federation.by virtue of article 305 of the civil code of the russian federation it is entitled to seek the elimination of violations of its rights, namely the removal of the [applicant’s] garage from the plot.also, at the request of the defendant the court joined to the case file the following evidence: a copy of the act certifying that the garages were ready for use; notification from the federal service for state registration, inventory and cartography responsible for moscow about the absence of any information in the consolidated state register of real estate titles and transactions about the disputed plot; the approval by the prefect of [the local administration] of the inspection certificate issued in respect of the garages; correspondence from the moscow section of the oktyabrskaya railway of 25 november 1993 on the approval of the construction of the garages within the railway right of way; the town-planning assignment issued by the moscow architecture and planning directorate on 13 april 1994; the decision of the federal service for state registration, inventory and cartography of 27 april 2011 refusing to issue a cadastral certificate for the disputed plot.the approval by the prefect of the local administration of the inspection certificate does not confirm the existence of permission by the federal authorities to use the plot of land in question for building garages, regard being had [to the fact] that the owner of the plot is the russian federation and not the city of moscow.besides, the defendant has failed to submit evidence to the effect that the competent federal authority issued an administrative act on the transfer of a part of the land situated within a railway right of way to the defendant.... having assessed all the evidence in the case, taking into consideration [the fact] that the defendant did not acquire property rights in respect of the plot of land classified as federal property and located within a railway right of way, on which the disputed garage is situated, that the plot was provided for temporary use, and that it is being used at the present time without any contractual basis, the court comes to the conclusion that the rights of the rzd have been violated in that the plaintiff is prevented from using the land in accordance with its intended purpose.28.  according to the government, in august 2013 the construction of the fourth main track of the oktyabrskaya railway between moscow and khimki was completed on the land previously occupied by the garages of the gsk and was opened for circulation of the suburban electric train.
12.  faced with the respondent’s failure to comply with the enforcement order, on 12 august 2005 the niš municipal court ordered him to pay a fine in the amount of 10,000 serbian dinars (rsd; approximately 120 euros (eur)), within three days and to return the child to her mother by the same deadline.14.  on 22 august 2005, the social care centre informed the court that it had advised the applicant and the respondent to visit a mental care institute in order to be provided with appropriate guidance in communicating with each other and in order for the child to resume the interrupted course of treatment.16.  on 15 september 2005 the respondent and his father contacted the court, declaring that the child did not want to go to her mother and refusing to pay the fine.17.  on 20 september 2005 a new attempt was made to enforce the interim order, this time in the presence of a psychologist from the doljevac social care centre, civilian police officers, the enforcement judge, a bailiff and the applicant.18.  on 3 october 2005 the first meeting between mother and child was held on the premises of the centre, but the applicant later told the court that it had not been successful because the child was allegedly subjected to pressure by her father.20.  on 2 march 2006 the applicant asked the court to enforce the interim custody order in the presence of the police.21.  the enforcement of the interim order was to be attempted on 20 march 2006 on the premises of the niš social care centre in the presence of the judge, a psychologist and a teacher from the centre, the applicant and the respondent’s representative.both gave their opinion concerning the forced return of the child to her mother, the psychologist from niš contending that it was the only option, since the father was not willing to hand over the child voluntarily, and the psychologist from doljevac arguing against it, on the basis that it could have a negative influence on the child’s further development.25.  on 27 july 2006 the court again ordered the respondent to pay a fine in the amount of rsd 20,000 and to return the child to her mother.26.  on 25 december 2006 the court asked the niš mental care institute to prepare an opinion concerning the enforcement of the interim custody order because of the difficulties encountered in the proceedings.the experts advised that the child should receive psychological and social counselling to help her overcome her resistance towards her mother, that the father and his family should be helped to change their attitude and stop influencing the child’s opinion towards her mother, and that both parents should receive counselling on how to behave in the best interests of the child.34.  on 16 march 2010 the applicant lodged an appeal with the constitutional court, alleging a breach of her parental and family rights, essentially complaining about the non-enforcement of the municipal court’s interim custody order of 25 july 2005. she also argued that the supreme court’s ultimate ruling on the issue of a.c.’s custody had failed to take into account the child’s best interests and had instead retroactively endorsed v.c.’s violent and unlawful conduct and had permanently separated her from her child.35.  on 15 march 2012 the constitutional court dismissed the complaint regarding the interim custody order of 25 july 2005 for being out of time, having been lodged more than 30 days after the applicant had been served with the district court’s judgment of 12 june 2008. with respect to the applicant’s complaint regarding the supreme court, the constitutional court rejected it on the merits, accepting the supreme court’s reasoning entirely.the respondent was ordered to return the child to the applicant within fifteen days of the date on which the judgment became final.37.  on 18 august 2008, acting upon the applicant’s initiative, the niš municipal public prosecutor requested the revocation of the respondent’s probation, but withdrew the request on 16 december 2008 because the respondent had in the meantime been granted custody of a.c. on 25 december 2008 the municipal court terminated the proceedings seeking revocation of the probation.
4.  the applicants were convicted in russia of various crimes.the applicants and their lawyers, except for mr yakupov, whose lawyer was present, were refused leave to attend the appeal hearings on the ground that their presence was unnecessary or without addressing this issue at all.5.  following communication of the cases, the supervisory-review courts quashed the appeal judgments at the prosecutor’s request and remitted the cases for fresh examinations before the appellate courts.in most of the cases the applicants and their lawyers were present at the new appeal hearings.mr trifonov and mr sidelnikov did not ask for leave to appear and did not attend the new hearings, but they were represented by lawyers.6.  detailed information about the applicants’ attendance and dates of the hearings is set out in appendix ii.7.  on 12 november 2002 criminal proceedings were initiated against mr zakhodyakin.since then the criminal proceedings were suspended and reopened several times.8.  on 26 june 2007 the vuktyl town court of the komi republic found the applicant guilty of abuse of office and sentenced him to one year’s imprisonment.on 24 august 2007 the supreme court of the komi republic upheld that judgment on appeal.9.  on 8 october 2008 the presidium of the supreme court of the komi republic quashed the judgment of 24 august 2007 and remitted the case for a fresh examination.on 7 november 2008 the supreme court of the komi republic upheld the judgment of 26 june 2007.10.  on 3 october 2012 the presidium of the supreme court of the komi republic quashed the judgment of 7 november 2008 and remitted the case for a fresh examination.on 18 december 2012 the supreme court of the komi republic upheld the judgment of 26 june 2007.
the following day, dr b. from the psychiatric unit of slatina emergency hospital had informed him (the applicant’s father) that his son had been seriously beaten, and that he had been transferred to a different hospital because he had suffered a cervical spine injury.one of the police officers had travelled with the applicant in the ambulance and had continued to beat him until he had been asked by the medical staff in the ambulance to stop the violence.the prosecutor’s office asked the forensic service to determine: the applicant’s injuries and their cause; the number of days of medical care needed for healing; if there was a direct link between the applicant’s injuries and their cause; and if the injuries could also have been caused by something other than intentional force.19.  the forensic report concluded that the applicant’s injury could have been caused on 30 june 2013. most probably, the injury had been caused by a forced rotation movement of the neck when the applicant had been immobilised and handcuffed.the prosecutor held that a third party had called the emergency services at the applicant’s sister’s request, because the applicant, who had a history of psychological problems and who had been drunk, had been aggressive and had endangered his own life and safety and that of his family.21.  the prosecutor further held that the applicant’s father had confirmed the fact that the applicant had been drunk at the time of the incident.however, his statements that his son had not been aggressive and that he had been unaware of the identity of the person who had called the emergency services had not been confirmed by the rest of the evidence adduced in the file.according to the prosecutor, those arguments were also supported by the fact that, in the medical report produced by the psychiatric unit of slatina emergency hospital, where the applicant had been taken after the incident, it was stated that the applicant was suffering from a polymorphic personality disorder, which was aggravated by alcohol consumption.23.  the prosecutor noted that, according to the reports describing the police officers’ intervention and the use of force and handcuffs, once the officers had arrived at the applicant’s home they had realised that he was drunk, and they had been forced to immobilise him and take him to slatina emergency hospital.24.  the prosecutor held that the conclusions of the forensic expert report produced on 18 november 2013 contradicted n.b.’s and the applicant’s parents’ testimonies that the applicant’s head had repeatedly been banged against m.v.’s gate by the police officers.218/2002, but expressly citing the relevant provisions of article 33 §§ 1 and 2 of the same aforementioned law, the prosecutor further held that, given the available evidence, the police officers had not injured the applicant deliberately.in addition, the prosecutor’s office had wrongfully dismissed his parents’ and n.b.’s testimonies, as those witnesses had confirmed the police violence, and the forensic report had acknowledged that his injury had most probably been caused as a result of the forced rotation of his neck.34.  the court also considered that it had been unnecessary for the forensic expert report to explain how the forced rotation of the applicant’s neck had happened, given that the victim would not have made such movements instinctively, because he had been drunk and extremely agitated at the time of the incident, and his behaviour could not have been compared with the normal behaviour of another person.35.  the court further considered that the prosecutor had correctly dismissed the testimonies in the case, given that, according to the forensic expert report, no trauma as a result of deliberate force had been identified, and the forensic pathologist had had the opportunity to consider the possibility of the applicant’s head being banged repeatedly against a metal gate.in addition, the actions had been lawfully justified in order to alleviate the danger the applicant had represented to society and himself, given that he had been drunk, agitated and aggressive, and had been suffering from an organic personality disorder as a result of drinking alcohol.
8.  on 2 december 2005 the parties reached a friendly settlement before the district court detailing when the applicant was able to visit the child.the applicant asked the court to order that he be able to see his son twice a month from 10 a.m. on friday to 7 p.m. on sunday; one day at christmas or easter from 10 a.m. to 10 a.m. the next day; and three weeks in the summer holidays and one week in the winter holidays.on 23 november 2007 the celle district court in germany ordered that the child be returned to poland to the father or a guardian because under the hague convention the mother had abducted the child.it was also agreed that he would be able to see j. every other saturday and sunday of the month from 9.30 a.m. to 6.30 p.m.; the second day of christmas and easter holidays at the same times; every 1 june from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m.; and for two weeks in the summer holidays from 1 to 15 july.in particular the regional family consultation centre (rodzinny ośrodek diagnostyczno‑konsultacyjny -“the rodk”) submitted at least two reports by experts between 2008 and the beginning of 2010. the applicant contested the conclusions of the opinions.retained joint custody of j. the court established that in the period up to 2008 the bond between the applicant and the child had weakened considerably owing to a lack of contact between them.afterwards, at the applicant’s request, the contact arrangements had been modified on 29 september 2009. the court noted that the parties had had strong disagreements, had stopped talking to each other and should both be held responsible for the situation.28.  in the meantime, on 11 august 2010, the bydgoszcz district court increased the amount of child support payable by the applicant to m.k.34.  on 28 may 2013 the bydgoszcz regional court quashed the interim order of 19 february 2013. the court ordered the parties to attend counselling and to submit attendance certificates to the court every two months.the court further emphasised the need to modify the way the father and the child communicated without suspending contact between them, which would lead to breaking the bond between them.it stated that the applicant would have the right to see j. every other weekend for two hours on saturday and two hours on sunday in a public place and in the presence of m.k.upon appeal by the applicant the decision was amended by the bydgoszcz regional court on 9 september 2013 by extending the length of the meeting to three hours.that attitude was the result of a negative image of the applicant that had been created under the influence of the mother.on the same day the applicant brought a claim to enforce the arrangements for meeting his child, as determined by the settlement of 29 september 2009, by imposing a fine on the child’s mother.pay the applicant a penalty each time he was denied his rights to have access to j. as set down by the settlement of 29 september 2009. she was ordered to pay pln 200 each time she interfered with the applicant’s right to see j. and pln 50 every time she did not allow them to converse by telephone on wednesdays as scheduled.
8.  in a letter of 26 december 2012 addressed to the media, the speaker stated, inter alia: “having regard to the announcements (најави) that the opposition would not allow the budget act to be adopted and that there would be protests and incidents, i requested, under section 43 of the parliament act, that the parliament security service ensure proper work at the session.i would like to underline that the parliament security service arranges and implements necessary measures to be taken ... having regard to the fact that the gallery is part of the plenary hall, the parliament security service considered (донело оценка) that the gallery should be vacated in order to avoid an incident of a larger scale.as speaker, i regret that such a measure regarding the journalists was taken ...” 9.  on 26 december 2012 the association of journalists (represented by its president, the first applicant) sent a letter to the dcps claiming that the forcible removal of the journalists had violated their rights under article 10 of the convention.on 26 august 2013 the commission drew up a report, the relevant part of which reads as follows: “v - legal qualifications ... 5. the absence of appropriate guidelines on dealing with such situations, including the absence of a strategy to deal with media in crisis, led to a situation in which journalists were removed from the parliament gallery, which violated their rights to freedom of public information (слобода на јавно информирање) and publicity in the work of parliament.parliament should be particularly attentive and open with respect to the freedom of the press to report and to apply the best european practices in this matter ...” 13.  the applicants lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court in which they alleged a violation of their rights under article 10 of the convention.the relevant parts of the decision read as follows: “on the basis of evidence submitted with the constitutional complaint and the reply of the parliament of the republic of macedonia, the court has established the following facts: ... there was an increased interest on the part of the public and the media in (the parliamentary proceedings) given the importance of the state budget and the fact that before the proceedings, namely in november and december, there had been long, intense and sometimes tense discussions between opposition and ruling party mps regarding the draft budget ... on 24 december 2012 ... before the plenary debate of parliament started, there was a disturbance by a group of mps who started destroying technical equipment in the chamber.[the applicants] and other journalists, after having been removed from the gallery, remained in the parliament building and were able to follow the live broadcast of the debate from other premises [the press centre, in a hall adjacent to the gallery].when the debate was over, the video material was made available to the public on that website ... ... the above provisions of the parliament act [see paragraph 17 below] and the rules of parliament [see paragraph 23 below] ... provide that the speaker is responsible for maintaining order in the parliament.the court considers that the removal of [the applicants] from the gallery amounted to an interference with their freedom to carry out their professional duties and to inform the public about events that were of considerable interest for the citizens of the republic of macedonia – the events in parliament regarding the approval of the state budget for 2013, in which the public had significant interest in following and being informed about.... the legal ground for the impugned measure was section 43 of the parliament act, which specified who was responsible for keeping order in the parliament building – a special security unit, and which authorised the speaker to decide and take measures in the event of disturbance of that order by mps and other external persons participating in the work of parliament.as to the necessity of the measure ... it has to be examined in the light of the concrete circumstances of the case, namely the events that took place inside the parliament building, namely in the chamber, as well as the disorder outside the parliament building.the actions of the security officers constitute standard practice for these and similar situations in case of endangerment, i.e. protection of media representatives while reporting from places of crises, demonstrations and other potentially dangerous events ... the fact that the journalists had been present within and outside the parliament building since the morning of 24 december 2012, and were reporting on the events as they occurred, confirms that, notwithstanding the indications and expectations that discussion about the approval of the budget would be tense, they were allowed access to the parliament building and the gallery in order to carry out their function and inform the public about the debate.of the constitutional court stated, inter alia, the following: “... my dissenting opinion mainly concerns the inability objectively to decide the case ... i consider that the written information, facts and evidence available to the court were insufficient ... the decision [of the constitutional court] contains contradictory reasons given that it ... establishes that the removal of journalists amounted to an interference with their right to carry out their function and to inform the public about an event of indisputable public interest, but it finds that such an intervention was justified ... without there being a solid factual basis in support of that finding.... i think that it is of crucial importance that the constitutional court clarifies and explains the reasonableness of the assessment of the situation and the reason for which the journalists were removed from the gallery ... in order to establish the facts and assess the need for [their] removal ... it was necessary to determine the reason which prompted the security officers to remove them, despite the undisputed fact that all the incidents and disorder in the parliament chamber were physically and clearly isolated and distant from [the gallery].it is absurd that [such a removal] was carried out ‘for the safety of journalists’, when it is clear that they were in their seats and were completely passive; they did not participate in the events at all, but only observed ... it is a fact that the journalists did not contribute to the conflictual situation in any respect [not disputed by parliament]; they did not disturb order in the parliament building; they were in direct contact neither with the speaker or the mps, nor with the events outside the parliament building ... besides, it is clear that the journalists themselves did not feel threatened; so they did not seek and expect any protection.”
6.  the applicant is the natural and only daughter of mr a.w., who recognised paternity in 1951. she lived in the territory of the former gdr until 1984, while her father lived in the federal republic of germany (frg), having married.7.  on 14 january 2009 the applicant applied to the memmingen district court for the right to administer her father’s estate, asserting the incapacity of her father’s wife to protect the applicant’s inheritance due to a grave illness, and notified the district court of her inheritance claims.8.  in a decision of 28 january 2009 the memmingen district court dismissed the applicant’s application, as there were no indications that the applicant’s father’s wife could not protect the inheritance.9.  on 6 february 2009 the applicant appealed to the memmingen regional court, arguing in particular that she needed the power to administer the estate because her father’s wife suffered from dementia and that she was a statutory heir because she was her father’s natural daughter.10.  in a decision of 23 february 2009 the memmingen regional court upheld the district court’s decision refusing to give her the power to administer her father’s estate, holding that the applicant was not a statutory heir and thus had no right to apply.the regional court referred to the first sentence of section 12(10)(2) of the children born outside marriage (legal status) act of 19 august 1969 (see paragraph 15 below) and to a decision of the federal constitutional court of 8 december 1976, in which the provision had been found to be in conformity with the basic law (see paragraph 16 below).11.  on 8 march 2009 the applicant appealed to the munich court of appeal, arguing that the application of the first sentence of section 12(10)(2) of the children born outside marriage (legal status) act would discriminate against her and breach her inheritance rights and was therefore not in conformity with the basic law.the applicant pointed out that in her case there was no need to protect the legitimate expectations of the deceased or other heirs as she was her father’s only daughter and her father had been separated from his wife for more than ten years when he had died.12.  in a decision of 14 may 2009 the munich court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal on the grounds that it was bound by the decisions of the federal constitutional court in which the first sentence of section 12(10)(2) of the children born outside marriage (legal status) act had been found to be in conformity with the basic law.in the court of appeal’s view, the provision did not contravene the basic law, despite german reunification, as the federal constitutional court had held in a decision of 20 november 2003 (file no.1 bvr 2257/03).13.  on 17 july 2009 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the federal constitutional court, claiming discrimination as a result of the application of the aforementioned provision.the applicant argued that the munich court of appeal, when considering an appeal, had to respect article 6 § 5 of the basic law, which provided that children born outside marriage must be provided by legislation with the same opportunities for physical and mental development and for their position in society as those enjoyed by children born within marriage.it observed, in particular, that the applicant had failed sufficiently to address the arguments of the munich court of appeal’s decision.as the applicant doubted the validity of the first sentence of section 12(10)(2) of the children born outside marriage (legal status) act, which had previously been declared valid by the federal constitutional court, she had been obliged to give further reasons, which she had failed to do.
the first to fifth applicants and the tenth and thirteenth applicants were placed in cell no.9, the sixth to ninth applicants and the eleventh and twelfth applicants were placed in cell no.7.  the fifth applicant was transferred to korydallos prison on 10 september 2013, the seventh applicant was released on 29 october 2013 and the ninth applicant was released on 4 september 2013.the prison consisted of six cells which each had fifteen beds and five mattresses on the floor, and three cells which each had ten beds.as regards the cells in which the applicants were held, their measurements were as follows: cell no.9.  the applicants pointed out that the toilets in the cells were not partitioned off from the rest of the cells, and there was no hot water.filthiness of the cells, in addition to overcrowding, exposed the inmates to contagious diseases and created various psychological problems, in respect of which no medical treatment was provided.10.  the applicants stressed that inmates were not sufficiently separated according to their health conditions or according to whether they were in pre-trial detention or serving prison sentences, as was required by the penal code.11.  the applicants also contended that they were confined to their cells for sixteen to seventeen hours per day, in the absence of any recreational or educational activities.12.  meals, which were insufficient and of poor quality, were served in the cells and consumed on the beds.13.  on 29 august 2013 the applicants lodged a complaint with the prison board, arguing that the conditions of their detention were very poor, but did not receive any reply.15.  in respect of prison overcrowding, the government argued that the prison had accommodated 142 inmates at the time the applicants had lodged their application with the court, only slightly exceeding its capacity of 120 detainees.the government provided information showing that some of the applicants had had consultations with doctors in respect of various conditions.in addition, detainees had the opportunity to attend educational programmes or other recreational activities which were scheduled from time to time.most of the applicants participated in some of the educational courses.
it appears that the possessors of the hashish later found some of it missing and came to the conclusion that it had been removed by one e. in late january 2005 e.’s body was found dumped at a building site, with the hands tied behind the back, two ribs broken and holes in the knees and kneecaps consistent with the deliberate infliction of injury by means of an electric drill.14.  the court of appeal held a scheduling hearing (regiezitting) on 23 september 2008. two more adjournments were ordered, one until 2 december 2008 for the purpose of securing the attendance of further witnesses and one until 24 february 2009 to allow the applicant’s new counsel, who had replaced the lawyer who had conducted the applicant’s defence at first instance, to acquaint himself with the case file.20.  on 10 may 2010 the applicant’s counsel sent an e-mail to the advocate general (advocaat-generaal) to the court of appeal, with a copy to the president of the criminal division, restating his request for the applicant to be brought to the netherlands in advance of the hearing of the court of appeal and announced his intention to oppose resumption of the hearing if this were not done.on the same day the president of the criminal division warned the applicant’s counsel and the advocate general by e-mail, without prejudging any decision that might be taken, of the possibility that the merits of the case would be addressed.he suggested that this might be done pursuant to an extradition request; by way of transfer under the european convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters, which possibility in his submission had not been adequately explored; and, following the outcome of the criminal proceedings in norway, by allowing the applicant either to return of his own accord or to serve any sentence handed to him by the norwegian courts in the netherlands as the case might be.its reasoning, reflected in the official record of its hearing, was as follows: “if a request is made to adjourn the hearing on the merits all relevant interests should be weighed, including the right of the accused to be present, the interest of not only the accused but also of society in a speedy determination of the charges and the interest of a proper organisation of the judicial system.in so doing, the court of appeal will base itself on the following facts and circumstances: -  the present case began in 2005. the applicant was arrested on 11 april 2006 and sentenced to four years and six months’ imprisonment by the alkmaar regional court on 15 may 2007. the [applicant] took part in the proceedings.the court of appeal considers, in these circumstances, that in weighing the various interests against each other the general interest, including due process (het belang van een behoorlijke rechtspleging) and the interest of bringing the case to a close within a reasonable time must now prevail over the [applicant]’s right to take part in the hearing in person.fourthly, the court of appeal had failed to respond to the suggestion made by the defence to await the outcome of the proceedings in norway, after which the applicant could return of his own accord or the execution of any norwegian sentence could be taken care of in the netherlands, thus enabling the applicant’s attendance.28.  the advocate general (advocaat-generaal) to the supreme court submitted an advisory opinion (conclusie) in which he expressed the view that, in the light of article 281 taken together with article 415 of the code of criminal procedure (wetboek van strafvordering), the court of appeal had been called upon to decide whether the interest of the examination of the case at the hearing required the hearing to be adjourned.that also implies the refusal to await the outcome of the norwegian criminal proceedings, so that the suspect would be able to attend the hearing in the netherlands by his own means or by way of transfer of the execution of the norwegian sentence, if any.the criminal acts with which the applicant was charged were committed in december 2004 [the drugs crimes] and january 2005 [the crimes against the person of e.] respectively, so that at the time of the appeal hearing of 1 june 2010 – at which hearing the request for an adjournment was made – five years and five months had already passed.12.  contrary to the argument made by the drafter of the point of appeal, the court of appeal was under no obligation to consider the seriousness of the charges against the applicant in deciding on the request for an adjournment but it was at liberty to consider the presence of counsel authorised to conduct the defence and the length of the criminal proceedings.13.  the limpidity of the court of appeal’s reasoning is not impaired by the court of appeal’s reliance, in refusing the request for an adjournment, on due process and the interest of bringing the case to a close within a reasonable time, even though these arguments supposedly did not stand in the way of adjournments of earlier appeal hearings.i note in this connection that the adjournments, from 23 september 2008 onwards, were connected, at least in part, with the need to ensure due process: the hearing of witnesses and the realisation of the suspect’s right to attend the hearing in person.” 29.  on 13 december 2011 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law on summary reasoning.
7.  on 31 july 2003 h.p., the owner of the sicheldorfer mineral water spring appealed against this decision, claiming that the dredging had a negative impact on the spring.8.  on 8 september 2004 the ministry for agriculture, forestry, environment and water (bundesministerium für land- und forstwirtschaft, umwelt und wasserwirtschaft) (“the ministry”) ordered the applicant company to submit a plan of the projected dredging area and of all the springs and wells concerned.12.  on 19 april 2005 the ministry quashed the decision of the steiermark regional governor and remitted it back to the first instance authority on the grounds that the applicant company had failed to provide sufficient information in order to assess a possible negative impact on the spring.21.  on 24 november 2006 the ministry transmitted another expert’s opinion to the parties and requested the applicant company to submit the missing documents.22.  on 28 november 2006 the ministry requested the administrative court to extend the deadline for the decision to nine months as the proceedings were not finalised.23.  on 29 december 2006 the applicant company commented on the recently obtained expert opinion (see paragraph 21 above) claiming, inter alia, that the ministry failed to determine which missing documents were to be submitted.26.  on 17 april 2007 the ministry rejected the requested dredging licence on the grounds that the applicant company had failed to submit all the requested documents.27.  on 26 april 2007 the administrative court closed the proceedings on the applicant company’s complaint about the administration’s failure to decide (see paragraph 19 above) and ordered the reimbursement of the costs related to this complaint.32.  on 19 july 2007 the applicant company put forward further submissions in reply to the ministry’s observations; h.p., the bad radkersburg municipality and the bad radkersburg spring company replied hereto on 2 august 2007.33.  on 30 october 2008 the administrative court quashed the decision by the ministry as it was not clarified which documents the applicant company had to submit.37.  on 5 august 2009 the ministry submitted another expert opinion to the parties and asked the applicant company to submit certain precisely mentioned documents within four weeks.40.  on 12 january 2010 the ministry requested the bad radkersburg municipality and the bad radkersburg spring company (h. p.’s appeal had meanwhile been considered to be withdrawn) to submit written observations on the documents recently transmitted by the applicant company.41.  on 12 february 2010 the bad radkersburg municipality and the bad radkersburg spring company submitted their written observations, to which the applicant company replied on 19 february 2010.44.  on 20 october 2010 the ministry dismissed the appeals and therefore permitted the requested dredging by the applicant company.45.  on 18 november 2010 the administrative court closed the proceedings on the applicant company’s second complaint about the administration’s failure to decide (see paragraph 35 above) and ordered the reimbursement of the costs related to this complaint.
9.  on 29 october 2014 m.n., a prosecutor attached to the national anticorruption department (direcția națională anticorupție – hereinafter “the dna”), summoned the applicant to be interviewed as a witness on 31 october 2014 in criminal proceedings opened by the authorities into alleged acts of corruption involving her father and others.the lawyer also reassured the prosecutor that he would accompany the applicant to the dna’s offices for the interview once her medical condition improved.13.  according to the applicant’s own statement before the court, the examination at the panait sârbu clinical hospital confirmed that she was pregnant and was experiencing some complications as a result of stress and her medication’s side effects.15.  according to the applicant’s own statement before the court, on her return from the hospital two police officers presented her with the warrant to appear and took her to the dna’s offices even though she had informed them of her medical condition and had shown them her medical documents.when she asked the prosecutor to mention in her statement that she was being interviewed while under treatment, in poor health and after a trip to the hospital, she was told that she would not be allowed to leave the premises for the rest of the evening.the report noted that the applicant had supported her statement by submitting a general practitioner’s referral to hospital (see paragraph 11 above) and the results of the ultrasound taken by the panait sârbu clinical hospital (see paragraph 12 above).17.  according to the applicant’s own statement before the court, she also gave the prosecuting authorities a prescription for her medication and the medication’s patient information leaflet.authorised the police to enforce a warrant to appear (mandat de aducere) issued in the applicant’s name in order to interview her in the criminal proceedings opened by the authorities into alleged acts of corruption.according to a report produced by the officers, the applicant did not object to the warrant and followed them to the dna’s offices.according to the statement, she informed them that she had been monitored for endometrial hyperplasia, that she agreed with the information recorded by the medical staff and that the information in respect of her health was complete and accurate.30.  according to the applicant’s own statement before the court, she informed the detention centre medical service of her pregnancy and treatment and asked them to give her the medication and vitamins that evening and the following morning as recommended.33.  on 17 december 2015 the dna informed the government, inter alia, that on 6 november 2014 similar procedural measures to those taken in respect of the applicant had been taken around the same time against eleven other suspects who were being investigated in the same set of criminal proceedings.34.  on 28 january 2016 the detention centre coordination department informed the government that the applicant had arrived at 8.20 p.m. on 6 november 2014. according to the rules in force at the time, detainees were served dinner from 5.30 to 6 p.m. there were no written rules setting out the procedure which needed to be followed for detainees arriving later than 6 p.m. and the applicant had not asked for a meal.35.  according to the detention centre coordination department, none of the available documents proved that the applicant had stated that she was a non‑smoker at the time of her incarceration.36.  the applicant submitted excerpts from several newspaper and online articles concerning her detention and the time she spent at the dna’s offices on 6 november 2014. according to three of these she was interviewed at the dna’s offices for eight or more hours.
5.  following an undercover operation set up by the police with the help of two undercover agents, the applicant and a dutch national, v.d.p., were arrested on suspicion of drug trafficking.6.  in november 2002, the prosecutor’s office attached to the timişoara court of appeal committed the applicant and his co-accused for trial for drug trafficking and the case was registered with the arad county court.7.  the applicant’s counsel asked the court to hear evidence from the undercover agents.his request was refused on the ground that the anonymity of the undercover agents was protected.8.  following another request lodged by the applicant’s counsel, on 5 march 2003 the court ordered the prosecutor to submit the authorisations it had issued for the undercover operation.9.  the applicant’s counsel claimed that his client had committed the drug offence only after being incited to do so by the undercover police agents.the county court imposed a lenient sentence in the light of the applicant’s good behavior after his arrest and the fact that he had pleaded guilty as charged.the court based his conviction on the report drafted by the undercover agents after the applicant had been caught red-handed, as well as a search report and the statements given by the applicant and his co-accused.11.  the applicant appealed, complaining, inter alia, that the undercover agent had overstepped the legitimate limits of investigation by inciting him to sell drugs.it held that the good behaviour of the applicant after he had committed the offence could not justify a lenient sentence.he requested the appellate court to impose a milder sentence and accordingly, to overturn the decision of the timisoara court of appeal and to uphold the judgment of the arad county court by which he had been convicted to only three years’ imprisonment.14.  by a final decision delivered on 27 november 2003, the supreme court of justice dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law as unfounded.17.  the government contended that the records held by the prison authorities concerning the cells’ size and their occupancy rate were no longer available as the archives for that period had been destroyed, pursuant to the domestic law.however, as regards the general detention conditions in jilava prison the government submitted that every cell had been equipped with two squat toilets connected to the water network and separated from the rest of the room by a wall.the prisoners had been allowed to take one hot shower per week in the communal bathrooms located in each section of the prison (between nineteen and twenty-three showers had been available).
7.  on 18 april 2007 a prosecutor from the buzău county department for the investigation of organised crime (“the organised crime department”) opened a criminal investigation against the applicant on suspicion of drug trafficking.8.  on the same date the prosecutor from the organised crime department authorised the use of x as undercover police agent in order to determine the facts of the case, identify the offenders and obtain evidence.the prosecutor justified the issuing of the authorisation on the basis that there was reason to believe that the applicant was about to commit a drug trafficking offence.9.  in a report dated 17 may 2007 the chief of the buzău county police organised crime unit stated that x had called the applicant several times in april and may in order to enquire when the transaction might take place.the report also mentioned that the applicant had replied on several occasions that he was not in possession of the drugs, which were to be brought into the country by friends of his who had not yet returned from abroad.as the deal got underway in the car park of the petrol station, the case prosecutor and ten police officers suddenly intervened and arrested the applicant, c.a.o.13.  the applicant’s lawyer argued before the court that the applicant had in fact been incited by x to act as an intermediary in the drug deal and requested that x be called to give evidence, along with two witnesses in the applicant’s defence.the applicant’s lawyer had the opportunity to cross-examine x. he asked whether the reports of 1 march and 14 april 2007 had been signed by him and whether the criminal investigation had already been open when he had been authorised to investigate undercover.the conviction was based on the reports of 1 march and 14 april 2007 and the offence report of 19 july 2007 (see paragraphs 6 and 10 above), as well as on transcripts of the applicant’s telephone conversations with x, ambient recordings of discussions between x and c.a.o.and the in-court testimonies given by the applicant, the co‑defendants and x. the court considered that the applicant’s allegations that he had been incited by x were clearly disproved by the above‑mentioned evidence taken as a whole.in reply to the applicant’s arguments, the court held that the authorisation and actions of the undercover police officer had been in accordance with the law.the court considered that the applicant had not been incited by x since it was apparent from the evidence in the file that he had called the officer on several occasions and had planned the meeting of 19 july 2007 (see paragraph 10 above).basing its findings on the reports of 1 march and 14 april 2007 (see paragraph 6 above), the court considered that there had been serious reason to suspect that the applicant would commit a criminal offence at the time of authorisation of the covert operation.in addition, the information collected by x and the applicant’s active participation in the crime in question were supported not only by the police reports, but also by transcripts of the telephone conversations that the applicant had with c.a.o.and x. the court stated that it was clearly apparent from those transcripts that the applicant had initiated calls to x on two occasions in order to act as an intermediary in the drug deal.
7.  on 14 july 2005 e. sought to restart the time-limit for the enforcement of the judgment dated 23 february 2000, arguing that it had been unable to initiate enforcement proceedings within the three-year statutory period because the bailiff had lost the original writ of enforcement.8.  on 2 may 2006 the economic court of appeal, by a final judgment, dismissed e.’s application as being ill-founded, noting that a duplicate of the writ had been issued in 2003.9.  on 17 december 2008 the economic court of appeal upheld an application by e. for a revision of the judgment, quashed the decision of 2 may 2006 and allowed the statutory time-limit to run anew.the court did not reply to the applicant company’s contention that the application was time‑barred.11.  on 28 february 2007 the ciocana district court acknowledged the applicant’s entitlement, as a young family, to a plot of land for construction purposes.the court ordered the tohatin local administration to grant the applicant ownership of such a plot of land.13.  on 11 february 2009 the tohatin local administration lodged an application for a revision of the judgment, arguing that the applicant had not qualified as a young family because her husband had died in 2006 and she had therefore lost her entitlement to any land.14.  on 22 april 2009 the ciocana district court dismissed the application for revision, finding that the applicant had requested the plot of land in 2005. her husband’s death had not qualified as a new circumstance because the local administration had been aware of that matter at the time of the proceedings.15.  on 24 june 2009, in the applicant’s absence, the chișinău court of appeal allowed the appeal, quashed the decision of 22 april 2009 and upheld the application for revision.87 of 21 april 2011. she referred to the period of twenty-six months between 20 march 2007 and 24 june 2009, during which the judgment of 28 february 2007 had not been enforced.17.  on 16 march 2012 the rîșcani district court found for the applicant, acknowledged a violation of her rights and awarded her mdl 450,000 (equivalent to eur 27,250) in respect of pecuniary damage, mdl 66,000 in respect of non-pecuniary damage and mdl 38,193 for legal costs.the court noted that the compensation for pecuniary damage represented the average market price of a plot of land of 0.09 ha.it said that it had used the reference size of 0.09 ha because the tohatin local administration had granted plots of that size when executing similar judgments in respect of young families.18.  on 25 october 2012 the chișinău court of appeal, by a final judgment, found the length of the proceedings to have been excessive, which it attributed to the acts of the authorities.the court dismissed the remainder of the claim, noting that the applicant had failed to substantiate alleged costs for renting alternative accommodation and finding that no compensation for the land should be awarded because the judgment acknowledging her entitlement to that land had been quashed.
5.  the applicant was born in 1995. according to the last information received by the court on 6 october 2016, the applicant is detained in lisbon.6.  on 5 december 2013 criminal proceedings were initiated against the applicant by the public prosecutor of the department of investigation and prosecution (departamento de investigação e ação penal) in sintra in respect of allegations of him having committed the crimes of coercion (coação), aggravated attacks upon the physical integrity of a person (ofensas à integridade física qualificada), rape (violação), and failing to assist a person in danger (omissão de auxílio).7.  on 2 june 2014 the public prosecutor issued a european arrest warrant (“eaw”) in respect of the applicant in order to secure his presence before a judicial authority to be questioned (primeiro interrogatório judicial).9.  on 27 february 2015, the applicant was given the status of defendant in the criminal proceedings against him (constituição de arguido) and questioned by the investigating judge (primeiro interrogatório judicial).10.  on 19 march 2015 the applicant lodged an appeal with the lisbon court of appeal, challenging the lawfulness of the decision remanding him in custody, pursuant to article 219 § 1 of the code of criminal procedure.11.  on 2 april 2015 the investigating judge declared the appeal admissible and requested that the public prosecutor be asked to submit observations on the applicant’s appeal.13.  on 29 april 2015 the investigating judge ordered that the applicant be notified of the public prosecutor’s observations and that the file be sent to the lisbon court of appeal.15.  on 13 may 2015 the public prosecutor issued an opinion on the appeal, pursuant to article 416 of the code of criminal procedure.the applicant was subsequently notified of the opinion and given ten days to reply, pursuant to article 417 of the code of criminal procedure.16.  on an unknown date, a judge rapporteur appointed to the case made a preliminary examination of the applicant’s appeal and prepared a draft decision which was presented to two other judges.the judge rapporteur’s analysis of the appeal was afterwards put on the agenda for discussion by the judge rapporteur and the two other judges.17.  on 24 june 2015 the applicant lodged a habeas corpus application with the supreme court, claiming that the lack of analysis of his appeal in respect of the lawfulness of the decision placing him in pre-trial detention had violated article 5 § 4 of the convention.examining the effects of the thirty-day time-limit on pre-trial detention orders, it considered that the thirty-day time-limit on pre-trial detention orders simply constituted a guiding principle illustrating the urgency of such matters.it further noted that the lack of a speedy review of an order remanding a person in custody did not constitute a ground for a habeas corpus application under article 222 of the code and pointed out that article 219 § 1 did not, in any case, stipulate the maximum length of any pre-trial detention.19.  on 2 july 2015 the lisbon court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the investigating judge’s decision of 27 february 2015 to hold him in pre-trial detention.
she is the widow of mr sergey viktorovich grabarchuk, who was arrested on 3 april 2003 on suspicion of robbery and sentenced on 24 november 2003 by the orenburg regional court to eleven years’ imprisonment.6.  after his arrest mr grabarchuk was taken to a remand prison in orenburg, where doctors carried out a general health check and noted that he had hiv and hepatitis c. a month later hiv antibody testing confirmed the diagnosis.on 7 july 2009 he was seen by an infectious diseases doctor, who noted the progress of the hiv infection to the next stage because of a lack of antiretroviral therapy (“art”).11.  on 12 february 2010, on the basis of a routine complete blood count, doctors at the prison medical unit diagnosed mr grabarchuk with acute pyelonephritis, or inflammation of the kidney.14.  one week later the following entry was made in his medical file: “we, the undersigned, have made the present record to state that mr s. grabarchuk has refused art.” (the document was signed by the head of the medical unit, an infectious diseases doctor and a general practitioner).15.  on 22 march 2010 a medical board recorded that the tuberculosis, which had been wrongly diagnosed by the doctors at the medical unit as pyelonephritis, had developed further.on the same day doctors at the medical unit made the following entry in the medical file: “we, the undersigned, have made the present record to state that mr s. grabarchuk has refused anti-tuberculosis treatment.” (the signatures are illegible).16.  the applicant submitted that after the medical unit doctors had erred in the diagnosis of pyelonephritis, her husband had lost faith in them and had therefore refused to follow their recommendations, including those pertaining to the antiretroviral therapy.18.  on 13 april 2010 mr grabarchuk was admitted to the regional prison hospital for tuberculosis in orenburg, where he received the standard tuberculosis drug regimen, which, as shown by the medical record, did not lead to an improvement in his condition.19.  on 16 and 30 april and 11 may 2010 mr grabarchuk was seen by an infectious diseases doctor, who noted that because of the lack of antiretroviral treatment the hiv had progressed to its advanced stage, aids.24.  shortly after the death of her husband the applicant complained to the orenburg regional office of the federal service for the execution of sentences about the refusal on 14 may 2010 to transfer him to a civilian hospital.25.  by a letter of 7 june 2010 the authorities informed the applicant that the prosecutor’s office was carrying out a preliminary investigation into the circumstances of her husband’s death.26.  the applicant complained further, alleging that the head of the medical unit had shown deliberate indifference to mr grabarchuk’s condition.29.  documents submitted by the applicant show that on 1 july and 27 october 2011 the investigating authorities obtained the autopsy report and questioned two doctors who had attended to mr grabarchuk in the prison hospital.30.  on 17 january 2011 the novotroitsk town court, upon an application by the applicant, overruled the decision of 27 october 2011 on account of the failure of the investigating authorities to address the applicant’s allegation of deliberate indifference to the patient’s medical condition on the part of the head of the medical unit.
however, in the present application he only complained about the conditions of his detention in iaşi prison and about the fact that he had not been assigned a personal care assistant in rahova and iaşi prisons between 2 april 2013 and 30 january 2014.9.  according to the information provided by the national prison administration and forwarded to the court by the government, the applicant was held in the following cells: - cells e 4.3, e 6.2. and e 6.7., all measuring 33.33 sq.10.  the government did not provide any information concerning either the exact number of detainees who had occupied the cells or the time spent by the applicant in each of the above-mentioned cells.15.  moreover, he contended that he had not been assigned a personal care assistant and had been permanently subjected to humiliating and degrading remarks from his cellmates, the same people to whom he had to appeal for assistance.as he had had no personal assistant he had not been able to benefit from daily walks and had been dependent on the other inmates to be moved around the prison.17.  the applicant submitted copies of several requests he had lodged with the prison authorities on 21 may, 21 november and 23 december 2013 and on 20 february 2014 respectively, by which he had asked to be assigned a personal assistant.18.  the government submitted that the administration of both prisons had made diligent efforts to comply with the standards imposed by the court.moreover, in 2013 the authorities in iaşi prison had refurbished cell e 4.3 (see paragraph 9 above) to accommodate the needs of detainees with disabilities, including those of the applicant.19.  the government contended that the medical certificate on his disability had been issued only on 29 october 2013 (see paragraph 13 above) because the applicant had failed to submit the documents requested by the special commission for disabled persons.they further argued that even before the medical certificate had been issued, the prison authorities had on 9 august 2013 allowed a request lodged by the applicant on 7 august 2013 to be assigned a personal care assistant.he had assisted the applicant until 16 august 2013, when the latter had been admitted to the medical unit of dej prison.in the medical unit the applicant had been assisted by a co-detainee with whom he had shared the room.23.  the complaints were joined and examined together by the post‑sentencing judge on 14 june 2013. the judge noted that the prison doctor’s opinion was that the applicant was not entitled to a personal assistant.the post-sentencing judge dismissed the applicant’s complaints on the grounds that the steps taken by the prison authorities had been sufficient.the applicant produced a handwritten statement by c.f., dated 20 june 2013, in which the latter had stated that he had not helped the applicant because the prison authorities had refused to consider his activity as a personal care assistant as work that should be remunerated.
9.  by judgment of 26 february 2015 the sovetskiy district court of makhachkala found the applicant guilty of an offence under article 18.8 § 1.1 of the cao (see paragraph 24 below), of remaining in russia after the expiry of the visa.the district court held as follows: “article 18.8 § 1.1 of the cao provides for the following penalties: a fine of between 2,000 and 5,000 roubles with or without administrative removal from russia ... the subsidiary penalty of administrative removal from russian may be imposed with due regard to the information that confirms the actual need to impose such a penalty on the defendant, as well as the information that confirms the proportionality of this penalty as the only acceptable measure for achieving a balance between the public and private interests at stake ... the defendant has no legal grounds for remaining in russia.the penalty of administrative removal is also necessary for the sake of national security, to avoid the spread of various infectious diseases such as hiv, tuberculosis and leprosy, and to ensure the optimal balance of labour resources and in order to support, as a matter of priority, the employment of russian nationals ...” 10.  in the same judgment the district court ordered that, while awaiting enforcement of the administrative removal, the applicant be placed in a special detention facility for foreigners in the town of makhachkala.11.  lawyer d. lodged a statement of appeal on behalf of the applicant against the judgment of 26 february 2015. it appears that the applicant raised arguments relating to his family life in russia; it is unclear whether he raised any argument relating to a risk to his life and physical integrity in the event of enforcement of the penalty of forcible removal.the appeal court held as follows: “article 18.8 § 1.1 of the cao provides for the following penalties: a fine of between 2,000 and 5,000 roubles with administrative removal from russia ... [the applicant] has committed a violation of the regime applicable for the presence of foreigners in russia, by way of omitting after 7 october 2012 to leave russia ... the court dismisses [the applicant’s] argument relating to his family life in russia ... the marriage with ms b. was concluded on 28 april 2014, which was a long time after the commission of the offence by [the applicant] ... the administrative offence record did not contain any information relating to his family life in russia.no such information was adduced during the proceedings before the first-instance court ... [the applicant’s] prolonged violation of the migration legislation since october 2012 amounts to abuse of russia’s hospitality and thus should be treated as a breach of the receiving country’s interests ...” 13.  on an unspecified date the applicant received a copy of the appeal decision.on the same day, the lawyer was refused access to the applicant in the detention centre, apparently because he should have obtained authorisation for the visit from the regional migration authority.despite the above, the applicant failed to leave russia ... at the time he did not apply for asylum and continued to stay in russia unlawfully until the imposition of the penalty of administrative removal.however, even after this, he did not seek asylum, while neglecting the real possibility of his future deportation from russia ... the ministry of foreign affairs points out that syrian nationals who return to their homeland or who are deported or expelled there may arrive in damascus and then proceed to other regions that are controlled by governmental forces.” 19.  on 14 october 2015 the applicant, assisted by lawyer m., sought judicial review of the refusal of temporary asylum under the code of administrative procedure (“the cap”) and asked the leninskiy district court of makhachkala to put in place an interim measure by way of suspending enforcement of the judgment of 26 february 2015. on 16 october 2015 the court refused to deal with the case, concluding that it had to be lodged before a court with jurisdiction in the area of the applicant’s current “place of residence”; his stay in the detention centre did not qualify as a place of residence.on 27 october 2015 the district court left the matter without examination because the applicant had not indicated the date and place of his birth; had not specified whether he had a law degree, which was relevant because the case could only be lodged by a person in possession of a law degree; and had not provided evidence that his representative had a law degree.the court held that the applicant was at risk of violence which was no more intensive than for other people living in syria: “the grounds for granting temporary asylum on account of humanitarian considerations include the following situations: a grave medical condition for which the foreigner will not receive the requisite medical care in the country of nationality, thus putting his or her life at risk; a real threat to his or her life or liberty on account of hunger, epidemics, emergency situations of environmental or industrial origin or on account of an internal or international conflict that encompasses the entire territory of the state of nationality; a real threat of being subjected to torture or another cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment in the country of nationality.under article 62 of the code of administrative procedure the parties to the case must prove the circumstances to which they refer as the basis for their claims or objections, unless otherwise provided for by the code.assessing the evidence submitted to it, the court concludes that [the applicant] has not adduced convincing arguments that he is at risk of being persecuted by the authorities or by groups of the population on account of his religion, race or membership of a social group ... despite the difficult social and political situation in syria, there are no grounds to consider that his life will be at a higher risk than that of other people living in this country ... according to information from the federal migration authority, people returning to syria may reach directly the city of damascus, which is under the control of the government.he argued that the first-instance court had not paid proper attention to his argument relating to the risk to his life and physical integrity in the event of his removal to syria; the migration authority had not refuted his argument while the court had shifted the burden of proof onto the applicant and had placed undue emphasis on the illegality of the applicant’s presence in russia.his appeal was dismissed by the moscow city court on 8 june 2016. the appeal court held as follows: “the first-instance court considered that the applicant did not fall within the scope of the notion of “refugee” under the refugees act ... in view of the applicant’s failure to submit specific facts disclosing that in the event of his removal to syria he would be exposed to a real threat to his security ... or that he was persecuted in this country, the appeal court agrees with the first-instance court ... the appeal court also notes that the applicant arrived in russia in 2011 but only sought temporary asylum in 2015.”
4.  the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in ufa, the republic of bashkortostan.6.  on 24 april 1996 he lodged a civil action against the owner of the car, the state unitary subsidiary passenger transport company of ufa no.7.  on 29 november 2005 the sovetskiy district court of ufa (hereinafter “the district court”) partly granted the applicant’s claims.9.  on 28 march 2006 the judgment of 29 november 2005 became final, as modified on appeal by the supreme court of the republic of bashkortostan.the final court award in the applicant’s favour consisted of a sum in compensation for pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage sustained (equivalent to 30,462 euros (eur)), to be paid once the judgment became final, and of a monthly allowance (equivalent of eur 207), to be paid until the end of the applicant’s life.10.  on 17 june 2006 the commercial court of the republic of bashkortostan (hereinafter “the commercial court”) granted the applicant’s application for aggregation as a lump sum («капитализация») of the amounts of the monthly allowance awarded by the judgment of 29 november 2005, in accordance with section 135 § 1 of the insolvency act (see paragraph 20 below).11.  since the award remained unenforced, on 11 january 2009 the district court granted a prior application by the applicant to have the amount of the monthly allowance index-linked, and raised it to eur 909. the judgment became final on 22 january 2009.12.  on 3 march 2009 the commercial court once again granted the applicant’s application for payment as a lump sum of the amounts of the monthly allowance.13.  on 15 july 2009 the commercial court accepted the applicant’s claim for transfer of the transport company’s debt to the russian federation, as provided for in section  135 § 3 of the insolvency act (see paragraph 21 below).the court ordered that the judgment debts in the applicant’s favour were to be paid by the federal tax service of russia.14.  between august and october 2010 the applicant received the equivalent of eur 15,131, which corresponded to total of the monthly allowance that he had not received in 2005-2010. furthermore, on 6 august 2010 the applicant started receiving a monthly allowance of eur 948.16.  the transport company had the right of “economic control” over the assets allocated to it by the parent company.the parent company was a unitary company with the right of “economic control” over the assets allocated to it by the state committee on construction, architecture and transport of the republic of bashkortostan.17.  on 14 october 2004 the government of the republic of bashkortostan issued decree no.918-p, by which all the transport company’s assets were transferred to the parent company; the debts remained with the transport company.
4.  the applicant was born in 1977. he has served sentences in several prisons.on 21 april 2015 he was released from târgu-jiu prison.5.  the applicant alleged that while detained in cell no.5 of târgu‑jiu prison for eight days, between 1 october and 9 october 2013, he had not had an individual bed and had therefore been forced to sleep on the cold floor on two blankets.as a consequence, the renal disease from which he suffered had been re-activated and he had experienced intense pain.6.  on 3 october 2013 he had been examined by a prison doctor and had been prescribed medical treatment.however, he had been unable to submit any evidence in this connection as the prison authorities had rejected his requests for a copy of his medical records.he submitted instead an old medical certificate stating that on 23 september 2012 he had been hospitalised in the nephrology department of slatina hospital suffering from renal colic.7.  the applicant lodged a complaint with the post‑sentencing judge asking for an individual bed.8.  his complaint was examined on 15 october 2013. the applicant informed the judge that he had eventually been given a bed, but only after nine days.the post-sentencing judge took note that the applicant had obtained an individual bed; he did not draft an interlocutory judgment, but merely noted that the complaint had been withdrawn.9.  the applicant lodged a complaint with the gorj district court seeking compensation in connection with the lack of an individual bed for eight days in cell no.5 of târgu-jiu prison.10.  on 12 november 2013 the târgu-jiu district court dismissed the applicant’s complaint as inadmissible without examining its merits on account of the fact that the applicant had not submitted an interlocutory judgment by the post-sentencing judge in connection with his complaint.
4.  the first applicant was born in 1980 and lives in sharya, the kostroma region.5.  the applicant was held in remand prison iz-44/1 in kostroma in the following cells: cell no.m dates of stay 29 6.  the parties disagreed on the design capacity of the cells and the actual number of inmates.7.  the first applicant, relying on three hand-written statements from his co-detainees, submitted that cell 49 had contained three two-tier bunk beds with metal sheets welded to beds on the upper and lower levels to create additional sleeping places.8.  the government submitted that the number of prisoners in the cells had not exceeded the occupancy limit.cell 29 had three sleeping places, cell 49 four places and cell 43 two places.all of these pages, except one dated 24 july 2009, indicate that cell 49 was designed for four persons and accommodated as many prisoners.the entry of 24 july 2009 indicated that cell 49 was designed for ten persons and accommodated eight prisoners.similarly, the entries in respect of cell 29 show traces of erasures and alterations.its design capacity is listed as two or three places and the actual population is always three prisoners.9.  the second applicant was born in 1958 and has been serving his term of imprisonment in ivdel, the sverdlovskiy region.10.  between 14 july 2009 and 4 july 2010 the second applicant was held in remand prison iz-59/1 in the perm region.11.  according to the government, the second applicant was held in cells 80, 90, 92, 98 and 103. the actual number of inmates detained in the cells did not exceed their designed capacity.other conditions were satisfactory.the government submitted selected pages from registration logs, some of which appears to contain erasures and alterations in the fields showing the number of inmates in cell 90. on some pages the listed total number of inmates is ten less than the number produced by adding up the population of individual cells.
6.  on 12 november 2012, the organisers gave notice to the relevant authority, the baku city executive authority (“the bcea”), about the demonstration of 17 november 2012. it appears that no prior notice was given to the bcea by the organisers of the demonstration of 26 january 2013. information about that assembly was disseminated through facebook or the press.7.  the bcea refused to authorise the holding of the demonstration of 17 november 2012, stating in general terms that that assembly was not in accordance with the law on freedom of assembly.the bcea further stated that the square where the organisers proposed to hold the assembly was a designated public leisure area and that the assembly itself was impractical.the participants in the demonstration of 17 november 2012 were demanding democratic reforms in the country and protesting against impediments to freedom of assembly.the participants of the demonstration of 26 january 2013 were condemning the use of force by the police against participants of previous demonstrations.in the first case the report stated that by deliberately failing to comply with a lawful order from the police, the applicant had committed an administrative offence under article 310.1 of the code of administrative offences (“the cao”).in the second case the applicant was charged with an administrative offence under article 298.2 of the cao (participation in a public assembly that had not been organised in accordance with the law).members of the public were not allowed to attend, even though the court had not taken a formal decision to close the hearing to the public.16.  the record of the court hearing in the first case shows that the applicant declared that he did not need legal assistance and would defend himself in person.according to documents submitted by the government, the applicant refused the assistance of that lawyer and decided to defend himself in person.20.  in the first case, by a decision of 17 november 2012 the first‑instance court convicted the applicant under article 310.1 of the cao and sentenced him to five days’ “administrative” detention.in the second case, by a decision of 26 january 2013 the court convicted the applicant under article 298.2 of the cao and sentenced him to a fine of 500 manats (azn).21.  on unspecified dates the applicant lodged appeals before the baku court of appeal, arguing that his convictions were in violation of his rights because the demonstrations in which he had participated had been peaceful.22.  in the first case the applicant was assisted before the baku court of appeal by a lawyer of his own choice.23.  in both cases, on 23 november 2012 and 5 february 2013 respectively, the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of the first-instance court.
prior to those assemblies, on 23 july 2010, 18 march 2011 and 11 april 2011 respectively, the organisers, consisting of several members of the opposition, gave notice to the relevant authority, the baku city executive authority (“the bcea”).6.  the bcea refused to authorise the holding of the demonstration of 31 july 2010 at the places indicated by the organisers and proposed three other locations on the outskirts of baku, namely, a stadium in the binagadi district, a square in the proximity of zigh road in the khatai district, and a yard of a driving school situated in the 20th residential area of the sabail district.the bcea noted that the squares in one of which the organisers proposed to hold the assembly were designated for public leisure and the other places proposed by the organisers were areas with heavy traffic.7.  similarly, the bcea refused to authorise the holding of the demonstrations of 2 and 17 april 2011 at the places indicated by the organisers and in both cases proposed a different location on the outskirts of baku, namely, the driving school yard mentioned above.the reports stated that by deliberately failing to comply with lawful police orders, the applicants had committed an administrative offence under article 310.1 of the code of administrative offences (“the cao”).19.  according to most of the applicants, the hearing before the court in each case was very brief.in some of the cases members of the public were not allowed to attend, even though the court had not taken a formal decision to close the hearing to the public.the records of the respective court hearings show that those applicants refused the assistance of a state-funded lawyer and decided to defend themselves in person.22.  the record of the hearing in the case of the applicant in application no.23.  the only witnesses questioned during the respective court hearings were the police officers who, according to the official records, had arrested the applicants.the courts convicted the applicants under article 310.1 of the cao and sentenced them to periods of “administrative” detention ranging from seven to fifteen days (see appendix).26.  on various dates the applicants lodged appeals before the baku court of appeal, arguing that their convictions were in violation of their rights because the demonstrations in which they had participated or attempted to participate had been peaceful.28.  on various dates the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicants’ appeal and upheld the decisions of the respective first-instance courts (see appendix).57737/11, on 28 february 2011, following his complaints about the authorities’ failure to serve him with the relevant documents, the sabail district court sent him a copy of the administrative offence report issued in respect of him, the first‑instance court’s decision of 31 july 2010 and the baku court of appeal’s decision of 20 august 2010.69411/11, he received the decision of the court of appeal of 13 april 2011 on 15 october 2011, after having complained about the court’s failure to serve him with that decision.
5.  the applicant attempted to participate in a demonstration organised by the opposition on 20 october 2012. prior to that assembly, on 15 october 2012, the organisers gave notice to the relevant authority, the baku city executive authority (“the bcea”).the bcea refused to authorise the holding of the demonstration at the place indicated by the organisers and proposed a different location on the outskirts of baku.he and a few others attempted to march from the headquarters of the musavat party to the place where the assembly was being held.the courtroom was full, so some people were waiting outside the court for the outcome of the proceedings.in the first case the report stated that by deliberately failing to comply with a lawful order of the police, the applicant had committed an administrative offence under article 310.1 of the code of administrative offences (“the cao”).in the second case the applicant was charged with an administrative offence under article 298.2 (participation in a public assembly that had not been organised in accordance with the law) of the cao.12.  in the first case the applicant was brought before the binagadi district court on 20 october 2012, the day of his arrest.members of the public, including human rights defenders and journalists, were not allowed to attend, even though the court had not taken a formal decision to close the hearing to the public.in the second case it was the same lawyer, mr s.a., who had been instructed to assist the applicant in accordance with the above-mentioned document of 6 may 2014 drawn up by a police officer.16.  according to the records of the court hearings in both cases, in their oral submissions the state-funded lawyers briefly stated that the applicant was not guilty and asked the respective court to discontinue the case.17.  in both cases the only witnesses questioned during the court hearing were police officers who, according to the official records, had arrested the applicant or prepared an administrative-offence report on him.19.  by a decision of 20 october 2012 the first-instance court in the first case convicted the applicant under article 310.1 of the cao and sentenced him to ten days’ “administrative” detention.by a decision of 7 may 2014 the court in the second case convicted the applicant under article 298.2 of the cao and sentenced him to fifteen days’ administrative detention.20.  on unspecified dates the applicant lodged appeals before the baku court of appeal, arguing that his convictions were in violation of his rights because the assemblies in which he had participated or attempted to participate had been peaceful (in addition, in the second case the applicant argued that the assembly had been spontaneous).22.  in both cases, on 29 october 2012 and 16 may 2014 respectively, the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of the first-instance court.
6.  on 11 april 2011, the organisers had given the relevant authority, the baku city executive authority (“the bcea”), notice of the demonstration of 17 april 2011. it appears that no prior notice was given to the bcea by the organisers of the demonstration of 26 january 2013. information about that assembly was disseminated through facebook or the press.7.  the bcea refused to authorise the demonstration of 17 april 2011 at the place indicated by the organisers and proposed a different location on the outskirts of baku – the yard of a driving school situated in the 20th residential area of the sabail district.11.  according to the applicant, during her arrest in the first case several police officers twisted her arms behind her back, held her head down and forced her to move in that position for 20-25 metres in the direction of a police car.in a photograph, submitted to the court by the applicant and allegedly taken at the time of her arrest, the applicant is shown with both arms twisted behind her back by two police officers and with her body bent as a result of that restraint.in the first case the report stated that by deliberately failing to comply with a lawful order from the police, the applicant had committed an administrative offence under article 310.1 of the code of administrative offences (“the cao”).in the second case the applicant was charged with an administrative offence under article 298.1 of the cao (breach of the rules on the organisation and holding of assemblies, by an assembly organiser).in the second case members of the public were not allowed inside the courtroom, even though the court had not taken a formal decision to close the hearing to the public.the records of the court hearings in both cases show that in their oral submissions the state-funded lawyers briefly stated that the applicant was not guilty and/or asked the respective court to discontinue the case.in the second case the court found that the applicant had incited people to participate in an unlawful assembly and, by doing so, had violated the rules on organising and holding assemblies.20.  by a decision of 18 april 2011 the first-instance court in the first case convicted the applicant under article 310.1 of the cao and sentenced her to five days’ “administrative” detention.by a decision of 26 january 2013 the court in the second case convicted the applicant under article 298.1 of the cao and sentenced her to a fine of 2,000 manats (azn).22.  in the first case the applicant also requested the court of appeal to order a forensic examination of the injuries she had allegedly sustained during her arrest.the court also disregarded the applicant’s requests to examine video recordings of the arrest made by some journalists; to question the police officers appearing in those video recordings; and to demand the medical record issued in respect of the applicant in the detention facility where she had served her administrative detention.24.  in both cases, on 22 april 2011 and 6 february 2013 respectively, the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of the first-instance court.the letter also instructed the baku city prosecutor’s office to inform the lawyer about the results of the examination.
6.  on 12 november 2012, the organisers gave notice to the relevant authority, the baku city executive authority (“the bcea”), about the demonstration of 17 november 2012. it appears that no proper prior notice was given to the bcea by the organisers of the demonstration of 10 march 2013. information about that assembly was disseminated through facebook or the press.7.  the bcea refused to authorise the holding of the demonstration of 17 november 2012, stating in general terms that that assembly would not be in accordance with the law on freedom of assembly.the bcea further stated that the square where the organisers proposed to hold the assembly was a designated public leisure area and that the assembly itself would be impractical.in the first case the report stated that by deliberately failing to comply with a lawful order from the police, the applicant had committed an administrative offence under article 310.1 of the code of administrative offences (“the cao”).in the second case the applicant was charged with an administrative offence under article 298.2 (participation in a public assembly that had not been organised in accordance with the law) of the cao.15.  in the first case the applicant was brought before the sabail district court on 17 november 2012, the day of his arrest.members of the public were not allowed to attend, even though the court had not taken a formal decision to close the hearing to the public.19.  none of the material submitted to the court contains any record showing that in the first case the state-funded lawyer, mr z.a., made any oral or written submissions before the first-instance court.according to the record of the court hearing in the second case, in his oral submissions the state-funded lawyer, mr t.a., stated in general terms that the applicant was not guilty.testified that he and the applicant had attempted to participate in the demonstration but had been arrested even before they had entered the area where the assembly had been held.21.  by a decision of 17 november 2012 the first-instance court in the first case convicted the applicant under article 310.1 of the cao and sentenced him to seven days’ “administrative” detention.by a decision of 11 march 2013 the court in the second case convicted the applicant under article 298.2 of the cao and sentenced him to six days’ “administrative” detention.23.  in his appeals the applicant also complained that the respective first‑instance courts had failed to take into consideration the fact that he had a second-degree disability and, under the law, he should not have been sentenced to administrative detention.in the second case the court of appeal found that the applicant had participated in a demonstration which had not been organised in accordance with the law.26.  in both cases, on 26 november 2012 and 27 march 2013 respectively, the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of the first-instance court.
on the same day the police arrived at the crime scene and found the bullet which the applicant had fired.had given him the tt pistol, had driven him to the apartment block where the couple lived, and had waited nearby while the applicant had tried to rob them.investigator m. noted the applicant’s oral statement in the minutes of the questioning and the applicant signed the minutes.27.  in july 2002 the applicant complained to the court of appeal that on 15 and 16 june 2001 the police had tortured him with the aim of extracting statements incriminating la.28.  on 9 december 2002 the court of appeal held a preliminary hearing in the case in the presence of the applicant and his co-accused lu., la., and p. on the same day the court of appeal remitted the case to the prosecutors for further investigation.32.  on 14 august 2003 the applicant was questioned in the presence of lawyer k. and stated that he had actually committed the attack alone and had not had any accomplices.the applicant had told m. that those two persons had threatened him and for that reason during the confrontations he had lied and said that he had committed the attack alone.38.  on 3 december 2004 the court of appeal, referring, inter alia, to the submissions of the investigator m. (see paragraph 37 above) and p. (see paragraph 8 above), convicted the applicant and sentenced him to seven years’ imprisonment and confiscation of all his property for having attacked mr and mrs i. with the help of lu.and another individual brought the applicant to a forest, threatened him and suggested he repay the debt by robbing mr and mrs i. by the same judgment the court convicted p., lu.of having committed a series of armed attacks and planned attacks using the tt pistol which the applicant had used to attack spouses i. p. was also convicted of murder of a person who promised to report him to the authorities and the attempted murder of police officers in order to evade arrest.and p. recanted their initial confessions in the course of the subsequent investigation and trial, the court stated that it found their initial confessions more trustworthy since they were more coherent with other evidence in the file than their subsequent, modified, accounts of the events.had helped the applicant to prepare the attack the court referred to the fact that lu., la., and the applicant knew each other because they had served their prison sentences together and maintained contacts after release.had assisted the applicant in the attack was confirmed by the statements that the applicant had given during the pre-trial investigation.the government were unable to specify the name of this medication because the applicant’s medical file had been damaged by flooding in the sizo in 2006-2007 and destroyed in 2008. in may 2005 the applicant started coughing up blood.52.  the government provided certificates issued by the state penitentiary service stating that the cells in which the applicant had been held in the sizo had been well ventilated and that the food provided to him had been adequate and in compliance with national legislation.
5.  in 1995-2002 the applicant was convicted of and served a sentence for aggravated theft and burglary.6.  on 27 december 2005 and 6 january 2006 the police found the applicant in possession of illegal drugs.7.  on 20 january 2006 the police arrested the applicant on suspicion of drug manufacturing and possession.8.  on the same day criminal proceedings were instituted against the applicant and a certain mr i. for armed robbery committed in a group.9.  on 23 january 2006 the kyiv podilsky district court (“the district court”) ordered the applicant’s detention on remand until 20 march 2006 on the grounds that he had previous convictions and there was a risk that he would abscond, continue his criminal activities or obstruct the investigation.10.  on 16 march 2006 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 20 april 2006, stating that there was no reason to change it and there was a need to carry out investigative actions.11.  on 27 june 2006 the district court held a preliminary hearing in the case and upheld the preventive measure imposed on the applicant without giving any reasons or setting a time-limit for it.12.  on 17 march and 14 july 2008, and 19 january and 23 april 2009 the district court refused the applicant’s requests for release.13.  on 17 july 2009 the district court convicted the applicant of drug possession and armed robbery committed in a group and sentenced him to nine years’ imprisonment.14.  on 27 july 2010 the kyiv city court of appeal quashed that judgment and remitted the case to the district court for fresh consideration.15.  on the same day the applicant was released against his undertaking not to abscond.16.  on 30 september 2013 the district court sent the case against the applicant to the prosecutor for further investigation.17.  on 25 april 2014 the charges concerning the armed robbery were separated into a second set of criminal proceedings.18.  on 29 april 2014 the bill of indictment for robbery was approved and on 3 june 2014 the district court committed the applicant for trial on that charge.19.  as at the date of the last communication from the parties to the court, 5 march 2015, proceedings against the applicant were still pending before the district court.
6.  on 23 july 2010 the organisers, consisting of several members of opposition parties, gave notice to the relevant authority, the baku city executive authority (“the bcea”), of the demonstration of 31 july 2010. it appears that no prior notice was given to the bcea by the organisers of the demonstration of 10 march 2013. information about that demonstration was disseminated via facebook or the press.7.  the bcea refused to authorise the demonstration of 31 july 2010 at the places indicated by the organisers and proposed three other locations on the outskirts of baku – a stadium situated in the binagadi district, a square near zigh road in the khatai district, and the yard of a driving school situated in the 20th habitable area of the sabail district.the bcea noted that of the locations proposed by the organisers at which to hold the assembly, the squares were all designated public leisure areas and the other places were areas with heavy traffic.the participants of the demonstration of 10 march 2013 were protesting over the deaths of numerous soldiers in the army.in the first case the report stated that by deliberately failing to comply with a lawful order of the police, the applicant had committed an administrative offence under article 310.1 of the code of administrative offences (“the cao”).in the second case he was charged with an administrative offence under article 298.2 of the cao (participation in a public assembly organised not in accordance with the law).13.  in the first case the applicant was brought before the sabail district court on 31 july 2010, the day of his arrest.in the second case members of the public were not allowed inside the courtroom, even though the court had not taken a formal decision to close the hearing to the public.none of the material submitted to the court contain any records showing that the state-funded lawyer, ms e.z., made any oral or written submissions to the first-instance court.19.  by a decision of 31 july 2010 the first-instance court convicted the applicant under article 310.1 of the cao and sentenced him to seven days’ administrative detention.by a decision of 11 march 2013 the same court convicted the applicant under article 298.2 of the cao and sentenced him to seven days’ administrative detention.20.  on unspecified dates the applicant lodged appeals with the baku court of appeal, arguing that his convictions were in violation of his rights because the demonstrations in which he had participated had been peaceful.in the second case the applicant prepared his appeal with the assistance of a lawyer of his own choosing, but that lawyer did not attend the hearing.22.  on 16 august 2010 and 27 march 2013 respectively the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeals and upheld the decision of the first-instance court.23.  according to the applicant, the decision of the court of appeal of 16 august 2010 was sent to him on 23 december 2010, after he complained that the court had failed to serve him with that decision.
4.  the applicant, a retired military officer, was born in 1947 and lives in the city of simferopol, ukraine.5.  in december 2004 the applicant instituted proceedings before the simferopol garrison military court against a local military enlistment office seeking an order to recalculate his pension.6.  on 20 may 2005 the court found against the applicant.on 11 august 2005, following his appeal, the navy court of appeal upheld the decision of the first-instance court.7.  on 30 august 2005 the applicant appealed on points of law.8.  on 17 october 2005 the higher administrative court of ukraine allowed the applicant a time-limit until 1 november 2005 to rectify the procedural shortcomings of his appeal on points of law.the relevant part of the decision reads as follows: “the [present] appeal on points of law does not comply with the requirements laid down in article 213 of the code of administrative justice, as the applicant failed to pay the court fee and to provide a number of copies of the appeal on points of law corresponding to the number of persons involved in the proceedings ... [the court decides to] set for gavrilov v.v.a deadline of 1 november 2005 for rectifying the shortcomings of the appeal on points of law submitted by him.[the court brings to] the attention of gavrilov v.v.that if he fails to rectify the above shortcomings, in accordance with article 108 of the code of administrative justice, the appeal on points of law will be returned to the applicant and considered not submitted.” 9.  the applicant dispatched his rectified appeal on points of law by registered post on 24 october 2005. it appears that the applicant resubmitted several copies of the appeal dated 30 august 2005 accompanied, in accordance with the instructions of the higher administrative court of ukraine, with proof of payment of the court fee.10.  according to the acknowledgment of receipt form, the letter was received by the court registry on 27 october 2005.11.  on 7 november 2005 the higher administrative court of ukraine adopted a decision which stated, inter alia, as follows: “gavrilov v.v.failed to rectify the shortcomings indicated in the ruling [of 17 october 2005] within the time-limit granted by the court, the appeal on points of law should, therefore, be considered as not submitted and be returned to the applicant.” 12.  on 10 november 2005 the higher administrative court of ukraine adopted another decision, the relevant part of which read as follows: “when the higher administrative court of ukraine received the [applicant’s] appeal on points of law, it was established that the above appeal on points of law had been lodged outside the statutory time-limit for lodging such an appeal as provided for by article 212 of the code of administrative justice ... in particular the challenged ruling of the navy court of appeal was delivered on 11 august 2005, the appeal on points of law was dated 30 august 2005, and, according to the postmark, was dispatched to the higher administrative court of ukraine on 24 october 2005, the applicant failed to submit a request for an extension of the time-limit for lodging an appeal on points of law, his appeal on points of law should therefore be left without examination.”
was obliged, in particular, to compensate the local council for the damage suffered by the agricultural producers in connection with the expropriation of the land.9.  on 10 june 1999 the berdychiv district land authority drew up a draft land-ownership certificate designating the boundaries of the plot to be allocated to u.c.c.took no action to register its land-use rights and the plot designated for expropriation by parliament’s decision of 18 march 1999 remained in the hands of the members of the v.g.the 0.6021-ha parcel of the land farmed by the applicant was affected by the parliament’s decision.11.  meanwhile, on 17 january 2003 the berdychiv district administration approved a draft certificate determining the boundaries of the plots of land to be designated to individual farmers from the lands allocated to v.g.12.  on the basis of this decision, on 4 june 2003 the applicant was issued with the land-ownership certificate for the aforementioned 0.6021-ha plot.13.  on 7 july 2005 the berdychiv district prosecutor addressed the berdychiv district administration objecting to its decision of 17 january 2003. the prosecutor maintained, in particular, that 150 ha of land designated for exploitation of kaolin deposits had been allocated to individual farmers in breach of u.c.c.’s rights.14.  on 22 july 2005 the berdychiv district administration accepted the prosecutor’s objection and annulled its decision of 17 january 2003 in so far as it related to the 150 ha of land claimed by u.c.c.lodged a civil action claiming the 0.6021-ha plot of land allocated to the applicant and seeking annulment of the land-ownership certificate issued to him on 4 june 2003. it noted, in particular, that the berdychiv district administration had already annulled its own decision of 17 january 2003, which had served as the basis for the issuance of the land-ownership certificate to the applicant.it noted that the disputed plot had been allocated to the applicant mistakenly on the basis of the decision of 17 january 2003, without due regard to the fact that in 1999 this very plot had already been expropriated and transferred to u.c.c.20.  in february 2007 the applicant added to his cassation appeal, informing the supreme court of ukraine that on 12 february 2007 the regional court had annulled the decision of 22 july 2005 and revalidated the decision of 17 january 2003, on the basis of which he had obtained his land-ownership certificate (see paragraph 23 below).they sought, in particular, to annul its decision of 22 july 2005 and to declare lawful the decision of 17 january 2003, on the basis of which their land-use certificates had been issued.it noted, in particular, that parliament had ordered the expropriation of kh.’s land, while the land, whose boundaries had been in dispute, had belonged to v.g., which had been a separate legal entity on the date of the decision at issue.25.  after several rounds of proceedings, on 14 september 2011 the berdychiv court found that the decision of 22 july 2005 had been unlawful in so far as it had related to the plots of land of the individuals who had instituted the proceedings.on 6 december 2011 and 27 august 2013 the judgment of 14 september 2011 was upheld by the zhytomyr regional administrative court and the supreme court of ukraine respectively.
6.  in march 1999 its housing commission allocated him a studio in a residence hall for students and employees of the national defence academy of ukraine (“the defence academy”), located on z. street in kyiv, and the applicants moved into this accommodation.12.  in october 2002 the defence academy and office of the prosecutor general instituted proceedings in the shevchenkivskyy district court in kyiv, seeking to evict the applicants’ family from the z. street accommodation.relying on article 132 paragraph 1 of the housing code (see paragraph 35 below), the plaintiffs argued that because the first applicant had resigned from military service, he and his family were obliged to vacate the accommodation, which had been provided to them on a temporary basis in connection with the first applicant’s military service.13.  during the trial, the applicants alleged that the first applicant had been “cantoned” or quartered in the disputed accommodation as a military serviceman, a fact which triggered a special duty on the part of the state to keep providing him with housing upon his resignation from the armed forces.since it had been his decision to terminate the contract early, there was no right to keep the accommodation or any duty of the state to provide other accommodation under the applicable law.15.  on 9 december 2003 the first applicant lodged an appeal with the kyiv city court of appeal (“the court of appeal”).16.  on 29 january 2004 the court of appeal upheld the judgment of 11 november 2003, following a hearing attended by representatives of the defence academy but not by the first applicant.the fact that he had been provided with temporary accommodation at the ministry’s discretion did not mean that the state had a duty to accommodate him or his family after termination of the contract.17.  according to the applicants, the court of appeal did not notify them of the date and time of the hearing of 29 january 2004. they further stated that on two occasions – in april 2004 and sometime in 2005 (the applicants could not recall the exact dates) – the first applicant had visited the court to enquire about the status of the proceedings, but did not receive any meaningful response.20.  on 12 august and 26 september 2005 the first applicant lodged written complaints with the president of the court of appeal concerning the delay in examining his appeal.21.  on 3 october 2005 the deputy president of the court of appeal informed him that his case had already been decided and that the judgment of 11 november 2003 had been upheld.22.  on 16 and 24 november 2005 the first applicant wrote to the court of appeal with a request to be provided with a copy of the decision taken on 29 january 2004.24.  on 13 december 2005 the applicants lodged a request with the supreme court of ukraine for leave to appeal in cassation out of time against the rulings of 11 november 2003 and 29 january 2004, on the grounds that they had not been notified of the latter ruling until 29 november 2005. they argued, in particular, that the court of appeal had failed, in breach of the requirements of the applicable law, to notify them of the date and time of the appeal hearing and the decision taken in their case.in particular, since the first applicant had resigned from military service in connection with family circumstances, his situation fell within the ambit of paragraph 3, not paragraph 1 of article 132 of the housing code.25.  on 20 december 2005 the supreme court rejected the applicants’ request for leave to appeal out of time, noting that, in accordance with article 325 § 2 of the new code of civil procedure of 2004 such leave could only be granted within one year of pronouncement of the decision subject to appeal (see paragraph 34 below).
however, they could not provide any factual information as to whether the applicant had been present at the police station on the date in question as the time-limit for keeping the relevant documents had expired and the admissions register of the police station had been destroyed.the relevant parts of the arrest reports read as follows: “investigator ... k., on 5.05.2005 at 18:00 in accordance with article 115 of the criminal procedure code of ukraine detained, on suspicion of the commission of a crime: dolganin valeriy nikolayevich ... brought before the investigator ... or actually arrested: on 5.05.2005 ...” 11.  he was taken for a forensic medical examination, which was conducted in the presence of a police officer.the operative part of the judgment provided that the term of the applicant’s imprisonment should be calculated from 3 may 2005, the day of his actual arrest.20.  according to the applicant, the medical care provided to him during his detention in the kharkiv sizo was inadequate and resulted in a deterioration of his health.the applicant’s medical file suggests that in 2003, while serving a prison sentence for another conviction, the applicant was recognised as falling into the second category of disability because of his intestinal problems and the need for appropriate surgery was stressed by physicians.33.  on 23 june 2009 and 12 october 2010 because of his intestinal problems, the applicant was recognised as falling into the second category of disability for a one-year period and the third category of disability for the remaining imprisonment term, respectively.35.  on 20 february 2006 the applicant complained to a prosecutor about his ill-treatment by the police on 3 may 2005. he provided a detailed account of events and asked for the admissions register of the police station to be produced as evidence.37.  on 8 august 2006 and 5 september 2006 the applicant’s mother and the applicant, respectively, again complained to the district prosecutor’s office about the applicant’s ill-treatment by the police on 3 may 2005. in letters dated 18 september 2006 the prosecutor informed the applicant and his mother that a similar complaint from the applicant had already been examined and declared ill-founded on 2 march 2006.38.  on 14 september 2006 the kharkiv regional prosecutor’s office (“the regional prosecutor’s office”) set aside the aforementioned decision of 2 march 2006 on the grounds that the inquiry had been incomplete and ordered an additional investigation.it was noted that the applicant and the police officers needed to be questioned in detail about the circumstances in which the alleged ill-treatment had taken place, including the exact place and time of the ill-treatment, the persons involved and their individual role in the alleged incident.moreover, possible witnesses who could confirm or disprove the fact of the ill-treatment needed to be identified, and medical specialists who had examined the applicant had to be questioned and the relevant medical documents demanded and obtained.43.  on 1 june 2007 the prosecutor’s office again refused to institute criminal proceedings in response to the applicant’s complaint as there was no medical or other evidence to support the applicant’s allegations.in the judgment of 13 april 2007, by which the applicant was convicted, his ill‑treatment complaint was dismissed as unsubstantiated mainly on the basis of the forensic medical report of 5 may 2005 and the results of the inquiries conducted by prosecutors in respect of the applicant’s complaints.the court also observed that during the whole pre-trial investigation the applicant had acknowledged his guilt and had never complained about any ill-treatment, and that he had not retracted his statements until the trial (which the court considered that he did simply as part of his defence strategy).in the appeals against his conviction before the kharkiv regional court of appeal and the supreme court, the applicant referred to a medical certificate issued by hospital no.
6.  in 1991 the applicant asked the authorities to return to her some buildings and a plot of land owned by her father before nationalisation in 1940. in november 1995 the applicant wrote to the authorities to ask why the buildings and the land had been sold to other persons in 1992. the authorities replied in december 1995 that the applicant had given an incorrect address for the buildings when submitting her request for her property rights to be restored and the buildings in question had already been privatised.12.  on 10 june 2004, the applicant lodged a claim with the kaunas district court, requesting the annulment of the valuation of the buildings made by the centre of registers on 14 july 2003 (see paragraph 10 above) and the appointment of independent experts to assess the market value of the buildings because she considered that the value set for the buildings was too low.13.  the applicant lodged a separate complaint, where she claimed that the authorities assessed the value of the buildings incorrectly, and complaining that the assessment of the value of the buildings had been made before the decision to restore her property rights had been taken.14.  the applicant lodged a modified claim with the kaunas district court, complaining that the assessment of the value of the buildings had been made three or four months before the decision to restore her property rights had been taken.on 2 february 2005 the kaunas district court held that although there were no provisions in the domestic law indicating how soon after the assessment of value the decision to restore property rights had to be taken, in the present case the time between the assessment and the decision had not been excessively long.15.  the applicant appealed raising the same complaints as she did before the kaunas district court (see paragraph 14 above), and on 13 june 2005 the kaunas regional court held that the assessment of value of the buildings had been based on several methods of calculation and in accordance with the provisions of the domestic law.16.  the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law, and on 14 december 2005 the supreme court decided that the case had to be examined before the administrative rather than civil courts and referred the case for examination to the kaunas regional administrative court.her requests were granted and the examination of the case was postponed until 9 may 2006. on 19 april 2006 the applicant lodged a modified claim in which, inter alia, she asked the kaunas regional administrative court to (i) annul the assessment of the value of the buildings made by the centre of registers, (ii) to annul that part of the order of the authorities for her property rights to be restored in which the value of the buildings was indicated and (iii) to renew the time-limit for lodging a complaint.on 6 june 2006 the court suspended the proceedings, appointed an expert and asked the expert (i) what the market value of the buildings had been on 14 july 2003 and (ii) what the market value of the buildings had been today, i. e. when the expert had been appointed.in april 2007 the expert stated that on 14 july 2003 the market value of the buildings had been ltl 56,850 (approximately eur 16,465) and that the market value of the buildings at the time that the examination of the case had started had been ltl 164,900 (approximately eur 47,758).subsequently the court proceedings were resumed, and on 21 september 2007 the kaunas regional administrative court held that the new assessment of value of the buildings was more accurate and decided to annul the assessment of value of 14 july 2003 by the centre of registers and that part of the decision of 9 october 2003 to restore the applicant’s property rights in which the value of the buildings was set at ltl 36,000 (approximately eur 10,426) (see paragraphs 10 and 11 above).the court concluded that the decision of the authorities of 9 october 2003 was still in force and that the question of the amount of the compensation was a matter for the public authorities and that it was not within the court’s power to give instructions to them.the court also held that the applicant had repeatedly raised the issue of the assessment of the value of the buildings, which had already been resolved.25.  the applicant lodged a claim with the domestic courts, asking, inter alia, that the decision of the authorities of 5 june 2009 by which the annulled part of the decision of 9 october 2003 had been amended (see paragraph 22 above) be quashed.the court stated that the applicant had asked it to oblige the authorities to provide one of the original copies of the decision of 5 june 2009; however, it observed that the applicant already had an original copy.
5.  the applicants are: 1)  ms marzhan kushtova, who was born in 1925, 2)  mr magomet (in the documents submitted also spelt as magomed and magomed-bashir) kushtov, who was born in 1950, 3)   ms minovsi (also spelt as minuosi) tsitskiyeva, who was born in 1954, 4)  ms madina kushtova, who was born in 1960, 5)  mr musa kushtov, who was born in 1961, 6)  ms fatima kushtova, who was born in 1966 and 7)  ms khulimat kushtova, who was born in 1968. the applicants are russian nationals who live in the republic of ingushetia, russia.11.  in reply to a request from the court to submit a copy of documents on the steps taken by the investigation into mr ibragim kushtov’s abduction, the government furnished copies of criminal case file no.12.  the applicants immediately complained about the abduction to various authorities, including the sunzhenskiy district prosecutor’s office (hereinafter “the prosecutor’s office”), the ministry of the interior (hereinafter “the police”) and the federal security service (федеральная служба безопасности (фсб)) (hereinafter “the fss”).13.  on 26 january 2006 the police interviewed the second applicant, who stated that he had learnt of his brother’s abduction from his relatives and that his brother’s white vaz-2107 car had been taken to the premises of the sunzhenskiy district police department ( сунженский районный отдел внутренних дел (ровд)) (hereinafter “the rovd”).20.  on 13 april 2006 the investigators obtained information on the calls made to and from mr ibragim kushtov’s mobile telephone on the date of the abduction.22.  on 17 may 2006 the ingushetia fss replied to a request for information from the investigators that the second applicant’s allegations of the possible involvement of fss agents in the abduction and detention of his brother were not true.27.  on an unspecified date in june or july 2006 the first applicant again complained to the prosecutor general, the head of the federal security service and the minister of the interior, stating that her family was being threatened by law-enforcement agents, who had harassed her and her relatives and that her son mr ibragim kushtov had been abducted in order to make him confess to crimes he had not committed.according to the witness, the abductors had been armed with kalashnikov machine guns, had prevented passing cars from pulling over at the scene and had carried out the abduction in the space of a few minutes.38.  on 30 january 2006 the investigators also questioned ms s.s. whose statement about the abduction was similar to that of ms r.i. in addition, she stated that the abductors, a group of at least five people, had been in uniforms, armed with machine guns and that judging by the position of the vaz-02107 car, it had been blocked in by the abductors’ two nivas.having reported the incident to their superiors, the witnesses had gone to the crime scene and had found documents in the vaz-2107 in the name of mr ibragim kushtov.in addition, ms r.k. stated that she had noticed two traffic police officers sitting in a silver vaz-21099 parked at the scene of the incident and that she had been surprised to see traffic police officers there as usually they patrolled another area in the vicinity of the airport.45.  on 7 february 2006 the investigators also questioned the second applicant who stated, amongst other things, that in his search for mr ibragim kushtov he had been told by a lawyer, ms n., that his brother had been detained on fss premises under the command of officer s.g. according to the lawyer, mr ibragim kushtov would be released in exchange for his brother isa.he had been summoned through the lawyer to the fss for questioning on 7 february 2006, to officer s. g. earlier that day s.g. had told the applicant that the fss was not involved in the abduction and that mr ibragim kushtov might have been detained on the premises of the police’s department for the fight against organised crime in khankala in chechnya.51.  on 30 june 2006 the investigators made a request to the head of the ingushetia police to take steps to identify a man who on around 20 march 2006 had arrived at the applicants’ house and told the fifth applicant that mr ibragim kushtov was being detained in a remand prison under somebody else’s name and that he could assist in his release in exchange for money.the applicants appealed to the supreme court of ingushetia (“the supreme court”) stating, amongst other things, that the investigators had failed to take various basic steps, such as questioning the police officers who had been on duty at the checkpoints on the roads leading to and from the crime scene, or requesting information from the fss and the police about agents who had been using niva cars on the date of the abduction.
as of march 2003, the orel branch of the communist party of the russian federation and the orel branch of the people’s patriotic union of russia, a nationwide movement, were listed as the applicant organisation’s founders.6.  pursuant to the articles of incorporation, the founders were in charge of setting up an editorial board and determining the editorial policy; in the case of disagreement on the editorial policy the matter was to be resolved by a meeting of the founders’ representatives.7.  during the election campaign for the state duma, the lower chamber of parliament, on 2 december 2007, the applicant organisation expressed to the electoral committee of the orel region (see paragraph 41 below) its intention to accept proposals for publication for a fee and, as required by law, published the fees applicable to the publications on behalf of political parties (30,000 roubles (rub) per page).8.  apart from the publications mentioned above, on 7 and 14 november 2007 the applicant organisation’s newspaper also published, in the same weekly issues, two articles written by its staff correspondent, ms o. both articles were critical of mr stroyev, the then governor of the orel region and the former chairman of the federation council (the upper chamber of the russian parliament).the speaker of the municipal council, who was politically weak owing to a corruption scandal involving municipal land, was unable to oppose the decision of the governor to close the newspaper.in the opinion of the author, by trying to present the whole situation as his personal achievement mr stroyev was making a fool of president putin and of the population of the orel region.the article then analysed recent public statements of the governor, who had criticised the policy lines of former president yeltsin, whereas he himself during that period had been chairman of the federation council, and therefore the second most important statesman in the country.the publications “did not correspond to the current information policy of the organisations editing mass media”, which (the policy) was “aimed at informing the voters about the development of the electoral campaign ... [and] about the political parties participating in it”.13.  the official of the electoral committee compiled an administrative offence record against the applicant organisation, referring to the legislative provisions defining “campaigning” (see paragraph 40 below): “[the applicant organisation] has committed an administrative offence: publications on 7 and 14 november 2007 containing elements of election campaigning as defined in sections 10 and 55 § 1(6) of the state duma deputies elections act” ... liability for this offence is prescribed under: article 5.5 § 1 of the cao.” 14.  the case was then submitted to a justice of the peace.the relevant extract from the judgment reads as follows: “having regard to the fact that the publication of the above articles took place during an election campaign period, the judge considers that the above-mentioned articles contained elements of election campaigning, and therefore could be described as campaign literature.this conclusion is supported by the words of the representatives of the newspaper ... who acknowledged that the articles contained criticism of governor stroyev ...” 17.  the appeal decision entered into legal force on the same date.21.  on an unspecified date the applicant organisation introduced an individual application before the constitutional court of russia, arguing that the impugned provisions of the electoral rights act and the state duma deputies election act ran counter to freedom of the press.22.  by a letter of 23 october 2008 the registry of the constitutional court informed the applicant organisation that its application was not allowed because, in substance, it was merely challenging the factual and legal findings made by the courts in the administrative offence case.to protect the right to free elections, freedom of expression on the part of the mass media may be restricted, provided that the balance of constitutional values has been respected ... [the electoral rights act] distinguishes between information for voters appearing in the mass media and pre-election campaigning by them.this would go against the constitutional guarantees of freedom of information and freedom of expression ... it is incumbent on the courts and other authorities to establish that there is a campaigning aim in each case ... thus, in view of the above statement of principle, the impugned legislative provisions cannot be considered to have violated the applicant organisation’s rights or freedoms ... establishment of the specific circumstances (whether or not the information provided by the applicant organisation concerned the electoral campaign rather than the reporting on the candidate’s professional activity as a governor) are beyond of the constitutional court’s competence ...”
an officer on duty recorded the following injuries on him: a swelling and a haematoma on the left side of the forehead; haematomas on the right side of the chest, on the right shoulder and right shoulder blade; and abrasions on the back in the region of the waist.16.  according to the ivs’s records, the applicant was brought back to the ivs at 3.20 a.m. (b)  investigator’s version 17.  in a “statement of surrender and confession” (явка с повинной) drawn up by investigator g. at 7 p.m. in the absence of a lawyer, the applicant confessed to participating in a conspiracy to murder a.k.upon his admission he was examined by a medical assistant, who recorded the following injuries on him: an 8-cm-long bruise on the front side of the neck, a bruise 2 cm in diameter on the right side of the chest, and a 3‑cm‑long abrasion at the level of the first lumbar vertebra.29.  the town court’s decision of 31 july 2008 was initially set aside after an appeal by the prosecutor before the mariy el supreme court on 22 september 2008 for the reasons that on 15 august 2008 the criminal case against the applicant had been transferred for trial to the mariy el supreme court, that those proceedings were pending, and that it was open for the applicant to raise in the course of his trial complaints concerning his ill‑treatment.in supervisory review proceedings on 22 october 2010 the presidium of the mariy el supreme court quashed the decision of 22 september 2008. it found that the decision had been based on an erroneous interpretation of criminal procedural law and had failed to take into account article 46 of the russian constitution, which guaranteed access to court in respect of complaints against decisions of state authorities.369-o of 18 november 2004, 156‑o of 25 march 2004, 500-o of 20 december 2005, 576-o-p of 19 may 2009, 1107-o-o of 13 october 2009 and 79-o of 16 march 2006. the mariy el supreme court stressed that in the course of a trial the task of a court was to examine the admissibility of evidence and other questions relevant to the merits of the case; such questions were factually and legally different from those examined in a review under article 125 of the ccrp.30.  the most recent decision of the investigative committee of the mariy el prosecutor’s office was taken on 9 march 2011. an investigator again refused to institute criminal proceedings against investigator g. and police officers d.k., o., s. and z. for lack of the event of a crime under article 24 § 1 (1) of the ccrp.relying on the statements of the applicant’s co‑accused, r.k., the investigator concluded that the injuries found on the applicant upon his admission to the ivs could have been inflicted by a.k.the mariy el supreme court noted that the town court had examined the material gathered during the course of the inquiry and established that the applicant’s arguments had been examined by the investigator.in particular, the applicant’s allegations of ill‑treatment had not been refuted; the circumstances in which he had received the injuries had not been established; the existence of the pit at the place of the applicant’s alleged ill-treatment had not been assessed; the allegations of electric shocks had not been verified; and the forensic medical expert had not been given all the necessary information (including the applicant’s version of the cause of the injuries).the prosecutor further noted that (i) the ivs records, which recorded at what times in the period from 7 until 9 september 2007 the applicant had been taken from the detention facility for the purpose of carrying out investigative actions and when he had been brought back, had not been assessed, and (ii) the documents indicating the grounds for the applicant’s absence from the detention facility were missing.it was necessary, inter alia, to establish the applicant’s location and a detailed chronology of the events in which had had participated in the period from 7 until 9 september 2007, taking into account the fact that he had actually been arrested at 3 p.m. on 7 september 2007, as established at the applicant’s trial.35.  as regards the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment, the first‑instance court (“the trial court”) examined witnesses and other evidence collected in the course of the inquiry carried out by the investigative committee of the mariy el prosecutor’s office.in deciding on the punishment for the robbery the mariy el supreme court held that the applicant had played an active role in solving the crime by pointing out the location of a.k.’s body, and that this constituted a mitigating circumstance.39.  the applicant lodged an appeal with the russian supreme court against the judgment, complaining, inter alia, that the mariy el supreme court should not have examined as evidence the witness statements made by a., o. and s. he further complained that his sentence in respect of the murder had been unfair because, in contrast with the decision on the punishment for the robbery, his disclosure of the whereabouts of a.k.’s body had not been taken into account as a mitigating circumstance.
he argued that there had been a case of mistaken identity and that the alleged breaches of the terms of his special supervision concerned a person who shared his first name and surname but had been born in 1973. he further submitted that no criminal charges had been brought against him since a conviction dating back to 2002. although he had been convicted of absconding in 2004, that was not a decisive factor for the imposition of the measure in question.14.  the district court found that the applicant had “active” criminal tendencies and that the evidence before it showed that he had derived most of his means of subsistence from criminal activity.15.  the court observed, in particular: “the subject was issued with a ‘verbal warning for public safety’ on 18 september 2006, but this did nothing to improve his conduct; he continued to associate regularly with key figures in the local underworld (malavita locale) and carried on committing offences (see statement of charges pending: breach of supervision order on 25 april 2007; breach of supervision order on 29 april 2007).” 16.  the district court further held: “the findings of the investigation (see documents and certificates in the case file) show that mr angelo de tommaso remains personally involved in various criminal activities, among which the greatest threat to public order and safety is posed by offences against property and weapon- and drug-related offences.the evidence in the file indicates that he has no fixed and lawful occupation (having declared himself available for employment from february 2008) and that the serious offences under consideration are such as to warrant the conclusion that he has, up until now, derived a significant part of his means of subsistence from criminal activity, by repeatedly resorting to crime either alone or in association with habitual offenders (whether in his municipality of residence or elsewhere).to ensure more thorough monitoring, it is therefore necessary to order not only special police supervision for a period of two years (a measure deemed reasonable on account of the subject’s character as clearly emerges from the acts attributed to him), but also compulsory residence for the same duration.” 17.  the preventive measure imposed the following obligations on the applicant: –  to report once a week to the police authority responsible for his supervision; –  to start looking for work within a month; –  to live in casamassima and not to change his place of residence; –  to lead an honest and law-abiding life and not give cause for suspicion; –  not to associate with persons who had a criminal record and who were subject to preventive or security measures; –  not to return home later than 10 p.m. or to leave home before 6 a.m., except in case of necessity and only after giving notice to the authorities in good time; –  not to keep or carry weapons; –  not to go to bars, nightclubs, amusement arcades or brothels and not to attend public meetings; –  not to use mobile phones or radio communication devices; and –  to have with him at all times the document setting out his obligations (carta precettiva), and to present it to the police authority on request.21.  the court of appeal observed, firstly, that for a preventive measure to be imposed it was necessary to establish that the individual posed a “current danger”, which was not necessarily linked to the commission of a specific offence, but rather to the existence of a complex situation of a certain duration indicating that the individual had a particular lifestyle that prompted alarm for public safety.22.  in the court of appeal’s view, the requirement of a “current” danger to society implied that the relevant decision should relate to the time of the assessment and should remain valid throughout its implementation; any previous circumstances could be taken into account only in relation to their impact on the “current” element.26.  the court also pointed out that the breaches of the terms of special supervision committed on 25 and 29 april 2007 concerned a different person, who had the same first name and surname as the applicant but had been born in 1973.27.  the court of appeal held that the district court had omitted to assess the impact of the rehabilitation purpose of the sentence on the applicant’s personality.it observed in particular: “while it is true that the application of special supervision is compatible with the status of detention, which relates solely to the time of the execution of the sentence, the assessment of dangerousness is inevitably even more significant in the case of an individual who has fully served his sentence and has committed no further offences after his release, as is the case for mr de tommaso.the note of 26 january 2008 in which the carabinieri mentioned that mr de tommaso associated with convicted offenders (to whom he had been caught speaking) does not appear sufficient to establish his dangerousness, bearing in mind that mr de tommaso has not been the subject of any further judicial proceedings since the decision to impose the preventive measure.lastly, the court of appeal notes that the material produced by the defence before the district court and at the hearing before this division indicates that, notwithstanding the typically casual nature of work as a farm labourer, the subject has, at least since his release from prison in 2005 up to the present day, consistently been in lawful employment providing him with a respectable source of income.in conclusion, in march 2008 there were no specific facts from which to infer persistent dangerousness on the part of the subject, who, after serving his lengthy sentence of imprisonment, has not displayed any conduct justifying the assessment made in the judgment appealed against, which is therefore to be quashed.” ii.the government’s partial unilateral declaration 28.  on 7 april 2015 the government submitted a letter containing a friendly-settlement proposal in respect of the part of the application concerning the complaint of a lack of a public hearing in the bari district court and court of appeal (article 6 § 1 of the convention), as well as a unilateral declaration under rule 62a of the rules of court in relation to that complaint.4514/07, 5 january 2010), acknowledged that there had been a violation of article 6 § 1 of the convention on account of the lack of a public hearing, offered to pay a specified sum in respect of the costs relating to this part of the application and requested that this part of the application be struck out.
(a)  the applicant’s account 9.  during his detention in the sizo in poltava, the applicant was held in various cells of the same type.upon returning to the detention facility, the detainees had to wait for a long time in the van before being transferred to the preliminary reception cell, where they also had to wait to be escorted to their cells.(b)  the government’s account 16.  the government submitted that the conditions of the applicant’s detention in the sizo had been adequate, mainly referring to the statutory regulations on detention.they argued that the applicant had been held in seventeen cells of the same type during his detention in the sizo, and it was unclear which of them he was referring to in his complaint to the court.the government provided no details as to the exact size of the cells, but stated that an inspection carried out at some point after the complaint had been communicated to the government had determined that each cell in the sizo allowed each detainee at least 2.5 sq.18.  the government could not provide any information about the dates and conditions of the applicant’s transport to and from the court hearings, because the time-limit for keeping the relevant documents had expired and the records had been destroyed.the government further submitted that, on average, it took up to ten minutes to transport detainees from the sizo to the oktyabrskiy district court of poltava (a distance of 7 km), and about twenty minutes to transport them to the kyivskiy district court of poltava (a distance of 10 km).artificial light in the cell was ensured with eight electric bulbs of 100w and two of 40w, and the temperature in the unit was never lower than 18˚c.according to the applicant, the authorities tried to conceal the situation, and he lodged a number of complaints in order to find out about the test results.the applicant was further prescribed a cd4 cell count at poltava city aids prevention and control centre (“the aids centre”) on 8 october 2008. the court has not been informed of the results of that test, if any exist.62.  from 27 june 2009 until an unspecified date the applicant had medical treatment at the hiv treatment facility on account of his clinical stage 2 hiv, onychomycosis of the feet, vertebrogenic radiculopathy in unstable remission, toxic polyneuropathy, slight myoparesis of the feet, tardive after-effects of closed head injuries, chronic viral hepatitis b in remission and duodenal ulcer in remission.on 14 december 2009, at the aids centre, the applicant was diagnosed with clinical stage 2 hiv, recurrent infections of the lower respiratory airways, tuberculosis, chronic viral hepatitis c and a chronic inflammation of the gallbladder.71.  referring to, inter alia, the medical evidence he had submitted to the court, the applicant alleged that his health had seriously deteriorated while he was in detention, in particular owing to the poor conditions of his detention, combined with the absence of medical care.they provided no medical evidence in this regard, mainly referring to the fact that the sizo registers for the relevant years on medical assistance provided to detainees by the sizo medical specialists had been destroyed because the time-limit for keeping those documents had expired.these submissions appear to be based on the information contained in a reply to the applicant’s complaint regarding the lack of medical treatment in prison, which was given by a prosecutor in 2008. the government asserted that the relevant medical documents had been studied by prosecutors during their inquiries into the applicant’s complaints regarding the lack of medical assistance, and no proof had been found.
at the police station one of the police officers allegedly kicked one of the suspects in the chest.however, on 24 september 2007 that decision was annulled and the applicant was again charged with ill-treating one of the victims during the arrest.8.  during the court proceedings, the two victims submitted that they had been approached by the two police officers on the street and had been asked to accompany them to the police station.the police officers had handcuffed him and had had to punch him in the stomach to make him bend over and enter the vehicle.11.  in a judgment of 21 may 2009 the buiucani district court found that the police officers had used force during the arrest but that the force had not been disproportionate in the circumstances.as far as the ill-treatment at the police station was concerned, the court acquitted the applicant and found v.g.12.  on 18 january 2010 the chişinău court of appeal upheld the appeal lodged by the prosecutor’s office and reversed the judgment of the first‑instance court.in the process of examination of the appeal, the court of appeal did not question the suspects, victims or witnesses again, but only cited some of the statements they had made before the first-instance court.in particular, the court of appeal cited the part of a.v.’s statement where he had accused both police officers of ill-treating him at the police station.the suspects and the victims were also asked to state whether or not they agreed with the appeal by the prosecutor’s office against the judgment of the first‑instance court.in his submissions to the supreme court of justice the applicant’s lawyer argued, inter alia, that the applicant’s conviction had been contrary to article 6 § 1 of the convention because the court of appeal had neither examined the case file nor heard him, the victims or witnesses in person.14.  on 25 february 2011 the supreme court of justice dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law, finding, inter alia, that in the circumstances of the case it had not been necessary for the court of appeal to examine the witnesses again because their statements had not been contested by the defendants.as to the objection that the court of appeal had not heard the defendants or the victims in person, the supreme court considered that asking them whether they agreed with the appeal had been sufficient to ensure the fairness of the proceedings.15.  one of the members of the panel of judges of the supreme court wrote a dissenting opinion, expressing the view that a new examination of the victims and witnesses before the court of appeal had been imperative to ensure the fairness of the proceedings and concluding that the proceedings had not been fair within the meaning of article 6 of the convention.16.  the applicant also lodged an extraordinary appeal with the supreme court of justice, arguing that there had been a breach of article 6 of the convention.
7.  on 12 september 2002 the mayor of traun informed the applicant that the traun city council (stadtrat) had not been able to accept his revocation and that his employment as a civil servant had therefore ended on 31 august 2002.10.  on 18 june 2004 the traun municipal council (gemeinderat) dismissed the appeal, holding that the applicant was not entitled to his salary after 31 august 2002 and rejected his request for suspensive effect of 15 january 2004 as having been filed out of time.11.  on 8 july 2004 the applicant filed an objection (vorstellung) against the municipal council’s decision of 18 june 2004. on 24 june 2005 the upper austria regional government (hereinafter, “the regional government”) quashed the municipal council’s decision in the part rejecting the applicant’s request for suspensive effect of 15 june 2004 (see paragraph 9 above) and referred it back to the lower instance for a new decision.12.  on 5 august 2005 the applicant complained to the constitutional court (verfassungsgerichtshof) against the regional government’s decision of 24 june 2005. on 25 september 2006 the constitutional court declined to examine the complaint and on 15 november 2006, at the applicant’s request, transferred the complaint to the administrative court (verwaltungsgerichtshof).13.  on 15 november 2007 the administrative court lifted the regional government’s decision of 24 june 2005 (see paragraph 11 above) on the ground that it had not heard the applicant in order to assess his credibility.14.  on 4 march 2008 the regional government lifted the municipal council’s decision of 18 june 2004 (see paragraph 10 above) and referred the case back to the lower instance for a new decision.15.  on 3 december 2006 the applicant complained to the administrative court about the municipal council’s failure to decide (säumnisbeschwerde) on his request for suspensive effect of 15 january 2004 (see paragraph  9  above).16.  on 25 june 2007 the applicant filed an application for transfer of jurisdiction (devolutionsantrag) with the municipal council regarding his request of 15 january 2004, claiming that the city council had failed to render a decision in due time.17.  on 4 january 2008 the applicant complained to the administrative court about the municipal council’s failure to decide on his request for suspensive effect.18.  on 27 june 2008 the municipal council dismissed the applicant’s appeal against the city council’s decision of 11 december 2003 (see paragraph 8 above) and his request for suspensive effect of 15 january 2004 (see paragraph 9 above).consequently, on 5 september 2008 the administrative court closed the proceedings regarding the applicant’s complaint of 4 january 2008 about the municipal council’s failure to decide (see paragraph 17 above) and awarded costs to the applicant.20.  on 4 february 2009 the applicant complained to the administrative court about the regional government’s failure to decide on his objection.therefore, on 13 march 2009 the administrative court closed the proceedings regarding the regional government’s failure to decide and awarded costs to the applicant.on 29 november 2010 the constitutional court declined to examine the complaint and on 27 january 2011, at the applicant’s request, transferred the complaint to the administrative court.22.  on 25 january 2012 the administrative court dismissed the complaint against the regional government’s decision of 9 february 2009. the decision was served on the applicant’s counsel on 9 february 2012.
6.  on 22 december 2000 the ministry of finance (bundesministerium für finanzen) received anonymous information accusing the applicant of having received untaxed remuneration in the amount of 35,000,000 austrian schilling (approximately 2,550,000 euros (eur))[1] via the liechtenstein company tudor ag.9.  on 9 october 2001 the vienna regional criminal court (landesgericht für strafsachen wien) opened preliminary investigation proceedings against the applicant on the request of the public prosecutor’s office.at the same time the vienna regional criminal court instructed the vienna tax authority to investigate the case and to submit a final report concerning the amount of taxes evaded.it further issued an order for the applicant’s house to be searched and pursuant to section 412 code of criminal procedure (hereinafter, the “ccp”) the criminal proceedings were interrupted until the submission of the final report.10.  on 28 november 2001 the applicant’s house was searched and the applicant was informed about the investigations against him for the first time.11.  on 22 april 2003 the vienna local tax authority informed the vienna regional criminal court that they had completed the investigations and had sent their findings to another vienna local tax authority which would assess the facts and prepare the final report.12.  on 5 march 2004 the applicant lodged a request for the discontinuation of the criminal proceedings with the vienna regional criminal court.13.  on 14 april 2004 the vienna regional criminal court rejected the applicant’s request as it could not determine the case without having first obtained a final report from the tax authority.18.  on 27 july 2009 the vienna regional criminal court dismissed the applicant’s second request for the discontinuation of the criminal proceedings stating that the persecution of the applicant did not seem inadmissible.the court noted however that the tax authority had still not submitted its final report even though it had concluded the investigations in 2003 and had already issued new tax assessment orders in 2004. it further noted that the measures set by the court and the public prosecutor to accelerate the proceedings were insufficient and amounted to a violation of article 6 § 1 of the convention because the administrative proceedings had already ended on 4 december 2007 (when the applicant’s appeal had been dismissed by the ifp).23.  on 21 december 2010 the applicant filed an official liability action against the republic of austria, claiming compensation for, inter alia the unreasonable length of the criminal proceedings and the caused loss of earnings.on 30 june 2011 the vienna regional civil court (landesgericht für zivilrechtssachen wien), upon the applicant’s request, suspended the official liability proceedings pending the outcome of the criminal proceedings.25.  on 15 june 2011 the vienna regional criminal court held an oral hearing and convicted the applicant pursuant to section 33 § 1 of the tax offences act for tax evasion and imposed on him a fine of eur 150,000.26.  on 8 march 2012 the supreme court quashed the judgment and referred the case back to the vienna regional criminal court.28.  following the termination of the criminal proceedings, the official liability proceedings were apparently continued and were still pending at the date of the last information available to the court (22 july 2016).
9.  the applicant submitted that her husband, who was an alcoholic, had already been physically abusing her for a long time when, on 2 june 2012, she requested the intervention of the police after she and her daughter had been assaulted by a.t. 10.  when the police arrived, a.t. had left the family home.the report stated that the applicant had been beaten and bitten in the face and the left leg and that she had a number of bruises.15.  the police merely checked her and a.t.’s identity papers, and despite the applicant’s assertions that she had been threatened and beaten by her husband, they invited her to go home without offering her help and told a.t. to keep away from her.19.  the president of the women’s shelter, accompanied by police officers, went to the cellar where the applicant had been living in order to fetch her clothes and personal effects.26.  the government gave a different interpretation of that letter, saying that, as the applicant had not first been referred to the udine social services, which cared for victims of violence in the context of another project, called “zero tolerance”, the latter could not pay the association’s expenses.she said that when she had been living at the shelter provided by the association, she had not spoken to her husband on the telephone because she had been told not to.32.  on 30 may 2013 the udine public prosecutor’s office, after noting, firstly, that the applicant, who had been interviewed in april, had mitigated her allegations against her husband saying that he had not threatened her with a knife and that she had been misunderstood by an employee from the shelter where she had taken refuge and, secondly, that no other violent episode had occurred, asked the investigating judge to close the complaint lodged against a.t. for ill-treatment of family members.he considered that the course of the events was unclear and that, with regard to the alleged ill-treatment, the offence had not been made out because, since the applicant had complained only about the incident of august 2012, the criterion of repeated episodes of violence was not satisfied.34.  with regard to the complaint of threats aggravated by the use of a weapon, the investigating judge noted that the applicant’s statements were contradictory and that in the report drawn up by the hospital there was no reference to knife injuries.40.  while he was walking along the street he was arrested by the police for an identity check at 2.25 a.m. 41.  the police report shows that a.t. was in a state of intoxication and had difficulty keeping his balance and that the police had let him go after stopping and fining him.43.  on 1 october 2015 a.t. was convicted by the magistrate’s court of inflicting grievous bodily harm on the applicant, on account of the injuries he had inflicted on her during the incident in august 2012, and sentenced to a fine of eur 2,000.6.  criminal proceedings instituted against a.t. for the murder of his son, the attempted murder of the applicant and ill-treatment of the applicant 44.  on an unspecified date in november 2013 the investigation into acts of ill-treatment was reopened.46.  on 8 january 2015 a.t. was sentenced to life imprisonment by the udine preliminary hearings judge for the murder of his son and the attempted murder of his wife and for the offences of ill-treatment of his wife and daughter and unauthorised possession of a prohibited weapon.47.  with regard to the ill-treatment, the preliminary hearings judge, after hearing witnesses and the applicant’s daughter, considered that the applicant and her children had been living in a climate of violence.according to the preliminary hearings judge, the events of 25 november 2013 were the consequence of an attempt by the applicant to get away from a.t. 48.  on 22 may 2015 a.t. appealed against the judgment.
during this period the applicant married and had a son, born in 1994. the applicant’s family travelled to the united kingdom in 1998. the applicant initially remained in the netherlands but on 11 december 1999 he arrived in the united kingdom, where he claimed asylum.on 9 november 2009 the immigration judge further noted that although the applicant had been in detention for a lengthy period, “the most recent period of detention is on account of delays with his own application to the european court of human rights”.14.  a hearing took place on 7 october 2011. pursuant to the principles set down by the high court in r. v. durham prison governor ex parte hardial singh [1984] 1 wlr 704 (see section on domestic law below), the secretary of state cannot lawfully detain a person pending removal for longer than a reasonable period and, if it becomes apparent that the deportation cannot be effected within a reasonable period, the detention will become unlawful even if the reasonable period has not yet expired.the applicant claimed that his detention was in breach of the principles (a) on or after 16 june 2009 when the court granted an interim measure under rule 39 of the rules of court; (b) on or immediately after 16 june 2010 when he applied to revoke the deportation order; or (c) at all points after the revocation refusal on 17 november 2010.equally, the court took into account the fact that the applicant had family in the country at the times he absconded and therefore, contrary to his assertions, their presence did not remove the risk of absconding.17.  at the time the administrative court noted that the interim measure under rule 39 of the rules of court, was awaiting a lead judgment on returns to mogadishu (sufi and elmi, cited above) and it was clear that there would be no resolution of the applicant’s claim - and the interim measure would therefore not be lifted - before that judgment was handed down.in addition, he submitted that the detention was vitiated by two public law errors that bore directly on the decision to detain: first, following the indication of the interim measure the secretary of state had failed to take any reasonable steps to acquaint herself with when it might be lifted; and secondly, that the detention was maintained on the unlawful basis that the applicant could reduce the length of time in detention by withdrawing his application to the court and returning voluntarily to somalia.20.  in its judgment of 20 october 2012, the court of appeal conducted an extensive review of the circumstances of the case, in particular the fact that the applicant’s appeal against deportation as well as three separate bail applications had been rejected by immigration judges, as well as the broader context in relation to the on-going litigation concerning removals to somalia both before the domestic courts and tribunals as well as before this court (see §§ 28 to 32).it took into consideration the fact that the rule 39 measure applied in the applicant’s case did not involve any specific assessment of risk towards him by this court, since at the material time this court had adopted a fact-insensitive approach towards rule 39 measures in respect of removals to somalia, and noted the consequence that from october 2008 this court had adjourned 116 applications concerning removal to somalia.it also took account of correspondence between the government and the registry of this court from which it was clear that from april 2009 the court would be granting a fact-insensitive rule 39 measure to any applicant with removal directions to mogadishu as well as the separate correspondence between the government and this court concerning the progress of sufi and elmi, cited above and the linked domestic case law.it accepted that at the time of receipt of the rule 39 measure in the applicant’s case, although it was not possible to say when the proceedings before the court would be concluded, there was nonetheless a reasonable prospect of their being concluded and of removal being effected within a reasonable time.likewise, the court of appeal saw no reason to differ from the overall conclusion of the lower court on the lawfulness of the applicant’s detention at the time of the application for revocation of the deportation order or after the judgment in sufi and elmi was handed down.lord justice elias dissented on one point only: acknowledging that “there is no one right answer to the question what is a reasonable period”, he believed that the period of two weeks which elapsed following the judgment in sufi and elmi before the applicant was released from detention was not reasonable in all the circumstances.22.  with regard to the second ground of appeal, the court accepted that if the applicant were able to show that the decisions to maintain his detention were vitiated by public law he would succeed in establishing that the detention was unlawful and would have a claim of false imprisonment.moreover, as the same conclusion was reached regardless of whether or not reference was made to the question of voluntary return, it appeared that the applicant’s refusal of this offer played no material part in the assessment of whether detention should be maintained.
10.  during the pre-trial investigation, the investigating authorities questioned managers of the four seller companies and the owner of a lorry which had been used for transporting the goods.some of the managers repeated those statements in the course of confrontations with the applicant conducted in the course of the pre-trial investigation.12.  on at least five occasions between 28 november 2003 and 27 august 2004 the court ordered the donetsk regional police to bring the witnesses listed in the table below to court hearings, but the police failed to do so for various reasons.14.  at the court hearing held on the same day the prosecutor, in the light of the above-mentioned information from the police, asked the court to read out the pre-trial statements of the witnesses who had failed to appear, including all those listed in the table below.15.  on 29 september 2004 the applicant’s lawyer requested the court to summon s., k. and r. again (see elements 1-3 in the table below), because the examination of documents had revealed inconsistencies in their pre-trial statements and because the reasons for their failure to appear had not been established.the trial court refused the request on the grounds that the statements of those witnesses had already been read out at the trial.16.  on 24 december 2004 the court found the applicant guilty of smuggling (export of ferromanganese based on forged documents), misappropriation accompanied by abuse of office (receipt of tax refunds on the basis of fictitious and forged documents), abuse of office, and forgery of documents.he was also sentenced to various other more lenient punishments under the criminal code of 2001, but the court held that the most severe of the applicant’s punishments absorbed the more lenient ones.17.  in convicting the applicant the court relied, in particular, on the statements of a number of witnesses given during the pre-trial investigation, as shown in the below table: table.witness evidence element of the applicant company’s operations to which witness evidence related witnesses, their status and the tenor of their evidence corroborating evidence, if any, in respect of the relevant element of the applicant’s operations was a confrontation conducted during the investigation?did not insist on examination 18.  the trial court also relied on certain inconsistencies between the official records of the applicant’s company and the shadow accounting records discovered by the authorities.they stated, inter alia, that the trial court had relied on the evidence of witnesses who had not been examined at the trial and that he should have been tried for smuggling under the criminal code of 1960.20.  on 4 march 2005 the donetsk regional court of appeal held that the applicant should be deemed to have been convicted for smuggling under the criminal code of 1960 instead of the criminal code of 2001. otherwise, the court of appeal upheld the findings of the first-instance court and the applicant’s sentence.23.  on 6 september 2005 the supreme court heard the case in the presence of the prosecutor but in the absence of the applicant and his lawyer, who were not informed of the date and time of the hearing.the supreme court dismissed the appeals lodged by the applicant and his lawyer, stating that the lower courts’ findings had been based on a substantial amount of evidence, in particular the statements of the directors of the seller companies made at the investigation stage.
7.  on the same date the applicant’s arrest report was drawn up which stated that the applicant had been arrested for the murder of o. at 10 p.m. at the police station.according to the applicant, his lawyer immediately indicated to the investigator that, under the code of criminal procedure, the applicant had to be provided with the possibility to talk with him in private before the questioning, with a view to defining the legal defence strategy.13.  on the same date the applicant and the lawyer k. became aware of the results of a number of forensic examinations in the case.on the same day the applicant was charged with the above offence and questioned in the presence of k. those proceedings were subsequently joined to the murder case against the applicant.the court found that on 27 may 2005 the coordinating council of the ukrainian dental association had held its meeting in kyiv and the applicant had run for the position of acting executive director of the association.17.  the court of appeal noted that although the applicant had never pleaded guilty and had claimed that the incident had been an accident, his guilt was proved by the testimonies of witnesses and the results of forensic examinations.18.  several witnesses had also confirmed that the applicant had shown dissatisfaction with the fact that he had not been elected to the position of the executive director of the dental association.19.  the forensic expert, questioned in the court hearings, had confirmed the conclusions of the examination that the shots had been fired from some distance and not from close range, as the applicant had suggested, given that traces of metals and gunpowder, typically found following close-range shots, had not been found on the victim.the court also noted that the outcome of the ballistic examination as to the distance, trajectory and angle of the entry wounds had not matched the applicant’s version of events.21.  on 28 november 2006 the supreme court, in the presence of the applicant and his two lawyers, upheld the decision of the court of appeal, noting the aggregate of evidence against the applicant.29.  the government could not provide any information about the number of inmates in the cells at the relevant time or regarding the conditions of the floor, walls and linen because the compulsory period for keeping the relevant documents had expired and the records had been destroyed.30.  they stated that the general detention conditions in the sizo had been satisfactory and in compliance with the domestic standards: all the cells had had windows and had been equipped with sufficient artificial lighting; the applicant had been provided with adequate nutrition in accordance with the applicable standards.31.  the government submitted, having provided the relevant documents, that the applicant had requested family visits before the relevant authorities only on 10 and 20 october and 29 december 2005 and on 11 january and 5 february 2006 and had asked for permission to send correspondence to his relatives on 10 and 27 october 2005 and 5 february and 8 august 2006. all his requests were rejected for security reasons.he had also been entitled by law to possess religious literature and other items of a religious nature and never raised any complaint in this connection either before the sizo governor or with the prosecutor responsible for observing compliance with the law in the detention facilities.34.  according to the government, during his stay in the sizo the applicant never went to the medical unit on account of his suffering from hepatitis b, heart pain or problems with his teeth and never lodged any complaints regarding a lack of medical assistance.
1.  the case originated in application against ukraine lodged with the court under article 34 of the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (“the convention”) on the date indicated in the appended table.4.  the applicants complained of the excessive length of civil proceedings and of the lack of any effective remedy in domestic law.5.  the court received friendly-settlement declarations under which the first applicant agreed to waive any further claims against ukraine in respect of the facts giving rise to the part of the application concerning her complaints, subject to an undertaking by the government to pay her the amount detailed in the appended table.the payment will constitute the final resolution of this part of the application.
6.  the applicant was born in 1960 and until his conviction lived in the town of slantsy in the leningrad region.8.  the following year the applicant was examined by a social security medical assessment board (бюро медико-социальной экспертизы) and certified as having the highest-degree disability on the grounds that he had lost the ability to work, to walk without assistance or to look after himself.on admission to that facility the resident prison doctor conducted a general medical check-up of the applicant and noted his disability.12.  in the remand prison the applicant was detained in a normal cell block where he allegedly faced great difficulties in his daily routine owing to the lack of special arrangements, in particular when using the squat toilet and shared dormitory shower, which lacked handrails and non-slip flooring.7 in the leningrad region, where he was also placed in a cell designed for healthy inmates and, allegedly, continued to experience the inconveniences arising from his disability.14.  having no licence to treat inmates with as strong a medication as benzonal, the colony’s medical authorities offered the applicant two substitute drugs with similar anticonvulsive effect, but the latter refused, alleging their low efficiency and possible side effects.15.  on 3 march 2008, at his own request, the applicant was sent to gaaza prison hospital in st petersburg (“the prison hospital”) for an in‑depth medical examination and treatment.in the discharge summary the supervising doctor mentioned that the patient was able to look after himself and to walk without assistance.16.  on 10 october 2008 the deputy head of the correctional colony ordered the applicant’s transfer to a special unit for disabled prisoners.18.  on 1 july 2009 the special medical board, at the request of the penal authorities, issued an advisory report confirming the gravity of the applicant’s disability.the doctors noted that the applicant’s health had remained stable, that he was able to look after himself, and that nursing assistance was not required for him.however, due to the gravity of the applicant’s brain condition it was decided to check whether his illness fell within the established list of illnesses warranting early release.23.  on 28 august 2009 the smolninskiy district court of st petersburg dismissed their application, citing the gravity of the applicant’s offence, the fact that he had developed paralysis and epilepsy prior to his arrest and that in detention his condition had remained stable.24.  between 1 february and 18 march 2010, at his own request, the applicant was admitted to the prison hospital for treatment, and on 16 march 2010 he was re-examined by a medical board, which confirmed his right to early release on medical grounds.26.  on 10 june 2010 the tosnenskiy town court dismissed the application for early release on medical grounds, referring to the gravity of the applicant’s offence, the fact that his health status had already been taken into account by the court which sentenced him, and, lastly, to the fact that the applicant’s medical condition had not worsened in detention.
as of 1 april 1996, he was declared to have lost 67% of his capacity to work and was granted a disability pension of 114,880 hungarian forints (huf) per month (approximately 370 euros (eur) at the rate of january 2017).7.  the relevant assessment methodology changed as of 1 january 2008. the applicant’s case was reviewed under the new rules in 2009. without any significant change in his state of health having occurred, he was then found to have lost 50% of his working capacity.as a consequence, his disability pension was terminated and, as of 1 july 2009, he was declared suitable for institutional rehabilitation and granted a monthly rehabilitation allowance in the amount of huf 152,820 (approximately eur 490), minus payroll deductions.under the relevant statute, the benefit could only be granted for a limited period, namely until 31 october 2011 in the applicant’s case.the law allowed for one extension of the time-limit, making the maximum deadline for the benefit 30 june 2012. however, under the law, the overall period allowable for rehabilitation could not exceed three years.8.  the monthly amount payable evolved in the period preceding the deadline.on expiry, it was huf 173,980 (approximately eur 570) per month, minus huf 17,398 in payroll deductions, resulting in a net sum of huf 156,585 (approximately eur 510).10.  on 28 march 2012 the applicant applied for a disability allowance under the new law.on 8 may 2012 he was medically examined before an expert panel of the national rehabilitation and social welfare authority.the applicant’s state of health was rated at 46% and he was classified as being suitable for rehabilitation within a time-frame of thirty-six months.the authority initially granted him huf 41,850 (approximately eur 140) per month in disability allowance, as of 1 july 2012.11.  on appeal, the applicant’s health score was maintained but the second-instance authority no longer recommended his rehabilitation.12.  the applicant sought a judicial review before the pécs administrative and labour court, but in vain.on 26 may 2014 the kúria rejected his petition for review on the grounds that he had not relied on any particular breach of the law, as required by the code of civil procedure.13.  following a further legislative amendment of 1 april 2014, the applicant became entitled to a disability allowance of huf 159,100 (approximately eur 520) per month retroactively as of 1 january 2014.
however, they testified about a number of other circumstances in relation to the charges, for example similarities in the way the trees had been cut down on the first applicant’s land and on that of the injured party, traces of the transport of trees, the fact that the first applicant had regularly sold wood and that he had also cut down unmarked trees on his own land.the husband of the injured party, m.p., stated that they had found out about the stolen wood six months after the event and that neighbours had told them that the second applicant had been seen in the forest at the time, while another person, i.t., had been seen transporting the wood.he also testified that the second applicant had admitted to him that he had cut down the trees, thinking that they had belonged to his land but that they had failed to agree on how much the second applicant should pay m.p.the judge found that the applicant had cut down and taken eight oak trees in a forest without the knowledge of its owner and had appropriated wood worth eur 2,028. she ordered him to either deliver to the injured party the same quantity of oak that had been taken from the forest or to pay compensation of eur 2,028. she pronounced a guilty verdict and sentenced him (izrek, hereinafter referred to as “the verdict”) orally.11.  the government submitted that judge a.k., when pronouncing the verdict, had also given an oral summary of the main reasons (see paragraph 34 below), however, no indication of that can be found in the records of the hearing.(see paragraph 9 above), which were served on the first applicant’s counsel on 17 august 2010. in her reasoning, the judge relied on the records of the hearings, the transcript of the inspection of the location and other documents in the file.had cut down the trees professionally on the applicant’s land, witness testimony showed that certain trees had been cut down in an unprofessional manner on both the applicant’s and the injured party’s land, and that the first applicant and b.k.on the other hand, the judge relied on the statements of the injured party and her husband, supported by other evidence, for example, the expert’s opinion, the statements of the witnesses s.p.as to the second charge, the court relied predominantly on the statement of the injured party, f.b., who denied that he had had an agreement with the second applicant.17.  on 26 august and 25 november 2010 respectively, the ljubljana higher court dismissed the applicants’ appeals, holding that the fact that the written grounds of the impugned judgments had been given a few years after they had been delivered orally had not rendered the judgments unlawful.as regards the first applicant, the higher court reassessed the evidence, including the witness statements, and came to the same conclusion as the first-instance court.as to the second applicant, the higher court noted that the first-instance court had truthfully and accurately established all the relevant facts of the case, and that it had been proven that the second applicant had intended to commit the second offence.18.  on 13 october 2010 and 20 january 2011 respectively, the applicants lodged applications for the protection of legality (zahteva za varstvo zakonitosti) with the supreme court, raising similar arguments as those submitted to the court (see paragraph 32 below) and referring to the constitutional court’s decision of 11 october 2006 (see paragraph 28 below).19.  on 6 january and 1 september 2011 respectively, the supreme court dismissed the applicants’ applications for the protection of legality, holding that only the operative part of the judgment, namely the verdict, could have interfered with the rights of the parties, while the purpose of written grounds was to enable a decision to be reviewed by higher instances.the supreme court found that while the principle of immediacy required that a verdict should be given by the judge who had participated in the trial, the act of writing a judgment, was not, strictly speaking, part of the trial.
it appears that the basis for this decision was a telegram of 18 april 2008 from the deputy head of the fsin of russia that read as follows: “the primorskiy regional department of the fsin are allowed, until special notice, to send up to thirty convicts per month from remand prisons to the care of the krasnoyarskiy regional department of the fsin pursuant to article 73 § 2 of the ces.” 10.  on 30 september 2008 the primorskiy regional department of the fsin informed ms polyakova that her request for mr r. to be allowed to remain in the facility in the primorskiy region had been refused, and advised the applicant as follows: “... pursuant to article 73 § 2 of the ces and the instruction by the fsin of russia, on 14 september 2008 mr r. was sent to serve the remainder of his sentence in the care of the krasnoyarskiy regional department of the fsin.13.  on 30 december 2008 the fsin of russia dismissed the applicant’s request for mr r. to be transferred from the penal facility in the krasnoyarsk region to one in the primorskiy region, stating that under article 81 of the ces prisoners should, as a rule, serve the entirety of their sentence in the same penal facility, and that there were no reasons for mr r.’s transfer.16.  the application was lodged on 6 june 2011 by ms natalya anatolyevna kibalo, born in 1979, miss linda aliyevna kibalo, born in 2006, and miss iman aliyevna kibalo, born in 2009. the applicants live in the village of dubovskaya in the shelkovskiy district of the chechen republic.because he is serving his sentence in the amur region cannot be taken into consideration, because the possibility of receiving visits is governed by the norms of the ces and is unrelated to the location of a penal facility.” 25.  on 7 december 2010 the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 17 june 2010 on appeal.it reasoned that the zamoskvoretskiy district court had not erred in finding that there were no grounds listed in article 81 of the ces that would warrant mr kh.’s transfer to another penal facility, and that “the appeal statement contain[ed] no references to circumstances that would refute the [first-instance] court’s findings and demonstrate that there were grounds for mr kh.’s transfer from one facility to another within the meaning of article 81 of the ces”.on 21 november 2011 the fsin dismissed his request, noting that the applicant had been allocated to the penal facility in labytnangi under article 73 § 2 of the ces because of the lack of strict-regime penal facilities in the moscow region, and that under article 81 of the ces prisoners should serve their entire sentence in the same penal facility.on 11 april 2012 the fsin submitted their objections to the zamoskvoretskiy district court of moscow, which read, in particular, as follows: “the claimant’s arguments that he is unable to receive visits from his relatives cannot be taken into account, because the possibility of receiving visits from next of kin and relatives is governed by the norms of the russian code on the execution of sentences and is unrelated to the location of any penal facility.” 32.  on 5 june 2012 the zamoskvoretskiy district court of moscow examined the applicant’s complaint under articles 254-5 and 258 of the ccp, and dismissed it with reference to articles 73 and 81 of the ces.the judgment read, in so far as relevant, as follows: “the claimant’s arguments that it is difficult to receive visits from relatives owing to the remoteness of the [place of] the sentence is being served cannot be taken into account by the court, because the possibility of receiving visits is governed by the norms of the russian ces and is unrelated to the location of any penal facility.” 33.  on 14 january 2013 the moscow city court upheld the first-instance judgment.39.  on 14 february 2013 the fsin dismissed the request, stating that the applicant had been sent to serve his sentence in a remote penal facility under article 73 § 4 of the ces, and noting that under article 81 of the ces a prisoner must serve their entire sentence in the same facility.40.  on 19 july 2013 the zamoskvoretskiy district court of moscow held a hearing in the applicant’s absence, which was referred to in the judgment as follows: “[t]he applicant was notified of the date of the hearing.the district court examined the complaint pursuant to articles 254-5 and 258 of the ccp and dismissed it, noting that there were “no grounds listed in article 81 § 2 of the ces that would preclude mr palilov from continuing to serve his sentence in the penal facility in the yamalo-nenetskiy region”.the applicant’s argument related to the difficulties of maintaining his family ties was rejected as follows: “the claimant’s arguments that he cannot receive visits from his relatives does not give grounds for allowing the claims, because the possibility of receiving visits from family members and relatives, receiving correspondence, or using the telephone, are all governed by the norms of the code on execution of sentences and are unrelated to the location of any penal facility.” 41.  the applicant appealed against the judgment and requested that an appeal hearing be held in his presence.42.  on 4 june 2014 the moscow city court held a hearing in the applicant’s absence, which was explained as follows: “under article 167 of the code of civil procedure the appellate collegium deems it possible to examine the case in the absence of the parties to the proceedings; they have been notified of the date and place of the court hearing”.referring to article 73 § 4 of the ces, it stated that the rule on serving a sentence in a particular region close to a detainee’s permanent residence was inapplicable to the applicant given the nature of the crime of which he had been convicted.the argument that mr palilov is being deprived of the opportunity to maintain contact with his relatives because of the remoteness of the penal facility cannot serve, in the context of article 73 § 4 of the ces, as grounds for declaring the actions of the penal authority’s officials unlawful.” 43. the applicant’s mother and sister could not afford to visit him in kharp.
6.  in june 2000 the applicant moved from kazakhstan to russia, where he married ms g.k., a russian citizen, with whom he had two daughters who were born in 2000 and 2002. the applicant and his family lived in the settlement of slantseviy rudnik in the saratov region.8.  on 12 april 2014 the applicant was returning from kazakhstan to russia through the “ozinki” border crossing in the saratov region when the border control department of the russian federal security service informed him that he had been denied re-entry to the russian federation.he was banned from re-entering russia until january 2030 on the basis of a report (представление) dated 14 january 2014 from the saratov region department of the federal security service (федеральная служба безопасности (фсб)) (hereinafter “the fss”), drafted pursuant to section 27 § 1 of the entry procedure act, that is to say “for the purposes of ensuring the defensive capacity or security of the state, or protecting public order or health”.9.  on 13 may 2014 the applicant, through his representative, lodged an appeal against the exclusion order with the frunzenskiy district court of saratov (hereinafter “the district court”).10.  the district court forwarded the applicant’s appeal to the saratov regional court (hereinafter “the regional court”) as under the domestic regulations regional courts were to examine cases involving state secrets.at the hearing, in reply to a question from the representative of the applicant concerning the actual basis for the applicant’s exclusion and the sixteen-year re-entry ban, the fss’s representatives replied “[t]he actual grounds for the ban cannot be disclosed in the interests of state security, which have priority in the russian federation over the rights of foreign citizens ... what exactly mr kamenov did cannot be disclosed as this information constitutes a state secret ...” 12.  on the same date, 25 july 2014, the regional court upheld the applicant’s exclusion until 2030. in its decision it did not cite any documents submitted by the fss as serving as the basis for the ban, apart from noting that the measure had been imposed on the basis of the report of 14 january 2014 and the relevant internal instructions of the fss.according to the court, the report of 14 january 2014 contained “some operational activities data” which had not been included in the case file (although it had been “reviewed” by the court) as it constituted a state secret.the court further noted that the appropriate procedure had been followed and stated that “mr kamenov’s request that the state body [the fss] that issued the [exclusion] decision be obliged to rescind it cannot be granted as the court [can only verify] the lawfulness of [the procedure of] the taking of such a decision.as to whether the exclusion order amounted to an interference with the applicant’s family life, the court stated that the impugned decision “contained information on the basis of which the fss concluded that the actions of mr kamenov had threatened the national security of the russian federation.13.  the applicant’s representative lodged an appeal against the above decision with the administrative cases chamber of the supreme court of the russian federation (hereinafter “the supreme court”) stating, among other things, that in spite of the fact that he had submitted a signed undertaking of confidentiality to the regional court, he had not been given the chance to familiarise himself with the contents of the fss report of 14 january 2014 and the other documents which had served as the basis for the exclusion and that the actual reasons for that measure remained unknown to the applicant.he stressed that the applicant had never committed criminal or administrative violations and that the exclusion and the re-entry ban had disrupted the applicant’s family life.14.  on 24 december 2014 the supreme court upheld the decision of 25 july 2014 stating that the regional court had duly examined the necessary legal basis for the exclusion and that its decision had been lawful and reasonable.the supreme court did not specify the evidence which had served as the basis for the fss report of 14 january 2014, nor did it make any reference to its contents.15.  in reply to the court’s request for the information and documents that had served as the basis for the applicant’s exclusion, the government furnished copies of the courts’ decisions in the applicant’s case and a copy of the records of the hearing on 25 july 2014 by the regional court of the applicant’s appeal.in addition, the government submitted copies of the decisions of the regional court taken between 2011 and 2015 in respect of the following decisions taken by the domestic authorities: eight decisions granting appeals against expulsion orders imposed on account of criminal convictions and violations of immigration regulations, and three decisions granting appeals against exclusion orders and re-entry bans imposed on account of violations of immigration regulations.
5.  on 7 january 2004 the first applicant gave birth to a boy, l. because of their marriage, by virtue of section 1, subsection 1, of the children act (børneloven), the second applicant was considered to be l.’s father, and this was recorded by the civil registrar in connection with the child’s birth.7.  on 12 october 2006 the first applicant gave birth to a boy, s. 8.  although he no longer lived with the first applicant, and had had no sexual contact with her since 2004, the second applicant nevertheless submitted to the state administration for greater copenhagen (statsforvaltningen hovedstaden) (now the state administration) a declaration, co‑signed by the first applicant, stating that together they would take care of and be responsible for s. the declaration was dated 21 december 2006 and received in mid-january 2007. consequently, the second applicant was registered as s.’s father under section 2, subsection 1, of the children act.9.  without the knowledge of the second applicant, during the period from 2003 to 2008, the first applicant had also had a relationship with a man called e. when that relationship ended in october 2008, the first applicant told the second applicant that e. was the biological father of s. and probably also of l. 10.  on 29 november 2008, the applicants requested that both paternity cases be reopened in order to establish formally e.’s fatherhood of l. and s. the first applicant submitted, in english, that e. was the children’s biological father and that he “had warned me not to tell the truth about the fatherhood of the children”.the children l. and s., represented by counsel, also objected to the reopening of the paternity cases, finding that the conditions set out in sections 22 and 24 of the children act had not been met.12.  the first applicant explained that she had met the second applicant in tanzania in 2001. they had married in december 2001 and she had moved to denmark in 2002. in march 2003, she had met e. on a dating site and they had commenced a relationship and had sexual relations twice a week, on a few occasions without protection.they had separated in 2005 but had continued to live together until the beginning of 2006. after she and the second applicant had stopped having sexual relations, she had only had sexual relations with e. the latter had said that he would provide support for her and l, but he had never given her any money.in 2008 she had told e. that he would have to take care of the children soon and that she would report to the authorities that he was the biological father.in the autumn of 2008 he had been told about e. at the beginning of 2009 he had overheard a telephone conversation between the first applicant and e., during which e. had talked about the boys as “our children” both in danish and english.he had found it natural that the second applicant should be father to the children since he was married to the first applicant.16.  regarding l., the city court noted that both the second applicant and e. had had a sexual relationship with the first applicant during the fertile period and that the request for reopening the cases had been lodged more than three years after l.’s birth.it found it established that the first applicant had allowed both men to treat the children as theirs; that e. had taken on a paternal role; that e. had had frequent and regular contact with both children; that e. had taken l. swimming; that e. had taken the children with him on trips, to birthday parties and so on; and that e. was spoken of in familiar terms by the children.20.  moreover, having assessed overall the interests of the children and the union of the family, and the fact that the children would not be subjected to unnecessary inconvenience by a reopening, and since it was expected that paternity would be established, the court found that, exceptionally, both cases should be reopened.25.  the majority (two judges) noted that it was not until the proceedings on paternity that the applicants had informed the authorities that they had not had sexual contact in the fertile period as regards s. moreover, despite giving the children the impression that e. was their biological father, the second applicant had continued to treat the children as his own, at least until the end of 2008. in these circumstances, and since it was uncertain whether paternity would be established for the children if the paternity cases were to be reopened, they did not find a basis for reopening the case regarding s. under section 24 the children act.in addition he pointed out that the second applicant had not been aware until autumn 2008 that the first applicant and e. had had a long relationship, and that he was probably not l.’s father.27.  subsequently, the second applicant took a dna paternity test regarding both children which turned out negative with 0% compatibility, thus proving that he was not the father of l. or s. 28.  the applicants submitted this result to the appeals permission board (procesbevillingsnævnet) and requested leave to appeal to the supreme court (højesteret), which was refused on 28 january 2011.
7.  on 3 december 2004 the third and fourth applicants filed a request with the restitution and compensation commission (hereinafter “the commission”), seeking compensation for land expropriated from their legal predecessor in 1946.8.  between 17 july and 12 august 2005 the first and second applicants made statements waiving their rights in respect of the property belonging to the same legal predecessor in favour of the third and fourth applicants.9.  on 28 august 2005 the commission ruled in favour of the third and fourth applicants.10.  on 14 october 2005 the ministry of finance quashed that decision upon an appeal filed on 19 september 2005 by the supreme state prosecutor (vrhovni državni tužilac) in his capacity as legal representative of the respondent state.11.  on 17 april 2006 the commission issued a new decision, awarding compensation to all the applicants as they were all heirs of the legal predecessor.in so doing, it also examined the waiver statements of the first and second applicants made in 2005, but considered that, pursuant to section 40 of the restitution of expropriated property rights and compensation act, such waiver statements could only be validly made in non-contentious proceedings before a competent court (see paragraph 20 below).12.  between 12 june 2006 and 27 march 2014 the competent second‑instance administrative body (firstly the ministry of finance and later the appeals commission) and the administrative court, before which the case was first brought on an unspecified date in 2006, issued sixteen decisions in total (eight decisions each).the administrative court gave rulings within 1 year 8 months and 17 days, 7 months and 22 days, 7 months and 27 days, 3 months and 23 days, 5 months, 5 months and 19 days, 4 months and 16 days, and 4 months and 23 days.13.  on at least four occasions, when initiating an administrative dispute before the administrative court, the applicants explicitly referred to section 37 and/or section 58 of the administrative disputes act (see paragraph 26 below) and urged the administrative court to decide on the merits of their request.the administrative court never ruled on the merits of the initial compensation request, but instead quashed or upheld the quashing of the first-instance decision of the commission.15.  on 25 july 2014 the applicants each lodged a constitutional appeal against the decision of the supreme court, relying on, inter alia, articles 6 and 13 of the convention.the government submitted that, on the same day, in addition to those constitutional appeals against the supreme court’s decision, the applicants had also each lodged a second constitutional appeal against the decision of the administrative court of 27 march 2014. no copies of those second constitutional appeals were provided by either party.16.  on 28 october 2014 the constitutional court rejected the applicants’ constitutional appeals against the supreme court’s decision as premature, given that the commission was still considering their compensation request.the decision stated that the applicants’ constitutional appeals had been filed against the judgments of the administrative court and the supreme court.18.  on 31 march 2016, at a hearing before the commission, the proceedings were adjourned at the applicants’ request until this court ruled on their applications.
6.  according to the examples submitted by the applicants, the petitions were worded, with slight variations, as follows: “i want my child who is studying at ... school to receive education in kurdish, which is his [her] mother tongue, in addition to education in turkish, at school...” 7.  on receipt of the petitions the relevant education directorates informed the istanbul security directorate, which brought the matter to the attention of the principal public prosecutor’s office at the istanbul state security court.8.  on 28 december 2001 the public prosecutor asked the anti-terrorism branch of the istanbul security directorate to identify the names and addresses of the persons who had petitioned the bağcılar and esenler education directorates with a request for education in kurdish.the public prosecutor considered that the petitions in question had been made on the instructions of the pkk (workers’ party of kurdistan), an illegal armed organisation, and wished to collect relevant evidence from the petitioners’ homes.10.  on 9 january 2002 the public prosecutor instructed the anti‑terrorism branch of the istanbul security directorate to conduct the searches with a view to finding evidence that could link the relevant persons to the pkk as aiders and abettors.11.  early on the morning of 13 january 2002 police officers from the anti-terrorism branch of the istanbul security directorate carried out a simultaneous search of all the properties, including the applicants’ houses.the search and seizure reports drafted by the police and signed by the applicants and other members of the household indicated that a search warrant had been issued by the istanbul state security court on account of their petitions requesting education in kurdish for their children.12. the applicants were arrested and taken into police custody following the searches on 13 january 2002. the search and seizure reports and custody records submitted by the government indicate that the applicants were arrested and taken into police custody at the following times:15.  on the same day a judge at the istanbul state security court decided that there was no need to decide on the lawyer’s request as there was no record of the individuals in question being detained in relation to an investigation conducted by the public prosecutor’s office.16.  in the meantime, on 14 january 2002 the public prosecutor informed the lawyer that the applicants in question were in custody on suspicion of being affiliated with an illegal organisation, and that there was no need to decide on the lawyer’s request to have access to them as no authorisation for their detention in police custody had yet been issued by the public prosecutor’s office.17.  it appears that shortly after that decision, still on 14 january 2002, the public prosecutor authorised the applicants’ detention in police custody for four days between 13 and 17 january 2002. the authorisation was granted in response to a request made by the anti-terrorism branch of the istanbul security directorate, who had claimed that the applicants’ detention was needed for the completion of their files, in particular to verify whether the petitions had been submitted by the applicants themselves, whether they had any affiliation with the pkk and whether they were being searched for in connection with other offences (see paragraph 32 below for the legal basis for that authorisation).20.  on the same day the public prosecutor filed an objection concerning the decision to release the applicants, claiming that it was evident from the statements made by them following their arrest that they had submitted the petitions in an organised manner with the aim of assisting the pkk’s “politicisation” process.on 28 january 2002 the state security court dismissed that request, basing its decision on the nature of the offence, date of arrest, state of the evidence and contents of the case file.25.  on 22 january 2002 the istanbul state security court dismissed esma döner and zübeyde yavuz’s objections, basing its decision on the nature of the offence and the state of the evidence.27.  on the same day the public prosecutor issued an indictment against thirty-eight suspects, including the remaining applicants, accusing them of aiding and abetting an armed organisation under article 169 of the criminal code and section 5 of the prevention of terrorism act (law no.29.  on 28 may 2003 the istanbul state security court acquitted all the accused, including the applicants, because on the facts none of the elements of the crime of aiding and abetting an armed organisation had been present in their actions and there was no other evidence to support the allegations brought against them.
15.  by a letter of 29 november 2005 the local department of education replied to the applicant’s mother, stating that the facts described in her complaint had been confirmed in part and that the director of the nursery school, teachers ms k. and ms p. and medical nurse ms pt.36.  on 24 december 2007 the kirovskiy district prosecutor’s office noted that the pre-investigation inquiry was incomplete and that it was necessary to question the children who had attended the nursery school with the applicant and their parents, to obtain an expert opinion on the contra‑indications and side-effects of the eye drops given to the children, and to question other teachers at the nursery school.it noted that it was necessary to question the children who had attended the nursery school with the applicant and with their parents; to establish the seriousness of the damage sustained by the applicant to his health; to obtain and analyse the documents regulating the actions of the staff of public nursery schools; and to investigate ms p.’s actions.in particular, he showed the investigator the spot in the toilets where his folding bed had been placed and the place in the entrance hall where he and other children had been forced to stand wearing only their underwear and t‑shirts and keeping their arms up and apart during the entire duration of the sleeping hours.when she had learned from the applicant’s mother that the applicant had eye tics, she had talked to ms k. and ms p., who had affirmed that the applicant had had nervous tics before 7 november 2005. she had never seen ms k. and ms p. mistreating the children.71.  on 17 march 2014 the investigator questioned the applicant’s neighbour who lived on the same landing, who stated that the applicant’s tics had started in november 2005. she also stated that the applicant’s parents were on good terms with ms ch.’s sister but that she had not noticed any kind of relationship between the applicant’s parents and ms ch.(b)  the course of the investigation 82.  the investigation was suspended from 2 until 16 september, from 23 until 30 september, from 9 until 12 october, from 15 october until 5 november and from 6 until 11 november 2009; from 15 september until 11 october, and from 22 october until 28 november 2010; from 15 december 2010 until 11 january 2011, from 15 january until 28 march, from 28 until 29 july, from 16 june until 4 august, and from 5 until 6 september 2011; and from 30 december 2011 until 9 july 2012. the decisions to suspend the investigation were taken by the investigator on the basis of medical certificates showing that ms k. was on maternity leave and could not therefore participate in investigative measures.97.  on 9 october 2012 the applicant’s mother challenged the kirovskiy district police department’s decision of 10 august 2012 to discontinue the criminal proceedings before the kirovskiy district court against ms k. and ms p. on 23 october 2012 the applicant’s mother also challenged that decision before the st petersburg prosecutor’s office.the breaches of procedure committed during the investigation – such as the failure to promptly notify the applicant’s mother about certain procedural decisions taken by the investigator or the investigator’s failure to comply with the prosecutor’s instructions – were insufficiently serious as to warrant the quashing of the decision of 10 august 2012.the city court also criticised the district court for the delays in the examination of the complaint lodged by the applicant’s mother on 9 october 2012 and the resulting excessive length of the judicial proceedings.104.  on 23 may 2014 the kirovskiy district court held that the decision of 18 march 2014 had been unlawful, finding that the investigator’s assessment of evidence had been selective and that he had disregarded some facts and evidence (such as a bruise on the applicant’s face), some witness statements, and expert opinions.113.  the applicant’s mother lodged numerous complaints about the alleged ineffectiveness of the investigation with the kirovskiy district police department, the kirovskiy district prosecutor’s office, the st petersburg prosecutor’s office, the prosecutor general and the kirovskiy and krasnogvardeyskiy district courts of st petersburg.114.  by letters of 16 and 18 november 2011 the st petersburg prosecutor’s office informed the applicant’s mother that the investigator and the officials of the kirovskiy district prosecutor’s office responsible for supervising the case had been disciplined for the delays during the investigation and its ineffectiveness.119.  on 13 august 2012 the kirovskiy district court found that the investigator had still not organised an additional expert examination of the applicant, even though he had been instructed to do so in august 2010 and again in august 2011. it also found that the applicant’s mother had been unlawfully denied access to some documents in the case file.it found that some of the complaints lodged by the applicant’s mother had not been examined, that the decision had been based on certain documents that had not been examined during the hearing and that the court, even though it had found some of the complaints to be well‑founded, had nevertheless dismissed them.
5.  the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in chernigiv.6.  on 25 january 2007 the desnyanskiy district court in chernigiv (“the district court”) issued a warrant to search the applicant’s flat for a mobile telephone, which had been reported stolen.the relevant part of the ruling read: “acting investigator has applied to the court with a request to authorize search of the dwelling of [the applicant] ... with a view to locating a mobile telephone “nokia‑7270” stolen from private entrepreneur [k.] ... [theft] having taken place on 2 december 2006 at night.during the hearing, the acting investigator and the prosecutor have supported their request ... having heard the acting investigator [and] the opinion of the prosecutor, and having examined the material of the criminal case, the court concludes that ... [it] has been provided with sufficient data indicating a possibility that the nokia 7270 mobile telephone may be at the [applicant’s] place of residence.” 7.  on 30 january 2007 the police searched the applicant’s flat in his presence and seized three mobile telephones, which, according to the applicant, belonged to him and his family members.as appears from a poorly legible copy of the list of the seized items prepared by the police, two of these telephones were apparently of samsung and one – of nokia make.according to the applicant, on an unspecified date the seized telephones were returned, and neither he nor any of his family members were ever indicted or involved in any other way in the criminal proceedings giving rise to the search warrant.8.  on 3 march 2007 the applicant lodged an administrative complaint with the district court, alleging that his home had been searched arbitrarily and seeking moral damages for breaching inviolability of his home.9.  on 5 march 2007 the district court refused to examine the above complaint, citing a lack of jurisdiction.it noted that all complaints regarding the unlawfulness of procedural actions by law-enforcement authorities taken in connection with a criminal investigation had to be lodged within the framework of relevant criminal proceedings based on articles 234 and 236 of the code of criminal procedure of ukraine (“the ccp”), then in force.he alleged that there was no meaningful opportunity for him to obtain redress on the basis of the ccp provisions, since a criminal court could only examine complaints concerning the actions of investigation authorities in the context of its examination of a criminal case.in the applicant’s situation, such a remedy would not be effective, since he had no procedural status in the criminal proceedings at issue, and had never been informed of the progress of those proceedings.however, as the applicant considered himself to have been a victim of an arbitrary search, regardless of the outcome of the relevant criminal investigation, he also considered that he had standing to bring an administrative complaint under articles 2 and 4 of the code of administrative justice of ukraine (“the caj”).11.  on 15 may 2007 the kyiv administrative court of appeal rejected the appeal by the applicant, having essentially endorsed the findings of the first-instance court.he reiterated the arguments raised in his ordinary appeal and additionally submitted that his claim against the police for non-pecuniary damages could not be examined and resolved within the framework of criminal proceedings against a third party.13.  on 13 may 2009 the higher administrative court of ukraine rejected the applicant’s cassation appeal.
after the signature of this agreement, the applicant started using the plot of land, she finalised the construction of the house and beautified the plot of land.8.  on 10 october 2008 the son of the deceased, mr n. junior, sold the plot of land to another person, who registered her property right.mr n. junior was declared the owner of the plot of land and of the house.11.  on 17 june 2009 the town court granted the applicant’s claims against mr n. junior and awarded her 613,280 russian roubles (rub) for unjust enrichment and damages corresponding to different sums invested by the applicant in the plot of land and the house as well as the reimbursement of cost and expenses.14.  on 17 december 2009 the presidium of the belgorod regional court partly quashed the judgment of 4 august 2009 and sent the case for consideration anew before the second instance court.the presidium considered that the belgorod regional court misapplied the provisions of the civil code on unjust enrichment and miscalculated the amount of damages to which the applicant was entitled to.it concluded that these were significant violations of substantive or procedural law which influenced the outcome of the proceedings and must be corrected in order to restore and protect the applicant’s right to a fair trial as guaranteed by article 46 § 1 of the constitution, article 6 § 1 of the convention and article 1 of protocol no.17.  on 8 july 2010 the presidium of the belgorod regional court rejected the supervisory review application lodged by mr n.’s son, considering that the arguments it contained were limited to a different assessment of evidence.it however quashed the judgment of 19 january 2010 and restored the judgment of 4 august 2009 on its own motion, considering that: “in the interest of lawfulness and taking into account the principle of legal certainty recognised by the russian federation the presidium considers it possible and necessary to go beyond the arguments developed in the supervisory review application.the mere existence of two points of view on the same matter does not justify the reopening of the case.taking into account the aforementioned principle, the final decision in the present case should be the judgment of the belgorod regional court of 4 august 2009 which granted certain damages to the claimant and rejected her claims for the rest, including as regards unjust enrichment.in the course of the new examination by the cassation court the principles above have not been taken into account, this omission resulted in a violation of the principle of legal certainty provided by article 6 § 1 of the convention and undermined the stability of a binding judicial act.the claimant’s argument that the judgment of 19 january 2010 was lawful is not deemed to be sufficient by the presidium to disregard the aforementioned principles.the fact that the presidium of the regional court disagreed with the aforementioned judicial decision does not constitute in itself a ground for quashing of a final and binding judgment and for reopening of the proceedings.in view of the above, the judgment of 19 january 2010 subject to the present application shall be quashed and the judgment of 4 august 2009 restored.” 18.  on 3 november 2010 a single judge at the supreme court refused the applicant’s supervisory review application.
5.  on 25 march 2004 the applicant company concluded a contract with univerzal banka ad (hereinafter “the bank”), a private institution based in belgrade.under the terms of this contract, the applicant company acquired a debt belonging to the bank resulting from a final court judgment of 28 december 1999. that judgment was rendered against a socially-owned company called mehanizacija (hereinafter “the debtor company”) with its seat in vladičin han.on 29 august 2000, upon the bank’s application to that effect, the leskovac commercial court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and the debtor company subsequently paid a part of the judgment debt.6.  on 14 april 2005, upon the applicant company’s application to that effect, the leskovac commercial court again ordered the full enforcement of the judgment in question.7.  on 26 july 2005 the applicant company concluded a settlement with the debtor company, which was later annulled following an application by the debtor company by a decision of the leskovac commercial court of 22 january 2009. that decision became final on 3 march 2010.8.  on 24 december 2001 the leskovac commercial court ordered the debtor company to pay the applicant company specified amounts.9.  on 2 february 2005, upon the applicant company’s application to that effect, the leskovac commercial court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment.10.  on 1 march 2010 the leskovac commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor company.as a result, all of the other ongoing enforcement proceedings against the debtor company were stayed.11.  the applicant company duly reported its claims based on the above-mentioned judgments.12.  on 15 october 2010 the leskovac commercial court recognised a part of the applicant company’s claims and instructed the applicant company to initiate civil proceedings in respect of the remainder.13.  on 29 may 2012 the leskovac commercial court ruled partly in favour of the applicant company and dismissed the remainder of its claims.that decision was upheld by the commercial appeals court on 25 october 2013. the domestic courts found that the contract which the applicant company had concluded with the bank (see paragraph 5 above) entitled it only to the recovery of the amount paid for the transfer of the debt owed to the bank in question, not the judgment debt itself.14.  the insolvency proceedings are still ongoing.
(who later died – the first and the second applicants became her heirs), the third and the fourth applicants asked the lithuanian authorities to restore their property rights in natura to a house in kaunas, nationalised in 1940s.the decision also indicated that the remaining part of the house would be returned in natura when the tenants of the house had been provided with other premises, or compensation would be paid if the premises were not returned.11.  in march 1996 l.n., the third and the fourth applicants wrote a letter to the authorities, stating that they refused the property that had already been returned to them in natura, and asked to be paid compensation for the entire house.13.  on 23 september 1996 l.n., the third and the fourth applicants asked the authorities to pay them compensation for the part of the house that had not been returned to them in natura and stated that they agreed to partial compensation until the full market-value compensation figure had been calculated.14.  following the request of l.n., the third and the fourth applicants (see paragraph 13 above), the kaunas city municipality assessed the value of the entire house and on 8 october 1996 set it at 239,190 lithuanian litai (ltl – approximately 69,274 euros (eur)) in total, the third applicant signed for himself and as l.n.’s and the fourth applicant’s representative, signalling their agreement to such compensation.on the same day, the kaunas city board amended the decision of 11 april 1995, establishing that the remaining part of the house would not be returned, compensation of ltl 79,730 (approximately eur 23,091) would be paid to l.n., the third and the fourth applicants each, and that the remaining part of the compensation would be paid when the market value of the house had been calculated.15.  on an unspecified date l.n., the third and the fourth applicants lodged a claim with the domestic courts in order to have the part of the decision of the authorities of 11 april 1995 by which the premises of 22.42 sq.18.  the value of the property was calculated on 14 april 2008. on 1 june 2009, in accordance with an application by l.n., the third and the fourth applicants to receive compensation for 22.42 sq.19. in november 2006 the kaunas city municipality administration asked the centre of registers to assess the value of the house and to establish the difference between the value assessed and the compensation that had already been paid.in january 2008 the centre of registers assessed the market value of the house in 1996 at ltl 855,000 (approximately eur 247,625) and established that the remaining compensation to be paid was ltl 615,809 (approximately eur 178,350) in total.20.  on 19 march 2008 the authorities amended the decision of 11 april 1995 and established that l.n., the third and the fourth applicants had to be paid compensation amounting to ltl 615,809 (approximately eur 178,350) in total.died, and the first, the second applicants, who became her heirs, the third and the fourth applicants lodged a claim with the kaunas regional administrative court, asking for the annulation of one part of the order of the authorities of 19 march 2008 (see paragraph 20 above), and to oblige the authorities to calculate the remaining compensation as well as the compensation that had already been paid in accordance with the market price of the house in 2008. they also asked to be awarded damages.23.  on 9 march 2009 the kaunas regional administrative court decided to annul one part of the decision of the authorities of 19 march 2008 and to oblige the authorities to recalculate the compensation for the remaining part of the house in accordance with the market value in 2008. the court decided to reject the claim for damages as no unlawful acts by the authorities had taken place.it referred to a similar case of the same court where it had held that the value of the property had had to be assessed in the light of values when the decision to restore property rights had been taken, and that the assessment of the value at a later stage might have created grounds for unjust enrichment.the supreme administrative court also referred to the same case where it had held that although the authorities had not taken the necessary actions to calculate the remaining part of the compensation from 22 october 1996 until 28 april 2008, these had not been appropriate grounds for annulling the decision of the authorities to pay the remaining part of the compensation.
18.  according to the applicant’s submission to the court, on the same evening, 23 february 2006, he was taken to a large room on the ground floor of the orb-2 premises, where he was subjected to beatings by five police officers, namely the head of the orb‑2’s operational search division; mr ib., the operational search officer; mr as.the injury does not [fall under the category of] harm ...” 30.  on 6 march 2006 the applicant was transferred to sizo 20/1 in grozny, where he was examined by a doctor who made the following notes in his medical record: “... complaints of headaches; healing haematoma on the upper-right shoulder; fresh scar on the back of the knee measuring 2 cm; haemorrhage in the right eye; abrasion on the back of the head ... handcuff marks on both wrists ...” 31.  on 11 may 2006 the applicant complained to the chechnya prosecutor’s office of having been ill-treated in moscow and in the orb‑2, stating that the police officers had tortured him to make him confess to crimes he had not committed.his report contained the following remarks: “... according to the record of the initial medical examination carried out by the ivs [temporary detention centre] of the orb-2, the examinations conducted on 7 march, 17 march, 29 march, 10 april, 24 may, 13 june and 11 july 2006 did not reveal any bodily injuries ... thus, no evidence was obtained as a result of the inquiry ... the allegations of a. mukayev ... were not confirmed”.refused to investigate the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment, stating, inter alia: “... according to the record of the initial medical examination carried out by the ivs of the orb-2, the examinations conducted on 7 march, 17 march, 29 march, 10 april, 24 may, 13 june and 11 july 2006 did not reveal any bodily injuries ... according to the documents received from sizo 20/1 dated 14 march 2006 and 5 june 2006 concerning bodily injuries allegedly sustained by a. mukayev, the leninskiy district prosecutor’s office refused to institute criminal proceedings.for instance, when questioned about his bodily injuries – such as the haematoma covering one-third of the right shoulder, a bruise under his right eye, scratches on the back of his head and handcuff marks on both wrists, all of which were found when he was transferred to siz0 20/1 on 1 june 2006 – a. mukayev explained that these injuries had been sustained by him on the way to sizo 20/1 and on the way back to the ivs.he stated that the guards had not used physical force against him ... when questioned about the origins of the injuries, including the haemorrhage of the upper-right arm and the haematoma on his left hip found on [the applicant] when he was brought to sizo 20/1 on 1 june 2006, a. mukayev explained that he had been taken for interrogation.37.  on 27 december 2007 the applicant’s lawyers appealed to the supervisory prosecutor against the investigators’ decisions in respect of the applicant’s complaint of ill‑treatment and requested that the prosecutor recognise as unlawful the following: “(a) the delays in the verification of a. mukayev’s complaints concerning the unlawful actions of the law-enforcement officers against him; (b) the investigator’s refusal to question important witnesses who could have confirmed the use of violence against a. mukayev; (c) the investigator’s refusal to question a. mukayev.” 38.  on 17 january 2008 the investigator’s refusal of 9 december 2007 to initiate a criminal investigation was overruled by the supervisory prosecutor, and the applicant’s complaints of ill-treatment were sent back to the investigators for further inquiries.(ii)  the applicant’s judicial appeals against the prosecutor’s refusals to investigate allegations of ill-treatment 39.  on an unspecified date in june 2007 the applicant’s lawyer complained to the zavodskoy district court of grozny (“the zavodskoy district court”), stating, among other things: “... during the inquiry into the complaints of a. mukayev, a forensic medical examination was conducted on 9 march 2006 ... however, this examination was incomplete, as on 6 march 2006 when a. mukayev had been taken to sizo 1 (remand prison no.1) in grozny, the following injuries had been noted [in the medical record]: - headaches; - a healing haematoma on the right shoulder; - a scar on the back of the knee measuring 2 cm; - a haemorrhage in the right eye; - an abrasion on the back of the head; - handcuff marks on both wrists.however, after his arrest he started to have health problems ... in spite of consistent allegations [of torture] in the complaint lodged by a. mukayev, the investigator refused to open a criminal case ... on the basis of the above, it is requested that the court: order the chechnya prosecutor’s office to furnish [the applicant with] the materials gathered by the inquiry which resulted in the refusal to institute criminal proceedings on the basis of the complaints of a. mukayev, as he was neither provided with a copy of this decision nor familiarised with the contents of the file; recognise as unlawful the failure of the prosecutor’s office to investigate substantiated allegations of torture; and order the chechnya prosecutor’s office to conduct a thorough, objective and effective investigation into the applicant’s torture, and to prosecute the culprits ...” 40.  on 26 september 2007 the applicant’s lawyer lodged an additional complaint with the zavodskoy district court.on 6 march 2006, when he arrived at sizo 20/1 in grozny, mukayev was examined by a doctor, who made the following notes in mukayev’s medical record: ‘... complaints of headaches; healing haematoma in the upper right shoulder; fresh scar on the back of the knee measuring 2 cm; haemorrhage in the right eye; abrasion on the back of the head ... handcuff marks on both wrists ...’ consequently, assuming that the examination conducted on 1 march 2006 was full and thorough, a. mukayev was subjected to further physical violence between 1 and 6 march 2006. this is confirmed by the documents.[b]eaten [according to a. mukayev] in the head during the journey from moscow ...’ on 10 may 2006 in sizo 20/1 the following note was made in mukayev’s medical record: ‘[c]omplaints of numbness in the right side of his face; lacrimation of the right eye; sharp pains in the right side of the face, the ear and the gums.’ on 1 june 2006 in sizo 20/1, the following note was made in mukayev’s medical record: ‘[o]n the upper left shoulder there are round purple bruises, both internal and external, measuring 2-3 cm.on 6 august 2008 the latter upheld the decision of the leninskiy district court, stating that: “... in [citing] the overruling of the decision in refusing to open a criminal investigation within the framework of a criminal case which has been resolved by a sentence, [the applicant’s representative] is in fact proposing that the court examine and evaluate evidence that has already been examined and evaluated by the chechnya supreme court and the supreme court of the russian federation.those courts have already delivered decisions which are now binding; such a situation is not provided for by the current legislation ...” 47.  the documents submitted to the court show that the applicant had raised, consistently and in detail, complaints of ill-treatment during the proceedings before the chechnya supreme court and in an appeal against his sentence that he lodged with the supreme court of the russian federation (see below).52.  the applicant furnished the court with a letter from the head of the chechnya bar association of 14 december 2007, which read as follows: “... the investigator [in charge of the criminal case against the applicant] did not request the nisam bar association to assign lawyer g. ber.
7.  following the death of a six-year-old boy, rakhim amriev, in the course of a counter-terrorist operation in the chemulga settlement in ingushetia on 9 november 2007, a protest meeting against abuse of authority by the security forces was planned in nazran, the capital of ingushetia, for 24 november 2007. on 22 november 2007 ren tv dispatched a team consisting of the second, third and fourth applicants in order to cover the protest planned for 24 november 2007. the first applicant was on a business trip in nazran at that time.18.  on 24 november 2007 the investigators questioned the second applicant, who stated that at about 11 p.m. on 23 november 2007 he and the third and fourth applicants had been in the second applicant’s room at the hotel when a group of five or six armed men in balaclava masks and camouflage uniforms had forced their way into the room.27.  on 26 november 2007 the investigators questioned police sergeant i.s., who stated that on the evening of 23 november 2007 he and three other police officers, g.o., a.m. and kh.t., were on their regular duty at the hotel, where they had been assigned to ensure the safety of the hotel guests in addition to the hotel’s own security service.officer g.o had spoken to the deputy minister, who had ordered the officers to leave the hotel and go to the building of the ministry of the interior.at about 8 p.m. on 23 november 2007 a duty officer from the ministry of the interior had arrived at the hotel and told them that a deputy minister of the interior had ordered the security team to leave the hotel and go to the ministry of the interior building.35.  on various dates in november and december 2007 the investigators questioned two police officers from the nesterovskaya police station and four officers from the sunzhenskiy district police station whose statements concerning the circumstances of the applicants’ arrival at the police station in the early hours of 24 november 2007 were similar to the applicants’ account before the court.he had called the police officers off duty from the hotel on the evening of 23 november 2007 as there had been a threat of attacks on the building of the ministry of the interior and the officers had therefore been needed elsewhere.37.  on 17 december 2007 the investigators questioned deputy minister of the interior of ingushetia mr v. selivanov, who stated that he had been resident in the hotel since mid-october 2007. on the evening of 23 november 2007 he had been in his room, had not heard anything and had not seen the police security guards that evening.39.  on various dates in january and march 2008 the investigators questioned eleven police officers, who stated that on 23 november 2007 they had manned various checkpoints on the motorway between ingushetia and chechnya, on the roads between nazran and the ordzhenikidzevskaya settlement, and in the vicinity of the local airport.50.  on 26 november 2007 the head of the ingushetia investigative committee issued instructions for the investigators, ordering them to take these steps, amongst others: “ [...] 4) to identify and question the deputy minister of the interior who, according to the statement of ms m.k., telephoned the hotel at about 9 p.m. and recalled the police security officers; [...] 9) to identify the police officers who had manned the checkpoints on motorway “kavkaz” on 23 november 2007 and question them about the passage of the gazel minibus and examine the passing vehicles’ registration logs; [...] 15) to identify persons who had been staying at the hotel at the material time and question them about the events; [...] 17) to establish whether there were cctv cameras inside and outside the hotel and examine their contents; [...]” 51.  on 27 november 2007 the investigators took fingerprints from six employees of the hotel for comparative forensic examination of the fingerprints collected at the crime scene.62.  on 29 may 2008 the first applicant complained to the head of the nazran branch of the investigative committee, alleging that the crime against him and the other applicants had been perpetrated by state agents but that the investigation was not taking any steps to examine this theory.72.  on 3 april 2011 the investigators issued an official statement addressed to the minister of the interior criticising the failure of the police to take the steps necessary to identify the perpetrators of the applicants’ abduction.such violations of the procedure committed by the operational officers of the police create obstacles for the full, thorough and objective investigation....the facts stated demonstrate the ingushetia police’s complete ignorance in respect of the requirements of criminal procedure, their lack of discipline and the absence of any control over their work by the senior officers.your intervention could change the basis of the operational search officers’ attitude to the execution of their tasks...” 73.  on 30 may 2011 the head of the criminal police department of the ministry of the interior replied to the investigators, stating that as the result of their criticism they had conducted an internal inquiry and implemented various disciplinary measures against the officers responsible for their failure to take the necessary steps.according to the applicants, the documents submitted did not contain copies of the transcripts of the questioning of the first applicant, in which he had stressed the involvement of state agents in the abduction and ill-treatment.
4.  the applicant was born in 1940 and lives in tambov.5.  on 8 august 2003 the justice of the peace of the 1st court circuit of the leninskiy district of the tambov region ordered municipal unitary enterprise of housing maintenance no.1 («умпжх №1», hereinafter “debtor company”) to pay 348 euros (eur) to ms lisova aleksandra semenovna.the judgment became final on 19 august 2003.6.  on 11 september 2003 the bailiffs’ service initiated enforcement proceedings.7.  following ms lisova’s death, on 08 july 2005 the justice of the peace of the 1st court circuit of the leninskiy district of the tambov region replaced the initial applicant, mrs lisova, by her successor, mrs karpesh, in the enforcement proceedings.8.  the award was subsequently index-linked in the course of the enforcement proceedings by the decisions of 02 march 2006 (final on 14 march 2006), 09 april 2007 (final on 20 april 2007), 09 january 2008 (final on 22 january 2008), and 27 march 2008 (final on 08 april 2008).each decision replaced and cancelled the previous one.9.  the award has not been paid to the applicant to date.10.  the company was incorporated as a municipal unitary enterprise set up by a decision of the local administration and provided housing maintenance services.the company had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to it by the administration in order to carry out their statutory activities.11.  on 30 may 2008 the debtor company was declared insolvent and liquidation proceedings started.as a result, the company was liquidated on 27 may 2009.
5.  on 17 september 2003 he instituted inventory proceedings (processo de inventário) before the vila nova de famalicão court in order to obtain the division of the property of his great-uncle, j.c., who died in 1944.6.  on 26 november 2003 the administrator of the estate (cabeça-de-casal) gave statements (declarações da cabeça-de-casal) during the proceedings and on 27 january 2004 she identified at least fifty people as being j.c.’s heirs.8.  on 21 april 2004 the administrator of the estate submitted a list of j.c.’s assets (relação de bens) to the case-file; the applicant was notified of this on 20 september 2004.9.  on 20 june 2006 the court requested the administrator of the estate to make additional statements.between that date and 3 september 2007 contact information with regard to some of the heirs was submitted by the administrator of the estate, the heirs who had sought to intervene in the proceedings were granted leave to do so (see paragraph 7 above), and land registry certificates were requested and added to the case-file.11.  following some difficulties in summoning the heirs (many of the letters sent had been returned undelivered to the court), on 20 may 2009 the court managed to summon all heirs.12.  on 22 june 2009 the parties requested that a time-limit be set for the valuation of the property included in the inventory.as a party to the proceedings and appointed an expert to value the immovable property left by j.c. the meeting was postponed pending the expert’s report.15.  on 7 june 2010, after requesting an extension of the initial thirty-day time-limit, the expert submitted his report.17.  on 21 march 2012 the expert was asked by the court to give information about the value of the properties, which he did on 9 may 2012.19.  between 11 february 2008 and 18 april 2013 the court was informed four times of the deaths of parties to the proceedings.20.  as the letters summoning some of the newly identified heirs had been returned to the court, between 10 september 2013 and 17 december 2013 more steps were taken in order to try to summon them.21.  on 6 february 2014 the administrator of the estate informed the court that she was unable to obtain information about the missing addresses of some of the heirs of a deceased party.22.   the court stayed the proceedings three times (on 12 february and 13 november 2014, and on 10 september 2015), ordering that they should not continue until one or more of the parties took the initiative to submit information regarding the addresses of some of the heirs.23.  according to the latest information received by the court on 10 january 2016, on that date the proceedings were still pending at first instance.
7.  in 1999 the applicant and z. divorced and the applicant moved in with his new partner, b. at that time he did not apply for deregistration from the flat which he had occupied with his former wife.the local housing authority informed the applicant that he had to vacate the room, since he had no legal right to occupy it.he submitted that he and b. had been living in the room as husband and wife since 1988, but that after her death her neighbours had locked him out of the room.he considered that despite the fact that he had not been married to b. and had not been registered as living in the room, he should be regarded as a member of her family who had acquired the right to occupy her room.in particular, he raised the following arguments: -  he had shared a common household with b.; -  he had paid for the maintenance of the room; -  he had assumed the cost of b.’s burial; -  he had no other housing: he could not return to the flat of his former wife z. since she had become the owner of that flat and lived there with her new family; -  on 8 september 2009 he had asked the authorities to deregister him from the flat of his former wife z.; -  since his eviction, he had been obliged to live in the school in which he was working as a night watchman.11.  the local administration submitted that the applicant had not been registered as living in b.’s room, he was not a member of b.’s family and, therefore, he had not acquired any right to occupy her room.13.  on 6 may 2010 the leninskiy district court (“the district court”) of kaliningrad granted the applicant’s claim with reference to articles 69 and 70 of the housing code (see relevant domestic law and practice below).the district court established, in particular, that between 1999 and 2009 the applicant had cohabited with b. in the room in question, had shared a common household with her and had been removed from the register at his previous place of residence.the district court considered that the above circumstances should be regarded as exceptional within the meaning of article 69 of the housing code and that the applicant should therefore be regarded as a member of b.’s family who had acquired the right to reside in the room previously occupied by her.she had not applied to the authorities with a request to register him as living in her room, and had not asked that his name be added to the social tenancy agreement as a member of her family.n. [the applicant], the court [the district court] proceeded from the premise that there existed exceptional circumstances allowing it to recognise him as a member of ms brazhnikova’s [b.’s] family in accordance with article 69 § 1 of the housing code.the court [the district court] established on the basis of the plaintiff’s and witnesses’ submissions that the plaintiff had lived together with ms brazhnikova l.p.[b.]the above circumstances are not in themselves exceptional, in particular given that no irrefutable evidence had been submitted to the court to prove that ms brazhnikova l. p. had let mr zakharov live in the flat as a family member rather than as a temporary resident.it follows that the court judgment should be quashed and a new decision should be taken dismissing those claims.” 17.  on 3 march 2011 a judge of the supreme court of russia (“the supreme court”) refused to refer the applicant’s application for supervisory review of the decision of 22 september 2010 to the civil chamber of the supreme court for examination, finding no grounds for such review and relying on the principle of legal certainty.
5.  on 26 june 2006 the leskovac commercial court ordered ad perper-agrar, a socially-owned company based in bošnjace (hereinafter “the debtor”) to pay the applicant specified amounts on account of damages.that judgment became final on 14 july 2006.6.  on 31 october 2006, upon the applicant’s request to that effect, the leskovac commercial court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the applicant the enforcement costs.7.  on 27 may 2011 the leskovac commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor.8.   the applicant duly submitted his claim.9.  on 3 february 2012 the applicant’s claim was formally recognised.10.  the insolvency proceedings are still ongoing.11.  on 22 april 2003, the debtor had been privatised and changed its name to ad perper-agrar.12.  on 5 may 2005 the privatisation contract had been annulled and on 8 september 2006 the debtor’s name was changed to agrar fruit.13.  according to the serbian ministry of economy, the debtor is still a company predominantly comprised of socially-owned capital (see http://www.priv.rs/ministarstvo-privrede/90/agrar-fruit--u-stecaju.shtml/companyid=1238, accessed on 6 december 2016).14.  in their additional observations of 19 april 2016 the government informed the court that the applicant had transferred its judgment claims to a third person on 28 october 2015.15.  on 9 november 2016, as a response to the government’s additional observations, the applicant submitted that the contract regarding the transfer of the claims in question had been terminated by 11 december 2015.
he agrees to the father coming to i. to visit them on weekends and to have contact with him by telephone.” in view of the applicant’s hospitalisation (see paragraph 12 above), the centre recommended that the children be temporarily placed in the care of their maternal grandparents, that the father be granted contact rights, to be exercised every second weekend in i. and that the children be referred to the polyclinic for the protection of children in zagreb for treatment in order for them to overcome their emotional difficulties.the experts established that: - both parents were suitable for custody; - their parenting capacities had certain shortcomings, which was why they needed the assistance of welfare authorities in the form of supervision of the exercise of parental authority, counselling and, possibly, enrolment in a parenting school; - the children were more attached to the mother, who was at that time more available to meet their needs, - the children wished to remain living with their mother.the experts recommended: - that weight be given to the children’s wishes and custody be awarded to the mother, - that the father be granted extensive contact rights, to be exercised in i., initially every second saturday, and later over one whole weekend per month, as well as every second public holiday, half of the winter holidays and the entire summer holidays (july and august), - that the child protection measure of supervision of the exercise of parental authority be imposed (nadzor nad izvršavanjem roditeljske skrbi).she had nothing against the children staying with their father during the summer but complained about the impracticability of the contact arrangements, in particular of having to exercise her contact rights during that period in i.b.’s home, which for her was both objectionable for psychological reasons, given the animosity between her and her husband, and costly, as it entailed her having to travel to s. 32.  the applicant’s appeal was only dismissed by the split county court (županijski sud u splitu) on 20 may 2011. the relevant part of that decision reads as follows: “the first-instance court adopted the provisional measure relying on [the relevant provisions of] the enforcement act and the family act after having established that the adoption of that measure was not contrary to the children’s best interests.since those interests were not called into question by the arguments raised by the appellant in her appeal, and given that in the proceedings leading to the adoption of the decision [on the provisional measure] there were no serious breaches of procedure ... the appellant’s appeal had to be dismissed and the contested decision upheld.” 33.  meanwhile, in a report of 30 june 2010 the ivanić-grad social welfare centre (centar za socijalnu skrb ivanić-grad) informed the split municipal court of the measures taken to prepare the children for their stay with their father during the summer holidays, as ordered under the measure of 18 june 2010 (see paragraph 30 above).it noted that the younger son wanted to go to s. and spend time with their father whereas the older one resisted that and preferred that their father come to i.. the centre therefore recommended that implementing the provisional measure in respect of the younger child would be in his interests whereas implementing the measure by force against the older one would not be in that child’s interests.did not hand the children over to the applicant, but kept them in s. 39.  in their opinions of 1 and 10 september 2010 submitted to the split municipal court the split and ivanić-grad social welfare centres respectively suggested that the experts’ recommendations made in the opinion of 10 may 2010 (see paragraph 27 above) be followed and the children returned to the applicant in i. in view of the children’s recent resistance to returning to their mother’s home, the split welfare centre also proposed that a supplementary expert opinion be obtained from the same experts.(see paragraph 37 above), dated 23 september 2010, which stated that: - the children needed psychological assistance, to which the father agreed (he had started taking them to therapy); - the father had been advised to encourage the children to have contact with the mother; - the children were refusing contact not because they did not love their mother but because they were afraid she would take them to i.; - the supplementary expert opinion proposed by the split social welfare centre (see paragraph 39 above) should determine (a) in what way the parents had been manipulating the children, (b) what kind of impact returning to i. would have on the children’s emotional health, and (c) the long-term consequences of either potential decision on custody.46.  at the hearing held on 1 february 2011 the court heard evidence from dr j.š., who stated that: - the separation of the parents entailed a potential change of the children’s residence, which was very traumatising for the children; - for the children it was more important where they would live than with which parent; they loved their mother but refused to live in i.; - the boys had sustained serious emotional harm and it was impossible to return them to i. without consequences; - the boys were refusing to have contact with the mother and were very likely inventing stories that they had been beaten by her and their maternal grandparents (see paragraph 15 above) only because they were afraid that she would take them back to i.during the hearing and later, in her submissions of 14 and 28 february 2011, the applicant objected to that decision because the court had: - appointed a single expert (in psychiatry), whereas a combined opinion from experts in psychology and psychiatry had been warranted; - appointed an expert from split rather than experts from zagreb, contrary to the recommendation of the earlier experts in the case (see paragraph 41 above), which had also been costly for her as it had entailed her having to travel to split; - not ordered an expert evaluation of the children.in so doing the court stated: “the court would draw the attention of [the social welfare centre’s] expert ... team to the need for the children to undergo therapy and treatment, and the need for the parents to be advised as to how to resolve their relationship and to have clearly defined limits as to what to do and how in this situation ...” 66.  after the hearing the applicant again tried to meet the children at their father’s home.this is confirmed by all reports of the supervising officer, psychiatrists’ reports and the psychologist’s report dated 27 april 2012. the recommendations of the specialist, the expert ... team and the supervising officer are to provide the children with psychological support with a view to processing difficult emotions related to the situation in the family and their relationship with the parents.the father accepted this, and the treatment at the polyclinic commenced in april 2012. taking into account primarily the interests of the children, we are of the opinion that contact with the mother has to be regulated gradually, by following the children’s emotional capacities, the course of the psychotherapy, [etc.]in particular, they: - stated that the children had been manipulated by their father and that their refusal to have any contact with their mother was completely irrational and resulted from the conflict of loyalties they had been drawn into; - criticised the opinions of dr j.š., who in their view had (a) failed to adequately explain the radical change in the children’s behaviour after they had spent the summer holidays of 2010 with their father, (b) failed to recognise that change as an obvious symptom of the children’s conflict of loyalties, and (c) recommended that the children’s wish to continue to live with their father be respected (see paragraphs 45-46 above), thus ignoring their long-term interests; - pointed out that the judicial authorities had ignored the split social welfare centre’s recommendation of 1 september 2010 that a supplementary expert opinion be obtained from them (as the experts who had on 10 may 2010 prepared the earlier opinion in the case – see paragraphs 27 and 39 above) and, instead of ordering a combined (psychiatric and psychological) evaluation of both parents and the children by a clinic in zagreb, had only ordered a psychiatric evaluation of the parents by an expert from split (see paragraphs 47-48 above).and other doctors so that the children might adjust [their behaviour to accommodate] judicial decisions ... it also follows that the suspect is in constant contact with the [split] social welfare centre and that the supervising officer visits his home and checks the situation of the children, who, on the other hand, when pressured to see the mother, threaten to call the police, run away from home or do something else inappropriate.” 87.  at a hearing held on 13 january 2015 the court accepted the experts’ request to be excused and appointed new experts, a certain dr do.b.
he also complained of the presence of pests and of dampness in the cells and the poor quality of food, which sometimes even contained sand.taking into account the overall area of the cells without deducting the surface of the in-cell sanitary facility, the applicant had personal space ranging from 2.18 to 2.46 sq.the food prepared was always tested by the prison doctor and a representative of the prisoners and the results were marked in a register.11.  after deducting the surface of the in-cell sanitary facility and the storage closet from the overall surface of the cells, the applicant had personal space of 2.03 sq.12.  for the rest of the time spent in vaslui prison until 11 september 2014, the date of the correspondence from the national administration of prisons submitted by the government, the applicant had personal space of 3.05 sq.14.  according to the government, the cells in which the applicant was accommodated were put in use on 1 may 2012 when new mattresses and bed clothes were distributed.here too the food prepared was always tested by the prison doctor and a representative of the prisoners and the results were marked in a register.16.  according to the regulations in force at the relevant time a prisoner had the right to receive for free during a year a maximum of six tubes of toothpaste, twelve rolls of toilet paper, 10 kg of washing powder, three kilograms of poor quality soap and 3 litres of bleach.the government submitted a copy of a printed form for the distribution of toothbrushes, toothpaste, shaving cream, razors, toilet paper and soap in vaslui prison, dated 1 august 2014. according to this form, on the said date the applicant received one razor, one roll of toilet paper and one bar of soap.on 18 december 2013 in reply to the applicant’s request the national prisons administration confirmed that he needed dental prostheses for which the price should be calculated by the prison dentist.the applicant’s personal contribution was to amount to 40% of the calculated price in accordance with the rules for the application of law no.in case he did not have the necessary financial means to cover his contribution, the applicant was instructed to lodge a request with the vaslui prison administration after obtaining an estimate of the extent of the dental work needed and its total costs.275/2006 on the serving of prison sentences with the post-sentencing judge in bacău prison claiming that his right to medication, medical treatment and a special diet had been breached by the prison administration.the judge reviewed the applicant’s medical file and his doctors’ prescriptions and, taking into account that the applicant had failed to mention any specific failures on the part of the prison administration, concluded that no breach of rights could be found in the case.25.  the applicant contested the above decision before the bacău county court but during the hearing of 22 august 2013 he withdrew his complaint.
11.  the applicant appealed against this decision to the general prosecutor’s office, which forwarded the case-file materials back to the local prosecutor’s office with a view for them to be joined to the criminal investigation of the applicant’s complaint concerning the second ill‑treatment episode (see below).officer a.a. had hit the applicant on the head with the grip of his gun and had struck her several times in the face with his hand in the presence of the applicant’s two-year-old son, her partner, brother, and two guests.she had been released at about 5.30 p.m. on 25 june 2009 after confessing to drug-related offences and signing various documents at the demand of a.a. 18.  according to the applicant, during her visit to the department of the interior, she had felt so unwell that an ambulance had been called and she had been admitted as an urgent case to hospital no.according to the findings contained in the report there were, in particular, irregularities in the visitors’ log and other police records, making it difficult to determine the exact time of the applicant’s presence in the police station on 24 and 25 june 2009.24.  on an unspecified date the prosecutor’s office began a preliminary investigation into the applicant’s complaints, in the course of which a number of people were questioned as potential witnesses, including the police officers implicated by the applicant in her ill-treatment, the lay witnesses, who had signed the police report concerning seizure of opium from the applicant on 24 june 2009, the three men implicated in buying opium from the applicant, the applicant’s partner, brother, guests, and the applicant herself.(her brother), and two persons identified by the applicant as the guests present during the purported forced entry, gave statements similar to the ones the applicant had provided to the department of the interior on 26 june 2009. the applicant also submitted that there had been no lay witnesses present during the forced entry and search and that the jar and syringes with opium had been brought by the police officers and planted on her.31.  on 1 march 2010, responding to a request from the applicant to be updated on the proceedings and to consult the case file, the kharkiv city prosecutor’s office informed her that the investigation was in progress and that she would be able to consult the file after it had been completed.34.  on 9 december 2010 the investigator s. discontinued the second set of criminal proceedings against the applicant for want of any evidence that she had stored opium in her house or had sold it to anyone on 24 june 2009. in his decision, the investigator referred to various procedural irregularities in the collection of evidence by the police officers and discrepancies in the statements of the various persons questioned as witnesses, which he deemed irreconcilable.he further decided to transfer the file of the case against the applicant to the kharkiv prosecutor’s office in order for it to be joined to the case concerning the applicant’s alleged ill-treatment.it stated that it was not possible to determine the severity of the applicant’s cerebral injury because the medical history that had been provided to the expert writing the report had been incomplete, and because the applicant herself had not reported for an examination in person.37.  on 29 august 2011 the kharkiv prosecutor withdrew the bill of indictment against officer a.a., noting that the three men earlier identified as the drug buyers and one of the two people identified as the applicant’s guests who had been present during the purported forced entry had retracted their testimony incriminating a.a. and his colleagues in the assault.38.  on an unspecified date officer m.o., one of the four officers implicated by the applicant in the forced entry, appealed to the kyivskyy district court in kharkiv, seeking the annulment of the decision to institute criminal proceedings.40.  on various dates in september 2011 formal confrontations were organised between the applicant, two of the three men identified by the police as the “drug buyers”, and a woman identified by the applicant as one of her guests on 24 june 2009. during those confrontations, the applicant confirmed her previous testimony, while the other people maintained that because they had been regular clients of the applicant’s for drugs in 2009, they had earlier given statements in her favour for fear of reprisals from her and officer y.b., who had protected her.in fact, the two men confirmed that they had bought opium from the applicant on 24 june 2009, while the woman maintained that she had not visited the applicant on that date and had not witnessed any forced entry by the police.43.  it appears that the applicant was not informed of the above decision in due time, as in 2012 the applicant’s lawyers unsuccessfully contacted the law-enforcement authorities to obtain information on whether there had been any progress in the proceedings.
6.  on 13 june 1958, the frankfurt (oder) district court convicted the applicant of “criminal assault against the local bodies of the state” (“verbrecherischer angriff gegen die örtlichen organe der staatsmacht”) after he had attacked a member of the gdr parliament of the ruling socialist unity party.7.  on 8 february 1994 the frankfurt (oder) regional court annulled the 1958 judgment for its incompatibility with the principles of the rule of law and rehabilitated the applicant pursuant to section 1 § 1 of the criminal rehabilitation act (gesetz über die rehabilitierung und entschädigung von opfern rechtsstaatswidriger strafverfolgungsmaßnahmen im beitrittsgebiet ‑ strafrechtliches rehabilitierungsgesetz) designed to rehabilitate and compensate prisoners of the gdr regime for deprivation of their liberty incompatible with the principles of the rule of law.the application form contained instructions that, according to section 16 § 2 of the act (see relevant domestic law and practice, paragraphs 23 and 24 below), such compensation could not be granted to a person who had offended against the principles of humanity and the rule of law.on 13 february 1995 the president of the frankfurt (oder) regional court, acting as the competent authority, awarded him compensation of 8,250 german marks, equivalent to about 4,218 euros (eur), pursuant to section 17 in conjunction with section 16 §§ 1 and 3 of the criminal rehabilitation act.on 14 november 2007 he was granted a special monthly pension of eur 250 pursuant to section 17a of the criminal rehabilitation act, with the reservation that information held by the federal commissioner for the records of the state security service of the former gdr (“the federal commissioner”) must not contradict the applicant’s statements.10.  on 25 february 2008 the federal commissioner informed the president of the regional court that the applicant, between 22 september 1953 and 25 november 1954, had been a secret informant of the ministry of state security while he was a member of the police force.2 of the brandenburg administrative procedure act (verwaltungsverfahrensgesetz für das land brandenburg), withdrew the decisions granting compensation and a special pension and at the same time ordered the applicant to reimburse the amounts already received pursuant to section 49a of the same act.the president considered that the decisions had been unlawful from the beginning as the prerequisites for either entitlement had never been met and that the applicant could not legitimately rely on these decisions being maintained, as he had obtained them by giving information that was substantially incorrect.referring to section 16 § 2 of the criminal rehabilitation act, he observed that the applicant, contrary to the statements in his applications, had worked as a secret informant for the ministry of state security and had produced at least five reports for the ministry in which he put at real risk the persons on whom he had informed.the fact that at the time of recruitment he was only 19 years old and had been severely traumatised when fleeing his home town in silesia in 1945 and experiencing the bombing of dresden on 13 february 1945, followed by several months of homelessness after the war had ended, also had to be taken into account.13.  on 16 february 2010 the frankfurt (oder) regional court, sitting as a chamber of three judges, dismissed the applicant’s request for judicial review, finding that his work as a secret informant for the ministry of state security was of such nature, scope and duration that it was reprehensible enough to justify ruling out the applicant’s eligibility for compensation payments pursuant to section 16 § 2 of the criminal rehabilitation act.acknowledging that in a dictatorship which lasted for decades, minor involvement with the regime was frequent, it considered that the applicant’s position as a secret informant of the state security service did not itself suffice to trigger the application of that provision.furthermore, the five reports mentioned in the decision of the president of the regional court, as well as two more reports were capable of putting in danger the persons informed on.the applicant’s claim that some reports were unknown to him and factually incorrect and that he did not recognise the names of the superior officers was irrelevant to the regional court’s decision.further, the court could not see a connection between the applicant’s experiences relating to the impact of war and the post-war period on him and his psychological strain at the time of recruitment on the one hand and his willingness to cooperate with the state security service on the other hand.
the decision, based on section 98 (1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973 (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство), provided that the applicant’s father and the applicant were to receive a three-room flat in compensation.7.  by a supplementary decision of 25 march 1987, based on section 100 of the territorial and urban planning act, the mayor determined the exact location, size and other details in respect of the future flat offered in compensation.8.  in 1989 the applicant paid to the authorities the part of the value of the future flat which had not been covered by the value of the expropriated property.9.  on an unspecified date the construction of the building where the flat was to be located was commenced.in 1996 the sofia municipality concluded a contract with the company b., successor of the state-owned enterprise, delegating to it the construction works.the company was under an obligation to build, at its own expense, and deliver to the municipality, within twenty-four months, the flats earmarked for compensation of the expropriated owners; in exchange of that it was to become the owner of the remainder of the building.in 2005, in the context of the winding-up of the company b., the building, still unfinished, was sold to another company.the latter apparently resold the property to a third company, which in 2006 obtained a notary deed declaring it the owner of the building and the flats in it, including one half of flat no.17 on the fifth floor; however, unlike what was indicated in the decision of 25 march 1987 (see paragraph 7 above), that flat was described as having a surface of 91, and not 109, square metres.the applicant submitted a certificate of occupancy of the building at issue, dated 5 october 2007, but claimed that it only concerned “certain construction activities” and that the building was not in use.11.  in the meantime, the applicant filed several requests with the municipal authorities in sofia asking them to complete the compensation procedure and deliver the flat due to him.in a letter of 25 july 2000 the municipality informed him that the company b. had reassured the authorities that it was making effort to fulfill its obligations.in another letter of 13 august 2004 the municipality informed the applicant that it was the company that was responsible to deliver the flat to him.lastly, in a letter of 8 november 2011 the sofia municipality informed the applicant that he should have raised his claims in the winding-up procedure of the company b., or should contact the current owner of the building to claim the flat due to him.12.  in 2007 the applicant was evicted from the flat where he had been temporarily settled, after it had been sold to a private party in the context of the winding-up of the company b. in the ensuing judicial proceedings whereby he challenged unsuccessfully the eviction it was established that at that time the applicant was not living in the flat, and that it was uninhabitable and in a very poor state of repair.
7.  on 23 september 2010 the public prosecutor at the athens court of appeal ordered the attica police department to carry out searches at fifteen residential and business premises in various locations in athens and the attica region, including the applicant’s address, in the context of a preliminary police investigation being conducted in respect of s.g. and i.g.2940/29-7-2010 of the prosecutor at the court of cassation, we are conducting an investigation to verify whether criminal offences have been committed, in particular the setting up of a criminal organisation (article 187 of the criminal code) by s.g. and i.g., and by other persons connected with them and acting in collaboration with them.in view of the material gathered to date and in order to avoid the loss of decisive evidence, we hereby order searches, in application of articles 253-259 of the code of criminal procedure, at the residential and professional premises located in the following streets: 28-30 rue meletopoulou, palaio psychiko; ... in addition, should you consider it necessary, carry out body searches of the persons present in these homes and offices.9.  in may 2012, on completion of the preliminary police investigation, the public prosecutor at the athens court of appeal instituted proceedings against a number of individuals, including the applicant, for involvement in a criminal organisation.10.  on 8 november 2012 the applicant applied to the indictment division at the athens court of appeal to have the search declared null and void, the seizure order lifted and the seized items returned.the only difference between them was that the second procedure concerned an “accused”, while the first procedure concerned a “suspect”, who, in the indictment division’s finding, nonetheless enjoyed all the rights granted to an accused.it held that this difference was not such as to deprive the bodies responsible for investigating a case of an important tool for uncovering decisive items of evidence, otherwise there would be a serious risk of a finding that there was no case to answer without the authorities having been able to exhaust all the investigatory options available to them.7/2003, pp.813 et seq.the indictment division further noted that the preliminary police investigation was conducted in accordance with the procedure for a pre-trial investigation, a specific reference being made to articles 240 and 241 of the code of criminal procedure (ccp).in the indictment division’s view, this meant that in deciding whether to bring a prosecution the public prosecutor’s office had to use all the means at its disposal to gather evidence, in line with article 178 of the ccp and the procedure applicable to the pre-trial investigation, with the exception of evidence that was incompatible with the nature of a preliminary police investigation (such as, for example, the memorandum of defence as a suspect and issuing an arrest warrant).13.  the indictment division held that article 256 of the ccp, providing for the right of the occupant of premises being searched to be present, did not impose an obligation on the person conducting the search to await the occupant or invite him or her to be present, and that, should the occupant be absent, the presence of a neighbour was sufficient.14.  with regard to the authorities’ refusal to return the seized objects, the indictment division noted that a considerable amount of evidence had been seized during the searches of the applicant’s home and also at the residential premises of the other individuals concerned, and that this evidence provided sufficient proof of the existence of a criminal organisation involving persons who had committed serious offences, most of them crimes, in respect of which prosecutions had been brought.he held that the conditions for lodging an appeal on points of law had not been met, in that the indictment division had provided comprehensive reasoning for the contested decision and that, since no further investigative acts had been conducted, no decision by the indictment division at the court of appeal was necessary in order to approve them.ii.
a argued that responsibility for the statements lay with the applicant as the editor of pressan by virtue of section 15 of the printing act, applied by analogy, since the author of the articles was not identified.he also stated that he had tried to establish the sisters’ credibility and the truthfulness of the allegations by interviewing the sisters, a’s son, the police, one of the sisters’ employers, another alleged victim and other people mentioned by the sisters in their writings, who could confirm that the allegations were not appearing for the first time because of a’s candidacy, but had been known to the family and the police for years.17.  as regards the issue of legality, the district court came to the conclusion that section 15 of the printing act did not apply to material published solely on the internet and that section 15, subsection 3, could not be applied by analogy in the case.18.  as regards the merits of the case, the judgment contained the following reasons: “the impugned statements were published on [pressan] on 7 november 2010 after [a] had, along with about 500 people, declared his candidacy for the constitutional assembly.there would be general elections, where the same rules about eligibility and the right to vote applied as in the parliamentary election”... when the statements in sections a-c are compared to the sisters’ writings on their website on 2 november 2010, the court has to agree with [the applicant] that both the headline in section a and the statements in sections b and c are verbatim from their letter.so the court concludes that [the applicant] did not go beyond the limit of the freedom of expression guaranteed in article 73 of the constitution, with the statements in sections d and e.” 19.  on 1 august 2012 a appealed to the supreme court against the district court’s judgment.20.  by a judgment of 21 february 2013 the supreme court partly overturned the district court’s judgment and found defamatory the statements in sections a, b, d and part of the statement in section c, consisting of insinuations that a was guilty of having abused children, and ordered the applicant to pay, under the tort act, 200,000 icelandic krónur (isk) (approximately 1,600 euros (eur)) for non-pecuniary damage, plus interest in compensation and isk 800,000 (approximately 6,500 eur) for a’s legal costs before the district court and supreme court.21.  as regards the issue of legality, the supreme court noted that the author of the articles had been identified and that the applicant had confirmed that he had agreed to the publication of the articles.22.  as to the merits of the case, the judgment contained, inter alia, the following reasons: “the court can agree with [the applicant] that candidates for assignments in the public interest have to endure a certain amount of public discussion of their ability and skills and attributes and whether or not they can be trusted to bear this kind of responsibility.in the light of the aforementioned, the limitation on the freedom of expression had to be justified in accordance with article 73(2) of the constitution.”... 23.  the relevant provision of the icelandic constitution (stjórnarskrá lýðveldisins íslands) reads as follows: article 73 “everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and belief.freedom of expression may only be restricted by law in the interests of public order or the security of the state, for the protection of health or morals, or for the protection of the rights or reputation of others, if such restrictions are deemed necessary and in agreement with democratic traditions.” 24.  the penal code no.19/1940 (almenn hegningarlög), chapter xxv, entitled “defamation of character and violations of privacy”, sets out the following relevant provisions: article 234 “any person who harms the reputation of another person by an insult in words or in deed, and any person spreading such insults shall be subject to fines or to imprisonment for up to one year.” article 235 “if a person alleges against another person anything that might be harmful to his or her honour or spreads such allegations, he shall be subject to fines or to imprisonment for up to one year.” article 236 “anyone who, against his or her better knowledge, makes or disseminates a defamatory insinuation shall be liable to up to two years’ imprisonment.a person who is found guilty of a defamatory allegation may be ordered to pay to the injured person, on the latter’s demand, a reasonable amount to cover the cost of the publication of a judgment, its main contents or reasoning, as circumstances may warrant in one or more public newspapers or publications.” 25.  section 26(1) of the tort liability act no.section 13 “any person who publishes, distributes, or is involved in the publishing or distribution of any publication other than a newspaper or periodical shall bear criminal liability and liability for damages pursuant to the general rules of law if the substance of the publication violates the law.” section 15 “as regards liability for newspapers or magazines other than those listed in section 14, the following rules shall apply: the author is subject to criminal liability and liability for damages if he or she is identified and either resident in iceland when the publication is published or within icelandic jurisdiction at the time proceedings are initiated.media service providers shall be obliged to provide any persons who consider they are the victims of a violation as a result of the publication of text content with information indicating who is liable for the content.” 28.  by judgment of 24 november 2011 (case no 100/2011), which concerned defamation proceedings against editors and a journalist of a newspaper and newspaper website, the supreme court of iceland found that before the media act entered into force, there had been no applicable legal rule about the responsibility of an editor of web-based media which published material solely online.
the measures applied in the applicant’s case comprised confinement in a special high-security prison wing and increased supervision of his movements within and outside the cell, which meant that he had to wear joined shackles whenever he was taken out of his cell.12.  it its decision of 24 february 2011 the commission relied on the fact that the applicant had assaulted a prison guard (article 88a § 2 (2 b) of the code of execution of criminal sentences).the governor of the lublin remand centre, in his application to impose the regime, stated that on 21 february 2011 the applicant had refused to undergo a strip-search, had been aggressive and had attempted to hit a prison officer in the face.18.  on 15 november 2011 the governor of the lublin remand centre applied to the commission to lift the measure against the applicant.21.  on 3 january 2012 the governor of opole lubelskie prison applied to the prison commission to impose the “dangerous detainee” regime on the applicant.he submitted that since the applicant’s arrival at the prison he had been aggressive towards the prison officers and had been trying to gain prominence in the prison community by plotting to assault a senior officer of the service.because of his high level of demoralisation, the nature of the offences committed by him, his tendency to want to gain control over others and his personal character, he remains determined to return to the criminal structure and poses a real risk to those surrounding him.in view of the information collected, there is a real risk of him carrying out an active assault on a prison officer, as has happened in the past.” the applicant appealed but on 14 february 2012 the lublin regional court upheld the decision.23.  the governor of rzeszow prison (to which the applicant had in the meantime been transferred) subsequently requested the extension of the regime imposed on the applicant.the applicant remained interested in joining the prison community and remained a serious risk to the security of the prison.on the same date the prison commission of rzeszow prison extended the regime, stating that the applicant “should consolidate his positive behaviour and carry out a deeper reassessment of his previous conduct”.the governor considered that the applicant remained interested in belonging to the prison community and that his behaviour continued to pose a risk to the security of the prison.on 28 june 2012 the commission extended the regime, citing the same justification as in its previous decision of 3 april 2012. on 27 september and 27 december 2012 the governor of rzeszow prison made further requests to extend the measure imposed on the applicant.he considered that the applicant continued to pose a serious danger to the security of the prison as he identified with the “prison subculture”, had behaved immorally and had not shown any remorse for the offences he had committed.on 27 september and 27 december 2012 the prison commission extended the application of the regime on the applicant.
12.  on 13 march 2010 the kielce district court (sąd rejonowy) decided to detain him on remand for a period of three months, until 9 june 2010. the court referred to the reasonable suspicion that the applicant had committed the offences with which he was charged and in respect of which he would face, if found guilty, deprivation of liberty for a term exceeding eight years.the court pointed out that the applicant had not remained at his place of residence, had refused to accept a summons from the prosecutor and, although he was aware that an investigation was being carried out in respect of him, he had moved to new zealand in 1999 with a view to waiting until the charges that had been brought against him became time-barred; consequently, the proceedings against him had had to be stayed for ten years.13.  on 7 june 2010 the applicant’s detention was extended until 7 september 2010. the court again referred to the reasonable suspicion that the applicant had committed the offences with which he was charged and on the severity of the penalty to which he would be liable if found guilty.15.  on 29 july 2010 the cracow court of appeal (sąd apelacyjny) upheld the challenged decision, confirming the regional court’s view that the detention had been justified by the severe penalty and the possibility that the applicant might obstruct the proceedings.as regards the applicant’s state of health the court referred to two medical experts’ opinions dated 15 april and 14 june 2010 respectively, according to which the applicant could be treated in the detention facilities and was able to participate in the trial.17.  on 2 september 2010 the kielce regional court extended the applicant’s detention for a further five months, until 4 february 2011. the court justified its decision by citing the high probability that the applicant had committed the offences with which he had been charged.the court of appeal did not uphold the regional court’s finding that the applicant might tamper with evidence; this, however, did not influence the court’s overall assessment of the circumstances of the case.as regards the applicant’s state of health, the court referred to a medical opinion issued on 28 october 2010 by an expert neurologist and orthopaedist according to which the applicant could participate in the court hearings and could be transported to court without a wheelchair.22.  on 21 june 2011 the kielce regional court extended the applicant’s detention until 21 december 2011. the court noted that the results of the applicant’s recent treatment in the łódź prison hospital ward had been satisfactory and that according to the experts in neurology and orthopaedics (see paragraph 21 above) he could be treated in prison facilities.the doctor also ordered a further examination of the applicant, which took place on 16 august 2011. on 16 october 2011 a fresh opinion was delivered, the relevant part of which reads as follows: “there are obstacles to [an extension of the] stay of the applicant in the kielce detention centre because he cannot receive neurological treatment there ... the results of the electromyography examination (emg) show a gradually worsening] dysfunction of the peripheral nerves ... which qualifies the applicant for neurological surgery that can only be executed in a neurological ward.the court furthermore found that the circumstances justifying the applicant’s detention had not ceased to exist and that they had already been listed in the court’s decision of 21 june 2011. the court did not find it necessary to repeat them.2. the post-operation rehabilitation should take place in a good rehabilitation ward  ... it may also take place in detention, however i do not know in which detention centre such a ward exists.” 28.  on 14 november 2011 the applicant’s lawyer lodged an appeal against the court’s decision of 8 november 2011. he requested the court, in the event that the appeal was not granted, to change the preventive measure applied to the applicant and to impose bail on him of a “reasonable amount”.however, since the chair which he received in the detention centre was, according to his submission, in such a state that its use constituted a danger for persons using it, the applicant requested his wife to provide him with another wheelchair; this she did, on 8 october 2010, with the approval of the prison authorities.in connection with the pain reported by the applicant and the results of his medical examinations, the specialist opinion of an expert neurosurgeon or neurologist is necessary in order to determine whether the applicant may be transported to court without a wheelchair.according to the government’s submissions not contested by the applicant he had the assistance of professional “carriers” when he wanted to go to the exercise yard (the government did not explain what exactly should be understood under that notion, in particular whether the “carriers” referred to above were the prison guards or other prison staff).
11.  the applicant’s detention was continued by the krosno regional court on 22 march 2002 and the jarosław district court on 4 june and 8 october 2002 and 9 january, 3 april, 7 july and 9 october 2003. at this stage of the proceedings the domestic courts referred to the original grounds for the applicant’s detention.16.  the applicant did not lodge any complaint about the length of these proceedings under the law of 17 june 2004 on complaints of a breach of the right to a trial within a reasonable time (ustawa o skardze na naruszenie prawa strony do rozpoznania sprawy w postępowaniu sądowym bez nieuzasadnionej zwłoki – “the 2004 act”) 17.  on 10 november 2000 the mińsk mazowiecki district court remanded the applicant in custody on the grounds that there was a reasonable suspicion that he had committed armed robbery and deprived the victims of their liberty.the court also considered that the measure was justified by the severity of the punishment which was likely to be imposed if he was convicted and the need to ensure the proper conduct of the proceedings.23.  subsequently, the mińsk mazowiecki district court further extended the applicant’s detention on 9 april and 12 july 2002. the earlier decision was upheld by the siedlce regional court on 8 may 2002. the courts reiterated the grounds previously given for the applicant’s continued detention, also noting that there was a real risk that he would obstruct the proceedings if released in the light of the fact that many of his alleged accomplices were still at large.27.  on the same date, as the period of the applicant’s detention on remand was approaching two years, the trial court lodged an application with an appellate court under article 263 § 4 of the code of criminal procedure (kodeks postępowania karnego  hereinafter, “the code”), seeking to extend the preventive measure for another five months.to that effect, the regional court reiterated the view of the lublin court of appeal that the applicant’s detention on remand was not effective because he had been first deprived of his liberty within the framework of the first criminal case.36.  on 30 december 2003 the mińsk mazowiecki district court resumed the proceedings in the applicant’s case in view of that decision and the fact that the psychiatric observation could be scheduled to start in march 2004. on the same date the court again remanded him in custody on the grounds that the evidence showed a significant probability that he had committed armed robbery.the court gave the argument that strong evidence had been obtained against him, that it was likely that a severe sentence would be imposed in the case, and that, if released, he would attempt to persuade witnesses to give false evidence or would, by other unlawful means, try to obstruct the proceedings, especially in the light of the fact that the psychiatric observation was underway.as to the grounds for extending his detention on remand, the appellate court held that, even though he had not attempted to obstruct the proper course of the proceedings, the likelihood that a severe punishment would be imposed if he were to be convicted was sufficient reason to uphold the preventive measure in question.all the decisions in question were based on the grounds that there was strong evidence against the applicant, that a severe punishment would be imposed if he were convicted and, since the court proceedings were only at the initial stage, that if released, he would attempt to persuade witnesses to give false evidence or, by other unlawful means, obstruct the proper course of the proceedings.60.  firstly, he alleged that article 263 §§ 3 and 4 were unconstitutional in so far as, under the legal principle (zasada prawna) of the supreme court (see paragraph 74 below), they concerned only effective detention on remand, that is to say only the actual period of deprivation of liberty on the basis of a detention decision issued in a particular case because they denied a detainee sufficient protection of his liberty if he had earlier been convicted or otherwise deprived of his liberty on the basis of decisions issued in another set of proceedings.62.  on 15 january 2008 the ombudsman joined the proceedings, asking that article 263 § 3 of the code be declared unconstitutional in so far as it left a legal loophole which was filled in by an erroneously developed well‑established court practice not to include in the calculation of the statutory two-year period of detention on remand (prior to the first judgment of the first-instance court) periods of the detainee’s concurrent deprivation of liberty on the basis of a criminal sentence.64.  it was observed that, despite the obvious differences in scope, the essence of the first part of the applicant’s complaint, concerning article 263 §§ 3 and 4 of the code (see paragraph 60 above), had already been examined on the merits by the constitutional court in case no.the provision had been declared unconstitutional in so far as it was interpreted to the effect that the statutory maximum period of two years allowed for a person’s detention on remand prior to the first judgment of the first-instance court had not comprised the term of the prison sentence the detainee was serving in another case, concurrently to his detention on remand, thus allowing for an extension of the preventive measure beyond two years by a first-instance court on general grounds (see paragraphs 77‑81 below).65.  in connection with the second part of the complaint (see paragraph 61 above), the constitutional court held that the applicant did not have the standing to challenge article 263 § 3 of the code because this provision had not been applicable to his detention in the relevant period.
8.  on 26 december 1993 the applicant was detained on remand by the “police of the republic of serbian krajina” (policija republike srpske krajine) under suspicion of murder.9.  on 9 may 1994 the “district court of beli manastir” sentenced the applicant to 8 years of imprisonment for murder.it found that the applicant, after a quarrel in which his neighbour accused him of war profiteering, intentionally shot the neighbour in the head with a rifle, leaving him dead on the spot.11.  all of the above institutions were at the relevant time under the control of the “republic of serbian krajina” (republika srpska krajina), an internationally unrecognised self-proclaimed entity established on the territory of the republic of croatia during the wars in the former yugoslavia.the entity ceased to exist after the adoption of the basic agreement on the region of eastern slavonia, baranja and western sirmium of 12 november 1995 (hereinafter erdut agreement) by which the republic of croatia assumed sovereignty over the entirety of its territory.12.  shortly after the adoption of the erdut agreement, and upon the request of the “beli manastir district prison”, the applicant was transferred on 20 june 1996 to sremska mitrovica prison (kazneno-popravni zavod sremska mitrovica), which is on the territory of the respondent state.no proceedings for recognition and enforcement of a foreign prison sentence were conducted by the authorities of the republic of serbia.13.  the applicant remained in sremska mitrovica prison until 5 february 1999, when he was released for annual leave until 15 february 1999. due to the applicant’s failure to return to the prison on the specified date, a warrant for his arrest was issued.15.  the applicant remained in prison until 15 november 2012 when he was pardoned by the president of the republic of serbia and released.it concluded that the legal ground for the applicant’s detention was his conviction by the “supreme court of serbian krajina” of 21 july 1994. it further noted that the procedure governing the recognition of a foreign criminal sentence and its enforcement was not applicable in the applicant’s case because serbian krajina was not a state.the court concluded that the applicant’s transfer had been carried out for factual reasons – the deteriorating security situation in the war zone which could lead to the applicant’s escape from prison or his death.the court further noted that the applicant had been convicted of murder by which the right to life was violated, and that states have positive obligations to protect this right.it finally held that the lack of procedure for recognition of a foreign judgment was proportionate to the obligation to enforce a prison sentence for murder especially given that the applicant had access to the constitutional court which had the power to review the legality of his detention and that he had access to other procedures available to any other prisoner in serbia, including the procedure for applying for a pardon.on 13 december 2012 the first instance court in belgrade rejected the applicant’s claim finding that he had been lawfully convicted of murder by the courts of the “republic of srpska krajina” and that his imprisonment cannot be considered as unlawful.on 8 july 2015 the supreme court of cassation rejected the applicant’s appeal on points of law on procedural grounds, finding that the value of the dispute in question was below the applicable statutory threshold.
on 14 february 2001 he was taken, with his two brothers, into public care by the child welfare authorities and placed temporarily with a foster family with whom they had already been living since august 2000. the foster family lived in a village situated about 50 km from the applicant’s home town, which is in the south of finland.the authority found that the foster care had not been satisfactory in the light of the fact that the foster parents had made important decisions without consulting the child welfare authorities, such as moving north and planning to place the applicant in a vocational school 300 km away from their home.the request was, inter alia, based on the fact that a conflict had emerged between the child welfare service and the applicant’s former foster parents as to where the applicant should live.13.  on 18 june 2009 the district court, on the basis of the guardianship service act, appointed a mentor for the applicant in matters concerning his property and economy, as well as matters pertaining to his person to the extent that the applicant was unable to understand their significance.14.  on 7 february 2011, after having received a psychologist’s report dated 26 november 2010 on the applicant, the appointed mentor decided, against the applicant’s will, that it was in his best interests for him to live in his home town, where his family members also lived.according to the record of the testimony of the applicant’s mentor, she had discussed with the applicant his plan to move prior to her decision.the mentor was of the view that the applicant did not understand all the consequences of the plan, and did not realise that the good things in his present situation would not be relocated with him.the court noted that the applicant had told the court that he had no particular complaints about his current situation and that according to the witness statements he enjoyed his apartment and work in his home town.the court found that the applicant clearly did not understand what it would be like to live in a remote part of the country, especially as he had previously lived there for only one year, and what the implications of the move would be for his situation.18.  as matter of law, the district court stated that as, on the evidence, the applicant was not able to understand the significance of the envisaged decision, the mentor was not required, or even permitted, to resolve the question of the applicant’s place of residence in accordance with the applicant’s own wishes.19.  taking into account the evidence and the factual findings referred to above (see paragraph 17 above), the district court concluded that it was in the applicant’s best interests to remain in his home town.the mentor had not acted in breach of her powers and the district court found no reason to replace the mentor by another person as regards matters concerning the applicant’s place of residence and his education.the court of appeal found no reason to deviate from the assessment of the evidence as conducted by the district court and affirmed the conclusions reached by the latter.the applicant had clearly understood the importance of this relationship in his life, he knew the former foster family and what life with them entailed, although he might not be able to understand all the implications of the envisaged move.when the applicant had been removed from the former foster family in 2007 and placed in a children’s home in southern finland, no specific reasons had been given as to why this measure had been in the applicant’s best interests.
the cologne regional court also considered that an interpretation of the relevant provision of the children born outside marriage (legal status) act in conformity with the case-law of the european court of human rights was not possible as the domestic law was clear and therefore not open to any interpretation.13.  on 18 march 2010 the first applicant appealed to the cologne court of appeal, arguing that the application of the first sentence of section 12(10)(2) of the children born outside marriage (legal status) act would discriminate against him and breach his inheritance rights and therefore violate his right to equality before the law under article 3 and his rights under article 6 § 5 of the basic law.14.  in a decision of 11 october 2010 the cologne court of appeal dismissed the first applicant’s appeal on the grounds that it was bound by the decisions of the federal constitutional court and that it had found that the first sentence of section 12(10)(2) of the children born outside marriage (legal status) act was in conformity with the basic law.15.  the second applicant is the natural son of a mr b. and was born in the former gdr, where he lived until his flight from the country in 1957. in 1949 mr b. was ordered by the hamburg-blankensee district court to pay maintenance for the applicant.17.  on 21 january 2010 the hamburg regional court dismissed the second applicant’s claim, holding that under the first sentence of section 12(10)(2) of the children born outside marriage (legal status) act the second applicant was not a statutory heir.the regional court referred to the federal constitutional court’s judgment of 8 december 1976. it noted that brauer (cited above) was not applicable to the case at hand because there had been no regular contact between the second applicant and his father, the deceased had a natural daughter and the second applicant had not lived in the former gdr for most of his life.18.  the second applicant appealed to the hamburg court of appeal, arguing that the european court of human rights judgment in brauer (cited above) obliged the german courts to grant children born outside marriage the same inheritance rights as those born within marriage.20.  the second applicant appealed to the federal court of justice, which confirmed the hamburg court of appeal’s reasoning in a decision on 26 october 2011. the federal court of justice argued that neither the old nor the amended first sentence of section 12(10)(2) of the children born outside marriage (legal status) act discriminated against children born outside marriage before 1 july 1949 because the difference in treatment was based on legitimate grounds.regarding the amended first sentence of section 12(10)(2) of the children born outside marriage (legal status) act, expanding the retroactive scope of the reform beyond the one adopted was not necessary as the basic principles of legal certainty and legitimate expectations had to be respected.those principles were also necessarily inherent in the convention, meaning that even though the inheritance rights of children born outside marriage fell within the scope of the protection of article 8 of the convention, a state was dispensed from reopening legal acts or reviewing situations that pre-dated the delivery of a court judgment.relying on the judgment in brauer (cited above), he complained that the application of the amended version of the first sentence of section 12(10)(2) of the children born outside marriage (legal status) act discriminated against him compared to children born within marriage.the first sentence of section 12(10)(2) of the children born outside marriage (legal status) act of 19 august 1969 had been changed retroactively, with the effect that the difference between children born outside marriage before and after 1 july 1949 had been set aside in cases of successions after 28 may 2009 (see paragraph 37 below).25.  even though the first applicant’s claim of a close relationship with his father had only been made for the first time in his appeal to the cologne court of appeal, the federal constitutional court noted that that statement of fact was not relevant for the issue before it.26.  the federal constitutional court confirmed the conformity of the amended first sentence of section 12(10)(2) of the children born outside marriage (legal status) act with the basic law.31) that the principle of legal certainty, which was necessarily inherent in the law of the convention as in european law, dispensed a state from reopening legal acts or reviewing situations that predated the delivery of a judgment by the european court of human rights.
7.  the police immediately went to the scene, where they found the applicant and her partner š.š., and another individual, i.m., with whom the applicant and her partner had had a verbal and physical conflict.had grabbed the applicant’s t-shirt and thrown her to the ground and then kicked her in the head.had then continued beating the applicant’s partner, whose hands had been slashed with a knife by s.k.. 9.  the police report stated that the applicant had a contusion that was visible below her left eye.15.  in the course of the investigation the zagreb municipal state attorney’s office questioned the two suspects and on 17 june and 31 july 2013 it instructed the police to conduct an identification procedure and formal questioning of the applicant and š.š.he explained how, after the two men had pushed the applicant, one of them had turned towards him and uttered the insults related to his roma origin (see paragraph 11 above).the indictment also made reference to the attack on the applicant, suggesting that she had been kicked in the head while trying to save š.š.on the basis of an agreement between the parties, including š.š.’s representative, the applicant’s statement to the police was admitted in evidence and she was not questioned further at the trial.23.  in the meantime, on 29 july 2013 the applicant and her partner, represented by the lawyer l.k., had lodged a criminal complaint with the zagreb municipal state attorney’s office against two unidentified suspects in connection with the incident of 9 june 2013 (see paragraphs 6-13 above).it was alleged in the criminal complaint that one of the suspects had first pushed the applicant and had then told her that she was a “bitch” (kuja) who had a relationship with a roma man and that she would be beaten.24.  the applicant’s representative tried to obtain the relevant information about the attackers from the police on the grounds that she needed the information in order to institute court proceedings.on 12 november 2013 the police informed the applicant’s representative that they had lodged a criminal complaint with the zagreb municipal state attorney’s office against two individuals in connection with a suspicion that they had committed the offence of attempted grievous bodily harm against the applicant and her partner, which, in the circumstances of the case, had been classified as a hate crime.25.  the applicant’s representative then informed the zagreb municipal state attorney’s office that the applicant and her partner would participate in the proceedings as victims and requested to be informed of all relevant procedural steps.on 17 february 2014 the applicant’s representative, invoking the domestic authorities’ obligations under the convention, requested information from the police and the zagreb municipal state attorney’s office about the criminal complaint lodged on behalf of the applicant.... as criminal proceedings for the offence under article 177 § 1 of the criminal code are instituted on the basis of a private prosecution, the criminal complaint ... must be rejected ... on the grounds that the impugned criminal offence is not an offence that is prosecuted of the prosecutor’s own motion.threatened her, but rather š.š., and thus the criminal complaint ... should be rejected on the grounds that the impugned criminal offence is not an offence that is prosecuted of the prosecutor’s own motion.” 27.  the applicant was informed that she could take over the prosecution of s.k.
10.  on 28 june 1999 the ministry of construction of the moscow region issued a decision to “adopt” the general plan of lyubertsy town, “to invite the lyubertsy municipality to continue co-operating with the authors of the general plan when preparing future projects, bearing in mind that the plan is the main legal document in relation to town planning”.on 30 may 2002 the municipality issued a decision by which it agreed to the construction of several blocks of flats (including one on the applicants’ land) and authorised a specialised state enterprise to start the compiling of the necessary technical documents.there is a car park on one side of the street and a residential area ont the other ... they have a well-developed infrastructure, good access to transport up to vykhino metro station, central lyubertsy and the above residential area ... description of the plot of land: ...vykhino metro station is within a ten-minute ride by public transport ... description of the house: ... the main building was first constructed in 1937; the remaining buildings later, until the 1970s ... the house is habitable, although it requires some superficial repairs ...” 28.  in november 2004 the district chief architect and the local land authority informed the municipal administration that the town’s general plan of 1999 made no provision for the construction of individual housing.on 23 november 2004, in reply to an enquiry raised by the investor company, the municipality announced that it had no available plots of land that would be equivalent to the land to be expropriated from the applicants, namely those assigned for the construction of individual housing.29.  in late 2004 the town administration brought proceedings in the lyubertsy town court of the moscow region (“the town court”) seeking judicial authorisation for the expropriation of the applicants’ house and land.30.  in the meantime, the moscow region prosecutor’s office replied to a request for information from the second applicant, informing him that the regional ministry had acted ultra vires in taking a decision on the general plan in 1999 and that no copy of it existed (see paragraph 10 above).32.  in february 2005 a group of three experts compiled a report indicating usd 23,300 and 5,200 as the market values of the first applicant’s land and part of the house respectively, and usd 70,000 and 15,600 as the second applicant’s (compare the earlier assessment in paragraph 27 above).33.  in reply to the second applicant’s complaint, on 14 march 2005 the prosecutor’s office provided the following reply (see also paragraphs 55 and 56 below): “regarding your complaint about unlawfulness relating to the adoption of lyubertsy town plan: i inform you that articles 18, 28, 35, 39, 58 and 60 of the old town planning code provided for a procedure relating to consultation with the local population in relation to the documents relating to town planning.the municipality will be ordered to remedy the violation of the code.” 34.  on 7 april 2005 the municipality’s mayor wrote to the town court asking to speed up the court proceedings, arguing that some of the flats were to be given to the people waiting for social housing and that the procrastination of the proceedings was also prejudicial to the people who had invested in the construction project.(a)  referring to articles 3, 11 and 63 of the land code (see paragraphs 57, 58 and 61 below), the court rejected the argument that the municipality had had no competence to issue the expropriation orders of 18 march and 19 may 2003.the first applicant also argued that the expert report had failed to take into account the scarcity of land in lyubertsy for individual housing; the commercially attractive location of the land, which bordered the city of moscow; the proximity of a metro station under construction (or planned); and the intended use of the land being expropriated for commercial gain arising from the construction of blocks of flats.44.  according to the government, until november 2006 the first applicant refused to accept the keys to the flat and the bank certificate relating to the account into which the expropriation compensation had been credited.50.  on 5 september 2007 the town court granted the first claim in part, considering that the applicant had not been informed in good time of the order launching the enforcement proceedings in 2005. she had thus been deprived of the right to contest the documents relating to the enforcement.(b)  pecuniary claims relating to delayed enforcement and loss of belongings 51.  the applicant sued the municipality, complaining of losses she had suffered because of inflation arising from the delay in enforcement of the judgment of 13 april 2005 in the part relating to the expropriation compensation.on 10 december 2008 the town court awarded her 89,712 russian roubles (rub) in pecuniary damages arising from the fact that the judgment had actually been enforced on 1 december 2006. on 26 february 2009 the moscow regional court quashed that judgment on appeal and instead awarded the applicant rub 3,161, considering that the judgment had been enforced on 26 august 2005 when the expropriation compensation had been credited into the bank account opened for her.
7.  on 3 december 2004 the supreme council of justice initiated disciplinary proceedings against the applicant under section 2(2)-(e) of the act of 22 february 2000 on disciplinary proceedings against judges of ordinary courts (hereinafter, “the disciplinary proceedings act” – see paragraphs 15-18 below).8.  on 23 december 2004 a panel of the disciplinary council of judges (hereinafter, “the panel”), composed of mr k.k.according to the transcript of the hearing, the applicant admitted to the act of negligence he had been accused of.after examining the circumstances of the case, the panel found the applicant guilty of the misconduct in question.it considered his conduct all the more serious because the defendants in the case had been in detention at the time and because he had had a duty, under article 6 of the convention, to act promptly and without fault.the panel took into account the nature of the misconduct, which it classified as serious, and the existence of another disciplinary measure against the applicant in the past, and decided to remove him from office.9.  on 29 december 2004 the applicant lodged an appeal with the disciplinary council of judges (hereinafter, “the disciplinary council”) on points of fact and law under section 60(1) of the disciplinary proceedings act (see paragraph 17 below).he questioned the assessment of the circumstances of the case and the application of the legal provisions to the established facts in the decision of 23 december 2004. his appeal was examined at a plenary session of the disciplinary council composed of eight members, including the same four, mr k.k., mr g.ch., mr d.s.the appellate instance confirmed that the lower body had correctly established the facts and applied the relevant law to the factual findings.11.  the applicant then lodged an appeal on points of law with the supreme court under section 74 of the disciplinary proceedings act, as amended on 25 february 2005 (see paragraph 18 below).he argued that he had not been given notice that he could appear before the panel and that there had been a delay in the disciplinary council examining his appeal.he also stated that under article 6 of the convention the four members of the panel who had taken the decision of 23 december 2004 had not had the right to sit subsequently in the disciplinary council appeal hearing.at the hearing the applicant had admitted to the act of negligence with which he had been charged.the supreme court rejected the allegation of a delay in the examination of the case by the disciplinary council by noting that the latter had given its ruling within the statutory time-limit of one month.the supreme court also found that the presence of four members of the panel as participants in the subsequent disciplinary council proceedings had not contravened the requirements of sections 22 and 24 of the disciplinary proceedings act (see paragraph 17 below).
5.  the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in kaluđerica.6.  on 22 december 2006 the applicant was deprived of liberty on suspicion of participating in criminal association within the police operation “customs mafia” during which 43 persons were also arrested.the applicant was released on 15 june 2007.7.  on 31 july 2009 the investigation against all the accused was transferred to the prosecutor’s office for organised crime.8.  on 28 june 2012 the investigation was closed.9.  on 17 january 2013 the criminal proceedings against the applicant were suspended.
four or five police officers punched and kicked him in the head and body, throttled him with a baton, put a plastic bag over his head and blocked off his access to air, sat and jumped on him having covered him with a blanket, grabbed him by the ears and forced him to do the splits.according to the applicant’s medical records, he sustained the following injuries: a closed head injury, concussion, abrasions on and behind the ears and on the arms and knees, bruising on the right shoulder and ribcage and bruises on the buttocks.13.  on 26 may 2004 the applicant’s mother lodged a complaint with the sovetskiy district police, alleging that the police officers had subjected her son to ill-treatment in order to make him confess to a crime which he had never committed, and requesting that they be prosecuted.14.  in accordance with article 24 § 1 (2) of the code of criminal procedure (“ccrp”), six refusals to institute criminal proceedings against the police officers were issued on the grounds that the constituent elements of a crime were missing.21.  on 25 august 2006 the criminal proceedings against f. were discontinued under article 27 (1) § 1 of the ccrp on the grounds that he had not been involved in the crime.he stated that the circumstances of the case gave reason to believe that the amount claimed was lower than compensation to which he would be entitled under article 41 of the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, however he considered it preferable to settle the case at the domestic court.27.  on 17 november 2008 the sovetskiy district court of nizhniy novgorod (“the district court”) acknowledged a violation of the applicant’s right not to be subjected to treatment proscribed under article 3 of the convention, allowed the applicant’s civil claim in part and awarded him rub 50,000 (about 1,450 euros (eur)).it noted that the criminal proceedings had been initiated after six refusals to do so and that it had been acknowledged that the applicant had been the victim of a crime.29.  the district court gave credence to the applicant’s mother’s version of events, which it found to be consistent with other evidence in the case, in particular statements by her that the applicant had had no injuries when he had left home with the police officers and that his health had appeared to have been damaged when he had returned from the police station.noting that the respondent authorities and the sovetskiy district police, acting as a third party in the proceedings, had submitted no evidence capable of proving that the applicant could have received the injuries (see paragraph 11 above) in other circumstances, the district court established that they had been sustained during his detention at the police station.30.  the district court noted that the applicant had been a minor at the time and that, according to his submissions at the hearing, various acts of violence, to which the police officers of the sovetskiy district police had, in the exercise of their duties, subjected him (see paragraph 9 above), had caused him mental and physical suffering.according to the applicant, he had suffered severe pain as a result of the police officers’ violent actions, which had included being punched, kicked, throttled with a baton, being unable to breath, being sat on and jumped on, being forced to do the splits and so on.31.  having examined the evidence in its entirety, in particular the medical evidence of the applicant’s injuries, the district court found that the applicant’s mental and physical suffering had been caused by the unlawful actions of the police officers of the sovetskiy district police department, in particular by the inhuman and degrading treatment and by inflicting bodily harm.32.  relying on the russian constitution, in particular the provisions concerning the right to compensation for damage sustained as a result of the unlawful actions of state organs (article 53), the district court held that the state was responsible for the applicant’s ill-treatment regardless of the fact that the guilt of specific individuals had so far not been established.however, it emphasised the fact that, being a minor at the time, to be held at the police station for approximately ten hours was a long time, and that the authorities had been unable to provide any legitimate reasons for his detention.
5.  the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in kragujevac.6.  on 13 july 2006 the applicant filed a civil suit together with 18 other persons with the kragujevac municipal court against his former employer telekom srbija ad beograd requesting the payment of funds from profit made in 2005.7.  the applicant’s previous representative did not attend first preliminary hearing fixed for 15 november 2006, since he had been deleted from the register of the attorneys–at-law in may 2006. the applicant appointed the present representative on 25 january 2007.8.  the preliminary hearing was held on 13 february 2007.9.  on 27 august 2007 the proceedings were split to separate proceedings for each of the plaintiffs concerned.10.  the preliminary hearing was held on 21 march 2008.11.  within the period from 21 october 2008 until 29 april 2011 seven out of eight hearings were postponed for various reasons, mainly because the representatives on the both sides provided new submissions and evidence and on the proposal of both sides due to the cost-efficiency of the proceedings.12.  on 29 april 2011 the kragujevac first instance court ruled against the applicant.13.  on 20 february 2012 the kragujevac appeals court upheld that judgment.14.  on 27 june 2013 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s appeal.
i hope that a young and ambitious person will replace me and continue the work the municipal utility company has been doing so far.’” 9.  by a decision of the company’s general meeting of 11 october 2007 the applicant was summarily dismissed because of the statements she had made in the media, which were regarded as being damaging to the company’s business reputation.the relevant part of that decision reads as follows: “on 27 september 2007 the novi list daily published an article ... stating that the director of kd kostrena, mirela marunić, had given a statement to [a] journalist of novi list saying that kd kostrena was acting unlawfully, that it was charging for parking where it was not allowed, that she demanded an audit of kd kostrena, and the involvement of the office for the prevention of corruption and organised crime and the state attorney’s office with a view to looking into kd kostrena’s operations.that kind of conduct, by an employee who was at the time of the publication of the statement in the daily newspaper the director of the utility company, which she headed, who makes such allegations in the media or engages in unlawful conduct, constitutes, in the opinion of the company’s general meeting, totally inappropriate behaviour which tarnishes the company’s [business] reputation in the eyes of the public... such conduct ... depicting the utility company in a negative light [constitutes] a particularly serious breach of employment-related duties, and is a particularly important fact which, taking into account all the circumstances and the interests of both contracting parties, makes the continuation of the employment relationship impossible [under section 107 of the labour act].” 10.  on 22 october 2007 the applicant launched an internal challenge to her dismissal by lodging a request for the protection of her rights (zahtjev za zaštitu prava), a remedy which is guaranteed for every employee by the labour act and which employees had to use before bringing a civil action against their employer.the applicant argued, inter alia, as follows: “i contest entirely the argument that by making statements in the media i acted inappropriately and allegedly attacked the [business] reputation of the company ... the utility company is a public company which belongs to the [local] community ... it was my duty, as a member of the [company’s] management, to contact the media and inform the public because it is a public company and not someone’s private property.the relevant part of her statement of claim read as follows: “the defendant obviously did not properly read the [impugned] article because the plaintiff merely states some facts in it and, as an example, refers to a particular case of unresolved property issues, which is already the subject of judicial proceedings, and calls for an audit and the involvement of [the prosecuting authorities] with a view to protecting her integrity by expressly stating: ‘given that my work has been called into question i demand an audit of kd kostrena, and the involvement of the office for the prevention of corruption and organised crime and the state attorney’s office.’” 12.  by a judgment of 12 june 2008 the municipal court ruled in favour of the applicant.furthermore, since the decision to dismiss her had specifically related only to her job as director, it could not be assumed that it had also entailed the termination of her entire employment relationship with the company, including the job to which she was supposed to have been transferred after 1 october 2007. the court thus found that the dismissal had been wrongful and that the applicant’s employment relationship had not been terminated.in that respect the county court held as follows: “... the defendant company’s [internal regulations] state that the business activities of the company are public [and] that the company informs the public by notifying the media of its organisation, the way and the conditions under which it operates, [and] the manner in which it provides services and runs its business.published a few days earlier in novi list on 19 september 2007, where he had criticised the plaintiff’s work and stated that she had betrayed the trust of the members of the general meeting by disclosing information that should only have been discussed at the general meeting, [had said] that the [company] was stagnating, that it did not operate the type of business for which it had been established [and so on] ... ... therefore, in this court’s view, the plaintiff’s actions should be interpreted as [the exercise of] her right to speak publicly and the right to freedom of thought, which are rights guaranteed by the croatian constitution.specifically, in the opinion of this court, the plaintiff’s statements are to be seen as [a way of] informing the public of irregularities in the activities of the defendant company as a public institution; [the statements] were given in the public interest and in good faith and constitute a value judgment rather than a serious breach of employment-related duties.therefore, the behaviour of the plaintiff, in stating on 27  september 2007 in the novi list daily ... that the defendant company, which she heads, had acted illegally, namely by charging for parking when it was not allowed [to do so], asking that the [company] be audited, and also seeking the intervention of [the prosecuting authorities] with a view to verifying the activities of the defendant company, has significant repercussions on the employment relationship between the parties and gives the employer a justified reason for terminating the employment contract, within the meaning of section [107] of the labour act.having regard to the given circumstances, it is precisely this which is a particularly important fact making the continuation of employment impossible ... in this particular case, the depiction by the employee of the employer’s business activities in an extremely negative light in the media is a particularly important fact of the kind which gives the employer a justified reason to terminate the employment contract.in this regard it is to be noted that the plaintiff could only have pursued her intention to prevent abuses and protect the property of the defendant company by turning to the relevant state authorities and lodging a complaint with them, which would have resulted in that information being available to the press and other media, and which could not have served as a reason for her dismissal.” 17.  the applicant then lodged a constitutional complaint, alleging, inter alia, a violation of her freedom of expression.18.  on 17 february 2011 the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint and served its decision on her representative on 14 march 2011. the relevant part of that decision reads as follows: “the constitutional court observes that the complainant justifies her conduct towards the employer (namely, her media statements), on account of which the employer summarily dismissed her, by arguing that she had merely been calling for the supervision of her actions in the company by the relevant authorities.that argument is incorrect [having regard to her statements in] the article published in novi list of 27 september 2009 ... the constitutional court notes that the right ‘of a citizen’ to publicly express his or her personal opinions cannot justify a breach of employment-related rights and obligations stemming from an employment contract and the relevant legislation.” 19.  meanwhile, on 21 june 2002 kd kostrena had brought a civil action in the rijeka municipal court against the water and sewage utility company (komunalno društvo vodovod i kanalizacija d.o.o.)
was at once brought before the samsun public prosecutor, where she stated that she had been having an extra-marital affair with the applicant for a while, but wanted to break the relationship off because of his constant threats and pressure; that she had agreed to meet the applicant earlier that day to talk for one last time, but that after meeting in his car, the applicant had driven her out of the city without her consent, hit her in the stomach with a truncheon and beaten her, tied her hands with a rope, and threatened to assault her sexually.the applicant is acquitted of the charge of robbery since the elements of the crime could not be proven; and notwithstanding ç.v.’s allegations, there was no evidence in the case file that could reasonably and beyond any doubt prove that the applicant committed such an act.in the light of the facts, the applicant is convicted of the offence of assault and battery and not on the charge of attempted rape, as was previously and wrongly characterised.” 16.  both the applicant and ç.v.17.  on 17 september 2012 the court of cassation quashed the judgment of the assize court on the ground that the five-year limit for the offence of assault and battery had expired, and ordered the discontinuation of the criminal proceedings against the applicant on that basis.18.  parallel to the criminal proceedings pending before the samsun assize court, the general security directorate of the ministry of the interior initiated disciplinary proceedings against the applicant in relation to the incidents of 3 july 2004.19.  the samsun police disciplinary council, which was in charge of the disciplinary investigation, asked for the applicant’s written defence, which he supplied on 29 november 2004, and concluded on 16 december 2004 that it had been established that the applicant had committed the offences of false imprisonment, attempted rape and threatening violence with a weapon, and transferred the case to the supreme disciplinary council of the general security directorate (“the supreme disciplinary council”) for a decision on the applicant’s dismissal from the police force in accordance with the provisions of section 8 § 6 of the disciplinary regulations of the security forces (“the disciplinary regulations”).the administrative court opined that ç.v.’s initial statements to the gendarmerie, along with her medical report and the articles confiscated from the applicant’s car on the date of the incident, some of which he had attempted to hide from the gendarmerie, constituted sufficient evidence to hold that the applicant had committed the acts of attempted rape, false imprisonment and threatening with a weapon held against him, although there were no witnesses to corroborate ç.v.’s allegations.the relevant part of the judgment read: “the acts of ... rape, attempted rape and robbery listed in section 8 § 6 of the disciplinary regulations are types of conduct that carry the sanction of dismissal from the civil service ... the applicant is prosecuted in relation to the events that took place on 3 july 2004 and he is accused of attempted rape, false imprisonment and threatening ç.v.although the applicant has denied these allegations, the fact that the weapons and tools used in the assault were found and confiscated at the crime scene, and that the victim’s injuries were corroborated by a medical report, and finally the fact that the applicant tried to conceal evidence, led the disciplinary authorities to rely on the victim’s version of the events, despite the fact that there were no witnesses to corroborate the victim’s allegations.notwithstanding the fact that the victim and the applicant gave different accounts of the events and that the specific allegations were not corroborated by witnesses, the court notes, on the basis of the preliminary investigation report of the samsun prosecutor’s office, that an anonymous caller notified the authorities that a cry for help came from a white şahin type civilian type vehicle in the vicinity of alanlı village, and that the applicant and ç.v.the victim’s injuries were also documented by a medical report ... in this respect, the court takes the view that the applicant committed the acts he was accused of, basing its view on the consideration that the applicant was with ç.v.therefore, the disciplinary offence of which the applicant was accused and the corresponding sanction he received cannot be deemed unlawful.” 23.  the applicant appealed against the judgment of the samsun administrative court, drawing the attention of the appeal court to the fact that he had in the meantime been acquitted of the criminal charges of false imprisonment, robbery and attempted rape by the samsun assize court, and that his conviction for assault and battery would not in itself justify his expulsion from public service under the terms of the disciplinary regulations.the relevant part of the judgment read: “the applicant asked the court to quash the decision to dismiss him from the police service and to overturn the decision of samsun administrative court upholding his dismissal on the grounds that he had been acquitted of the criminal charges of false imprisonment, robbery, and attempted rape by the first-instance court, and that the charges of assault and battery on which he was convicted did not constitute conduct that attracted the penalty of dismissal from service.26.  on unspecified dates, but after the introduction of his complaint to the court, the applicant brought separate proceedings against the ministry of interior and the governor of samsun before the samsun administrative court and requested the rectification of his civil servant record and the reopening of proceedings with respect to his dismissal from the police force.the applicant relied on the court of cassation’s judgment of 17 september 2012, acquitting him of the charges of false imprisonment and robbery and discontinuing the proceedings in respect of battery and assault, and argued before the samsun administrative court that his right to presumption of innocence had been violated in the course of the dismissal proceedings because he had been dismissed on the basis of allegations that he had committed offences in respect of which the criminal proceedings had not yet become final.
5.  the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in waldegg, austria.6.  on 28 september 1994 the applicant initiated civil proceedings requesting the division of a certain estate.7.  on 5 january 2009 the ivanjica municipal court suspended the said proceedings until conclusion of another civil case.8.  it would appear that the said civil proceedings are still pending.9.  on 23 june 2011 the constitutional court found a breach of the applicant’s right to a hearing within a reasonable time and ordered the speeding up of the impugned proceedings.the court, additionally, declared that the applicant was entitled to the non-pecuniary damages sought, in accordance with article 90 of the constitutional court act (see paragraph 13, article 90, below).10.   it seems that, the applicant contacted the commission for compensation on 11 december 2011 and requested the payment of the compensation awarded, but apparently received no response.
10.  on 29 july 2015 the applicant applied for refugee status in russia, arguing that in iraq he would run the risk of persecution by militants belonging to the islamic state of iraq and al-sham (isis – also known as islamic state of iraq and the levant) because he had refused to join them, as well as by iraqi government forces for the reason that he practiced the sunni form of islam.11.  on 19 september 2015 the applicant received a visit from the moscow regional department of the federal migration service (“the moscow region fms”) and was interviewed in the transit zone.the applicant appealed to the higher migration authority (the federal migration service of russia – “the russian fms”), asking it to overrule the decision of 10 november 2015, to issue him with an examination certificate, and to allocate him to a centre for the temporary detention of aliens.13.  on 29 december 2015 the russian fms dismissed the applicant’s appeal on the grounds that he had not received any direct threats targeted against him personally and that “the applicant [had not submitted] convincing evidence that he might become a victim of persecution by isis militants or iraqi authorities on the grounds contained in the definition of the term ‘refugee’, including his religion”.he specifically argued that the migration authorities had not complied with the procedural rules by failing to interview him speedily or to issue him with an examination certificate, and that he had spent more than six months in the transit zone of sheremetyevo airport in conditions contrary to the guarantees of article 3 of the convention, without access to shower and other amenities.in the course of the ensuing proceedings he mentioned that he had left palestine because of the ongoing hostilities in the gaza strip and the west bank, as well as a lack of employment and the poor economic situation.the applicant’s lawyer appealed to the russian fms, arguing that the applicant did not have any possibility to return to his home in the gaza strip, that the moscow region fms had failed to assess his personal situation and the risk he would face if returned to palestine, and that the moscow region fms, in breach of the refugees act (fz-4528-1 of 19 february 1993), had not issued him with an examination certificate.24.  on 31 december 2015 the russian fms dismissed the appeal for the reason that the applicant had “failed to provide evidence confirming that he runs a higher risk of becoming a victim of the palestine-israel conflict than the rest of the population of the palestinian national autonomy”.39.  on 19 may 2016 the basmannyy district court of moscow dismissed an appeal lodged by the applicant against the decisions by the moscow region fms and the russian fms to dismiss his application for temporary asylum.it reasoned, in particular, that the applicant had not proved that the terrorists who had threatened him in 2005 represented any danger more than ten years later and that, should such threats persist, he “has not been deprived of an opportunity to avail himself of the protection of his state of nationality [– that is to say] to apply to the law-enforcement agencies of the republic of somalia [for protection].” on the same date the applicant’s lawyer appealed.43.  on 10 september 2014 he applied for temporary asylum to the moscow city department of the federal migration service (“the moscow city fms”), claiming to have fled syria because of the ongoing civil war there.the turkish authorities denied the applicant entry to the country and sent him back to moscow on 20 august 2015. upon the applicant’s arrival, the russian authorities sent him back to antalya.it noted, in particular, that there were regular flights from moscow to damascus, from where syrian nationals could travel to other parts of the country, and that “many syrians wish to leave the country not only because of a fear for their lives but, in large part, because of the worsening economic and humanitarian situation”.51.  on 11 april 2016 the applicant complained to the zamoskvoretskiy district court of moscow about the refusal of the moscow region fms and russian fms to grant him temporary asylum and about his allegedly unlawful detention in appalling conditions in the transit zone of sheremetyevo airport.53.  on 21 july 2016 the applicant’s lawyer submitted additional documents to the zamoskvoretskiy district court of moscow in support of the applicant’s claims regarding the risks that he would face if returned to syria.
according to their acquaintances and the taxi driver, a police car drew up beside the taxi at traffic lights in kurbasa street in kyiv and mr grigoryan opened his passenger-side window, leaned out, waved his hands and either started singing or said something to the officers in the police patrol car.according to the taxi driver, mr grigoryan initially refused to get out of the car and the officers tried to extricate him by force, but in his submissions before the court he did not allege that any excessive force had been used on this occasion.the reports state that they were drawn up at 11.50 p.m. on 6 april 2010. according to the reports, the applicants were arrested for and accused of “petty hooliganism” (“дрібне хуліганство”), namely swearing in the street in an intoxicated state and refusing to desist despite the police officers’ warnings, by which conduct public order had been disturbed.on the pre-printed part of the report forms, the grounds for arresting them are cited as the need to stop the commission of the offence and to draw up a report (see relevant provisions of the code of administrative offences in paragraph 34 (i) and (iii) below).according to the applicant, he was left lying bound on the floor until about 4.30 a.m. 12.  in the course of the subsequent investigation, major a. explained that mr grigoryan was initially released after remaining bound for ten minutes but at around 1 a.m. he again started hitting the door of his cell with hands, feet and torso.15.  according to the taxi driver, he accompanied the applicants to the police station and waited for them until about 2 a.m. at some point, apparently waiting outside the building, he heard the applicants’ voices inside, shouting and asking somebody not to hit them.16.  at 4.30 a.m. on 7 april 2010 the applicants were transferred to the central police station of the svyatoshynskyy district (hereinafter “the district”), arriving there at 5.20 a.m. there, a senior district police official ruled on their case, imposing fines equivalent to about eur 4.70 on each of them.18.  later the same day forensic medical expert n. examined the applicants at their request and drew up a report noting that they had numerous bruises on their faces and bodies, which could have been inflicted on 7 april 2010. in particular mr grigoryan had haematomas in the following areas: forehead, left cheekbone, right shoulder, jaw, right side of the neck, clavicle, left hypochondrium, stomach, right elbow, right shoulder-blade area, popliteal spaces (back of the knees), and ankles.19.  when questioned by the prosecutor’s office in the course of the subsequent pre-investigation enquiries, the expert expressed the opinion that the above injuries suffered by mr grigoryan were the result of at least twenty impacts by blunt objects.22. from 13-15 april 2010 the district prosecutor interviewed the applicants, the arresting officers, major a. and two other officers involved in the events at the police station.23.  on 16 april 2010 the district prosecutor decided not to institute criminal proceedings against major a. and two other officers involved in the events at the police station in view of the lack of a corpus delicti in their actions.the prosecutor’s office relied essentially on the police officers’ statements, according to which the applicants had been tied up in order to stop their disorderly behaviour at the police station and although the applicants had offered resistance, only the force necessary to control them and to bind them had been applied.27.  on 25 august 2010 the kyiv prosecutor’s office overruled the decision of 30 april 2010 on the grounds that the arresting officers had not been interviewed concerning the grounds for the arrest, the enquiry had not examined the allegation that ethnic prejudice had motivated the ill-treatment and, furthermore, no medical specialist had been interviewed to clarify the possible origins of the recorded injuries.the prosecutor’s office also repeated the statements of the applicants’ acquaintances who were in the taxi with them at the time of arrest and who made statements in the course of the internal police inquiry (see paragraphs 7 above and 32 below).on 25 may 2010 the personnel inspectorate of the city police department drew up a report on the internal inquiry ‒ following which it was discontinued ‒ concluding that there were contradictions between the applicants’ and the officers’ accounts.
according to the certificate “on the sale of state property to legal entities or individuals” issued on 30 october 2003 by the ministry of economic development’s department of management and privatisation of state property, the total area of the property was 78.3 sq.7.  according to the property’s “technical passport” issued by the ministry of economic development’s property inventory bureau on 5 september 2003, the shop had originally been constructed in 1972, was located on a plot of land of 84 sq.the document further stated that the plot of land on which the shop was located had been allocated on the basis of relevant documents.9.  in 2004 the ganja city executive authority (“the gcea”) decided to renovate and widen attarlar and nizami streets in accordance with the city’s planning scheme because the streets were not wide enough for the pedestrian and car traffic.10.  according to the applicant, in november 2004 gcea officials asked him verbally to vacate the shop in connection with the above decision.according to the government, the shop, being a transportable metal construction, was lifted away by crane and moved to an unspecified part of the city.according to aysel-m’s expert report, dated 13 december 2004, the market value at the time was azm 588,000,000, or 120,000 us dollars (usd) (there is no copy of the report in the case file).13.  the applicant supplemented his court action against the gcea with additional claims, asking for compensation of azm 588,000,000 for the shop, azm 99,000 for an unspecified “state fee” and azm 490,000 for aysel-m’s fee for the report.14.  in its submissions to the court, the gcea as the respondent stated that a number of “old shops and other retail facilities” on attarlar and nizami streets had been removed owing to the urgent need to widen the streets in order to accommodate the number of pedestrians and cars.the respondent argued that the applicant’s shop had not been destroyed but, being a metal construction, had been removed by crane to another, unspecified location in the city.the respondent argued that the compensation claimed by the applicant was excessive, taking into account the price he had paid the state for it in 2003.15.  following the respondent’s submissions concerning the alleged excessiveness of the compensation claim, by an interim decision of 15 july 2005 the khojavand district court requested a new valuation by a state expert.in its reasoning the court accepted the gcea’s explanation that the shop in question had been removed in accordance with town‑planning policy.the court also accepted that the applicant had been offered a new plot of land by the gcea but had refused it.however, the court ordered the gcea to allocate the applicant a plot of land in ganja equivalent in size to the shop in question.
14.  on the same day, the investigator commissioned a ballistics report from the forensic expert centre of the dagestan ministry of the interior to determine the type of the grenade, the type of rifle used to fire it and whether the grenade had striae that could be used to identify that rifle.it would however be possible to use the separate obturator to identify the weapon used, if the weapon were provided for examination.” 16.  on 26 june 2006 the investigating authority commissioned another ballistics report to identify the rifle used to fire the grenade extracted from the body of the applicant’s son.22.  on 8 november 2006 the federal office of forensic examination issued a report, the relevant parts of which read: “ ... as the relevant 23 mm cartridges had not been submitted for test shots, a request for 23 mm volna cartridges was made to the relevant department of the ministry of the interior of the russian federation ... [footnote: volna cartridges are used for training purposes relating to the use of ks-23 and ks-23m carbines.the purpose of the test shots was to observe the striae left on the obturators of the grenades fired from these carbines, and to compare the striae with the striae left on the obturator of the grenade used against the victim.... in view of the variance of the results of the test shots, it was impracticable to identify the relevant carbine on the basis of the striae left on the obturators ... in particular, on account of the elasticity and low thermo-resistance of the material used in the obturators ...” 23.  on 15 november 2006 another ballistics report was requested from the forensic science institute of the federal security service (“the institute”).the requests were not complied with on account of the absence of the necessary equipment ... attempts were made to identify the relevant rifle in other expert institutions ... those were not equipped for this kind of forensic examination ... in consequence, the federal office of forensic examination was not able to identify the weapon ... another request is pending before the forensic science institute of the federal security service ... thus, the investigating authority has carried out all the investigative measures that were possible in the absence of an identified suspect.” 27.  on 14 january 2008 the supreme court of the republic of dagestan upheld the judgment.32.  according to the government, the enquiry about the loss of evidence yielded no specific results, in particular on account of the death of the investigator in the case and the redeployment of the investigation unit.the decision reads as follows: “having examined the file, i conclude that the investigation did not exhaust the measures aimed at establishing the circumstances of the crime, at collecting the evidence and identifying the rifle used to cause the victim’s death ... in particular, the request for a ballistics report to the institute was submitted with volna cartridges instead of the type of cartridges used for causing the victim’s death.the different geometric parameters of these cartridges prevented the experts from identifying the carbine used against the victim ... following the resumption of the investigation in december 2009 the investigator merely made an enquiry instead of actually submitting grenades for comparative research ... it does not follow from the expert report of 26 february 2007 that it would have been impossible to identify the rifle, provided that cartridges of the relevant type were provided.thus, the current unavailability of this evidence is not an obstacle to seeking a new ballistics report from the same institution.” 35.  following the resumption of the investigation the investigator made enquiries with the institute about the possibility of carrying out a ballistics examination in the absence of the evidence extracted from the victim’s body.the criteria established by the court’s case-law when it rules on the question of just satisfaction (article 41 of the convention) are: (1) pecuniary damage, that is to say losses actually sustained as a direct consequence of the alleged violation; (2) non‑pecuniary damage, meaning compensation for suffering and distress occasioned by the violation; and (3) the costs and expenses incurred in order to prevent or obtain redress for the alleged violation of the convention, both within the domestic legal system and through the strasbourg proceedings.the government was informed that while no observations had been submitted within the time-limit, it transpired that the applicant wished to maintain his application before the court and that the court would therefore examine the case on the basis of the file as it stood at the time.41.  the rules of court (adopted by the plenary court pursuant to article 25 of the convention) read in the relevant parts as follows at the relevant time: “rule 36 – representation of applicants ... 2.  following notification of the application to the respondent contracting party under rule 54 § 2 (b), the applicant should be represented in accordance with paragraph 4 of this rule, unless the president of the chamber decides otherwise.(b)  in exceptional circumstances and at any stage of the procedure, the president of the chamber may, where he or she considers that the circumstances or the conduct of the advocate or other person appointed under the preceding sub-paragraph so warrant, direct that the latter may no longer represent or assist the applicant and that the applicant should seek alternative representation.... rule 75 – ruling on just satisfaction 1.  where the chamber or the committee finds that there has been a violation of the convention or the protocols thereto, it shall give in the same judgment a ruling on the application of article 41 of the convention if a specific claim has been submitted in accordance with rule 60 and the question is ready for decision; if the question is not ready for decision, the chamber or the committee shall reserve it in whole or in part and shall fix the further procedure ...” 42.  the practice direction on just satisfaction claims (issued by the president of the court in accordance with rule 32 of the rules of court on 28 march 2007) read in the relevant parts as follows at the relevant time: “4.
6.  on an unspecified date the applicant brought a claim in the arabkir and kanaker-zeytun district court of yerevan against k., a private individual, seeking payment of a certain amount of money.it appears that before the beginning of the court’s examination of the case the applicant and k. concluded an agreement to settle the debt, which envisaged, inter alia, a time-frame for payment.8.  as k. did not comply with the terms of the settlement, the district court issued a writ of execution and on 13 june 2005 a bailiff instituted enforcement proceedings.9.  by a letter of 7 june 2007 the bailiff informed the applicant that he had found out during the enforcement proceedings that k. had inherited a house but had not registered her ownership of it.10.  it appears that later in 2007 the applicant brought a claim in the arabkir and kanaker-zeytun district court to have k.’s ownership of the house recognised.11.  on 24 october 2007 the district court, relying on article 1225 § 5 of the civil code, granted the applicant’s claim and recognised k. as the owner of the house in question.12.  on 19 november 2007 the bailiff, acting on a writ of execution issued by the district court, instituted proceedings to enforce the judgment of 24 october 2007.13.  on 22 november 2007 the bailiff requested that the state committee of the real estate registry recognise k.’s ownership of the house, register it and issue a copy of the ownership certificate.14.  in reply, the real estate registry on 4 december 2007 informed the bailiff that in order to register k.’s rights to the house it needed an application from k., the original of the district court’s judgment of 24 october 2007 and receipts for the state fee and other related payments.15.  on 8 february, 4 july and 4 august 2008 respectively, the bailiff made similar requests to the real estate registry in which he stated, with reference to section 22 of the law on the state registration of property rights, that an application from k. was not required.16.  in 2008 the applicant brought a claim in the administrative court against the real estate registry and the bailiff, seeking to oblige them respectively to register k.’s ownership of the house and to confiscate it from her.17.  on 1 december 2008 the administrative court granted the applicant’s claim by ordering the real estate registry to register k.’s rights to the house and the bailiff to confiscate it from her.in particular, the administrative court found that both the refusal of the real estate registry to register k.’s ownership rights and the non-enforcement by the bailiff of the judgment of 3 may 2005 owing to a lack of funds on the part of k. had been groundless as k.’s ownership of the house had been recognised by the final court judgment of 24 october 2007. it appears that no appeal was lodged against the administrative court’s judgment and it became final.the judgment became final on 1 april 2011. the applicant sought enforcement of the judgment on 2 april 2012 but was refused by the bailiff since he had failed to act within the time-limit of one year starting from the final judgment.20.  on 10 february 2012 k. submitted a receipt for the payment of the debt to the bailiff and he terminated the enforcement proceedings on 13 february 2012.
4.  the applicants were born in 1938, 1940 and 1961 respectively.the first two applicants live in dolni dabnik and the third applicant lives in sofia.the first two applicants are the third applicant’s parents.5.  in 1990 the three applicants bought from the state a flat in sofia measuring 144 square metres, which had become property of the state by virtue of the nationalisations carried out by the communist regime after 1945.6.  in 1992 the heir of the pre-nationalisation owner of the flat brought an action against the applicants under section 7 of the restitution law, seeking to establish that their title was null and void.she also brought a rei vindicatio claim against them.7.  the proceedings ended with a final judgment of the supreme court of cassation on 22 june 2004. the domestic courts dealing with the proceedings allowed both actions against the applicants.in relation to the action under section 7 of the restitution law, the courts found the applicants’ title null and void, since they had bought their flat in breach of the law: the area where the flat was located had been earmarked for the construction of buildings of more than three storeys, and the applicants’ building was of two storeys; and the legislation at the time prohibited the sale of flats in such buildings.8.  it appears that on an unspecified date after that the applicants applied for compensation bonds; however, the parties have not informed the court of the outcome of the procedure.9.  in 2005 the applicants brought a tort action against the sofia municipality (which was the legal successor of the state with regard to residential property).on 20 january 2010 the sofia city court allowed their claim.that judgment was quashed on 4 november 2010 by the sofia court of appeal, which dismissed the claim in its entirety.in a final judgment of 4 april 2012 the supreme court of cassation, finding that the applicants were only entitled to receive the price they had paid for the flat in 1990, which had devalued enormously over the years, awarded them the equivalent of about 12 euros (eur).
5.  the applicants mentioned below left the general police headquarters on the following dates: the first applicant on 16 august 2012, the sixth applicant on 20 august 2012, the thirteenth applicant on 14 august 2012 and the nineteenth applicant on 17 june 2012. it is not clear from the material in the court’s possession whether they were released or transferred to prisons.6.  the eleventh applicant was detained at thessaloniki general police headquarters from 7 may 2012 to 18 september 2012, except for the period between 5 july 2012 and 1 august 2012, when he was detained at the thessaloniki aliens division.the sixteenth applicant was detained at thessaloniki general police headquarters from 18 april 2012 to 24 september 2012, except for the period between 27 april 2012 and 11 july 2012, when he was detained at the thessaloniki aliens division.the seventeenth applicant was detained at thessaloniki general police headquarters from 25 april 2012 to 14 august 2012, except for 11 june 2012 to 1 august 2012, when he was detained at the thessaloniki aliens division.the cells had been insufficiently lit and ventilated, which, in addition to overcrowding, had led to their cells smelling badly.detainees had had to ask permission from the guards to use the restroom, which had been situated outside the cells and had been shared by seventy people.detainees had not been allowed to bring their own sheets and towels, but had been obliged to use dirty ones provided by the prison authorities.11.  on 30 august 2012 the applicants and other detainees had lodged a complaint with the public prosecutor about the conditions of their detention at thessaloniki police headquarters but had not received a reply.12.  the eleventh, fourteenth, sixteenth, seventeenth and eighteenth applicants submitted in their written observations of 13 september 2013 that the conditions of their detention at the thessaloniki aliens division and menemeni police station had essentially been the same as those at the police headquarters, in particular as regards the lack of outdoor activities, the quality of the food and the filthiness of the premises.14.  most of the cells had windows, which had been partially covered by walls and rails but which had still admitted natural light and fresh air.the sanitary facilities had been no different from the ones used by the police headquarters staff and had been cleaned by a cleaning company every day, along with the rest of the premises.17.  the thessaloniki aliens division, where the eleventh, sixteenth and seventeenth applicants had been detained for several months, had ten cells measuring 58.85 square metres each, which included two toilets and showers.18.  as regards menemeni police station, where the fourteenth and eighteenth applicants had been detained for a certain period of time, the government submitted that it was housed in a building constructed in 2008. the fourteenth and eighteenth applicants had been detained in a cell of 26 square metres accommodating five detainees.the cells had been sufficiently well-lit and ventilated and a cleaning company had maintained the cleanliness of the premises.19.  the government further contended that the applicants’ allegations of a lack of separation between drug users and other detainees should be rejected as the applicants had not alleged that they themselves had been detained in the same cells as drug users.
5.  in 1996 the applicant was dismissed from the state enterprise coal mine “yur-shor” («государственное предприятие «шахта «юр‑шор», “the coal mine”).6.  on 28 october 1999 the vorkuta town court of the komi republic (the town court) awarded the applicant the equivalent of 1,591 euros (eur) in salary and allowances’ arrears against the coal mine.8.  on 27 december 1999 a prosecutor advised the applicant that as from 1 january 1999 the coal mine’s own funds had discontinued and the salary arrears were to be paid from the federal budget.he informed the applicant that the judgment in his favour could not be enforced, since no funds had been allocated from the federal budget for these purposes.9.  on 3 april 2001 the town court ordered the coal mine to pay the applicant eur 51 for court expenses.10.  on 24 april 2002 the town court allowed the applicant’s claim for index-linking of the award of 28 october 1999 and held that the coal mine should pay him eur 912 under this head.on 21 january 2004 the town court granted his action in part, having found, inter alia, that the coal mine could not claim lack of funds as an excuse for non-enforcement of the earlier judgments in the applicant’s favour.the court further found that awards made on 28 october 1999, 3 april 2001 and 24 april 2002 in the amount of eur 1,966 should be paid to the applicant by the ministry of energy, since the latter had been designated by the government to finance the debts of the coal mine, in so far as the salary arrears and related social payments prior to the decision to wind up the company were concerned.the court specified that the awarded sums should be transferred by a local branch of the state treasury to the coal mine, with view of their subsequent transfer to the applicant.the judgment became final on 23 september 2004, as upheld by the supreme court of the komi republic.13.  on 21 january 2004 the town court by a separate decision obliged the coal mine to index-link the unpaid court awards and to pay the applicant eur 527. the decision acquired legal force on 23 september 2004.14.  on 7 december 2004 the town court ordered to index-link the awards of 21 january 2004 and held that the ministry of energy should pay the applicant eur 155 and the coal mine eur 41 respectively.16.  at some point the applicant claimed modification of the judgment of 21 january 2004, so that the respondent ministry be replaced in the enforcement proceedings by the ministry of industry and energy of the russian federation.17.  on 28 december 2005 the liquidation commission of the ministry of energy informed the applicant that the ministry had been liquidated and had no longer been in receipt of the funds from the federal budget and that the execution documents in respect of the ministry’s debts could no longer be accepted by the commission.on 8 june 2006 the supreme court of the komi republic in the final instance rejected his request.
34.  on 24 january 2005 an official request was made by the director of the diplomatic office of the president of the republic to the special representative and chief of mission (“the special representative”) of the united nations peacekeeping force in cyprus (“unficyp”) to facilitate the handing over to the appropriate authorities of the republic of cyprus of all the suspects and all evidential material relating to the crime and/or suspects in northern cyprus (see paragraph 129 below).43.  as can be seen from an email dated 7 march 2005 from the director of the diplomatic office of the president of the republic to the chief european union negotiator for cyprus, the cypriot authorities around this time forwarded to unficyp an interim report by the laboratory of forensic genetics of the cyprus institute of neurology and genetics in order to facilitate its mediation of the handing over of the suspects in the instant case.46.  in a letter dated 26 july 2006 the attorney-general assured the applicants’ representatives that the republic was “doing everything within its power – bearing in mind that it [did] not have effective control over the areas of the republic occupied by turkey (in which persons that might be involved [were at that time] and taking into account the relevant convention case-law – to investigate the ... murder and bring the persons responsible to trial before the courts of the republic”.51.  in a letter dated 25 june 2008 to the chief of police, the attorney-general noted that, despite all efforts on the part of the authorities, the suspects had not been handed over to the republic, that he had spoken to the president of the republic and that he had had repeated meetings and telephone conversations with the applicants’ counsel.56.  by a letter dated 11 november 2008 the embassy of the republic of cyprus in athens informed the director general of the cypriot ministry of foreign affairs that on that date an employee of the turkish embassy had left an envelope with the cypriot embassy’s security guard on which only the address of the cypriot embassy had been written and which had contained the extradition requests and the note verbale from the cypriot ministry of justice and public order, which had been given to the turkish embassy on 4 november 2008. the person had not stated his identity, but had simply had left (παράτησε) the envelope and departed in haste.57.  by a letter dated 24 november 2008 the director general of the cypriot ministry of justice informed the attorney-general of the return of all the above-mentioned documents and stated that it was clear that turkey was refusing to receive requests for the extradition of fugitives made by cyprus under the european convention of extradition, due to turkey’s refusal to recognise the republic of cyprus as a state.the “trnc” authorities checked the entry and exit records of the suspects and established that the first suspect had crossed to the republic of cyprus side on the night of the murders and had returned to the “trnc” side in the early morning hours.72.  the “trnc” police searched the houses of the first four suspects, as well as that of another person, on the basis of search warrants issued by the morphou district court on 18 january 2005 (in respect of the third and fourth suspects) and by the kyrenia district court on 19 january 2005 (in respect of the first and second suspects).98.  according to a note/direction in the “time/work sheet”, on 30 january 2006 the “trnc” police chief inspector (başmüfettiş - tahkikat memuru) wrote to the “trnc” nicosia judicial police director – assistant police director (“polis müdürü müavini – adli polis müdürü”) that upon the oral instructions of the “trnc” attorney-general (başsavcı) a copy of the file in respect of the murder of elmas, zerrin and eylül güzelyurtlu had been prepared and would be submitted for the opinion of the “trnc” attorney-general.in his report the “trnc” police chief inspector concluded that on the basis of the investigation that the police had conducted from the date of the murders until the time of his writing the report the police had not been able to resolve the case.(f)  letter dated 18 may 2006 from the cypriot chief of police to the ministry of foreign affairs 132.  this letter stated that at meetings held with unficyp and the deputy senior police advisor (“the dspa”), the spa had suggested that meetings between the cypriot police, the police of the british sovereign bases and the “trnc” police be held at a technical services level (τεχνικό υπηρεσιακό επίπεδο) in the mixed village of pyla, which is located in the un buffer zone between the cypriot police, the police of the british sovereign bases and the “trnc” police.he had also enquired whether: - the cypriot police intended to give the evidence to unficyp for forwarding to the “trnc” authorities to enable the suspects’ prosecution; - the cypriot police could make the necessary arrangements for the suspects to be taken to a unficyp building at the ledra palace hotel in the buffer zone and be questioned through “the video recording interview method”, and – if this was possible – whether such evidence would be admissible before a cypriot court; - if one of the suspects were to come over to make a statement against the other suspects, the cypriot authorities would arrest him and bring criminal proceedings against him.the text of the most relevant communications between unficyp and the applicants’ representatives is set out below: 148.  in a communication to unficyp dated 19 december 2005, the applicant’s lawyer, requested, inter alia, the disclosure of any possible information relating to the unficyp’s efforts in the case, in particular, concerning the mistrust and lack of cooperation between the two sides.the [republic of cyprus] will only do so if the “trnc” authorities give an undertaking that they will hand the suspects over to the [republic of cyprus] to be tried if the un is satisfied (possibly after discussion with the “trnc” – the italicised parenthesis is not strictly speaking part of the proposal at this stage but might be what we will have to argue in order to facilitate matters) that there is such a prima facie case against the suspects: 1. the [republic of cyprus] will not hand over any evidence for the purposes of conducting a trial in the north.either the [republic of cyprus] is willing to hand over all the evidence to the north and offer full police and evidentiary cooperation so that a trial can be conducted in that “jurisdiction”, or the north is willing to hand over suspects [on the basis of] sufficient evidence to cause the [issuance] of an arrest warrant in the north, with a view to handling the suspects to unficyp for passing on the [republic of cyprus].
6.  he is the owner of a flat in split with a surface area of 106.90 square metres.according to the applicant, that flat is the only real estate in his ownership and his only property of value.7.  it would appear that in 1971 the housing authorities awarded a specially protected tenancy (stanarsko pravo) of the flat to a certain ms n.r.it abolished the legal concept of the specially protected tenancy and provided that the holders of such tenancies in respect of, inter alia, privately owned flats were to become “protected lessees” (zaštićeni najmoprimci).under the act such lessees are subject to a number of protective measures, such as the duty of landlords to contract a lease of indefinite duration, payment of protected rent (zaštićena najamnina), the amount of which is set by the government and significantly lower than the market rent; and better protection against termination of the lease.10.  therefore, on 16 october 1997 she brought a civil action against him in the split municipal court (općinski sud u splitu) with a view to obtaining a judgment in lieu of such a contract.12.  at the hearing held on 15 april 2002 the applicant submitted a counter-claim seeking to obtain a judgment ordering n.r.and imposed on the applicant a lease contract stipulating protected rent in the amount of 163.56 croatian kunas (hrk)[1] per month.14.  on 21 october 2008 the split county court (županijski sud u splitu) dismissed an appeal by the applicant and upheld the first-instance judgment.was living in the flat with her son m.r., her daughter-in-law and her grandson whereas the applicant was living with his mother in a flat located in the same building.16.  against this factual background the municipal and the county court held that the conditions provided in section 40(1) of the lease of flats act, as interpreted by the supreme court (see statileo v. croatia, no.in particular, even though the applicant intended to move into the flat and had no other accommodation, he was neither entitled to permanent social assistance or was over sixty years of age, nor was n.r.’s summer home in rogoznica located in the same municipality or township.was also entitled to protected rent; the applicant thus having no right to charge her the market rent for living in his flat.that was so because they found that n.r.’s summer home did not constitute a habitable house within the meaning of section 31(2) of the lease of flats act (see statileo, cited above, § 41).18.  by a decision of 21 november 2012 the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint against the judgments of the municipal and the county court, and served its decision on the applicant’s representative on 7 december 2012.
6.  on 17 october 1991 the body of stevo borojević, the applicants’ respective husband and father, was found on the right bank of the river kupa in sisak.8.  the police interviewed ms jasenka borojević, the victim’s wife, on 5 december 1991. she told them that her husband had left her workplace at about 10.30 a.m. on 6 october 1991 to return home because a general emergency had been announced and their daughter, who was a minor, was there alone.10.  on 27 february 2002 the police interviewed jasenka borojević and edita mihić, respectively the wife and daughter of the late stevo borojević.they said that prior to stevo borojević’s disappearance on 6 october 1991, croatian soldiers had carried out searches in their flat in july 1991 and on 3 october 1991. one of the soldiers, t.p., had been known to them.11.  on 29 july 2005 the state attorney’s office issued a document concerning enquiries into the killings of civilians between 1991 and 1995. the document was addressed to the county state attorney’s offices, which were required to examine all the information collected to date on the killings of civilians during that period and to concentrate their activities on identifying the perpetrators and gathering the relevant evidence in order to initiate criminal proceedings.12.  on 9 october 2008 the state attorney’s office issued an instruction to the county state attorney’s offices for implementation of the criminal code and the code of criminal procedure, in which it indicated that an inspection of their work had indicated two main problems: possible partiality of the persons involved in the pending proceedings as regards the ethnicity of the victims or the perpetrators, and the problem of trials in absentia.the instruction advocated the impartial investigation of all war crimes, irrespective of the ethnicity of those involved, whether victims or perpetrators, and reiterated the duties of those working for the state attorney in that respect.14.  the police interviewed j.b., a relative of stevo borojević, on 30 december 2008 but he had no knowledge of the latter’s disappearance and killing.17.  on the same day the judge heard evidence from v.p., who said that a certain t.š., who had died in the meantime, had told him that he had learned that stevo borojević had been taken to žabno by the men who controlled the roads.on the same day đ.b., head of the sisak police department in 1991 and 1992, v.m., police commander at the border territory of sisak and banovina in 1991 and 1992 and deputy of sisak police department, and d.b., a member of the “wolves” unit of the croatian army, were arrested.at the osijek county court, alleging that they had been in command of the unit whose unknown members had committed a number of crimes against the civilian population between july 1991 and june 1992, including the killing of the applicants’ relative.was found guilty of war crimes against the civilian population in that, in his capacity as “the commander of police forces in the broader area of sisak and banovina” and “deputy head of the sisak police”, he had allowed the killings of persons of serbian origin and had failed to undertake adequate measures to prevent such killings.the relevant part of the judgment concerning the applicants’ relative reads: “in the morning of 6 october 1991 at a checkpoint in odra sisačka, some unknown members of the reserve police stopped a white vehicle, a fiat 127, which was being driven by stevo borojević, took the vehicle from him and kept it for themselves, and arrested stevo borojević and took him to an unknown location where they killed him, after which his body was found on 17 october 1991 on the right bank of the river kupa at the location called “rušetina” in sisak, with several open wounds and contusions on his head and a wound caused by stabs and cuts in his chest.” 22.  on 10 june 2014 the supreme court upheld the conviction of v.m.the claims were dismissed on the grounds that they had been lodged after the statutory limitation period had expired.24.  following the criminal conviction of v.m., the applicants sought the reopening of these proceedings in the petrinja municipal court.
the grounds for his admission were repeated, groundless telephone calls to the police about the presence of explosives at an industrial facility, a series of calls to the emergency medical services with offers of sexual services to female doctors, as well as threats of violence against ambulance staff.12.  on the same day a panel composed of the hospital’s resident psychiatrists examined the applicant and his medical history and diagnosed him with an organic mental disorder coupled with a psychiatric and paranoid personality disorder.the panel also found that the applicant was a danger to himself and others and that there was a risk of significant damage to his health due to the likely deterioration or aggravation of his psychiatric condition in the absence of psychiatric assistance.in the course of clinical development the organic defects have become predominant manifesting themselves through circumstantiality, a coarsening of emotions, and the exacerbation of his querulous tendencies.having regard to the lack of a critical attitude towards his improper behaviour, the presence of ideas about his own relevance and persecution, [it] can be concluded that he falls under section 29 (a) and (c) of the law of the russian federation on psychiatric assistance and guarantees of citizens’ rights related to its administration of 1992 (“the psychiatric assistance act 1992”).” 13.  on 4 april 2007 the hospital applied for a court order for the involuntary placement of the applicant in a hospital under section 29 (a) and (c) of the psychiatric assistance act 1992 as the applicant was a danger to himself and others and risked significant damage to his health from a likely deterioration or aggravation of his condition if there was no psychiatric treatment.14.  on 9 april 2007 the primorskiy district court of st petersburg (приморский районный суд г. санкт-петербурга) granted the application to admit the applicant to hospital without his consent.the hearing was attended by the applicant, a court-appointed lawyer, mrs l., the psychiatrists, and the prosecutor.during the hearing the district court examined the applicant’s medical history and heard the testimony of the psychiatrists, who referred to severe alcohol abuse, erratic behaviour, frivolous calls to the police, and threatening conduct towards medical personnel.the trial record indicates that during the hearing the applicant claimed that informing the police about the alleged presence of explosives at a factory was his civic duty, complained about hospital regime and facilities and referred to his friendship with certain media personas in russia.the relevant parts of the court order authorising the applicant’s treatment read as follows: “... the recommendation for admission to hospital was issued ... due to the presence of a severe psychiatric disorder, which can cause significant damage to [his] health due to a deterioration or aggravation of the psychiatric condition in the absence of psychiatric help.on 3 april 2007 he was examined by a panel of psychiatrists, who established that [he is] aware of his surroundings, answers questions in detail, believes that he is being persecuted by the police because he is ‘a person of the stalinist era, and they do not want to work’, shows an uncritical attitude towards [his] behaviour, does not correct his ideas of his own relevance and persecution, denies perceptual illusions.having considered the evidence in the case, having heard the opinion of the doctors, of the lawyer, mrs l., who considered inpatient treatment to be reasonable, and the opinion of the prosecutor ... the court concludes that the application of the hospital’s chief physician is well-founded because mr v.k.suffers from a severe disorder which indicates a risk of significant damage to [his] health due to a deterioration or aggravation of his psychiatric condition in the absence of psychiatric help.” 15.  on 20 april 2007 the applicant was formally discharged from hospital after an improvement in his mental health.the court’s conclusion relied on the evidence that had been submitted to it ... [it is] proven by the report of the panel of the hospital’s resident psychiatrists, which describes mr v.k.’s condition and confirms the existence of a severe psychiatric disorder indicating a risk of significant damage to [his] health due to a deterioration or aggravation of his psychiatric condition in the absence of psychiatric assistance.the arguments in the statement of appeal that legal aid lawyer mrs l. did not duly discharge her professional functions may not serve as a ground for annulment of the order, which is lawful on the merits ... ” 18.  nothing in the materials available to the court suggests that the applicant had ever been restricted in his legal capacity or appointed a legal guardian.
13.  on 10 november 2005, while the applicant was still serving his sentence, the director of the civil registry and migration department issued detention and deportation orders against him, pursuant to section 14 of the aliens and immigration law, on the grounds that he was a “prohibited immigrant” within the meaning of section 6(1)(d) of that law (see paragraphs 94-95 below).19.  by letters dated 17 may 2006 and 29 august 2006 the applicant’s lawyer complained to the minister of the interior of the unlawfulness of the applicant’s continued detention following the expiry of his sentence and requested his release.the applicant’s lawyer informed him that he was trying to contact the minister of the interior and the applicant told his lawyer that he had been beaten by the immigration officers.given those factors and having examined the evidence that had been given to her, which did not substantiate the allegations of ill-treatment, she found that intervention on her part and the imputing of responsibility to the police for their handling of the applicant’s situation could not be justified.2.  the applicant’s complaint to the independent authority for the investigation of allegations and complaints against the police (“iaiacap”) and the initial refusal to investigate 36.  on 23 february 2008 the applicant lodged a complaint with the iaiacap (see paragraphs 99-104 below).41.  by a letter of 17 june 2009 to the iaiacap, the attorney general, referring to the applicant’s application to the court, revisited the above decision and ordered the iaiacap to conduct a formal investigation into the applicant’s complaint.43.  in their observations the government submitted that the attorney general had already informed the president of the iaiacap in a letter dated 5 december 2007 on the taking of statements from witnesses, that when a person complaining to the iaiacap was abroad, he or she should be asked to visit the iaiacap in person and provide a statement and that the government would pay the expenses for a complainant’s return to cyprus.according to the certificate the applicant had visited the hospital on 10 march 2007 and had complained of neck and back pain, swelling of the face, dizziness, pain in the testicles and palpitations.they had taken the applicant on board the airplane before the other passengers and had removed the bandages once on board in order to assure the captain, who had come to see them, that the applicant was not injured.66.  the report stated that the various police records (records of action and log or duty books) were deficient and had failed to keep track of ongoing events (such as the applicant’s being moved from block 10 to another area on the night of his deportation and the officers’ actions during the deportation).it all depends, however, on the credibility of those involved.” 70.  according to the investigator, on the basis of the evidence, the applicant had by his reactions and behaviour rendered the use of force necessary.a communal area measuring 50 m by 3.5 m, which connected the cells, allowed detainees to move freely inside throughout the day so prisoners had had access to water coolers and entertainment rooms; the applicant had been allowed out of his cell from dawn to the evening, as referred to in the european prison regulations.he further informed the investigator that for safety purposes block 10 had been under renovation from october 2005 until october 2007. he provided the investigator with an undated document containing all the steps taken for the renovation of block 10. with reference to the conditions of detention, the document recorded the following (emphasis in the original): “conditions of detention based on european standards: cell size: in block 10 there are 36 cells measuring 5.4 sq.it appears from the same record that overall in february a maximum of fifty-eight detainees were held in block 10. on 15 february 2007 the police officers in block 10 received instructions from the detention cell supervising officer that any detainee who refused to clean his cell or failed to contribute to the general cleaning of the detention facilities (γενική καθαριότητα των κρατητηρίων) would be placed in isolation until he complied with the cleaning requirements.91.  in his statement to the iaiacap investigator on 15 june 2010 (see paragraph 51 above) the applicant stated the following with regards to the conditions of his detention: “the treatment i had in block 10 was good, i didn’t have any problems with the policemen, but the conditions were not good.
6.  in 2003 a number of employees at three factories in turgutlu (manisa), torbalı (i̇zmir) and manyas belonging to the tukaş gıda sanayi ve ticaret public limited company (“the tukaş company” or “tukaş”), the main shareholder of which was the holding company oyak (ordu yardımlaşma kurumu, a pension fund for the armed forces), joined the applicant union.7.  on 20 february 2004, arguing that the number of its members at the three factories had attained the minimum level set in the trade union act (law no.2821; ...), the applicant union applied to the ministry of labour and social security (“the ministry”) for certification of its representative status (yetki belgesi) so that it could enter into collective labour agreements with tukaş on behalf of its members.on the basis of a report drawn up by labour inspectors on the nature of tukaş’s activities and its labour force, the ministry found that, in view of the number of employees belonging to the applicant union and the total number of staff at the three factories, which operated in the food-processing sector, the conditions laid down in the trade union act (law no.9.  on 31 may 2004 tukaş applied to the i̇zmir 3rd labour court for judicial review of the ministry’s decision of 26 may 2004, submitting that the applicant union did not satisfy the requirements for engaging in collective bargaining.10.  on 17 september 2004 the 3rd labour court appointed an expert to determine whether the applicant union’s membership attained the minimum level laid down in the trade union act (law no.in it he noted that, according to a first approach taking into account the total number of tukaş’s employees at its head office and its three factories, the applicant union did not have enough members to represent employees in collective bargaining.he pointed out that production planning for the factories on the basis of market demand, laboratory controls and analyses of product hygiene, taste and quality, product marketing and human resources management were all carried out at the company’s head office, that the activities of the three factories and the head office were “complementary” for the company and that they all came under the food-processing sector.accordingly, a calculation of the company’s total number of employees  had to include the staff at both the head office and the three factories, and as a result, the applicant union was not sufficiently representative to engage in collective bargaining with tukaş.in his report the expert also noted that, according to a second approach excluding staff at the head office, the applicant union had a sufficient number of members at the three tukaş factories to qualify as representative.13.  the ministry asked the labour court to reject the application by tukaş, arguing that its decision of 26 may 2004 authorising the applicant union to represent employees in collective bargaining with the company had been lawful.14.  in a judgment of 2 december 2004 the i̇zmir 3rd labour court found in favour of the company and withdrew the applicant union’s representative status.it based its decision on the arguments set out in the first approach referred to in the expert report of 13 november 2004. it found that the activities carried out at the tukaş head office were complementary to the activities at the company’s factories, and that they all came under the food-processing sector.accordingly, it held that the applicant union’s members accounted for only 152 of the 443 tukaş employees, a figure that was too low for the applicant union to qualify as representative in the light of the requirement for “the majority of a company’s employees” to be members.16.  in a judgment of 22 march 2005 the court of cassation dismissed the applicant union’s appeal and upheld the first-instance judgment.
6.  on 27 june 2001 the obrenovac municipal court ordered a socially-owned company, holding - prva iskra ad barič (hereinafter “the debtor”), to pay the applicant specified amounts on account of compensation for expropriated real estate plus the costs of the civil proceedings.7.  on 18 march 2003, upon the applicant’s request to that effect, the obrenovac municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the applicant the enforcement costs.8.  on 23 april 2003 the privatisation agency ordered the restructuring of the applicant’s debtor.9.  on 29 february 2016 the belgrade commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor.the applicant duly reported her claims based on the above-mentioned judgment to the insolvency administration.10.  the insolvency proceedings are still ongoing and the said court judgment remains unenforced to the present day.12.  on 7 october 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal with the constitutional court.in terms of redress, relying on the constitutional court act 2007, the applicant sought, inter alia, compensation for the pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage suffered due to the impugned non-enforcement.13.  on 15 may 2012 the applicant noted the adoption of the amendments to the constitutional court act, and specified her compensation claims accordingly.specifically, on account of the pecuniary damage, the applicant requested the respective amounts awarded to her by the final judgment in question, whilst as regards the non‑pecuniary damage sustained she claimed 1,000,000 serbian dinars (approximately 9,500 euros (eur)).14.  on 21 may 2014 the constitutional court found, in the operative part of its ruling (u izreci), that the applicant had indeed suffered a violation of her right to a fair trial within a reasonable time, as well as a violation of her property rights and awarded her eur 1,000 in respect of the non-pecuniary damage in question.however, it rejected the compensation claim regarding the pecuniary damages sought by the applicant.the constitutional court, lastly, ordered the speeding up of the impugned enforcement proceedings.15.  in its reasoning, the constitutional court stated in respect of the compensation issue that the applicant’s pecuniary damage claim had been lodged out of time.in so doing, it merely referred to article 85 § 3 of the constitutional court act, as amended in 2011, requiring that such claims be brought simultaneously with the lodging of a constitutional appeal.
the state attorney’s office also alleged that the applicant had organised the bribery of the president of the fund in respect of the investment in the zadar region, and had agreed to further bribe-taking with j.k. concerning another investment project related to the privatisation of the hotels ž. and p. 19.  when questioned with regard to the charges against him, the applicant decided to remain silent and not to give evidence.the applicant was indicted in his capacity as a public official on two counts of bribe-taking and bribery of the president of the fund related to m.m.’s investment project in the zadar region, two counts of bribe-taking related to the privatisation of the hotels ž. and p. and the company p.o., and one count of abuse of power and authority related to the privatisation of the company b.32.  on 30 april 2008 a three-judge panel of the zagreb county court returned the indictment to the state attorney’s office on the grounds that one count of the indictment, concerning the applicant’s alleged participation in the bribery of the president of the fund, had been confusing.moreover, the trial bench stressed that the sole purpose of the recordings was to examine them during the trial and that article 155 § 1 of the code of criminal procedure, although providing for the possibility of access to and copying of the case file, did not envisage the copying of cd and dvd material.64.  on 15 may 2009 the zagreb county court delivered a judgment finding that the applicant, in his capacity as a public official as defined under article 89(3) of the criminal code, had taken bribes (article 347 § 1 of the criminal code), facilitated bribe-taking (article 348 § 1 of the criminal code) and abused his power and authority (article 337 §§ 1, 3 and 4 of the criminal code) in connection with m.m.’s investment project in the zadar region, the privatisation of the hotels ž. and p. and the privatisation of the company b. the court sentenced him to eleven years’ imprisonment.66.  as regards the application by the defence to obtain the secret surveillance recordings and a complaint of non-disclosure of certain recordings, the zagreb county court noted: “with regard to the recordings which [the state attorney’s office] asked to be examined at the trial, an expert report was commissioned, that is to say, transcripts were prepared which were served on all the parties, the accused and their lawyers, who were thereby fully informed of the substance of the recordings submitted into evidence.... moreover, as was noted above, the defence had knowledge of the substance of the material submitted into evidence and they had no right to examine material which does not concern these proceedings; that is to say [material which concerns] individuals who were not indicted in these criminal proceedings ... this is because section 42(7) of the office for the suppression of corruption and organised crime act provides that if within six months following the termination of a secret surveillance operation criminal proceedings have not been instituted against the [individual under surveillance], all the material collected [during the operation] must be destroyed.moreover, article 35 of the constitution guarantees respect for the private life of every individual, and the court is obliged to act under the constitution ..., so if it provided the defence with the recordings concerning other individuals ... that would amount to breach of the above-cited provision of the constitution ...” 67.  as to the applicant’s plea of entrapment, the zagreb county court noted: “... this panel finds that [the evidence obtained by the use of informants] is not unlawful evidence because it was obtained on the basis of an investigating judge’s orders.the substance of the adduced evidence and the examined recordings do not show that there was incitement by the informant ... as was further demonstrated.” 68.  with regard to the charges against the applicant and the evidence obtained by the use of informants, the zagreb county court extensively examined the secret surveillance recordings.71.  as to the applicant’s complaint concerning the unlawfulness of the secret surveillance measures, the supreme court noted: “the first complaint to the effect that the results of the special investigative measures are unlawfully obtained evidence because the investigating judge’s orders were made under the code of criminal procedure and not the [oscoc act] is ill-founded.that is to say, evidence which is obtained without a warrant issued by the investigating judge, or if the [police] acted contrary to articles 180 and 182 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure, but [this does not concern] the evidence obtained contrary to article 182 § 1 of the code of criminal procedure, which provides that the order [authorising special investigative measures] should, inter alia, refer to the facts which warrant the application of such measures, specifically that there is a reasonable suspicion that an individual has committed a criminal offence and that the investigation could not have been carried out by other means or that [to do so] would have been extremely difficult.... the offence of bribe-taking, which is the subject matter of these proceedings, is committed [just] by making a request for a gift or benefit, and since the witnesses contacted the state attorney after they had been asked to make a payment to the accused ... the plea of incitement cannot be accepted.” 73.  with respect to the complaint about the non-disclosure of evidence, the supreme court noted: “the argument that the rights of the defence were violated by the non-disclosure of 515 cd and 177 dvd recordings, which were the result of the secret surveillance operation, cannot be accepted ... ... it is undisputed that at the hearing held on 11 december 2008 the trial court established the exact number of recordings and found that 212 cd and twenty-seven dvd recordings had been submitted with the indictment, while it was found that the [special investigation] case file contained a further ninety-eight cd recordings concerning the secret surveillance of other persons who are not accused in the proceedings at issue.the trial court also rightly pointed to the provision of section 42(7) of the oscoc act, which provides that the material obtained by the use of secret surveillance shall be destroyed if, within the six-month time-limit, criminal proceedings have not been instituted against the persons under surveillance ... whether the state attorney, when he was making his selection of the secret surveillance material [to be submitted to the court], excluded certain evidence in favour of the accused ... is of no relevance to the lawfulness of the proceedings at issue.under the relevant provisions of the code of criminal procedure the state attorney adduces only relevant evidence concerning the substance of the charges, and therefore he is in a position to make a selection of the evidence.” 74.  as regards the applicant’s complaint of the erroneous legal qualification of his position, the supreme court noted that the applicant’s position in the fund had not been one of a “public official” but rather of a “responsible person” under article 89 §§ 6 and 7 of the criminal code.in this connection the supreme court explained: “... [t]he omission at issue had no bearing on the legal qualification of the offence because the criminal offence under articles 347 § 1 and 337 § 4 of the criminal code can be committed by public officials and responsible persons when they take the actions for which the court found ... matanović guilty ...” 75.  on 20 april 2010 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) reiterating his arguments of entrapment, the unlawfulness of the secret surveillance orders, the lack of access to evidence and the erroneous legal qualification of his conviction.
5.  the applicant was born in 1941 and lives in birkerod, denmark.6.  on 11 april 1995 the applicant formed a limited company, n.r.group ltd. (“the company”) together with a turkish partner, n.k., to provide tourist services in alanya, turkey.7.  on 19 march 1997 the applicant applied to the alanya civil court of first instance to cancel n.k.’s management authority.on 2 october 1997 the court ordered the cancellation and on 18 may 1998 it appointed a trustee for the company.meanwhile, it was discovered that the applicant’s partner n.k.had fraudulently transferred the company’s assets to a new company.8.  on 8 july 1997, the applicant brought two civil cases against n.k.before the alanya civil court of first instance and sought compensation for his loss incurred due to the fraudulent acts of n.k.the court decided to join the compensation cases and to examine them together.9.  on 7 june 2005 the alanya civil court of first instance accepted the applicant’s compensation claim and granted him the equivalent of 203,000 deutschmarks (dem) (103,792 euros (eur) at the time) with statutory interest for his loss, to be paid in euros, and dem 10,000 (eur 7,158 at the time) in compensation without interest of 40% (inkar tazminatı), to be paid in turkish lira (try).the court further ruled that the legal costs and expenses of the proceedings were to be borne by n.k.10.  on an unspecified day the applicant requested that the judgment be served on him in order to commence enforcement proceedings.the court rejected the request, stating that it was not possible to provide the judgment unless the charge required by section 28(1) (a) of law no.11.  the applicant was therefore unable to lodge enforcement proceedings in order to have the above-mentioned judgment executed.
6.  on 21 march 2008 the čačak municipal court ordered a socially-owned company, fabrika reznog alata čačak ad and its subsidiaries (hereinafter “the debtor”) to pay the applicants specified amounts on account of salary arrears plus the costs of the civil proceedings.7.  on 4 august 2008, upon the applicants’ request to that effect, the čačak municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the enforcement costs.8.  on 30 march 2010 the privatisation agency ordered the restructuring of the debtor.9.  on 8 april 2013, upon the applicants’ request to that effect, the čačak municipal court resumed the enforcement proceedings.10.  on 29 july 2010 the applicants lodged an appeal with the constitutional court.in terms of redress, relying on the constitutional court act 2007, the applicants sought, inter alia, compensation for the damage suffered due to the impugned non-enforcement.11.  on 19 and 20 march 2013 the applicants noted the adoption of the amendments to the constitutional court act, and specified their compensation claims accordingly.specifically, on account of the pecuniary damage, the applicants requested the respective amounts awarded to them by the final judgment in question, whilst as regards the non‑pecuniary damage sustained they claimed 2,000 euros (eur) each.12.  on 18 september 2013 the constitutional court found a violation of the applicants’ right to a hearing within a reasonable time and of their right to the peaceful enjoyment of their possessions.the constitutional court, lastly, ordered the speeding up of the impugned enforcement proceedings.13.  in its reasoning, the constitutional court stated that the applicants’ pecuniary damage claim had been lodged out of time.in so doing, it merely referred to article 85 § 3 of the constitutional court act, as amended in 2011, requiring that such claims be brought simultaneously with the lodging of a constitutional appeal.14.  on 10 june 2016 the government submitted that the national bank of serbia informed the čačak first instance court, by its letter of 19 april 2016, that the final court judgment of 21 march 2008 had been partially enforced on 14 august 2008 and that the applicants had received the sum of 143.707,89 serbian dinars (rsd).15.  on 9 september 2016 the applicants’ representative submitted that the first applicant and she were not aware of the partial enforcement of the above judgment.lastly, the applicants’ representative submitted that the national bank of serbia had informed her in its letter of 16 august 2016 that the amount of rsd 143.707,89 was paid only to the second applicant.
she was also recognised as one of the most vocal advocates for full cooperation of the yugoslav and later serbian authorities with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia (hereinafter “the icty”).8.  at the time relevant to this case, between 40% and 64% of the serbian population considered the icty to be a major security threat to the republic of serbia.[3] the level of cooperation was further negatively influenced by the assassination of the serbian prime minister dr zoran đinđić in march 2003, a major political figure open to full cooperation with the icty.9.  the applicant’s article on ms kandić appeared in politika on 7 september 2003. the integral translation of the impugned article, titled “the hague investigator”, reads as follows: “‘even my son blames me for protecting everybody but the serbs’, says the director of the fund for humanitarian law.on the occasion of the international day of the disappeared commemoration, at the gathering of the association of families of missing and kidnapped persons in kosovo and metohija organised in the centre of belgrade, following a short argument she slapped one of the participants.after this incident the belgrade police submitted a request for the initiation of prosecution proceedings against her, and the association of families of the missing lodged a lawsuit, demanding that she pay 30,000,000 serbian dinars (rsd) for the insult to the families of those kidnapped and killed.former winners of this award were petar stoyanov from bulgaria, emil constantinescu from romania, vaclav havel from the czech republic, stjepan mesić from croatia ... it was also reported that at the beginning of may the american magazine time published a list of thirty-six individuals dubbed the european heroes, among which was nataša kandić, too.the serbian campaigner for the truth on war crimes, a lonely voice of reason in serbia or the soros[5] mercenary, the one who was named by all the banished fry[6] spies, has won many awards, including the human rights watch award, but none of them were awarded to her in serbia.with a group of like-minded people she founded the humanitarian law centre at the beginning of 1993. a year later, on the invitation of ms jeri laber, the helsinki watch executive director, she left for new york.upon discussion with top people at the hague tribunal[8], the humanitarian law centre took charge of its work in respect of the so‑called serbian crimes against muslims in bosnia and herzegovina, as well as violations and abuses of muslim and croatian minority rights in the fry.she claimed that the entire piece had been written with the intent of belittling her in the eyes of the public, to present her as a traitor to serbian interests and as a “paid servant of foreign interests and a prostitute who sells herself for money”.11.  the applicant, in her defence, stated that she was not expressing her own opinion of ms kandić, whom she did not intend to insult, and that she had written the entire article on the basis of the documentation of other magazines.12.  on 1 september 2005, after a remittal, the first municipal court (prvi opštinski sud) in belgrade found that the applicant had committed a criminal offence of insult when having stated for ms kandić “although she has been called a witch and a prostitute” and gave her a judicial warning.in view of no aggravating circumstances and a number of mitigating ones (the applicant had a clean record, was employed and of mature age (u zrelom dobu)), she was given a mere judicial warning (sudska opomena), on the grounds of articles 41 and 59 of the general criminal code (see paragraph 18 below).the fact that she wrote also on the negative attitudes towards the private prosecutor and her work could not and must not make her, the applicant, criminally liable.
the executive board sought the applicant’s suspension until the next session of the association’s general meeting (skupština) for reporting a member of the association to the police, falsely accusing him of the criminal offence of intimidation.13.  on 11 january 2014 the applicant brought a civil action against the hunting association in the požega county court (županijski sud u požegi), whereby he asked the court to declare unlawful the general meeting’s resolution of 20 february 2013 and to reinstate him as a member.he relied on section 26(1) of the associations act (see paragraph 22 below) and argued that the decision to expel him had been adopted in breach of the procedure provided for in the association’s statute and its internal regulations on disciplinary proceedings.in particular, he submitted that, in the absence of appeals against the disciplinary commission’s decision of 25 august 2012 (see paragraph 8 above), the general meeting could not have overridden that decision because under the association’s statute that commission was the only body authorised to decide on the expulsion of a member.14.  by a decision of 4 march 2014 the county court declared the applicant’s action inadmissible, on the grounds that the matter was outside the jurisdiction of the courts.the relevant part of that decision reads as follows: “section 26(1) of the associations act suggests that legal protection by way of civil action in the county court could be sought only if the general meeting or the other relevant body of the association had failed to examine a member’s report regarding irregularities in the implementation of the statute [of the association], or had failed to correct such irregularities.such a civil action would therefore be aimed at securing the implementation of the statute of the association, and thus would not provide for legal protection in the sense that a specific decision ... of the association could be declared unlawful.according to section 7(2) of the defendant association’s rules on disciplinary proceedings and disciplinary liability of members, a request for review may be lodged with the general meeting [to contest] the disciplinary tribunal’s decision to expel [a member].... since the plaintiff in his action does not seek [legal] protection envisaged in section 26(1) of the associations act, but asks [the court] to declare unlawful the defendant’s resolution to expel him, on which [issue] it is for the general meeting to make a final decision ... this case does not fall within the jurisdiction of the courts ...” 15.  the applicant then appealed against that decision to the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske).16.  by a decision of 2 april 2014 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the first-instance decision, reasoning as follows: “the first-instance court was correct in declaring the action inadmissible, because the case does not fall within the jurisdiction of the courts ... in particular, pursuant to section 26(1) of the associations act ... the conduct of associations is supervised by their members, and if a member finds irregularities in the implementation of the statute he or she is entitled to report it to the relevant body of the association designated in the statute or to the general meeting if there is no relevant body designated in the statute.furthermore, if the written report is not examined at the general meeting or by the relevant body of the association designated in the statute within thirty days of its submission, or if irregularities are not corrected, the member may bring a civil action in the county court within whose area of jurisdiction the registered office of the association is situated, with a view to protecting his or her rights as stipulated in the statute.that right does not entail the power to contest the lawfulness of a decision adopted in disciplinary proceedings against the plaintiff as a member, as correctly explained in the impugned [first-instance] decision.therefore, the decision to expel a member does not fall within the jurisdiction of the courts under section 26(1) of the associations act.the defendant association is not an entity vested with public authority, and the decisions it adopts are not administrative acts, which means that the plaintiff’s action could not even be examined by the administrative court under the [relevant provisions] of the administrative disputes act.it follows that the county court was correct in deciding that courts have no jurisdiction to decide on the plaintiff’s action ...” 17.  on 12 june 2014 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint against the supreme court’s decision.
4.  the applicant, who was born in 1989, was detained at the tekirdağ prison when the application was lodged.5.  on 9 july 2010 the applicant was taken into police custody on suspicion of membership of a terrorist organisation.6.  on 13 july 2010 the investigating judge at the istanbul assize court, after questioning the applicant, ordered his pre-trial detention having regard to the nature of the offence, the state of the evidence and the strong suspicion of the suspect’s having committed the offence in issue.7.  on 7 september 2010 the istanbul public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul assize court, charging the applicant with membership of an illegal terrorist organisation.8.  the trial commenced before the 9th chamber of the istanbul assize court and the first hearing was held on 15 february 2011.9.  in the hearings held on 21 february 2012 and 3 may 2012, respectively, the applicant appeared before the court, and the judges ordered his continued detention.the applicant filed objections against these decisions.on 7 march 2012 and 8 june 2012 respectively, the 10th chamber of istanbul assize court dismissed the applicant’s objections without holding an oral hearing and based on the public prosecutor’s opinion which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative.10.  during the eleventh hearing held on 30 july 2013, the 9th chamber of the istanbul assize court ordered the applicant’s continued detention on remand.
it appears that the organisers of the demonstrations gave no proper prior notice to the relevant authority, the baku city executive authority (“the bcea”).7.  according to the applicants, the demonstrations were intended to be peaceful and were conducted in a peaceful manner.the demonstrations of 12 january and 10 march 2013 were aimed at protesting about the deaths of soldiers in the army.the demonstration of 26 january 2013 condemned the use of force by the police against the participants of previous demonstrations, while those taking part in the demonstration of 29 december 2013 were protesting against bureaucratic injustices which had allegedly caused a disabled war veteran to set himself on fire on 25 december 2013.10.  on the day of each applicant’s arrest administrative offence reports (inzibati xəta haqqında protokol) were issued, which stated that the applicants had committed an administrative offence under article 298.2 of the code of administrative offences (“the cao”) (participation in a public assembly that had not been organised in accordance with the law).20589/13 and 33164/13 at the police stations on the day of their arrest (12 january and 10 march 2013 respectively), they refused the services of a lawyer.15.  most of the applicants were taken to trial courts directly from the police stations, either on the day of their arrest or the following day.members of the public were not allowed in the courtroom, even though the court had not taken a formal decision to close the hearing to the public.18.  according to the transcript of the hearing concerning the applicant in application no.26424/14 stated in general terms that the applicant was not guilty and asked the court to discontinue the case.in addition, none of the material submitted to the court contains any record of showing that the state-funded lawyer, mr v.m., made any oral or written submissions on behalf of the applicant in application no.19.  the only witnesses questioned during the court hearings with respect to the applicants in applications nos.the applicants were convicted under article 298.2 of the cao and sentenced to a period of administrative detention, varying from thirteen to seventeen days, or to a fine of 400 or 500 azerbaijani manats (azn) (see appendix).21.  on various dates the applicants lodged appeals with the baku court of appeal, arguing that their convictions had been in violation of their rights because the demonstrations in which they had participated or attempted to participate had been peaceful.23.  on various dates the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicants’ appeals and upheld the decisions of the first-instance courts (see appendix).
15.  on 22 november 2006 the sofia district court ordered that the child be removed from a.i.’s home and handed over to the first applicant on the basis of article 71 § 1 of the family code of 1985. on 4 january 2007 the first applicant, accompanied by a lawyer and several police officers, went to the village where a.i.(b)  police assistance for the transfer of the second applicant 26.  on 17 december 2009 the supreme administrative court quashed an earlier decision by the police to refuse to provide assistance for the transfer of the second applicant and ordered it to determine the best way to arrange it.instead, according to the third applicant, he assaulted her in the presence of the child by hitting her on the head, pushing her against the lift, and knocking her to the ground.the third applicant submitted that thereafter she had repeatedly attempted to reach an agreement with the child’s father on the child’s return to live with her, as well as that she had contacted two private bailiffs over the following months but neither of them had taken any action because they considered that the case was too difficult.the obsessive and controlling love demonstrated by him towards the child risked making him rebel in the future; the permanent pitching of the child against the third applicant had led to psychosomatic disorders, as evidenced by the child’s frequent headaches.the third applicant also stressed that the child’s health and well-being were the most important aspects of the process and asked the bailiff to coordinate all the actions related to the child’s attendance at counselling sessions.on 7 november 2014 the social services reported to the bailiff that the support work which was to be carried out with the child had not started as the father had repeatedly failed to take the child to the social centre.in particular, the court found the complaint about psychological violence ill-founded as it had been based on the mother’s repeated attempts to have the bailiff hand the child over to her in accordance with the court’s decision.the court concluded that the child’s well-being was at risk as a result of the ongoing, open animosity between the parents and ruled that a copy of the judgment should be sent to the social services with a view to them taking appropriate measures.was dissolved by a court decision which also determined his contact rights with his child, who had been born in 2009. according to the decision, the fourth applicant was to see the child every first and third weekend of the month between 9 a.m. on saturday and 6 p.m. on sunday, and for one month during the summer holidays.according to him, the bailiff informed him that as the meetings with the child were scheduled to take place at the weekend, when the bailiff was off work, the fourth applicant would be better being accompanied to the meetings by witnesses.63.  the fourth applicant turned to the child protection agency a number of times and the agency urged the mother to allow contact between the child and the fourth applicant, as set out in the court decision of 13 february 2012.the highest court involved, the stara zagora regional court, found more specifically that instead of pursuing a constructive dialogue with the child’s mother with a view to seeing the child, the fourth applicant had resorted to forced enforcement proceedings, which had been unsuitable in the circumstances and had meant the child had been scared to go with him as he had always been accompanied by strangers.2.  additional facts submitted by the government after communication (a)  divorce and contact rights granted to the fourth applicant 67.  the fourth applicant applied for a divorce on 15 june 2011. the court granted it on 13 february 2012, granting custody to the mother, r.d., and giving contact rights to the applicant.the court concluded that that demonstrated, on the one hand, r.d.’s willingness and readiness to comply with the contact regime and, on the other hand, the fourth applicant’s categorical refusal to have a dialogue with the child’s mother.
at the material time the first applicant was a member of one of the main opposition parties in the country, the popular front party of azerbaijan, and the second applicant was a member of an opposition group, nida.6.  the applicants participated in an assembly on 6 may 2014. according to the applicants, they were among people who gathered near the baku assize court to support members of nida (an opposition group), who were being tried on that day.the courtroom was full, and therefore some people gathered outside the court to wait for the outcome of the proceedings.9.  on the day of the applicants’ arrest, administrative-offence reports on them (inzibati xəta haqqında protokol) were issued, which stated that they had committed an administrative offence under article 298.2 of the code of administrative offences (“the cao”): participation in a public assembly organised not in accordance with the law.13.  according to the applicants, the hearing before the first-instance court was very brief in both cases.members of the public were not allowed inside the courtroom, even though the court had not taken a formal decision to close the hearing to the public.according to the transcript of the hearing in his case, he refused the assistance of the state-funded lawyer and decided to defend himself in person.17.  according to the transcript of the hearing concerning the first applicant, the state-funded lawyer did not make any oral or written submissions.18.  the only witnesses questioned during the hearing concerning the first applicant were police officers who, according to official records, had arrested her or issued the administrative-offence report on her.19.  according to the transcript of the hearing concerning the first applicant, she stated that she had participated in the protest of 6 may 2014 and had rightfully used “improper language” in the course of the protest.20.  according to the transcript of the hearing concerning the second applicant, he stated that he had simply protested against an unfair judgment against the nida members, and had not committed any unlawful action.the court convicted the applicants under article 298.2 of the cao, and sentenced them to a period of administrative detention of thirty and twenty days respectively.22.  on unspecified dates the applicants lodged appeals with the baku court of appeal, arguing that their convictions had been in violation of their rights, because the protest in which they had participated had been spontaneous and peaceful.the applicants also complained that their arrests had been unlawful, and that the hearings before the first-instance court had not been fair.24.  on 16 and 22 may 2014 respectively the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicants’ appeals and upheld the decisions of the first‑instance court.
6.  on the basis of a request by a third person and of its own motion, on 27 may 2013 the fact verification commission (“the commission”) established in lustration proceedings that the applicant had collaborated with state security bodies.relying on two files from the state archives, it “established indisputably that [the applicant] gave information ... to state security bodies about individuals ... namely ... he collaborated with the state security services in a conscious, secret, organised and continuous manner as a secret collaborator.” accordingly, it held that the applicant had fulfilled the condition for restricting his candidacy to or performance of public office.lastly, he complained about the fact that the decision on the commission’s website had included his father’s name, despite the fact that the lustration act made no provision for the release of such information.the court stated: “[the commission] established that there were documents in the state archives created by the state security bodies confirming that [the applicant] had collaborated with state security bodies in a conscious, secret, organised and continuous manner and that he had obtained favours when being promoted, as set out in sections 14 and 18 of [the lustration act] ... the commission correctly established that [the files in question] contained information provided by [the applicant], which had been used to restrict and violate the human rights and freedoms of other people on political and ideological grounds ... ” 12.  as regards the applicant’s complaints of mistaken identity, the court stated: “... the commission’s decision clearly established collaboration with security bodies by [the applicant], by determining his personal identification number, place of birth and the office that he had held.” 13.  as to his arguments that the commission had erred in finding “conscious, secret, organised and continuous collaboration” with state security bodies, the court held: “[the applicant] was entitled to obtain access to the documents attesting to his collaboration.in addition, the court considers that the above state security service documents on [the applicant’s] secret collaboration were drawn up on the basis of the rules and regulations of those bodies.” 14.  lastly, the court stated: “the court made its decision at a hearing held in private because the commission had correctly established the relevant facts [on the basis of written material] and [the applicant] had not submitted any evidence that led to different facts.” 15.  on 7 march 2014 the applicant appealed to the higher administrative court.he reiterated the complaints raised in his action in the administrative court and submitted that the latter court had not provided any reasoning regarding his complaint that the publication of the commission’s decision on its website had violated his right to respect for his private and family life, his reputation and dignity.it stated: “the fact verification commission only checks whether or not there was collaboration with the security services; there are no adversarial proceedings, the documents created and held by the [security services] are regarded as facts ...” 17.  section 13 of the 2008 lustration act provided that the name of the person concerned who had been identified by the lustration commission as a collaborator had to be published in the official gazette after final conclusion of the proceedings.18.  section 1 stated that the lustration act regulated the criterion for limiting the exercise of public office, the publication of information on cooperation with state security bodies and the powers of the fact verification (lustration) commission.20.  section 4 provided that people found by the lustration commission to have been registered as a secret collaborator or secret informer between 2 august 1944 and the date of entry into force of the act would be regarded as having met the criterion for limiting their candidacy for or the exercise of public office.25.  under section 29(1), any former holders of public office or of a position of public authority whom the commission found, after conducting the verification procedure, to have collaborated within the meaning of the act, were to be deprived of their right to exercise public office or hold positions of public authority during the validity of the law (ten years from the appointment of the lustration commission, section 42).28.  section 1 of the administrative disputes act states that for the purposes of judicial review a court decides in administrative-dispute proceedings on the lawfulness of decisions (“administrative acts”) by administrative authorities, the government and other state or public authorities (hereafter “public entities”) when, in the exercise of their public powers, they decide on the rights and obligations of individuals or legal entities in administrative matters.35.  section 36 provides that an administrative court, as a rule, is to decide cases on the basis of the facts established in the administrative proceedings before the public entity whose decision is being contested, or on the basis of facts established by the court itself.when the evidence suggests that the actual facts are different from those established by the public entity in the administrative proceedings, the administrative court may itself establish the facts and decide the case.39.  under article 38-b § 1, a court can prohibit a convicted person sentenced to imprisonment or given a suspended sentence from exercising a profession or activity if he or she acted in abuse of the rules of that profession or activity in committing the crime and could be expected to repeat that act of abuse in the commission of a new crime.it held that the publication of the collaborator’s name in the official gazette was disproportionate to the aim of the 2008 act, namely preventing collaborators with the secret service from holding public office in a democratic society.
4.  the applicant was born in 1937 and lives in sofia.5.  the applicant’s husband owned part of a house and a yard in sofia.6.  by a decision of the mayor of 15 october 1981 the property was expropriated with a view to constructing a metro station.the decision, based on section 98(1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973, provided that the applicant’s husband was to be compensated with a three‑room flat in a building which the municipality planned to construct.7.  in 1989 the applicant and her husband were moved out of the expropriated property and settled in a two-room municipally-owned flat.the expropriated house was subsequently pulled down.8.  by a supplementary decision of 1 september 1989, based on section 100 of the territorial and urban planning act, the mayor determined the exact location, size and other details in respect of the future flat offered in compensation, which was to measure 94 square metres.9.  in 1993 the applicants’ husband passed away, after which the applicant became the owner of the future flat allocated in compensation to him.10.  in the years that followed the applicant requested on many occasions that the authorities complete the compensation procedure and deliver the flat due to her, but to no avail.the construction of the building in which the flat was to be located did not commence.11.  in 2001 the applicant brought a tort action, claiming wrongful failure on the part of the sofia municipality to build and provide her with the flat due to her during the period from january 1993 to september 2001. in a final judgment of 6 march 2008 the supreme court of cassation, holding that the municipality was responsible for the failure to deliver the flat within a reasonable time-limit, awarded the applicant 10,000 bulgarian levs (bgn) in non-pecuniary damage and bgn 44,320 for loss of profit.12.  in 2009 the applicant brought a new tort action against the sofia municipality covering the period after october 2001. the action was dismissed in a final judgment of the supreme administrative court of 22 march 2013, on the ground that the applicant had had a special remedy at her disposal, namely the possibility provided for in section 9(1) of the transitional provisions of the territory planning act 2001 to claim monetary compensation for the expropriated property instead of compensation with a flat (see paragraph 16 below).13.  in 2013 the sofia municipality informed the applicant that the construction of the building where the flat due to her was to be located was to start in the near future.according to the latest information submitted by the parties in 2014, the municipality was looking for a company to carry out the construction works.
(a)  interlocutory judgment of 17 february 2009 17.   on 17 february 2009, in an interlocutory judgment, the paris tribunal de grande instance stressed as follows: “where a diagnosis of gender identity disorder has been made following a thorough assessment and the person concerned has undergone irreversible physical changes for therapeutic purposes, it is appropriate to consider that, although the person’s new gender status is imperfect in that the chromosomal make-up is unchanged, he or she is closer, in terms of physical appearance, mindset and social integration, to the preferred gender than to the gender assigned at birth.” however, the court further found: “irrespective of the status of the authors of the medical certificates produced in support of the application, the need for a firm diagnosis means that a multi‑disciplinary expert assessment should be carried out in order to establish the applicant’s current state from a physiological, biological and psychological perspective and to investigate the persistence of the alleged disorder in his past.” the court appointed three experts – a psychiatrist, an endocrinologist and a gynaecologist – and requested them, after interviewing and examining the first applicant and consulting the medical certificates and operation reports submitted, to: “(a)  describe the applicant’s current physical state ... and the presence or absence of any external or internal genitalia of either sex; order, with the applicant’s consent, any samples and laboratory tests capable of establishing the biological and genetic characteristics of the applicant’s sex; state whether a mistake could have been made in the sex recorded on the birth certificate, or an organic or biological change could have occurred later; look for traces of possible surgery aimed at bringing about or completing a transformation of the genitalia or secondary sexual characteristics; state whether the patient has been treated with either medication or hormones; state whether the surgery or hormone treatment was carried out on account of pre-existing physical anomalies or because of the patient’s psychological state, leaving aside his deliberate intentions; (b)  describe [the first applicant’s] mental state and behaviour as regards his gender and, in so far as possible, indicate their origins and trace their development; report on any course of psychotherapy followed, specifying its duration and outcome; state whether the patient suffers from any mental disorder and, if so, specify the nature of that disorder; (c)  express a view on the possible existence of gender identity disorder, giving reasons for making or ruling out such a diagnosis; state whether, in the light of all the available individual medical data (physiological, biological and physical), the person concerned should be regarded as male or female.” 18.  the court ruled that the costs of the expert assessment should be met by the first applicant, and ordered him to deposit a sum of 1,524 euros (eur) for that purpose.it stressed that the certificates produced by the first applicant, however informative, did not answer the court’s questions regarding the origin, nature, persistence and consequences of the disorder in question, and that the doctors who had been consulted could not, in the space of a few lines intended to allow the operation to go ahead, carry out the work of three experts instructed on the basis of a very wide-ranging and detailed mandate.23.  first of all, the court of appeal inferred from article 8 of the convention that “where, following medical and surgical treatment undergone for therapeutic purposes”, a person with a gender identity disorder no longer possessed all the characteristics of his or her original sex and had taken on a physical appearance closer to that of the opposite sex, which matched his or her social behaviour, the principle of respect for private life warranted amending the civil-status records to indicate the sex corresponding to the person’s appearance.25.  the court of appeal went on to observe that the first applicant had refused persistently on principle to submit to an expert assessment and had not cooperated in the assessment ordered by the lower court, “on the irrelevant pretext of protection of his private life, even though the aim [had been] to establish that a person presenting with a gender identity disorder no longer possessed all the characteristics of the sex assigned at birth”.the first applicant referred, in particular, to the position of the commissioner for human rights of the council of europe as set out in his issue paper of october 2009 entitled “human rights and gender identity”, and to resolution 1728 (2010) of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe on discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity (see paragraphs 73 and 75 below).after examining the documents submitted, without distorting them, and having noted, firstly, that the certificate describing surgery performed in thailand was very brief (being confined to a list of items of medical information and saying nothing about the effectiveness of the operation) and, secondly, that [the first applicant] refused in principle to undergo the expert assessment ordered by the first-instance court, the court of appeal was entitled to refuse the application for correction of the gender markers on the appellant’s birth certificate ...” 32.  the second applicant was born in 1958 and lives in le perreux‑sur‑marne.37.  the court gave judgment on 9 february 2010. it noted that the second applicant had merely filed a few invoices dated 2008 and issued in the name of “émilie” garçon, four statements made by witnesses in 2008 saying that they had known the second applicant for a number of years, knew that he was a “transgender” person (or “transsexual”, as one of them put it) and had seen him “evolve as a woman without any apparent difficulty”, and a certificate dated 23 april 2009 signed by the endocrinologist dr t., according to which the second applicant had been receiving treatment for gender dysphoria since 2006 and taking feminising hormones since 2004, a treatment that was well tolerated and effective.an expert assessment appears pointless since the appellant, who rejects the idea of having to undergo genital surgery, does not mention any plastic surgery performed in connection with the current course of hormone treatment, and has not produced any opinion by a psychiatrist capable of demonstrating the existence and persistence of the alleged disorder, although émile garçon’s birth certificate states that he has been married twice ... and divorced twice ...” 39.  the second applicant appealed on points of law against the judgment of 27 january 2011. he argued in particular that, in refusing his requests on the pretext that he had not demonstrated either the existence of “permanent physical or physiological change and hence the irreversible nature of the gender reassignment process”, or “the existence and persistence of the alleged disorder”, the court of appeal had breached article 8 of the convention, since the right to respect for private life implied the right for individuals to define their sexual identity and to have their civil-status documents amended to reflect their preferred gender identity, without having to demonstrate the existence of a gender identity disorder or gender dysphoria, or to undergo a prior process of irreversible gender reassignment.(b)  judgment of 13 february 2013 40.  on 13 february 2013 the court of cassation (first civil division) dismissed the appeal on points of law in the following terms: “... in order to substantiate a request for correction of the gender markers on a birth certificate, the person concerned must demonstrate, in view of the widely accepted position within the scientific community, that he or she actually suffers from the gender identity disorder in question and that the change in his or her appearance is irreversible.furthermore, after noting that [the second applicant] had merely produced a certificate issued by a doctor on 23 april 2009 on the headed paper of a different doctor, in which the former certified that the latter, an endocrinologist, was treating [the second applicant] for gender dysphoria, and which stated that the patient had been receiving treatment with feminising hormones since 2004, the court of appeal found that this medical certificate alone did not demonstrate the existence or persistence of a gender identity disorder, or the irreversible nature of the gender reassignment process.these are not discriminatory conditions nor do they infringe the principles set out in articles 8 and 14 of the european convention on human rights or articles 16 and 16-1 of the civil code, as they are based on a fair balance between the requirements of legal certainty and the inalienability of civil status on the one hand, and the protection of private life and respect for the human body on the other ...” 41.  the third applicant was born in 1952 and lives in essey-les-nancy.however, the court stressed that a number of conditions had to be met, stating as follows: “[t]he gender identity disorder [must] be established not only medically (usually by a multi-disciplinary team of doctors, surgeons, an endocrinologist, a psychologist and a psychiatrist), but also judicially, either by means of an expert assessment (although the court is not required to order one) or on the basis of medical certificates produced by the person concerned establishing with certainty that he or she has undergone medical treatment and surgery in order to achieve gender reassignment.” the court went on to find as follows: “persons wishing to have their gender changed in their civil-status documents must demonstrate that they have undergone medical and surgical treatment for therapeutic purposes and have had previous surgery to remove the external characteristics of their original sex.the judgment reiterated the reasoning of the judgment of 7 november 2008. the court stated as follows: “[a change of gender in civil-status documents may be granted only to] ‘genuine’ transgender persons, that is, to persons who have already undergone irreversible gender reassignment, and not to persons who merely claim to be ‘transgender’ on the grounds that they are regarded socially as belonging to the gender corresponding to their outward appearance, but who oppose any gender reassignment surgery or refuse to provide medical and surgical evidence of such reassignment having been carried out by means of medical treatment and surgery.” the court went on to find as follows: “granting s. nicot’s request would effectively amount to the creation by the courts of a ‘third gender’, namely persons of female appearance who nevertheless continue to have a male external sexual anatomy but can marry a man.52.  on 13 february 2013 the court of cassation (first civil division) dismissed the appeal on the following grounds: “... in order to substantiate a request for correction of the gender markers on a birth certificate, the person concerned must demonstrate, in view of the widely accepted position within the scientific community, that he or she actually suffers from the gender identity disorder in question and that the change in his or her appearance is irreversible.given that [the third applicant] has not furnished intrinsic evidence of the irreversible nature of the gender reassignment process in his case, which cannot derive from the sole fact that he is seen by others as female, the dismissal of his claims by the court of appeal did not infringe the principles laid down under articles 8 and 14 of the convention ..., but rather struck a fair balance between the requirements of legal certainty and the inalienability of civil status on the one hand, and the protection of private life on the other ...” 53.  in november 2009 the high authority for health published a report entitled “medical treatment of gender identity disorders in france – situation and outlook”.
the rate of church tax has been over many years either 8% or 9% of the tax on an individual’s income and, in most german länder, is collected by the state tax authorities on behalf of churches and religious societies, which in return pay 3% to 5% of their tax revenue to the state.11.  if spouses are members of different churches entitled to levy taxes (konfessionsverschiedene ehe) and if they have opted for a joint income tax assessment (gemeinsame steuerliche veranlagung), both churches levy the tax on the spouses in the form of an additional levy on the income tax of both spouses.churches calculate the tax on the basis of the income tax attributable to the spouse liable to pay tax rather than on the basis of that spouse’s share of the total income.according to the federal constitutional court’s settled case-law, if the spouse belonging to a church has no income in terms of the regulations of the income tax code, the church tax cannot be levied (see 56 paragraph below).it is important to note that in case of a joint income tax assessment the spouses benefit from a special calculation method for the income tax (the so-called “income‑splitting”, “splitting-verfahren”) and furthermore from the progressive effect (steuerprogression) of the german tax system, which generally leads to a lower tax burden.in most of the german länder (except of the land of bavaria), in their tax calculation procedure (steuererhebungverfahren) the tax authorities set the special church fee according to the calculation regulations of each church.if the special church fee has been offset against a tax reimbursement due to the spouse who is not a member of a church that spouse can apply for a settlement notice (abrechnungsbescheid) in accordance with article 218 of the fiscal code (abgabenordnung, see paragraph 51 below) and thus have the possibility to be repaid the offset amount.as the spouses were jointly liable for income tax and the applicant’s wife’s income was below the minimum taxable amount, the wife’s special church fee was calculated as a proportion of her living expenses, which in turn were calculated on the basis of the spouses’ joint income (see paragraphs 12-14 above).the third column showed the amount of eur 2,220. the table further showed that the first applicant had a tax reimbursement claim of eur 3,423.00, which had been offset against the church fee of eur 2,220 of his wife.as regards the special church fee, it stated as follows: “an objection can be raised to the setting of the church tax and to the fixing of advance payment of church tax.26.  on 7 february 2007 the competent tax office charged the second applicant a special church fee of eur 1,500. the fee was calculated on the basis of his living expenses, which in turn were calculated on the basis of his and his wife’s income (see paragraphs 12-14 above).34.  on 29 august 2005, 5 february 2006 and 26 june 2008 the competent tax office levied church tax on the third applicant for the years 2004 to 2006. as the applicants had opted for a joint tax assessment, the third applicant’s church tax was calculated with his income tax as a proportion of the income tax attributable to him, rather than in proportion to his share of the spouses’ total income (see paragraph 12 above).the fact therefore that the third applicant’s church calculated its church tax on the base of a percentage of his income tax rather than on a percentage of income raised no doubts as to its legitimacy.43.  the competent tax authority levied no church tax on the fifth applicant as she had no income, but on 2 february 2007 applied a special church fee of eur 3,600 for 2005 and on 27 june 2007 it charged her eur 1,860 for 2004. the amounts were calculated on the basis of the fifth applicant’s living expenses, which were calculated on the basis of her and her husband’s joint income.46.  on 15 june 2009 the tax court dismissed the request for suspension of enforcement, arguing that the special church fee did not violate the fifth applicant’s right to equality in view of the federal constitutional court’s settled case-law.
7.  no prior notice was given to the relevant authority, the baku city executive authority (“the bcea”), by the organisers of the demonstrations.the participants in the demonstration of 12 january 2013 were drawing the public’s attention to the deaths of soldiers in the army.the participants in the demonstration of 26 january 2013 were condemning the use of force by the police against those who had participated in previous demonstrations.the reports stated that the applicant had committed an administrative offence under article 298.2 (participation in a public assembly that had not been organised in accordance with the law) of the code of administrative offences (“the cao”).12.  a statement (ərizə) written by the applicant on 12 january 2013 at the police station and submitted to the court by the government showed that in the first case, the applicant had declared that he would defend himself in person.13.  a statement written by the applicant on 26 january 2013 at the police station and submitted to the court by the government showed that in the second case the applicant had declared that he did “not need a lawyer because of his financial [situation]”.14.  in the first case, after having been held for a few hours in police custody, the applicant was released, subject to an undertaking to reappear at the police station on 14 january 2013.15.  in the first case, the applicant was brought before the nasimi district court on 14 january 2013, the day he reappeared at the police station.members of the public were not allowed to attend, even though the court had not taken a formal decision to close the hearing to the public.18.  a statement signed by the applicant on 14 january 2013 and submitted to the court by the government showed that in the first case, the applicant had declared that he did not need legal assistance and would defend himself in person.20.  the record of the court hearing in the second case shows that in his oral submissions, the state-funded lawyer briefly stated that there had been elements of the administrative offence in the applicant’s actions, and asked the court to adopt a fair decision.21.  in both cases, the court questioned police officers who had participated in the dispersal operations and police officers who had prepared the administrative-offence reports against the applicant.24.  on unspecified dates the applicant lodged appeals before the baku court of appeal, arguing that his convictions were in violation of his rights because the demonstrations in which he had participated had been peaceful.at the appellate court hearing in the second case the applicant was represented by the same lawyer who had represented him before the first-instance court.26.  in both cases, on 25 january and 6 february 2013 respectively, the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of the first-instance court.
5.  on 3 october 2000 the vienna public prosecutor’s office (staatsanwaltschaft – hereinafter, “the prosecutor’s office”) requested the vienna regional criminal court (landesgericht für strafsachen – hereinafter, “the regional court”) to institute criminal proceedings against the applicant.the prosecutor’s office sought to obtain information about the outcome of criminal proceedings against the applicant in the united states, where he had been charged with aggravated fraud in his function as director of the m. investment fund and the m. capital management company.the criminal proceedings against the applicant in austria were suspended in accordance with article 412 of the code of criminal proceedings (hereinafter, the “ccp”) pending the outcome of the proceedings in the united states.8.  on 6 july 2007 the applicant was arrested in austria on the basis of the arrest warrant of 29 may 2002 (see paragraph 7 above) and subsequently placed in pre-trial detention.while the first two complaints were withdrawn by the applicant, the third was dismissed by the vienna court of appeal (oberlandesgericht) on 5 november 2007. the applicant unsuccessfully requested his release also on 28 january, 8 may and 12 august 2008. the applicant’s complaints against the continuation of his pre-trial detention lodged on 7 february, 27 may and on 27 august 2008 were dismissed by the vienna court of appeal on 27 march, 24 june and 23 september 2008.17.  on 30 december 2008 the vienna court of appeal dismissed the objection of 1 september 2008, but granted the two objections of 21 july and 29 august 2008, holding that the refusal to grant the applicant access to his case file and to provide him with copies thereof constituted a violation of his rights.he alleged that he had not even once been questioned in relation to the accusations against him during the entire time he spent in pre-trial detention, even though he had tried to contribute to the clarification of the facts by submitting statements as well as requests for the taking of evidence.moreover, according to the laws in force at the time and place of the commission of the offences, the latter had become time-barred.on 14 march 2011 the vienna court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal, holding that even though it was difficult to clarify the facts of the case after more than ten years, the applicant had significantly contributed to the length of the investigations by having absconded.the applicant again objected to the expert and complained about the length of the pre-trial investigations.on 11 may 2011 the regional court granted the objection concerning the expert, but dismissed the applicant’s complaint concerning the length of the proceedings, holding that it had been proportionate to the complexity of the case.28.  on 16 august 2011 the prosecutor’s office informed the applicant that it intended to appoint a new expert, b. the applicant objected, alleging that b. had close relations with investors who could potentially have sustained damages because of his activities.the applicant’s objection was dismissed by the regional court on 5 december 2011. on 16 april 2012 the vienna court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal as being lodged out of time.on 26 december 2013 the regional court granted the objection, holding that the prosecutor’s office had not adequately reacted to the exceeding of the time-limit by the expert, who should have been discharged as a consequence.32.  at the date of the latest information available to the court (15 november 2016), the criminal proceedings against the applicant were still pending at first instance.
6.  on an unspecified date in 1995 the applicants brought an action against the bucharest municipal council and the local council of the sixth district of bucharest, seeking the recovery of property rights over 1,761 sq.7.  by a decision of 9 april 1998 the bucharest county court allowed the applicants’ action on the merits.the decision was not appealed against by the parties and thus became final.8.  on 27 january 1999 the office of the mayor of bucharest, relying inter alia on article 322 § 5 of the romanian code of civil procedure (hereinafter “the rccp” – see paragraph 13 below), brought extraordinary appeal proceedings against the applicants, seeking review (revizuire) of the final judgment of 9 april 1998, and submitting that a new document had appeared concerning the land claimed by the applicants.they referred to a report drafted on 29 december 1998 by the management agency for markets of district no.6 (administraţia pieţelor sectorul 6 bucureşti), which stated that the land claimed by the applicants was occupied by a marketplace.9.  by a decision of 24 september 1999 the bucharest county court allowed the action brought by the office of the mayor of bucharest on the ground that the document had not been in the file during the first set of proceedings and that it showed that the land claimed by the applicants was occupied by a marketplace.10.  by a decision of 29 january 2002 the bucharest court of appeal allowed an appeal by the applicants on the ground that the document invoked by the office of the mayor of bucharest was a document which did not comply with the requirements set out in article 322 § 5 of the rccp, since it had not existed at the time when the final decision of 9 april 1998 was delivered.furthermore, the court found that the domestic authorities had failed during the first set of proceedings to raise the issue of the legal situation of the land before the court without an objective reason and could have recovered the investment made on the land claimed by the applicants by bringing separate proceedings against the applicants and seeking recovery of the money.11.  by a final decision of 14 january 2003 the supreme court of justice allowed the appeal (recurs) lodged by the office of the mayor of bucharest on the ground that although the document had not existed during the proceedings which had ended by the final judgment of 9 april 1998, it concerned a pre-existing situation.furthermore, the court found that the provisions of article 322 § 5 of the rccp had to be interpreted as referring to documents used by one party to prove, in the light of new elements, facts which generally had not been known by the court which had delivered the judgment under review.in the light of the above, the court held that the concept of “document” had to be interpreted restrictively.lastly, it considered irrelevant the fact that the document relied on by the party seeking review had been obtained by means of the undertaking of research into other documents which had existed at the time of the judgment of 9 april 1998 and which attested to the same facts, but had not been brought before the court delivering the judgment in question.10/2001 on the rules governing immovable property wrongfully seized by the state between 6 march 1945 and 22 december 1989; they requested the restitutio in natura of the plot of land of 1,761 sqm.it appears from the file that in 2010, the request was still pending before the administrative authorities, in so far as further documentation needed to be submitted.
the applicant submitted a complaint against that conclusion and on 15 july 2007 the inspectorate adopted a new conclusion, holding that the accident had been caused by “the inappropriate organisation of dangerous work” (netinkamas pavojingo darbo organizavimas), in particular because the scaffolding had not complied with the applicable work safety requirements.he relied on the state labour inspectorate report that no damage to the scaffolding on the day of the accident had been observed (see paragraph 9 above), and noted that none of the witnesses had corroborated the applicant’s description of how he had fallen.among other things, the investigator was requested to identify whether on the day of the accident or earlier the applicant and other workers had been ordered by their employer to attach the metal platform to the reservoir tank.24.  on 8 june 2009, in response to a complaint by the applicant about the length of the investigation, the chief prosecutor of the klaipėda city prosecutor’s office noted that “the investigation had not always been of sufficient intensity” (tyrimo intensyvumas ne visada buvo pakankamas) and that the prosecutor had been instructed to set a deadline for completing the investigation.the prosecutor also concluded that the workers had not been ordered by their employer to attach the metal platform to the reservoir tank because the construction manager, v.j.s., had not been at work on the day of the accident.the court further noted that attaching the platform to the reservoir tank had clearly been part of the construction work, so the employer had a duty to properly supervise the workers and to instruct them how to carry out that task safely – and by failing to do so, the applicant’s employer had acted contrary to the law.30.  on 17 december 2009, following a complaint by the applicant, the deputy chief prosecutor of the klaipėda region prosecutor’s office sent a note to the klaipėda city prosecutor’s office, observing that the pre-trial investigation had been going on for more than two years, and requesting that it promptly carry out any necessary further investigative measures in order to make a well-founded final decision.the forensic expert examined the case file and delivered a report on 17 february 2010. the report noted that there was insufficient information in the case file concerning the technical characteristics of the metal platform and the scaffolding, so the way the accident had happened could be established only in part.on the basis of the available material, the report found that the weight of the platform had exceeded the weight limit of the scaffolding and had thus caused it to collapse.the prosecutor noted that although the scaffolding had not fully complied with the applicable safety requirements, that had not been the main cause of the accident and thus the applicant’s employer could be held liable only for an administrative offence of failure to comply with work safety requirements (see paragraph 58 below), but not for a criminal offence.the court also decided to adjourn the case until 24 november 2011 in order to ensure the participation of all the necessary witnesses and, as requested by the applicant, to obtain the technical details about the metal platform.50.  on 19 march 2012 the applicant asked the klaipėda district court to continue its examination of the case in the absence of the accused, complaining that the latter was deliberately avoiding appearing before the court.the court also observed that the domestic law provisions on the statute of limitations, applicable at the time of the accident, were “unconditional” (besąlygiškos nuostatos) and did not provide for the possibility to suspend the limitation period.54.  on 4 june 2012 the applicant complained to the klaipėda regional court that the examination of the case before the district court had been so protracted that it had become time-barred, and asked the regional court to identify the reasons for that protraction.56.  on 22 november 2012 the prosecutor general’s office, in response to a complaint by the applicant, informed him that it had analysed the work of the prosecutors involved in the case and had not detected any “substantial violations” (esminiai pažeidimai) of the code of criminal procedure.
7.  on 11 june 2002 the municipal authority supervising real-property transactions in moscow (“moszhilservice”) authorised an exchange of flats between n., whose name had not been removed from the tenant register, and k. 8.  on 21 june 2002 moszhilservice issued all the documents necessary for k. to move into n.’s flat.9.  on 16 october 2002 the moscow housing department transferred the title to the flat to k. under the privatisation scheme.on 11 november 2002 the moscow city committee for registration of real estate transactions (“the registration committee”) registered k.’s title to the flat.14.  on an unspecified date the prosecutor brought a civil claim on behalf of the moscow department of housing policy and the housing fund (“the housing department”), seeking annulment of all the transactions on the flat, the applicant’s eviction and the restitution of the flat to the city of moscow.he claimed that the fraudulent transactions in respect of the flat had resulted from the authorities’ failure to duly verify the documents submitted by k. for exchange and privatisation of the flat.the court established that n. had died in 1993 and b. had died in 1994; that after their death they had continued to be registered as tenants residing in the flat; that the flat allegedly exchanged by k. had never existed; that all the documents submitted by k. for the exchange of flats had been forged and that all the data indicated therein, including the name of the street and the names of the registrar and the notary, had been false.the court invalidated the exchange of flats between n. and k. it further considered that k. had defrauded the city of moscow by submitting falsified documents for the exchange and privatisation of the flat, which should be construed as execution of the relevant transaction in the absence of intent to do so on the party of the city of moscow.the court reinstated the city’s title to the flat and ordered the applicant’s eviction.the court confirmed that the lower court had correctly applied legal provisions which allowed the lawful owner of the property to recover it from a bona fide purchaser.the court discerned no causal link between the applicant’s loss of title to the flat and the respondent’s actions.22.  on 1 june 2007 the timiryazevskiy district court of moscow suspended for six months the enforcement of the part of the judgment concerning the applicant’s eviction.28.  on 4 december 2012 the timiryazevskiy district court of moscow ordered the applicant to pay a fine of 500 russian roubles for his failure to comply with the writ of enforcement in due time.30.  on 28 march 2014 the district court suspended the eviction proceedings for one year and the applicant moved back into the flat.32.  according to the government, on 12 february 2014 the housing department entered into a one-year social tenancy agreement with the applicant in respect of the flat, pending the resolution of his housing problem.33.  on 10 october 2014 the housing department transferred ownership of the flat to the applicant under the privatisation scheme.
9.  on 1 september 2006 the leninskiy district court of orenburg extended the term of the applicant’s arrest, and on 4 september 2006 ordered that he be detained on remand and placed in pre-trial detention facility iz-65/1 (“the sizo”).a routine examination by the medical assistant on duty, in the presence of a duty officer, revealed the following injuries: (i) a haematoma measuring 1 cm by 1 cm on the left frontal bone of the skull; (ii) hyperaemia (redness) measuring 1.5 by 3 cm on the right side of the forehead; (iii) a red and blue haematoma measuring 2 cm by 3 cm on the right shin; (iv) hyperaemia measuring 1 cm by 1 cm on both buttocks; and (v) hyperaemia measuring 2.5 by 4 cm on the right side of the lumbar region (medical report no.13.  according to the additional medical records on the applicant from the sizo for the period from 19 to 23 september 2006, he complained of headache, nausea, dizziness, vomiting and pain on the left side of his body when breathing.15.  on 23 september 2006, k., an investigator at the investigation division of the orenburg regional police department in charge of the applicant’s criminal case, ordered a forensic medical expert opinion on the applicant on the basis of medical records after considering the lawyer’s request, the report on the examination of the applicant at the sizo on 18 september 2006, and a report by officer l. of the ubop which stated that the applicant had caused the injuries to himself.k. wanted to know whether the applicant had any injuries and, if so, when and how they had been inflicted, whether they could have been inflicted as a result of a fall or as a result of harming himself, as described by officer l., and whether the injuries were compatible with him being detained and participating in investigative actions in his case.the applicant had jumped up from his chair and “hit his forehead and face on the corner of the chair with some force while shouting that he had to be taken back to the sizo; he became hysterical, fell on the wooden floor, which had a linoleum covering, and started rolling around on the floor, hitting himself against wooden chairs and tables”.according to the applicant’s statements to the prosecutor’s office, the ubop officers had subjected him to ill‑treatment on 18 september 2006 in order to force him to confess to the crimes.he remembered the name of one of them, l. on 27 september 2006 the applicant lodged a formal complaint with the district prosecutor’s office, requesting the prosecution of the police officers.20.  on 25 october 2006 two forensic medical experts found after examining the applicant’s medical records that he had haematomas on the left frontal bone and right shin, which had been caused either by hard, blunt objects, or as a result of hitting such objects, one to three days before his examination on 18 september 2006. they could have been caused by the applicant simply falling down or as a result of self-inflicted injuries, as described in l.’s report.in addition to l.’s evidence, the investigator relied on similar statements by officer g., who had also been present at the time the applicant had allegedly injured himself, and on the forensic medical experts’ report of 25 october 2006.22.  the applicant appealed against the decision of 27 october 2006, arguing, inter alia, that the inquiry had not been thorough and that the state’s responsibility had been engaged under article 3 of the convention because he had received injuries during his detention that had been confirmed by medical evidence.the applicant referred to the court’s case‑law, stating that the burden of proof in such a situation was on the state and that it had to provide evidence which could cast doubt on the applicant’s allegations.the court held that the inquiry had been thorough and comprehensive, it had not found any facts to confirm the applicant’s ill‑treatment, the medical experts’ conclusions had been consistent with the police officers’ statements and the refusal to institute criminal proceedings had been lawful and well-founded.it stated that the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment were unfounded, relying on the findings of the pre‑investigation inquiry and the statements by l. and the other police officers and investigators denying any wrongdoing on their part.25.  on 24 november 2008 a deputy head of the investigation department of the orenburg town prosecutor’s office dismissed an appeal by the applicant against the investigator’s decision of 27 october 2006, considering that the inquiry had been thorough and objective.
6.  on 4 november 1999 the applicant applied to the committee of the vienna bar association (ausschuss der rechtsanwaltskammer; hereinafter, “the committee”) for an invalidity pension.8.  on 5 february 2002 the competent division of the committee (hereinafter, “the committee’s division”) partly rejected as being lodged out of time and partly dismissed on the merits the applicant’s application for an invalidity pension.on 30 april 2002 the plenary of the committee (hereinafter, “the plenary”) dismissed the objection.10.  on 17 june 2002 the applicant complained to the administrative court about the plenary’s decision.11.  on 14 june 2007, under article 132 of the federal constitution (bundes-verfassungsgesetz), the applicant complained to the administrative court about the plenary’s failure to decide (säumnisbeschwerde).13.  on 18 january 2008 the applicant requested the administrative court to decide on the merits, claiming that the plenary still had not issued a decision.subsequently, the administrative court was informed by the head of the bar association that the expert opinion had arrived but that it required supplementation, and that a decision would be issued within one month.consequently, on 26 june 2008 the administrative court closed the proceedings regarding the applicant’s complaint of 14 june 2007 about the plenary’s failure to decide (see paragraph 11 above), and awarded costs to the applicant.15.  on 21 april 2008 the applicant filed an objection against the committee’s division’s decision of 8 april 2008. on 15 july 2008 the plenary granted the objection and referred the case back to the committee’s division.16.  on 20 october 2008 the applicant complained to the administrative court about the plenary’s decision.on 17 december 2009 the administrative court quashed the plenary’s decision, holding that the committee’s division had not been competent to issue its decision of 8 april 2008 (see paragraph 14 above), as the case had been pending before the plenary after the administrative court had quashed the latter’s decision of 30 april 2002 (see paragraph 10 above).17.  on 15 july 2010, under article 132 of the federal constitution, the applicant complained to the administrative court about the plenary’s failure to decide.two days earlier, on 13 july 2010, in a decision received by the applicant on 20 july 2010, the plenary quashed the committee’s division’s decision of 8 april 2008 (see paragraph 14 above) and dismissed the applicant’s objection against the committee’s division’s decision of 5 february 2002 (see paragraph 9 above), confirming that the applicant was not entitled to an invalidity pension.consequently, on 22 february 2012 the administrative court closed the proceedings regarding the applicant’s complaint of 15 july 2010 about the plenary’s failure to decide, and awarded costs to the applicant.18.  on 24 august 2010 the applicant complained to the administrative court about the plenary’s decision of 13 july 2010. on 22 february 2012 the administrative court dismissed the complaint as unfounded.
the application was served on the applicant on 3 may 2013; and on the same day the court extended his detention until 6 august 2013. consequently, he did not have any opportunity to make any comments on the application.the court held that there was a risk of his absconding (owing to the severity of the possible punishment), reoffending (owing to his unsettled personal circumstances) and interfering with the investigation (if he were to collude with the third suspect).the application was served on the applicant’s lawyer on 31 july 2013, the day before the court extended the applicant’s detention until 6 october 2013. the court simultaneously refused the application for release, without hearing the applicant in person.to show that there was a risk of his reoffending, the court noted that prior to the opening of the investigations, the applicant had only been employed for a short period of five months, that he had not been living with his parents but probably with some friends, that on 3 may 2013 he had already been sentenced for the offence of larceny, and that currently he was under investigation in yet another criminal case on a charge of abduction of vehicle.31.  on 3 april 2014 the budapest high court dismissed the applicant’s application for release and extended his detention until 6 june 2014. while referring to the court’s case-law, the court maintained that the detention was still necessary because of the risk of his reoffending (article 129 § 2 (d) of the code of criminal procedure).however, noting the other pending case conducted against the applicant and his failed attempt to have secured a false alibi and, moreover, considering the “professional” nature of the crime and his unsettled personal circumstances, the court held that the most severe coercive measure should continue to be applied on account of the risk of his reoffending.32.  on 18 april 2014 the budapest court of appeal upheld the decision to extend his detention on the basis that there was a risk of his reoffending, absconding and jeopardising the investigation by influencing witnesses (article 129 § 2 (b) to (d) of the code of criminal procedure).34.  on 5 june 2014 the budapest high court extended the applicant’s detention until 6 august 2014 under article 129 § 2 (d) of the code of criminal procedure (risk of reoffending), pointing out the “professional” manner in which the crime had been committed.the applicant’s lawyer pointed out again that neither him, nor the applicant had access to the investigation file and thus could not have knowledge of the evidence substantiating the reasonable suspicion of him having committed a crime.39.  on 21 july 2014 the budapest high court extended the applicant’s detention until the date of the first-instance court’s judgment, under article 129 § 2 (b) and (d) of the code of criminal procedure (risk of absconding and reoffending).without hearing from the applicant, the court pointed out that the severity of a potential punishment was not in itself sufficient to establish a risk of a person absconding; however, the applicant’s personal circumstances, such as him being unreachable even to his family members, showed that such a risk existed.40.  on 1 august 2014 the applicant appealed, arguing that none of the evidence made available to him supported the claim that he was the person who had escaped police arrest, and none of the involved police officers could identify him.43.  on 15 january 2015, six months after the indictment, the budapest high court reviewed the applicant’s pre-trial detention under article 132 § 1 (a) of the code of criminal procedure and extended it until the delivery of the first-instance judgment.giving the same reasons as previously, the court again stated that there was a reasonable suspicion that the applicant had committed the offences with which he had been charged, a risk that he might abscond and obstruct the proceedings (article 129 § 2 (b) of the code of criminal procedure) and a risk that he would reoffend (article 129 § 2 (d)).the first hearing before the trial court took place on 19 september 2014. the budapest high court held further hearings on 13 november 2014, 15 january, 7 april, 19 june, 15 september, 7 october, 3 november, 1 and 21 december 2015, 9 february and 23 march 2016. apparently from the indictment of 20 april 2015 onwards, the trial involved the other two suspects as well.
at the time of the events he worked as the editor-in-chief of the weekly magazine monitor, which was strongly critical of the government as well as the opposition.8.  various civil and criminal proceedings had been brought against mr huseynov since the beginning of his journalistic activity for the publication of critical articles about the president of azerbaijan and members of his family, and about members of the parliament, government and other state officials.13.  on the same day a record relating to the inspection of the scene of the crime and the examination of the body (hadisə yerinə və meyitə baxış keçirilməsi haqqında protokol) was drawn up.on the same day the investigator ordered forensic medical, ballistic and chemical trace examinations of the pistol and silencer, the bullets, the cartridges, the victim’s hair and nails, and the clothes that he had been wearing on 2 march 2005. report no.17.  on 4 march 2003 the prosecutor general’s office, the ministry of internal affairs (“the mia”) and the ministry of national security (“the mns”) issued a joint statement officially informing the public of the institution of criminal proceedings in connection with the murder of the applicant’s husband.23.  further to various requests sent in march 2005 to the russian authorities concerning the pistol found at the crime scene, the russian authorities confirmed that the pistol in question had been produced in russia as a gas pistol and had then been exported to bulgaria on the basis of a contract with a bulgarian company.the investigator noted that although the examination of 7 march 2005 had concluded that the pistol was a baikal firearm produced in 2003 in russia, the material collected during the investigation had revealed that the pistol had not been produced as a regular firearm but as a gas pistol that had subsequently been modified.however, relying on the cis convention on legal assistance and legal relations in civil, family and criminal matters of 22 january 1993 and the treaty between azerbaijan and georgia on legal assistance and legal relations in civil, family and criminal matters of 8 march 1996 (see paragraphs 66-70 below), the deputy prosecutor general stated in the same letter that the georgian authorities undertook to institute criminal proceedings against its two nationals at the request of the azerbaijani authorities in case of the transfer of the criminal case to the georgian authorities.the experts’ reports, dated 15 december 2005 and 19 january 2006, concluded that the pistol found at the scene of the murder of the applicant’s husband had not been used in the commission of the other murder.in particular, the lawyer pointed out that although three years had elapsed since the institution of criminal proceedings, the applicant had still not been informed about the progress of the investigation or the decisions that had been taken.52.  by a letter of 12 march 2008, signed by the head of the investigation department of the mns, the mns informed the lawyer that the applicant had been informed orally about the progress of the investigation.it was further stated that in accordance with articles 87 and 102 of the code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 61 below) the applicant had the right to familiarise herself with the case file and obtain copies of documents only when the preliminary investigation was over.55.  on 4 july 2008 the applicant’s norwegian lawyer and the norwegian helsinki committee wrote to the prosecutor general’s office and the mns asking for the documents relating to the criminal investigation of the murder of the applicant’s husband.relying on articles 87 and 102 of the code of criminal procedure, the letter also stated that a victim or his or her representative could only have access to a case file and the relevant documents following the termination of the preliminary investigation.in particular, she asked the investigating authorities to provide her with the documents relating to the investigation, to inform her of the progress of the investigation and of the date when the investigation would end.
the charges were, (i) conspiracy (in connection with crimes related to money laundering) under article 287 of the criminal code; (ii) various instances of money laundering in participation with others (articles 50, 73 and 199 bis of the criminal code) for the movement of money through the san marino foundation for the promotion of the economy and finances; and (iii) various instances of money laundering in participation with others for the movement of money between b.10.  according to the inquiring judge the san marino foundation for the promotion of the economy and finances (hereinafter “the foundation”), which could be traced back to the applicant and was run by a person the applicant trusted, had been created specifically to further the aims of the criminal organisation.in connection with both files, in the text of its judgment the court considered that the applicant must be allowed access to such documents with the limited aim of allowing the applicant to be fully aware of the evidence already collected, especially that as a result of which the inquiring magistrate had ordered the applicant’s arrest and detention.it considered that such secrecy could be justified for the purpose of the proper administration of justice and the effectiveness of the investigation, and was subject to the inquiring judge’s discretion which the court of appeal did not want to interfere with - without prejudice to a further appeal against such decision before the third instance judge.thus, it was for the judge to examine the stage of the investigation, as well as the correctness of the facts established and the lawfulness of the procedural steps undertaken, and the persistence of the charges against the accused, falling short of making any findings on the criminal responsibility of the accused.29.  as to the non-disclosure of some of the material, it noted that while under san marino law an accused was granted the right to access and copy all the material in the investigation file and imposed on the judge a duty to inform the accused of the factual and legal circumstances surrounding the charges against him, the same procedural law also limited those rights for the sake of the proper administration of justice, while bearing in mind the procedural safeguards emanating from the right to a fair trial.on 24 october 2014 the applicant therefore lodged a new appeal, arguing that despite the court’s order he had again not had access to the relevant documentation to challenge his detention as the declassified information did not include any evidence to substantiate the alleged behaviour that had led to his application for release to be denied, namely the alleged falsification of documents, the alleged collusion with family members, the alleged simulation of his co‑accused’s illness, and most importantly the alleged walkie‑talkie conversations.the court noted that the detention order of 23 june 2014 had stated that the reasons for considering detention necessary had been the fear of the applicant’s reoffending and tampering with evidence, which had been justified by the role played by the applicant in the organisation and by the complex and effective network he could benefit from.it followed that none of the decisions in question had been based solely on the supposed collaboration of m. thus, the retraction of p.’s testimony did not render nugatory the fear of the applicant’s tampering with evidence, based on the fact that there had been various, more relevant considerations given in the previous decisions on the matter, and reiterated in a decision of 9 march 2015 (below).he noted that the proceedings were based on the results of the investigation by the anti-fraud unit and on the analysis of financial operations by the applicant and other people involved in politics (directly or through the use of a plurality of individuals and legal persons).52.  the seriousness of the elements on which the suspicion against the applicant was based (quadro indiziario), the facts and the means by which the crimes had taken place, as well as the dense network of personal relations, the involvement of family members, professionals, state representatives and government personnel who were still in service, led to the conclusion that there was a real risk that evidence, namely documentary evidence, would be tampered with and that pressure would be put on people who had knowledge of the events at issue.in so far as the applicant had claimed that there had been no proof of conspiracy or of the illicit origin of the funds, and thus that there had been no substantiation of the charge of money laundering, the court held that the original decision of 23 june 2014 had highlighted the existence of a general agreement with permanent effects (constituting the pactum sceleris) between representatives of the state and the business world, as well as the details of its aims and functionalities.61.  on 28 may 2015 the applicant lodged a challenge to the constitutional legitimacy of the decision of 23 april 2015 by the judge of criminal appeals and the decision of the commissario of 9 march 2015 in connection with his defence rights at the trial.64.  by a judgment of 15 october 2015 the third-instance judge confirmed the validity of the decisions of 23 april 2015 filed in the relevant registry on 29 april 2015 by the judge of criminal appeals and the decision of the inquiring judge of 9 march 2015. it reiterated its previous findings as to the various and detailed evidence which had been presented and concluded that the same applied in respect of the last two charges against the applicant, which had been the basis for the impugned decision of 9 march 2015. it noted that there existed a huge amount of data, some of which was convincing evidence (dati probanti), some highly indicative (fortemente indizianti), and some merely illustrative yet useful, which together formed an adequate framework of relevant and sufficient evidence on which to base precautionary measures.68.  the applicant stated that the conditions at the detention facility were inhumane and referred to the reports of the committee for the prevention of torture (“the cpt”) of 2005 on the matter.
was invited to participate in a meeting at the the plungė district land service, concerning the territorial plan of the area and the choice of the form of restitution.in april 2006 the plungė district land service informed the applicant that she had to submit a written request to the authorities for the preparation of a document on the transfer of land and to actively choose a plot of land.17.  in october 2006 the applicant sent two letters to the plungė district land service and stated that she would accept a plot of land of equivalent value if such a plot was given to her and a preliminary agreement was prepared on the transfer of such a plot.18.  in november 2006 the plungė district land service informed the applicant about the procedure for the assessment of the value of land and the calculation methods used, and asked the applicant to agree with the assessment.in december 2006 the plungė district land service informed the applicant that in order to provide her with a plot of land, the authorities had to prepare a document on the transfer of land.the plungė district land service repeated that the document on a transfer of the land had already been prepared and the applicant had to sign it and indicate the area where she would like to receive a plot of land of equivalent value.in february 2007 the plungė district land service informed the applicant about the procedure for restitution and reiterated that the applicant had to sign the document on the transfer of land.in may 2007 the applicant asked the authorities when the issue of the restoration of v.v.’s property rights in natura or by providing her a plot of land of equivalent value would be dealt with.she stated that she wanted the land to be returned in natura or to be provided with a plot of land of equivalent value and she did not understand why the authorities kept asking her to make a new choice on the form of restitution each year.moreover, the court held that the applicant had never changed the original wish to have the land returned in natura because she had refused to agree to the document on the transfer of land, which would have allowed her to have a plot of equivalent value returned to her.had died, the applicant had been asked to choose the form of restitution but had persisted in asking to have the land returned to her in natura or to be provided with a plot of equivalent value.the court also held that the applicant had misinterpreted the provisions of the domestic law because she had required that she be provided with a plot of land of equivalent value and a preliminary agreement, and had stated that only then would she sign a document on the transfer of land.26.  in reply to the request by the authorities, on 29 september 2016 the notary dealing with the inheritance procedure for v.v.’s property stated that after v.v.’s death she had issued the applicant with certificates of the right to inheritance with regard to movable and immovable property.27.  in their comments to the applicant’s reply to the government’s observations, the government acknowledged that the monetary compensation had never been transferred to the applicant “due to human error”.the national authorities could not transfer the monetary compensation to the applicant because of the absence of the document proving that she was an heir of v.v.
4.  the applicants were detained in korydallos prison in athens when they lodged their application with the court.5.  the first applicant was detained in korydallos prison on 7 march 2013, and was still in detention at the time his observations to the court were submitted.his detention in korydallos prison was temporarily interrupted when he was transferred to ioannina prison from 3 july 2013 until 11 july 2013, and to komotini prison from 2 december 2013 to 17 december 2013. the second applicant was detained in korydallos prison on 22 march 2013 and the third applicant on 21 august 2013; they were still in detention when they submitted their observations to the court.the fourth applicant was detained in korydallos prison from 26 june 2013 to 1 may 2014, except for the periods from 17 july 2013 to 3 september 2013, from 27 november 2013 to 10 december 2013, and from 6 february 2014 to 17 february 2014, during which time he was detained in chania prison.the fifth applicant was detained in korydallos prison from 22 may 2013 to 19 june 2014, except for the period between 20 march 2013 and 28 march 2013. the sixth applicant was detained in korydallos prison from 30 january 2013 to 15 august 2014.6.  the applicants alleged that the prison held 2,400 prisoners, while it had been designed to accommodate 700. the applicants were detained in wings a and d in various cells which all measured 9 sq.rubbish was not properly collected and food remains were left in the cells and corridors for days.9.  moreover, the prison was understaffed and unable to secure the prisoners’ safety.10.  the government asserted that the first to fifth applicants had been detained in various cells in wings a and d. all cells measured 9.60 sq.12.  the prison had a central heating system, and inmates were provided with fans during the summer.13.  all detainees had access to the prison’s infirmary, which was open twenty-four hours per day, and there were eighteen doctors with different areas of specialism and three nurses who offered appointments to the prisoners.when inmates’ conditions could not be dealt with in the infirmary, they were transferred to korydallos prison hospital, korydallos psychiatric hospital or an external hospital.additionally, the prison’s social services took care of detainees’ needs, including those of the applicants, who had used those services on a number of occasions.they were allowed to have a television in the cells, and the prison had a lending library and a book club.in addition, detainees had the opportunity to take one of the available jobs or attend “second chance” school.
specifically, the first applicant was detained in the transfers department of thessaloniki from 24 january 2013 until 29 april 2013; the second applicant was detained in the transfers department of thessaloniki from 27 november 2012 until 1 march 2013; and the third applicant was detained in the transfers department of thessaloniki from 29 january 2013 until 11 march 2013.5.  the applicants alleged that the transfers department of thessaloniki had been an entirely inappropriate place in which to spend long periods of detention, as they had done.6.  cells had been insufficiently lit and ventilated, which, in addition to overcrowding and the filthiness of the premises, had affected inmates’ health.the applicants furthermore stressed that there had been insufficient heating and hot water and that they had never been provided with soap.7.  detainees had been confined to their cells and had not been allowed to spend time outside, which had affected their psychological health.8.  the meals that had been provided to detainees had cost 5.87 euros (eur) per day and had not sufficed to cover their daily dietary needs, either in terms of quantity or quality.10.  the government firstly argued that the applicants had complained in a general way, without providing specific references concerning the actual conditions of their detention.11.  as regards the premises in which the applicants had been detained, the government submitted that the transfers department of thessaloniki had been comprised of six cells on the ground floor which had measured 59 sq.all cells had had in-cell sanitary facilities and had had sufficient light and received sufficient ventilation through large windows.most of the detainees had been held in the facility for very short periods of time, as the transfers department had been used when transferring detainees from one facility to another or to the court room.as a result, when the number of detainees had exceeded the number that the cells had been designed to accommodate, that had only remained the case until transfers had been completed.hot water and heating had been available throughout the premises and all sheets and blankets had been regularly cleaned and replaced in the event that they had become worn out.14.  food had been provided to detainees by a private catering company and had been of good quality and quantity; the government submitted examples of the various meals offered, arguing that these had covered all dietary needs and preferences.15.  the government pointed out that the applicants had not referred to or adduced any evidence that they had not received any medical treatment that they had needed.on the contrary, according to the police station’s records, the second applicant had been transferred to papanikolaou hospital on 29 december 2013 for a medical check-up.
5.  of the applicants, the fourth was released on 11 march 2013 and the eighth was transferred to alikarnassos prison on 6 december 2012. the fifteenth applicant was released on 1 march 2013 and the twenty-first on 14 march 2013. the twenty-ninth, forty-ninth, fifty-fourth and fifty-seventh applicants were released on 28 february 2013, the forty-third on 11 march 2013, and the fiftieth on 7 march 2013, while the fifty-sixth was transferred to amfissa prison on 14 december 2012.6.  additionally, the ninth, twenty-fifth, thirty-second and thirty-fifth applicants were released on 30 may 2013, the tenth and twenty-sixth applicants on 16 may 2013, the twelfth and forty-fourth applicants on 4 april 2013, the thirteenth on 28 may 2013, the sixteenth on 9 may 2013, the eighteenth on 14 june 2013, the nineteenth, twenty-second, twenty‑fourth, forty-first and forty-fifth applicants on 9 april 2013 and the twentieth on 23 may 2013. the thirty-fourth and fifty-third applicants were released on 31 may 2013, the thirty-ninth and forty-eighth on 26 april 2013, the fortieth and fifty-second on 30 april 2013, the forty-sixth on 10 april 2013 and the fifty-first on 11 april 2013.7.  the applicants alleged that the prison had held 235 prisoners but had only been designed for 85. there were four big cells measuring approximately 45 sq.8.  the cells had had no tables or chairs.inmates had been confined to their cells for seventeen hours a day as recreational or educational activities had not been provided.inmates had to wash and dry their clothes and underwear in the toilet facilities, which further spread contagious diseases.10.  on 13 and 25 february 2013 the applicants and other prisoners lodged a complaint with the prison authorities about their conditions of detention, but received no reply.11.  the government asserted that ioannina prison had four cells measuring 50 sq.m while the corridors had an area of 300 sq.m. at the time of the applicants’ application with the court, the prison had held 210 to 230 detainees.12.  extensive repair works had been carried out in 2012 throughout the prison facilities and all areas had been repainted, stools had been placed in the cells, and a bookcase, television and table tennis table had been added to the dining-room, which served several purposes.13.  the cells had been regularly disinfected and cleaned on a daily basis.ventilation and heating had been adequate in the cells and common areas.appropriate standards of hygiene had been strictly observed and each new inmate was provided with clean clothing and blankets.all detainees had access to the prison infirmary and there were two general doctors, a dentist and three nurses.
mr rezmiveş, mr moşmonea and mr gazsi are currently detained in timişoara, pelendava and baia mare prisons respectively.8.  on 5 april 2011 the first applicant was admitted to gherla prison.he remained there until 12 march 2012, when he was transferred to aiud prison.on 13 april 2012 he was transferred to oradea prison, where he stayed until 20 december 2012, before being moved to timişoara prison on 5 august 2013.9.  the first applicant complained about the conditions of detention in gherla, aiud and oradea prisons.in particular, he complained of overcrowding (submitting that there was between 1.60 sq.m of living space per prisoner), the lack of natural light, the short duration of daily exercise and the lack of recreational activities.... 10.  on 13 february 2008 the second applicant was placed in pre-trial detention in craiova prison.following his conviction, he served his sentence there until 17 may 2012, when he was transferred to târgu-jiu prison.on 11 july 2012 he was transferred to pelendava prison.16.  on 15 december 2009 the third applicant was admitted to rahova prison, where he stayed for several months before being transferred successively to tulcea (2010), iași (2010-14) and vaslui (2011-13) prisons.17.  the third applicant complained about the conditions of detention in rahova prison, referring in particular to overcrowding, lack of ventilation in cells, mould on the walls, poor-quality food and the presence of bedbugs.... 23.  the fourth applicant was held in the baia mare police detention facility from 26 march to 25 may 2012 before being transferred to gherla prison.24.  in his application form the fourth applicant complained of poor hygiene conditions, the lack of a toilet, running water, natural light and adequate ventilation, the presence of rats and the insufficient access to showers at the baia mare police detention facility.in relation to his detention in gherla prison, he complained of overcrowding, lack of ventilation in cells, insufficient and poor-quality food served in rusty containers, and the presence of only one bathroom between twenty-seven detainees, which had two toilets and no hot water and could not be cleaned more than once a month.
5.  the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in donji milanovac.6.  he was employed by ðerdap, a company in kladovo (ribarsko gazdinstvo “ðerdap” – hereinafter “the debtor company”).7.  on 28 december 1998 the applicant was reassigned to a lower post by his employer.he was subsequently dismissed on 20 january 2000. these two decisions, taken by the company’s managing director, were upheld by its board of management.8.  on 18 february 1999 the applicant filed a civil claim against the debtor company; on 26 april 2000 he filed a separate claim seeking reinstatement to a suitable position, as well as the outstanding salary payments and social benefits.9.  on 19 june 2003 the majdanpek municipal court (hereinafter “the municipal court”) ruled in favour of the applicant and ordered the debtor company to reinstate the applicant to a post which corresponded to his professional qualifications and to pay him specified amounts on account of salary arrears and social insurance contributions, plus the costs of the civil proceedings.10.  on 16 february 2004, 9 march 2004, 18 and 19 october 2004, respectively upon the applicant’s requests to that effect, the municipal court accepted the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the applicant the enforcement costs.11.  the municipal court provided the national bank of serbia (narodna banka srbije – “the central bank”) with the above-mentioned enforcement orders on 14 april 2004, 20 july 2004 and 11 november 2004, respectively.12.  it would appear that none of the above-mentioned enforcement orders have been enforced to date.13.  on 8 april 2010 the central bank informed the zaječar commercial court of the suspension of the debtor company’s accounts for three years.14.  on 13 april 2010 the commercial court opened preliminary insolvency proceedings against the debtor company.15.  on 30 june 2010 the commercial court opened and closed the insolvency proceedings against the debtor company and that decision became final on 10 august 2010.16.  the debtor company was ultimately struck from the relevant public register on 31 august 2010.17.  the debtor company in the present case had been a socially owned company.in 1991 it was transformed into a limited company which remained mainly socially owned, and remained as such until it was struck off the register (see http://apr.gov.rs/, accessed on 1 december 2016).
11.  on 2 march 2003 the dornbirn district court (bezirksgericht – hereinafter “the district court”) convicted the applicant of bodily harm and sentenced him to a fine of 350 euros (eur), suspended in part on the basis of a probationary period.13.  on 30 october 2003 the regional court convicted the applicant of aggravated burglary and sentenced him to twelve months’ imprisonment, eight and a half months of which were suspended on the basis of a probationary period.16.  on 13 march 2007 the regional court convicted the applicant of several offences under the drugs act (suchtmittelgesetz) and aggravated threat, and he was sentenced to ten months’ imprisonment.the applicant was in prison from 23 may until 12 november 2007. a part of the prison sentence was postponed until 18 november 2009, when the applicant started serving the remainder of the sentence.17.  on 21 january 2010, hence while he was in prison, the regional court convicted the applicant of an offence under the drugs act and sentenced him to a fine of 400 eur.18.  on 12 may 2010 the bregenz district court convicted the applicant, who was still in prison at that time, of attempted bodily harm, bodily injury caused by negligence, and endangering the physical integrity of others, and sentenced him to a fine.it found that there was no longer a risk of a violation of the applicant’s rights under article 2 or 3 of the convention if he was returned to kosovo, and declared his expulsion admissible.23.  turning to the applicant’s rights under article 8 of the convention, the federal asylum office acknowledged how established his private and family life was in austria, where his family members were living.however, it referred to his numerous convictions for crimes against life and limb as well as property, and concluded that the public interest in his expulsion outweighed his personal interest in remaining in the country.given that the applicant’s wife had her own income, the federal asylum office further assumed that she would be able to take care of the needs of the family, and that the applicant could send her financial maintenance from kosovo.it held that, according to article 19 § 3 in conjunction with article 37 § 1 of the criminal code (strafgesetzbuch), the fines the applicant had received for his criminal convictions (1460 daily rates in total), amounted to almost twenty‑four months’ imprisonment (see paragraphs 35-36 below).the asylum court concluded that, even though the applicant had strong private and family ties in austria, the public interest in his expulsion in order to prevent crime outweighed his personal interest in continuing his family life in austria.the asylum court replied on 13 september 2011 that the applicant had spoken of four children throughout the proceedings, but had never mentioned that one of them had in fact been born as a result of an extra-marital relationship and had never lived with him in the same household.the asylum court expressed the view that the decision to declare the applicant’s expulsion admissible was nonetheless proportionate to the aims pursued, as his family life with his illegitimate daughter was in any event much less established than that with his other family members.28.  the applicant was in pre-trial detention and prison from 1 june 2012 (in relation to the criminal conviction of 2 august 2012, see paragraph 19 above) until he was placed in detention pending his expulsion on 4 january 2013.
as the applicant repaid the debt to company j. after the auction, the proceeds from the sale of the house were used to cover his debt to a.a. taxes and the outstanding mortgage on the house were also paid from the proceeds.the ljubljana local court granted the request and the decision was served on the applicant on 9 march 2010. since the applicant did not lodge an objection, the decision became final on 18 march 2010 and was transferred to the litija local court for further consideration.subsequently, on 2 june 2010, a property valuer submitted a report in which he set the market value of the house at eur 140,000. he also stated that the applicant had assured him on the phone that the debt had already been repaid, but had then failed to submit confirmation of such repayment.15.  in the meantime, on 29 april 2010, the enforcement officer inspected the interior of the applicant’s house in the presence of the applicant’s wife and concluded that it contained no objects which could be seized and sold to cover the debt concerned in the proceedings instituted by company j. the officer again left a note inviting the applicant to pay the debt, now amounting to eur 516, voluntarily.this was then paid from the deposit made by company p. on the same day the court also issued a decision setting the market price of the applicant’s house at eur 140,000. after an unsuccessful attempt to serve both decisions on the applicant, they were left in the applicant’s mailbox (see paragraphs 52 and 53 below).20.  on 1 september 2010 the litija local court ordered that a public auction of the applicant’s house be held on 7 october 2010. following an unsuccessful attempt on 3 september 2010 to serve the order and the summons on the applicant, they were left in his mailbox (see paragraphs 52 and 53 below) on 20 september 2010.23.  on 8 october 2010 the litija local court ordered a second public auction to be held on 18 november 2010. following an unsuccessful attempt to serve the order and the summons on the applicant on 14 october 2010, a note was left directing the applicant to collect them at the local post office.24.  in the meantime, on 18 and 25 october 2010, company j. applied to the litija local court for an extension of the enforcement order to other means of enforcement, namely the attachment of the applicant’s bank account and his salary respectively.the decision also contained a notice to the bank, which stated, among other things, that if no assets were currently available, the bank should proceed with the seizure once assets became available; if no assets became available within a year of the decision being served on the bank, the latter should inform the court to that effect.it also refused to allow the enforcement by means of seizure of the applicant’s monetary assets as proposed by the applicant because it had not been shown that such means would lead to the settlement of the debt within a year (see paragraph 49 below).35.  on 12 january 2011, following the full payment of the sale price by m.l., the litija local court transferred the property sold at public auction to him and ordered that his name be entered as the owner in the land register.he argued, inter alia, that following the discontinuation of the enforcement proceedings on 25 november 2010, the court should have, in accordance with section 76 of the enforcement and securing of civil claims act (hereinafter “the enforcement act”, see paragraph 48 below), annulled any enforcement actions already taken; hence it should also have revoked the award decision.the court also rejected the allegation that the summons had not been served on the applicant, referring to the findings in the decision of 29 december 2010 (see paragraph 34 above).38.  on 17 june 2011 the litija local court held a hearing on the distribution of the proceeds of the house sale and decided to distribute them as follows: the amounts of eur 146 and eur 5,895 would go to the applicant’s creditor, a.a., who had joined his claims to the enforcement proceedings after the house had already been sold; eur 1,372 to the tax office for taxes due for the sale of the house; and eur 58,888 to a bank on account of the outstanding mortgage on the house.39.  at the request of m.l., on 11 july 2011 the litija local court issued a writ of execution against the applicant, ordering the eviction of the applicant’s family from the house.
5.  at the material time the applicant company was the publisher of kvartirnyy ryad, a newspaper specialising in coverage of the housing market in the moscow area (“the newspaper”).g. suggested in the article that a number of residents of the bluebird flats had been affected by the alleged misuse of common areas, in particular attics in the blocks of flats and that t., the head of the commonhold association, had been behind the misuse.the article asked t. and the local government questions pertaining to the misuse of the common areas.7.  the relevant parts of the article read as follows: “residents of eight blocks of flats in severnoe butovo keep sending letters to the courts, the prosecutor’s office, the city administration and even president putin to complain about the head of the “bluebird” commonhold association, t., [w]ho has developed an indecently hasty business activity spitting in the face of the association’s charter and a number of regional and federal laws.... ... but t. has expressed his distrust in the commission elected by the general meeting and has appointed his own commission...as a result t. has managed to retain his position ... ... the commission was not elected, but appointed, which guaranteed the appointment of t. for a third term ... ... in sum, even though t. did not have the majority of the votes, he nonetheless managed to conclude the contract ... ... let’s ask one final question, which again pertains to t.: does a state official have the right to combine his official functions with a commercial business activity?” 8.  on 28 may 2004 t. lodged a defamation claim against the applicant company and g. with the presnenskiy district court of moscow (“the district court”).9.  on 8 december 2004 the district court examined and partially allowed the claim, referring to article 152 of the civil code and resolution no.it reasoned: “... the impugned statement: “... who [has] developed an indecently hasty business activity spitting in the face of the commonhold association’s charter and a number of regional and federal laws” should be retracted [by the defendants] ... as during the judicial examination of the case the defendants failed to prove that t.’s actions were unlawful.the lease agreement had been unlawfully concluded by t. ... however, no evidence has been provided [by the defendants] to the court to prove that the plaintiff’s actions were unlawful or illegal or in violation of federal and regional law or the commonhold association’s charter.moreover, the issue of the lease of the attic ... was examined by the zyuzinskiy district court of moscow.by the decision of the zyuzinskiy district court of moscow of 19 may 2004 actions of the bluebird commonhold association headed by t. were found to be in compliance with the law in force.as to the statements: “... the commission was not elected, but appointed, which guaranteed the appointment of t. for a third term ... in sum, even though t. did not have the majority of the votes, he nonetheless managed to conclude the contract ...” ... they are not to be retracted as they are not damaging to the honour and dignity of the plaintiff.... as to the statement: “let’s ask one final question, which again pertains to t.: does a state official have the right to combine his official functions with a commercial business activity?” it should not be retracted either as ... the author of the article [g.] is asking a rhetorical question ...” 10.  the district court ordered the applicant company “to refute the statement [published] in the newspaper kvartirnyy ryad on 20 may 2004 ... that t. developed activities as the head of the “bluebird” commonhold association, violating the association’s charter as well as a whole range of laws of the capital area and federal law”.it also awarded t. non-pecuniary damages: 10,000 russian roubles (rub – approximately 270 euros) to be paid by the applicant company and rub 8,000 to be paid by g. 11.  the applicant company and g. appealed against the judgment to the moscow city court (“the city court”).it provided the following succinct reasoning: “the plaintiff has proven the fact that the contested statements were disseminated: he provided the court with an original issue of the newspaper of 20 may 2004 ... ... the court [of first instance] rightly held that the defendants had failed to prove the veracity of the disseminated statement ... that [the plaintiff] had developed an indecently hasty business activity spitting in the face of the association’s charter and the law.at the same time, the court [justifiably] referred to the judgment of the zyuzinskiy district court of moscow ... which found the actions of the commonhold association ... headed by t. to be in compliance with the law in force.” 13.  on 25 july 2005 the city court rejected a request by the applicant company for supervisory review.
10.  on 13 january 2004 the riga city ziemeļu district court summoned the applicant to a divorce hearing by sending summons to her previous place of residence in riga – the apartment in which she used to live with her husband a.s. upon receiving the information from post authorities that the applicant did not live at the above address, on 27 january 2004 the applicant was summoned to the hearing scheduled for 1 march 2004 with a notice in the official gazette.11.  at the hearing of 6 april 2004 the riga city ziemeļu district court established that the applicant had been summoned to the hearing in accordance with the requirements of the civil procedure law.14.  following a request by the applicant of 26 may 2004 the justice authority of the free and hanseatic city of hamburg (freie und hansestadt hamburg justizbehörde) on 27 july 2004 delivered a declaratory decision (feststellungsbescheid) stating that the requirements for legal recognition of the judgment of the riga city ziemeļu district court had not been met, as the divorced spouse had not been afforded an opportunity to present her case in the divorce proceedings.15.  following a prior request by the applicant, on 8 november 2004, the president of the supreme court submitted an application for supervisory review (protests) to the senate of the supreme court asking for the judgment of the riga city ziemeļu district court to be set aside and for the case to be adjudicated anew.he argued that the first-instance court had overlooked some evidence concerning the applicant’s domicile and had erred in its application of the procedural rules when summoning the applicant to the hearings.the president of the supreme court emphasised that owing to these violations the justice authority of the free and hanseatic city of hamburg had refused to recognise said judgment.16.  on 16 march 2005 the senate of the supreme court, sitting in an extended composition, with a final judgment dismissed the supervisory review application and upheld the judgment of the riga city ziemeļu district court.the senate of the supreme court concluded that, since a.s.’s claim had not contained a reference to the applicant’s address and since the riga city ziemeļu district court had therefore been unaware of her whereabouts, its actions had been compatible with the procedural requirements of the civil procedure law.the senate of the supreme court also stated that in the circumstances of the present case a reference to article 6 of the convention could not serve as grounds for setting aside the judgment of the first‑instance court.it reasoned: “the aim of the application for supervisory review – a fresh adjudication of the case permitting the defendant to exercise her procedural rights – can no longer be achieved because the plaintiff, [a.s.], passed away on 30 april 2004, a fact which excludes any further proceedings.besides, one should bear in mind that following his divorce form lydia heide friedel schmidt [a.s.] concluded a new marriage, which, according to section 64(2) of the civil law, could not be declared null and void, irrespective of whether the judgment of 6 april 2004 of the riga city ziemeļu district court would be quashed.” 17.  the parties differ on whether a.s. had been aware of the applicant’s place of residence and on whether the applicant had been aware of the divorce proceedings.in relation to the first issue the applicant maintained that she had been residing in the couple’s previous place of residence in hamburg and that the landline telephone there had been used for their telephone conversations.the government, in turn, relied on the information a.s. had submitted to the riga city ziemeļu district court and also emphasised that no other evidence had been at the court’s disposal.18.  with regard to the applicant’s knowledge of the divorce proceedings the government pointed to a.a.’s submissions before the senate of the supreme court.the applicant maintained that even though she had been aware of a.s.’s desire to dissolve their marriage, she had only learned of the divorce proceedings following the death of a.s. 19.  on 3 november 2005 the applicant brought civil proceedings against a.a. claiming one half of the undivided share of the property that a.s. had acquired during their marriage.
having acknowledged the existence of disagreements with m.g., he denied the offence and stated that he had been at home with his son, v.g., the night before the incident.she also stated that, most of the time, the applicant stayed in the apartment where the father lived.17.  on an unspecified date the investigation was concluded and the criminal case was referred to the avan and nor-nork district court of yerevan for trial.the district court found it established that the applicant had ordered m.g.’s murder as the property-related disputes between the latter and a.g. had also affected her property rights.in this connection the district court mainly relied on the trial statements of s.a., y.w.’s spouse, and l.c., his former colleague and the fact that the applicant was involved in court disputes with m.g., which showed that both she and a.g. had a strained relationship with the latter.retracted his statements made before the district court and submitted that in reality he had organised the explosion of m.g.’s car upon the applicant’s request.23.  on 18 june 2008 the criminal court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the judgment of 12 october 2007 as regards her conviction and sentence, while y.w.’s sentence was reduced.in its judgment the court of appeal, inter alia, established that although the applicant had divorced a.g., she had maintained a family-like relationship with him and expressed her annoyance at m.g.’s actions in the presence of different people.in this respect, the judgment of the court of appeal referred to l.g.’s pre-trial statement of 29 january 2002, a.at.’s pre-trial statement of 18 february 2002, as well as the pre-trial statements of two neighbours, a.a. and a.b., made on 18 and 21 february 2002 respectively.24.  on 21 november 2008 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law claiming, inter alia, that the court of appeal had based its conclusions on the pre-trial statements of l.g., a.a., a.b.26.  on 14 april 2009 the applicant lodged an application with the constitutional court challenging the compatibility with the constitution of certain provisions of the code of criminal procedure (hereafter, the ccp) allowing the court of cassation not to indicate reasons when declaring inadmissible an appeal on points of law.27.  on 28 july 2009 the constitutional court granted the application by finding such provisions of the ccp incompatible with the constitution.28.  on 11 august 2009 the applicant, based on the above decision of the constitutional court, requested the court of cassation to reopen the proceedings and to re-examine her appeal on points of law of 21 november 2008.29.  by decision of 25 september 2009 the court of cassation reopened the proceedings, re-examined the applicant’s appeal on points of law and declared it inadmissible for lack of merit.in doing so, the court of cassation, inter alia, indicated that the criminal court of appeal’s conclusion concerning the applicant’s guilt was correct as it was based, among other things, on the witness statements of l.g.
9.  at an unspecified time the same day the applicant’s father and grandfather, who lived in the same house as the applicant, made statements to the police about the presence of the grinder in their house.on the same day the police also obtained a statement of mr s., the applicant’s friend, about the time they had spent together on the night of the murder and the circumstances under which they had parted.12.  subsequently the qualifications commission of the bar of ukraine, at the time the highest authority in charge of the advocates’ qualifications and discipline, examined the applicant’s parents’ complaint concerning the procedure used in the appointment of l. the commission established that there was no evidence that l. had been appointed through a bar association, as required by law, in particular there was no order of the bar association or agreement with the client appointing l. it also established that there was no evidence that the investigator had issued a formal decision appointing l. as the applicant’s lawyer, as he had been required to do by law.19.  according to the applicant, he was left handcuffed at the police station, wearing just his underwear, for the entire period from the seizure of his clothes until the end of the search and return of the police officers who conducted it, feeling very cold and vulnerable.24.  later on the same day the applicant repeated the above confessions in a formal questioning session in the presence of his lawyer, l. 25.  on the same day the applicant, unaccompanied by l., was taken to an identification parade, where y., a shop assistant who had been working on a night shift at a kiosk close to the scene of the crime on the night of the murder, picked the applicant out of a four-person line-up as the person she had seen by her kiosk shortly before d. had been killed.31.  on 6 april 2005 a commission of psychologists and psychiatrists produced a report at the request of the investigator concerning the applicant’s mental state at the time of the crime and at the time of his examination by the experts.the description of the crime scene, for instance that the lock had been sawn off rather than broken off, had not matched the trial court’s conclusion, based on the applicant’s account, that the applicant had simply been exploring the shop out of curiosity.(b)  in finding the applicant guilty, the court referred to various pieces of evidence, including forensic examinations, witness statements and the applicant’s confessions “given by him when questioned as a suspect and as an accused” (see paragraph 26 above), and the presence of the applicant’s fingerprint at the crime scene.in particular, the trial court referred to the pre-trial identification of the applicant by witness y. and to the testimony of v.b., who had seen the applicant near the shop around the time of the murder.the court considered the applicant’s explanation for the presence of his fingerprint in the shop unconvincing since he had first mentioned the supposed visit to the shop on 15 february 2005 in the course of the retrial and had not previously mentioned that visit.(d)  the absence of the applicant’s lawyer from the identification parade on 21 february 2005 had not breached the applicant’s defence rights since he had not made any statements on that occasion and had simply been physically shown with other men in the line-up to the witness y. through a one-way glass partition.(f)  while the statement in the arrest report that “eyewitnesses indicate the person who had committed the crime” (see paragraph 15 above) had been technically incorrect in the applicant’s case, the discovery of the grinder in the applicant’s home had in fact constituted an independent legal basis for his arrest.he had then maintained his confession throughout the trial because he had been assured by the lawyer b., who had good relations with the investigator in charge of the case, that the trial court would reclassify the charges against him from murder to a lesser charge of a “killing committed while exceeding the limits of legitimate defence”.55.  in the course of examination of the case against the applicant, on 14 june 2006, the applicant complained to the trial court about the beatings, handcuffing, stripping and the threats of prison rape he had allegedly been subjected to by the police.63.  on 14 march 2011 the toretsk prosecutor’s office wrote to the applicant’s father, again in response to his complaint, stating that the placing of adult arrestees in the same cell with the applicant, a minor, had been in breach of domestic law (section 8 of the pre-trial detention act) and had constituted a disciplinary infraction on the part of the police officers who had taken that decision.
after the proceedings had concluded, and when the client had already been imprisoned, the client’s fiancée transferred the applicant’s legal fees (1,500 euros (eur)) from her private bank account to the applicant’s professional account.9.  on the basis of the bank transfer of fees from the fiancée to the applicant in relation to the first set of criminal proceedings, the bochum public prosecution office also contacted the applicant’s bank.(f)  if bank accounts have been closed by the person in question, please submit information about the date of closure and the balance at the time of closure, and where the money was transferred after closure.(j)  are there any credit cards connected to any of the accounts?” 11.  the bank complied with both requests for information and submitted the information to the public prosecution office.in both instances, the public prosecutor did not order the bank to submit the information, but pointed to the obligations of witnesses set out in the ccp and the possible consequences of non‑compliance (see paragraph 23 below).12.  the information received was analysed by the police and the public prosecutor, and a list of fifty-three transactions deemed to be relevant was included in the investigation file as evidence.therefore, everyone who had access to the case file, such as the lawyers of the co‑accused, also had access to the applicant’s banking information, including the names of his clients who had transferred fees.13.  on 31 january 2012, after several unsuccessful requests, the applicant, as the lawyer of the accused, was granted access to the investigation file.14.  on 24 april 2012 the applicant asked the chief public prosecutor to hand over to him all data received from the bank and destroy all related data at the public prosecution office.in his request the applicant emphasised his role as a criminal defence lawyer, which was known to the acting public prosecutor, and the consequences for his clients, whose names were accessible through the banking information.the chief public prosecutor further pointed out that there was no legal basis for returning the data or taking the documents out of the investigation file.the chief public prosecutor cited article 161 of the ccp (see paragraph 22 below) as a legal basis for the information requests, since the bank in question was a bank under public law and therefore considered to be an authority.16.  subsequently, the file was transferred to the bochum regional court (“the regional court”), because the criminal proceedings against the applicant’s client had started.the court found that the investigation was lawful, that the bank had provided the information voluntarily, that the documents could therefore only be returned to the bank and not to the applicant, and that the prohibition of seizure under article 97 of the ccp (see paragraph 28 below) was not applicable, since the information had not been in the applicant’s possession.it found that the decision was proportionate and that the safeguards were not applicable, in particular since the bank could not be considered a person assisting the applicant or a person involved in the professional activities of the applicant under article 53a of the ccp (see paragraph 27 below).
5.  the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in shakhty, the rostov region.6.  on 29 march 2005 the rostov-na-donu military court (“the military court”) ordered, inter alia, the commander of the military unit no.3654 (“the military unit”) to provide the applicant certain monetary compensation and allowance for the periods specified in the operative part of the judgment.7.  according to the applicant, having received the writ of execution, he forwarded it to the commander of the military unit who partly executed the judgment (see paragraph 9 below).8.  according to the government, on 6 may 2005 the applicant received two writs of execution in his case and sent them to the military unit.9.  according to the parties, the judgment was enforced only in part.on 22 august 2005 approximately 68,000 russian roubles were paid to the applicant in execution of the judgment.as the government submitted in their observations, the allowance for the period from 1 march 2003 until the date of the applicant’s reinstatement in military service as well as some additional payments due to the applicant under the judgment of 29 march 2005 had not been transferred to him.10.  as submitted by the applicant, despite his subsequent requests, the original copy of the writ of execution in respect of the judgment of 29 march 2005 was never returned to him by the military unit.therefore, on an unspecified date he requested the military court to issue a duplicate of the enforcement document.11.  in 2005, 2006 and 2008 the applicant applied for an additional decision to be made in his civil case against the military unit which resulted in the judgment of 29 march 2005. he considered that an additional decision specifying the amounts to be paid to him under the judgment of 29 march 2005 would resolve his difficulties in claiming the outstanding amounts.in his application of 26 may 2006 he also asked the court to index‑link the delayed payments and claimed non-pecuniary damage for the delayed enforcement of the judgment of 29 march 2005. the military court rejected all of the applicant’s claims, explaining that he should have applied for an additional decision before the entry into force of the judgment of 29 march 2005.12.  on 3 april 2008 the military court refused the applicant’s request to clarify the judgment of 29 march 2005 by indicating the specific amounts to be paid.the court considered that the applicant’s request amounted to a call to amend the judgment rather than to clarify it.it held that the text of the judgment was clear enough and the applicant’s disagreement with the way it had been enforced was not a sufficient ground for clarifying the judgment.
8.  on 12 may 2008 the applicant association, acting through its lawyer, informed the mayor of the lesznowola commune (wójt gminy) about its intention to organise a demonstration on 19 may 2008. it indicated that the event would start at 7 a.m. and end at 10 a.m., and would include speeches by representatives of the applicant association.at the mayor’s request, on 12 may 2008 the lawyer representing the applicant association specified that the demonstration would take place at no.9.  on 14 may 2008 the mayor gave a decision in which she banned the demonstration on the grounds that it might entail a danger to life or limb, or a major danger to property (section 8(2) of the assemblies act).therefore organising a demonstration on that street between 7 and 10 a.m. would block the entire length of the street and also limit or even make impossible any journey by car to krakowska street and in the farther direction of grojec.in the event of a traffic accident, the intervention of the police, the fire service or the ambulance service would be difficult, if not impossible.this authority concludes that the holding of a demonstration on this street during heavy traffic might put people’s health at risk.” 10.  on 14 may 2008 the board of directors of company x sent a letter to the applicant association referring to the demonstration planned for 19 may 2008. in the letter the applicant association was reminded that any demonstration organised on its premises would be illegal.it argued that the demonstration would be limited to a small part of the street and that there were alternative streets which would allow access to the shops and the centre of the village.the applicant association emphasised that the assemblies act invoked by the mayor provided for the banning of a demonstration only in extreme circumstances; the authority had failed to show that they existed in the instant case.the mayor had accepted the arguments of the company x, which was afraid of the demonstration, and had thereby limited the association’s constitutionally protected right to freedom of assembly.12.  the demonstration planned for 19 may 2008 did not take place; on the same day the applicant association send a fax to the mayor’s office informing that they would not go ahead with the demonstration.13.  on 24 july 2008 the governor overruled the impugned decision and discontinued the proceedings as devoid of purpose, given that the demonstration was to have taken place more than two months previously.14.  on 16 may 2008 the applicant association informed the mayor of the lesznowola commune about its intention to organise a demonstration at the same place on 26 may 2008. the demonstration was to last for a shorter time than the one previously planned, from 7 a.m. to 8.30 a.m. the applicant association assured the mayor that all public and school buses would be able to pass, as well as all emergency services vehicles.moreover, the mayor had failed to notice that the duration of the planned demonstration had been halved in order to accommodate the arguments that the mayor had put forward in her first decision of 14 may 2008 (see paragraph 9 above).20.  on 1 september 2008 the applicant association informed the mayor of lesznowola about a demonstration planned for 2 october 2008. the time, venue and purpose of the demonstration were the same as in the two previous cases.the court held that for the constitutional complaint to be admissible, the applicant association should have lodged a complaint with the regional administrative court against the governor’s decisions of 24 july 2008 (see paragraphs 13 and 18 above).
6.  at around midnight on 15 august 2007 the applicant, who was 19 years old at the time, and b. were taken in a police patrol car to the police station of the syktyvdinskiy district of the komi republic for an examination of allegations of assault made against them by two individuals, in particular of the sexual assault of a woman.the policeman then pushed the applicant into the cell so that the applicant hit his head against the wall and fell to the ground.10.  the applicant was taken to a forensic medical expert who found that the applicant had the following physical injuries (examination report of 16 august 2007): (i) two abrasions on the left side of the forehead, measuring 2.5 cm by 0.7 cm and 0.7 cm by 0.5 cm; (ii) an abrasion on the bridge of the nose, measuring 4.5 cm by 1.5 cm; and (iii) a bruise around one eye, measuring 3 cm by 4 cm.the applicant explained to the expert that his injuries had been caused by the three police officers who had physically assaulted him at the police station in the night of 15 august 2007, in particular by hitting his face against the wall.the expert concluded that the bruise and abrasions on the applicant’s face could have been sustained in the circumstances and at the time alleged by the applicant.12.  on the same day the applicant complained to the ministry of the interior of the republic of komi that he had been ill-treated at the police station.according to the hospital medical records, the applicant had the following injuries: (i) an acentric fracture of the nose; (ii) a bruise on the forehead; and (iii) abrasions on the forehead.15.  on 29 august 2007 the prosecutor issued a refusal to open a criminal case against the law‑enforcement officers, finding, in accordance with article 24 § 1 (2) of the code of criminal procedure, that none of the elements of the crimes provided for in articles 286 and 302 of the criminal code (on abuse of powers and forced confessions respectively) had been present in respect of the actions of investigator n. or police officers s.i., k.l., s.a., sh., and k.n.19.  on 4 march 2008 the supreme court of the komi republic granted an appeal lodged by the applicant’s mother and quashed the district court’s decision, noting that no assessment had been made of the contradiction between the medical expert’s conclusions and the police officers’ allegations of the applicant’s self-harm.nor had the court assessed the applicant’s medical record concerning the nose fracture, the allegation of the applicant having been kicked and having a footprint from a boot on his t‑shirt, the presence of a video surveillance camera at the police station which should have recorded the incident, or statements by b. that he had heard the applicant screaming at the police station.22.  on 24 april 2008 the investigative committee of the prosecutor’s office of the komi republic issued a new refusal to open a criminal case against the police officers and investigator n., finding, in accordance with article 24 § 1 (2) of the ccrp, that none of the elements of the crimes provided for in articles 130, 286 and 302 of the criminal code (on insulting behaviour, abuse of powers and forced confessions respectively) were present in their actions.it was noted that, according to information received from the syktyvdinskiy district police department, the video surveillance recordings of the room of the duty officer and the cells for administrative offenders for the period from 15 to 16 august 2007 had not been preserved.the court also noted that the allegation regarding the applicant’s forced confession had been examined during the applicant’s criminal trial and had been dismissed as unfounded in the judgment of 24 april 2008. the court further noted that the trial court had examined and endorsed the refusal of 24 april 2008 to open a criminal case against the police officers.the applicant denied his guilt at trial, asserting that he had signed the “statement of surrender and confession” under physical pressure from the police officers and psychological pressure from investigator n. the trial court rejected the applicant’s arguments, relying on the refusal of 24 april 2008 to open a criminal case against the police officers and investigator n. the applicant’s “statement of surrender and confession” formed part of the evidence on which his conviction was based, and served as a mitigating circumstance.27.  on 16 january 2009 the supreme court of the komi republic upheld the judgment on appeal, stating that it was irrelevant to the criminal case against the applicant whether or not the refusal to open a criminal case into his allegations of ill-treatment had been unfounded.
11.  the first hearing before the zagreb municipal civil court was held on 17 september 1999. following questioning of the applicant, the hearing was adjourned until further notice.18.  on the basis of an objection by the applicant to j.g.’s findings, on 8 march 2001 the zagreb municipal civil court invited the expert to supplement her report with findings concerning the applicant’s allegations of medical malpractice.the zagreb municipal civil court found that it was necessary to commission another expert report from the university of zagreb medical faculty (medicinski fakultet sveučilišta u zagrebu) concerning the question whether the applicant’s condition was a result of medical negligence.24.  in response to the expert report of the university of zagreb medical faculty, the applicant specified her claim, arguing that the report established a causal connection between the surgery and the deterioration of her health.26.  at a hearing held on 2 february 2007 the zagreb municipal civil court questioned the applicant and ordered that the experts from the university of zagreb medical faculty, n.šp.34.  in a further submission of the same date the applicant challenged the impartiality of the expert witnesses from croatia, arguing that it was clear from the negligible number of cases where medical malpractice had been established that they were biased in favour of the defendants.35.  on 29 january 2010 the zagreb municipal civil court dismissed the applicant’s civil action, holding that in the case at issue the principle of presumed fault (presumirane krivnje) should be applied.that meant that it was for the defendants to show that the hospital had acted in accordance with professional standards and that the damage was not the result of a lack of diligence on the part of the doctor who had performed the surgery.relying on a detailed assessment of the expert reports obtained during the proceedings, the court found that on the facts of the case, the deterioration of the applicant’s health had been a result of complications in the treatment and not of medical malpractice.it also pointed out that there was nothing putting into doubt the quality of the expert reports commissioned during the proceedings and that the applicant’s request that another expert report be commissioned from abroad would unnecessarily further prolong the proceedings and generate further expense.36.  on 17 march 2010 the applicant appealed against that judgment before the zagreb county court (županijski sud u zagrebu) alleging, inter alia, that the medical experts who had drafted the reports had a personal and professional conflict of interest in the proceedings, as they involved allegations of malpractice against their colleagues and the experts were financially dependent on the hospital system.37.  on 14 september 2010 the zagreb county court dismissed the applicant’s appeal as unfounded on the grounds that there was no reason to doubt the quality and findings of the expert reports.38.  on 11 november 2010 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law with the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske), reiterating her previous arguments concerning lack of impartiality on the part of the experts and the quality of the expert reports commissioned during the proceedings.she also reiterated her complaints as to the lack of impartiality of the medical experts, arguing that the relevant statistics showed that it had been impossible to establish her allegations of medical negligence on the basis of the expert reports commissioned from the domestic experts.42.  on 7 january 2008 the applicant complained to the zagreb county court about the excessive length of the proceedings before the zagreb municipal civil court.
7.  on 28 february 2014 the applicant applied to a zagreb county court judge responsible for the execution of sentences and the head office of the prisons administration requesting the suspension of his prison sentence on account of his state of health.he referred to his medical documents, which had established basal ganglia in the ventricular system with a risk of haemorrhage, increased by the stress of the prison conditions.8.  a medical report drawn up by zph on 6 march 2014 confirmed the claims put forward by the applicant in his request and concluded: “[the prisoner] presents a permanent high risk to himself and the institution in which he is placed.10.  on 25 april 2014 the applicant lodged an appeal, in which he argued that since incarceration his medical condition had been deteriorating constantly, that the zph doctors had themselves recommended that his prison sentence be suspended on medical grounds, and that dr b. could not give a proper opinion on his health since he was not an expert in neurology.she concluded that the applicant had not been suffering from any acute illness, that his chronic illness had improved, that he had been receiving good medical care at zph, and that it had appropriate staff to meet the needs of the applicant as regards the medical care his condition required.he further argued that the judge responsible for the execution of sentences had not addressed the contradictions between the findings the zph doctors had expressed in their opinion of 6 march 2014 and the reports of the medical experts commissioned by zagreb county court.14.  following a suggestion by zph that there was no need for the applicant’s further hospitalisation, on 29 september 2014 the head office of the prisons administration ordered his transfer to zagreb prison.this was discovered only on arrival at the front entrance of the hospital when officers opened the back door of the van and found him lying on the floor.17.  on an unspecified date the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint against the decisions concerning his request for the suspension of his prison sentence and the decision concerning his transfer to zagreb prison.in addition to the complaints put forward in his previous requests and appeals, the applicant also complained that during his eight months at zph he had not had proper access to sanitary facilities and had been obliged to ask the guards to let him out of the room each time he needed the toilet, a request which they sometimes had not answered in time.since there had been no lift at zph, in order to have access to fresh air he had had to climb the stairs to his cell on the second floor, which had been a risk to his health.he claimed that he had been placed in a cell with seven other inmates, and that a lack of fresh air in the cell had worsened his condition.21.  the applicant’s constitutional complaint was declared inadmissible by the constitutional court on 27 january 2015 on the grounds that the contested judgment had not concerned the merits of his civil rights or obligations or a criminal charge against him, and as such was not amenable to constitutional review.22.  on 18 march 2015 a zagreb county court judge responsible for the execution of sentences dismissed the applicant’s request of 31 december 2014. the judge relied on previous expert opinions as well as on a further opinion of dr s., an expert in neuropsychiatry who confirmed that the applicant had not been suffering from any acute illness, that his medical condition had not worsened, and that zph had the appropriate capacity for his treatment in all respects.the county court further relied on zph reports dated 20 and 28 january 2015 stating that the applicant had not been following doctors’ orders, had not been taking measures aimed at his treatment and had been deliberately putting his health at risk.
7.  between 7.15 a.m. and 8.55 a.m. on 18 april 2009 the scene of the incident was examined by investigator p. from the investigating unit of the krasnoarmeyskiy district police department of volgograd with the participation of attesting witnesses, police officers, and the applicant, who lived in the same block of flats.according to the record of the examination of the scene of the incident, the applicant stated that he had physically assaulted k. and described the circumstances of the crime committed by him against k. at around 9.30 a.m. the applicant was brought to the police station of the krasnoarmeyskiy district of volgograd (увд по красноармейскому району г. волгограда), where operative police officers interviewed him about the circumstances of the crime.the applicant repeated the statements incriminating himself and his brother and also stated that the previous evening he had been drunk and had fallen down a flight of stairs, and that he therefore had a headache and pain in the area of his ribs and kidneys.according to a document signed by a senior police transportation officer, the ivs duty officer and the applicant, the applicant had: (i) a haematoma on the left side of the body; (ii) a swelling on the left hip; and (iii) a swelling and redness on the right ear.13.  the sizo operative unit carried out an inquiry into the incident and concluded in a report of 22 april 2009 ‒ approved by the acting head of the sizo ‒ that the applicant’s injuries had been inflicted by police officers from the krasnoarmeyskiy district police department at about 11 a.m. on 18 april 2009 during the applicant’s interview.14.  on 28 april 2009 the applicant was examined as an accused in the presence of lawyer d. the applicant stated that when examined as a suspect on 18 april 2009 he had given statements – concerning the origin of his injuries and also his brother’s involvement in the crime – as demanded by the police officers who had ill-treated him, as he had still been in physical pain and was under the influence of threats from them, as well as threats from investigator ye.15.  on 29 april 2009 the krasnoarmeyskiy district investigation division of the investigative committee at the volgograd regional prosecutor’s office (“the krasnoarmeyskiy district investigative committee”) received a communication from the sizo concerning the applicant’s injuries.16.  on 5 may 2009 a forensic medical examination of the applicant was carried out at the request of the investigator in charge of the criminal case against the applicant.the applicant stated to the medical expert that on 18 april 2009 he had been physically assaulted at the police station of the krasnoarmejskiy district of volgograd by police officers who had delivered many blows to his lumbar region, chest, shoulders, hips and ears, and had used a device called a “tp-50” to ill-treat him.18.  between 9 may 2009 and 16 june 2010 investigators from the krasnoarmeyskiy district investigative committee issued eight refusals to initiate criminal proceedings into the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment, finding, in accordance with article 24 § 1 (2) of the code of criminal procedure, that none of the elements of the offences provided for in articles 285 and 286 of the criminal code (on abuse of powers) were present in respect of the police officers’ actions.the applicant was found to have invited the victim to his flat, to have inflicted many injuries on him, then moving the victim to the landing of the stairwell near the applicant’s flat and leaving him there.the trial court found that the applicant’s injuries had been unrelated to the actions of the victim of the crime and had been sustained after the crime had been committed.according to police officers b., d. and m. ‒ as well as e., the head of the criminal investigating unit of the krasnoarmeyskiy district police department ‒ the applicant had been brought to the police station on suspicion of having inflicted very serious bodily injuries on k. at some point the applicant had been taken from a cell to e.’s office.the police officers had inteviewed the applicant and established the circumstances of the crime against k. according to b., the applicant had complained of pain in his chest, explaining that he had fallen down a flight of stairs.the investigator concluded that none of the constituent elements of the alleged crimes had been present in the conduct of the police officers and refused to institute criminal proceedings under article 24 § 1 (2) of the code of criminal procedure.
however, on 14 april 2010 the vilnius regional court dismissed the appeal and upheld the lower court’s findings that the applicant might flee, attempt to interfere with the investigation or commit further crimes, that the criminal case was complex, and that the pre-trial investigation was being carried out with due diligence (see paragraph 40 below).the court of appeal also noted that the pre‑trial investigation had been conducted with due diligence: after the last decision to extend the applicant’s detention, the police had questioned additional witnesses and the applicant himself, conducted eyewitness identification, ordered forensic examinations of various objects, and carried out other investigative actions in respect of the other suspects (see paragraph 40 below).as a result, the vilnius regional court concluded that the applicant’s continuing detention was necessary in order to ensure his participation in the criminal proceedings and the unhindered course of the investigation, as well as to prevent the commission of further crimes.the court of appeal held that, in the light of the charges against the applicant, the protection of the public interest in his case outweighed his right to liberty.the court of appeal emphasised that the applicant had a prior conviction, that he was accused of participating in a criminal organisation and of having a leading role in the commission of multiple crimes, and that there was no information that he had ever had a legal source of income.thus, the court of appeal concluded that although the applicant had been detained for a very long time (two years and three months), the complexity and scope of the case made his detention essential for ensuring the unimpeded course of the criminal proceedings.28.  on 14 january 2013 the court of appeal, when dismissing an appeal by the applicant, emphasised that the case had been referred to the first‑instance court for examination on the merits and at that stage of the proceedings the maximum length of detention was not established either in domestic law or in the convention or the court’s case-law.33.  on 24 september 2013 the court of appeal, following an appeal by the prosecution, quashed the lower court’s decision to release the applicant from detention, finding that the latter had erred in concluding that the detention was no longer justified.although the court acknowledged that the applicant had been detained for a very long time (more than three years and six months), it reiterated that the public interest outweighed individual liberty, so the nature and seriousness of the charges against the applicant justified keeping him in detention.lastly the court of appeal noted that the maximum length of detention during the examination of the case before the first-instance court was not established either in domestic law or in the convention, so the necessity of extending detention had to be assessed on a case-by-case basis.in the applicant’s case, the court considered that the scope of the case (twenty-seven defendants and, at that time, eighty-two volumes of case-file material) and the complexity of the investigation justified the applicant’s continued detention.the court considered that the circumstances of the applicant’s case – such as the number, nature and seriousness of the charges against him, as well as the fact that proceeds of crime had allegedly been his main source of income ‑ required prioritising the protection of the public interest over the applicant’s individual liberty.according to the latest information submitted to the court, at the time of the present judgment his appeal was still pending because the appellate court had decided to re‑examine the evidence in the light of new material.40.  from the applicant’s arrest on 15 december 2009 (see paragraph 7 above) to the completion of the pre-trial investigation on 3 december 2010 (see paragraph 17 above), the authorities conducted five interviews with the applicant, searched his home twice, seized and examined his car, computer and other belongings, ordered two forensic examinations of various seized items, sent four requests for information to telecommunications providers, carried out secret-surveillance activities, conducted an eyewitness identification of the applicant, and interviewed around fifty witnesses and other suspects.41.  from the transfer of the case to the vilnius regional court for examination on the merits on 3 december 2010 (see paragraph 17 above) to the applicant’s conviction in separate criminal proceedings on 22 may 2014 (see paragraph 38 above), a total of fifty-seven hearings were scheduled on a monthly or nearly monthly basis, and twenty-six of those hearings were adjourned: (a)  from 3 december 2010 to 31 march 2011 two hearings were scheduled but both were adjourned; (b)  from 1 april 2011 to 22 june 2011 six hearings were held; (c)  from 23 june 2011 to 7 december 2011 five hearings were scheduled but all were adjourned; (d)  from 8 december 2011 to 14 june 2012 twelve hearings were scheduled and nine of them were held; (e)  from 15 june 2012 to 3 october 2012 one hearing was scheduled but it was adjourned; (f)  from 4 october 2012 to 29 november 2012 five hearings were scheduled and four of them were held; (g)  from 30 november 2012 to 3 march 2013 two hearings were scheduled but both were adjourned; (h)  on 4 and 25 of march 2013 two hearings were scheduled and both were held; (i)  from 26 march 2013 to 6 october 2013 six hearings were scheduled but all were adjourned; (j)  from 7 october 2013 to 25 november 2013 six hearings were scheduled and five of them were held; (k)  from 26 november 2013 to 16 february 2014 four hearings were scheduled but all were adjourned; (l)  from 17 february 2014 to 22 may 2014 six hearings were scheduled and five of them were held.
9.  according to the applicant, the police took away his prosthetic leg and gave him crutches in order to increase his suffering and to force him to cooperate.the removal of the prosthesis was not noted in the police records.10.  on the same day the lyskovo district court of the nizhniy novgorod region remanded the applicant in custody.11.  on 10 december 2010 the applicant was transferred from a remand prison to a civilian hospital in lyskovo on account of acute deep-vein thrombophlebitis.according to him, that condition had developed as a result of the removal of his prosthetic leg, which had caused him to place increased weight on his right leg.13.  by the summer of 2011 a model of a prosthetic leg had been developed for the applicant, but he was unable to use it without the “prosthesis-orthopaedic assistance” needed to adjust it.17.  in a letter dated 13 january 2012 the nizhniy novgorod state orthopedic service, which performs individual adjustment of prostheses, informed the court that such assistance could not be provided in a remand prison given the lack of special equipment there.18.  ten days later an ngo, the committee for civil rights, complained to the lyskovo prosecutor of the poor quality of the applicant’s medical treatment and the authorities’ failure to give him a prosthetic leg.19.  on 28 april 2012 the district court found the applicant guilty of drug trafficking and sentenced him to five years and six months’ imprisonment.on 8 october 2012 he received a letter from the federal service for the execution of sentences in the nizhniy novgorod region, informing him that on 2 february 2009 a medical board had only prescribed him a cane.21.  in november 2012 the applicant was admitted to a prison hospital in nizhniy novgorod on account of an acute infectious inflammation of the leg and venal problems.22.  on 3 december 2012, during his stay in the hospital, the following entry was made in the applicant’s medical file: “prosthetics refusal record we, the undersigned, have made the present record to state that [the applicant] has refused prosthetics of the left limb.” (the document was signed by the deputy head and two surgeons of the prison hospital.)24.  at some point the prison authorities requested the applicant’s admission to the prison hospital in order to provide him with a prosthetic leg.the hospital discharge summary of 13 june 2013 states that the prosthesis was ordered and that the applicant would be informed about its production in due course.25.  on 10 december 2013 the applicant was transported to the premises of the nizhniy novgorod state orthopedic service, where he was given the prosthetic leg and afforded the necessary prosthesis-orthopaedic assistance.
6.  because of the difficult economic situation in moldova, in 1997 the applicant left that state for greece where she found employment; she was engaged by a family to take care of a disabled child.the applicant was wearing seven pieces of the jewellery and the rest were in a jewellery box in her handbag.since the applicant had failed to declare the jewellery, she was taken to the airport police station.it does not appear from the material in the case-file that the prosecutors asked the applicant’s relatives for her contact information in greece or to inform her that she had to appear before them.12.  on 16 june 2009 the prosecutor’s office applied to the botanica district court for a detention order in respect of the applicant.the reason relied upon by the prosecutors was that the applicant had absconded from prosecution when she left the country on 1 october 2008, in spite of her having given a written undertaking to appear when summoned.the reason relied upon by the court was that the applicant had failed to appear before the investigating authorities when summoned.13.  the applicant learned of the detention order against her in the summer of 2010 and employed a moldovan lawyer to challenge it.on an unspecified date the applicant’s representative lodged a habeas corpus application with the botanica district court in which it was argued, inter alia, that the applicant had not been aware of the criminal proceedings against her, that she had never been summoned to appear before the prosecutor’s office and that she had not been informed that she could not leave the country.she asked the court to revoke the detention order and, in exchange, promised to appear before the court when necessary and to surrender her passport.14.  on 18 september 2010 the botanica district court rejected the applicant’s habeas corpus application relying, inter alia, on the fact that the applicant had formally undertaken to appear before the prosecuting authorities and courts and later failed to abide by the undertaking.15.  in july 2011, after the communication of the present case to the government, the moldovan authorities applied to interpol for an international arrest warrant for the applicant.in the documents ordering the applicant’s arrest and detention, the greek authorities made specific reference to the detention order issued by the botanica district court on 19 june 2009 (see paragraph 12 above).the extradition proceedings ended on 21 september 2011 when the athens court of appeal rejected the moldovan authorities’ extradition request and ordered the applicant’s release from detention.the athens court of appeal found that according to article 5 of the european convention on extradition, persons suspected of offences in connection with taxes, duties and customs could be extradited only if the contracting parties have so decided in respect of any such offence or category of offences.
12.  on 18 may 2006 an expert examined the applicant, his medical records, and his allegations of ill-treatment by the ubop officers the previous day (namely being handcuffed and tied, punched and beaten with a bat), and concluded that bruises and abrasions on the applicant’s body and upper and lower extremities had been inflicted by hard blunt objects at the time, as alleged by him (forensic medical expert report of 19 may 2006).15.  on 12 and 13 july 2006 the applicant was examined by a forensic medical expert who concluded that, in addition to the injuries noted in the previous report of 19 may 2006, the applicant had a fracture of the seventh thoracic vertebra which resulted in health impairment of medium gravity and had been caused in may 2006 by the impact of a hard blunt object or as a result of hitting such an object with great mechanical force.17.  on 31 july 2006 an investigator from the promyshlenniy district prosecutor’s office of orenburg ‒ who had carried out a pre-investigation inquiry into the applicant’s allegations of ill‑treatment by the ubop officers ‒ refused to initiate criminal proceedings, relying on statements by the ubop police officers, in particular g. and o., that on 17 may 2006 the applicant had been arrested on suspicion of having ordered a murder, and had been taken to the ubop and interviewed, and that no violence had been used against him.20.  on 23 october 2008 an investigator from the investigative committee of the orenburg regional prosecutor’s office ordered, pursuant to article 24 § 1 (2) of the code of criminal procedure, that no criminal case be opened into the applicant’s allegations for lack of the elements of a crime under articles 285 and 286 of the criminal code (on abuse of powers) in the acts of the police officers.21. on appeal by the applicant, the investigator’s decision was found lawful by the orenburg promyshlenniy district court in a decision of 15 january 2009, which was further upheld by the orenburg regional court on 12 march 2009. the district court held, in particular, that the fact that the applicant had been detained unlawfully for more than three hours at the ubop premises was not in itself sufficient to prove that he had been ill‑treated by the police officers or that he had been deliberately subjected to unlawful detention.in reply to the applicant’s criticism of the investigating authority’s failure to carry out a thorough investigation and, in particular, to examine the room at the ubop premises in which the applicant had been interviewed and allegedly ill‑treated, the district court opined that there would be no sense in examining the ubop office given the considerable length of time that had passed since the events in question.25.  between 4 p.m. and 5.08 p.m. the applicant was questioned as a witness in the criminal proceedings against third persons by investigator a. of the kanavinskiy district investigative committee, who later stated that at the time of the questioning the applicant had had no injuries on the visible parts of his body.the applicant stated that his injuries were the result of ill‑treatment to which he had been subjected by the police officers at the centre for combating extremism from approximately 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. on 25 december 2010. the applicant stated, in particular, in relation to the injuries on the face, that he had an abrasion in the temple area on the right side, a bruise under the right eye, an abrasion on the chin on the right side, and a damaged lip on the left side.33.  on 27 december 2010 the applicant was detained on remand by a court order and at 11.55 p.m. transferred from the ivs to pre-trial detention facility iz-52/1 (the “sizo”), where an on-duty officer and medical assistant recorded the following injuries on his body: a bruise on the right of the abdomen, a bruise in the left axillary region and multiple bruises on the face and neck.although the description of the injuries in the sizo report made it impossible to determine reliably the date of their infliction, the expert suggested that the bruises on the right part of the abdomen and multiple bruises on the face and neck could have been inflicted within a period of three days prior to the applicant’s examination at the sizo on 27 december 2010 and the bruise in the left axillary region could have been inflicted more than three days before that examination.40.  in the decision refusing to open a criminal investigation into the allegations of the applicant’s ill-treatment of 1 july 2012, pursuant to article 24 § 1 (2) of the code of criminal procedure, for lack of the elements of a crime under article 286 of the criminal code (on abuse of powers) in the actions of police officers sh., a. and t., it was stated that the applicant had tried to escape during his transfer from the centre for combating extremism to police station no.48.  at 12.25 a.m. on 28 august 2011 the applicant was placed in the temporary detention facility (the “ivs”) in orenburg town police department, where the following injuries on his body were recorded: bruises on the chest, an abrasion on the face on the left cheek bone, many abrasions on the waist, abrasions on both wrists and scars on the left forearm.the applicant pleaded guilty in relation to the assault against the victim but denied robbery, stating that he had given the self‑incriminating statements at the pre-trial stage of the proceedings as a result of the ill-treatment by the police.the experts concluded that the applicant’s injuries – the bruises on his chest and both feet, numerous abrasions on his waist, the abrasion on the face, and numerous abrasions and bruises on both wrists – could have been inflicted as a result of impacts from a hard blunt object shortly before his injuries had been recorded at the ivs and possibly on 27 august 2011.he noted that the pre-investigation inquiry had established that the applicant had received the injuries during his arrest as a suspect, and that in the final judgment in the applicant’s criminal case the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment had been found unsubstantiated and that it was therefore impossible to question that finding.
submitted to a local real estate registration body a forged copy of a court’s decision recognising her as g.’s heir and asked the latter to confirm her title to the flat at 137a-9-267 samarkandskiy boulevard, moscow.sold the flat to n. on 28 may 2008, following the expert review of the transaction, n. was issued with a certificate confirming his title to the flat.8.  on 28 july 2008 n. sold the flat to the applicant.on 28 august 2008, following the expert review of the transaction, the applicant obtained a certificate confirming his ownership in respect of the flat.9.  on 15 may 2009 the police opened a criminal investigation into the fraudulent acquisition of the flat by get.the government did not inform of the outcome of the proceedings.10.  on an unspecified date the department for municipal housing and housing policy of the city of moscow (the “housing department) brought a civil claim seeking (1) the annulment of the entry in the real estate register confirming the existence of get.’s title to the flat; (2) annulment of the flat purchase agreements between get.and n. and n. and the applicant; (3) transfer of the ownership to the flat to the city of moscow; and (4) the applicant’s eviction.11.  on 19 june 2009 the kuzminskiy district court of moscow granted the housing department’s claims.the court ruled that the case fell under one of the two exceptions to the protection of a bona fide purchaser’s title, which required that precedence be given to the city of moscow as a previous owner who had been deprived of the property against its will.the applicant’s title to the flat was annulled and the ownership of the flat was transferred to the city of moscow.12.  on 29 september 2009 the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 19 june 2009 on appeal.13.  on 25 january and 12 may 2011 the applicant unsuccessfully lodged an application with the housing department asking for provision of housing.15.  according to the government, on 16 july 2012 the housing department assigned the flat as social housing to a family of four.on 25 april 2014 the ownership of the flat was transferred to them under the privatisation scheme.
6.  a report of 28 october 1991 drawn up by the bosanski šamac police in bosnia and herzegovina indicated that the body of a man had been found on 27 october 1991 on the right bank of the river sava.this inquiry was part of a broader inquiry into the killing of a number of persons of serbian ethnic origin in the broader sisak area and which resulted in the indictment of several individuals (see 37-41 below).had been the commander of the croatian army unit stationed in novo selo whose members had taken the victim away in the van on 23 september 1991.said that he had joined the second group of about twenty volunteers from rijeka who had joined the croatian army and arrived in sisak some time around 15 september 1991. some of them had travelled by van.said that he had gone with a group of volunteers from rijeka to novo selo on 5 september 1991. they had travelled in a blue citroen van which was a rented vehicle, and later on they had stayed with the sisak police.said that he had been in the second group of the rijeka volunteers who had gone to novo selo in autumn 1991. the group had included m.v., s.l., d.s., n.s., i.s., b.v., m.m., d.p., i.v.h.he had not heard about the taking of any civilian but even if such things had happened, those civilians “had deserved it.” he maintained that even if something had happened at that time in that area, after so much time had passed “all that should not be opened up again or dug into”.was shown eighteen photographs of the members of the rijeka unit but he said that he did not know any of the persons on the photographs save for the person under number 1 for whom he said that he knew him but could not remember where from.33.  on 29 july 2005 the state attorney’s office issued a document concerning enquiries into the killings of civilians between 1991 and 1995. the document was addressed to the county state attorney’s offices, which were required to examine all of the information collected to date on the killings of civilians during that period and to concentrate their activities on identifying the perpetrators and gathering the relevant evidence in order to initiate criminal proceedings.34.  on 9 october 2008 the state attorney’s office issued an instruction for implementation of the criminal code and the code of criminal procedure to the county state attorney’s offices, in which it stated that an inspection of their work had indicated two main problems: possible partiality of the persons involved in the pending proceedings as regards the ethnicity of the victims or the perpetrators; and the problem of trials in absentia.on the same day đ.b., head of the sisak police department in 1991 and 1992, v.m., police commander at the border territory of sisak and banovina in 1991 and 1992 and deputy of sisak police department, and d.b., a member of the “wolves” unit of the croatian army, were arrested.at the osijek county court, alleging that they had been in command of the unit whose unknown members had committed a number of crimes against the civilian population between july 1991 and june 1992, including the killing of the applicant’s husband.was found guilty of war crimes against the civilian population in that he, in his capacity as “the commander of police forces in the broader area of sisak and banovina” and “deputy head of the sisak police”, had allowed the killings of persons of serbian origin and had failed to undertake adequate measures to prevent such killings.the relevant part of the judgment concerning the applicant’s close relative reads: “on 23 september 1991 at about 7.30 p.m. four members of the sisak reserve police, wearing camouflage uniforms and grey uniforms and armed with automatic guns, arrived in a white volkswagen van bearing rijeka licence plates at the house at janko rupčić 8 in novo selo, which had been damaged the previous day by unidentified persons before using explosives.they searched the premises, arrested its owner s.m., took him in the van to an unknown destination and shot him dead; his body was found on 27 october 1991 on the right bank of the river sava in bosanski šamac with gunshot wounds to the head.” 41.  on 10 june 2014 the supreme court upheld the conviction of v.m.
4.  the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in pechora, the komi republic.5.  the applicant sued the municipal unitary enterprise for housing and communal services (mup pechorazhilkomhoz or mup pzhkh – муп печоражилкомхоз – hereafter “the company”) of pechora, the komi republic, for salary arrears.6.  on 31 may 2007 the justice of the peace of the privokzalnyy court circuit of pechora awarded the applicant the equivalent of 18,358 euros (eur) of the salary owed to him for the period from 1 january 2005 to 31 december 2006. the judgment became final ten days later.7.  on 12 january 2009 the pechora town court granted another claim which the applicant had lodged against the company, awarding him eur 592. the judgment became final ten days later.9.  the company was incorporated as a municipal unitary enterprise.it was set up by a decision of the local administration to provide heating supply and housing maintenance services in the local area.the company had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to it by the administration in order to carry out its statutory activities.10.  in 2006 the owner (the local administration) withdrew several of the company’s assets and transferred them either to the local treasury or to other legal entities.11.  on 17 january 2007 the respondent company was declared insolvent and liquidation proceedings started.12.  the company sued the owner in subsidiary liability proceedings.on 13 may 2009 the commercial court of the komi republic dismissed that action, having found that the owner had acted without intending to cause the company’s insolvency when transferring the assets.13.  on 16 june 2009 the company was liquidated.14.  the applicant brought subsidiary liability proceedings against the owner before the pechora town court, arguing, inter alia, that the company’s insolvency had been premeditated.on 21 june 2012 the court dismissed the applicant’s claim against the owner as unfounded.on 3 september 2012 the supreme court of the komi republic upheld that decision.
the court found that, although it was scientifically known that employees in the food industry had a statistically high risk of injury, the circumstances in the applicant’s case had to be taken into account.12.  in a written statement to the appellate court, the social insurance office questioned the conclusions in the medical statement as they were based on information about exposure which was to a high degree uncertain.it referred to the nature of the case and to the fact that an oral hearing had been held before the county administrative court.it first gave an account of the parties’ submissions and the evidence relied upon, including the medical statement of february 2008, and then stated the following reasons: “the medical and other evidence in the case does not demonstrate that the applicant has been exposed to any such harmful influences in his work which could, with a high degree of probability, have caused his problems.he complained of the lack of reasoning in the administrative court of appeal’s judgment and argued that that court’s refusal to hold an oral hearing had infringed his right to a fair trial within the meaning of article 6 of the convention.17.  on 3 february 2010 the applicant lodged an application with the court, complaining that his right to a fair trial under article 6 of the convention had been infringed because the administrative court of appeal had refused to hold an oral hearing and its judgment had not been sufficiently reasoned.the court found that the applicant had failed to lodge a claim with the chancellor of justice (justitiekanslern) or the ordinary courts to seek compensation for the alleged breaches of the convention (ruminski v. sweden (dec.), no.he argued that the administrative court of appeal’s lack of reasoning, as well as its refusal to hold an oral hearing, had infringed his right to a fair trial within the meaning of article 6 of the convention.20.  the chancellor of justice communicated the case to the administrative court of appeal which submitted that its handling of the case had been in accordance with domestic law as well as the convention.as concerns the lack of an oral hearing, the chancellor of justice noted that the social insurance office and the county administrative court had held an oral hearing and consequently, in accordance with the court’s case-law, a less strict standard applied to the requirement to hold a hearing before the appellate court.thus, in view of the character of the case and the fact that the applicant had been given the opportunity to finalise his submissions in writing and the court had had access to substantial written evidence, the chancellor of justice concluded that there had been no breach of the convention in this respect.22.  as concerns the administrative court of appeal’s alleged lack of reasoning, the chancellor of justice referred extensively to the court’s case law on this matter and then made the following evaluation.it had further accounted for the considerations and conclusions drawn from the evidence submitted by the parties, namely, that the investigation in the case did not demonstrate that the applicant had been exposed to any such harmful influences in his work which, with a high degree of probability, could have caused his problems.thus, the chancellor of justice found that the administrative court of appeal had taken a stance on the central and decisive question in the case, that is, whether the applicant had been exposed to harmful influences in his work.while the chancellor noted that it would have been preferable, for pedagogical reasons, for the court to have given clearer grounds for why the applicant’s evidence had not been sufficient, she concluded that the reasoning was not so deficient that the applicant’s right to a fair trial under article 6 of the convention had been infringed.
11.  according to the government, the fire broke out at approximately 6.50 a.m. the prison guards took immediate action and opened the cell door at around 7 a.m. they took the applicant’s son out of the cell and gave him first aid.16.  despite the court’s explicit request to the government to submit copies of all the documents relating to the criminal investigation concerning m.m.’s death, the government failed to provide the court with a copy of m.m.he relied mainly on the statements submitted by the prison guards, who said the fire had broken out at approximately 7 a.m. because of m.m.’s epileptic seizure and that they had intervened immediately after the incident.the investigator also pointed out that it was not possible to carry out a forensic fire examination because the scene of the incident had not been preserved and repairs had been carried out in the cell in question.as regards the statements by some inmates that the fire had broken out at approximately 6 a.m., that it had taken an hour for the prison guards to open the door of the cell and that m.m.to the hospital had arrived at 2.45 p.m. and that the delay in his transfer had been due to the fact that the car had broken down on its way to the hospital.20.  despite the court’s explicit request to the government to submit copies of all the documents relating to the criminal investigation concerning m.m.’s death, the government failed to provide the court with a copy of chemical analysis report no.17/1/15-954 of 27 february 2007 from the prisons service of the ministry of justice and the statements made by the prison guards, medical staff and inmates detained in gobustan prison, submitting that the case file had been destroyed.he complained, in particular, of the inconsistency between the conclusions of the handwriting report dated 6 april 2007 and the forensic expert opinion dated 25 april 2007. he also argued that the investigator and the first-instance court had failed to examine photographs of m.m.in that connection, relying on statements made by the head of the prison regime department of gobustan prison and n.b., the investigator found that domestic law did not provide for any special conditions of detention for inmates suffering from epilepsy or any restriction on the authorised items they could possess in prison.the court held that the investigator had failed to examine the reason for the delay in m.m.’s transfer to hospital.30.  on 7 may 2008 a prosecutor at the garadagh district prosecutor’s office again refused to institute criminal proceedings, using wording that was almost identical to the decisions of 26 april 2007 and 7 january 2008. the prosecutor found that it had been m.m.’s fault that the fire had broken out and that he had died as a result of his burns.31.  despite the court’s explicit request to the government to submit copies of all the documents relating to the criminal investigation concerning m.m.’s death, the government failed to provide the court with a copy of a.m.’s statement, submitting that the case file had been destroyed.33.  on an unspecified date the applicant lodged a complaint against the prosecutor’s decision of 7 may 2008, arguing that the prosecuting authorities had failed to investigate the questions raised by the previous court decisions.he argued that the wording of the prosecutor’s decision of 7 may 2008 had been almost identical to the prosecuting authorities’ previous decisions and that it had not dealt with any of the questions raised by the previous court decisions.
at the material time the first and second applicants were on the editorial board of the newspaper dv and the third applicant was a journalist for dv.the chairman of the board, a, who was also one of the owners of the company, was an assistant professor at the university of iceland at the time.the article discussed inter alia a, who was a board member and one of three owners of the company and the former supervisor of the mba programme and assistant professor of business studies at the university of iceland.the report had also indicated that a and one of his co-owners had known about the grave financial situation of the company long before it had been declared bankrupt in 2010. the report had concluded that the company´s assets had been partly expended when it was clear that it was insolvent.13.  on 28 april 2011 a lodged defamation proceedings against the applicants and dv before the reykjavík district court and requested that the statements published by dv, “police investigate assistant professor” and “assistant professor entangled in police investigation”, be declared null and void and that the applicants be ordered to pay compensation, including expenses for publishing the final judgment.15.  by a judgment of 5 march 2012 the district court found that both disputed statements had been defamatory and ordered the applicants to pay 200,000 icelandic krónur (isk) (approximately 1,600 euros (eur)) to a in compensation for non-pecuniary damage, plus interest, isk 200,000 for the cost of publishing the judgment and isk 500,000 (approximately 4,200 eur) for a’s legal costs before the district court.it states that freedom of expression may only be restricted by law in the interests of public order or the security of the state, for the protection of health or morals, or for the protection of the rights or reputation of others, if such restrictions are deemed necessary and in agreement with democratic traditions.it is undisputed that, before the newspaper coverage, [the police] had been informed by the liquidator of a reasonable suspicion of criminal acts by the company’s board members, of which a was one.it is also clear that the information given by the liquidator was based on [the accountancy firm’s] report of 31 january 2011. an email of 16 march 2011 from [the prosecutor] to [a’s] lawyer stated that the liquidator’s report was being “examined” [“til skoðunar”].[the applicants] base their defence on the fact that nothing in their statements, which [a] wants declared null and void, indicates that a formal decision had been taken to start [a police] investigation and that the wording of the statements should not be interpreted more widely than its general meaning indicates.taking this into account, and having regard to [the absence of a formal decision by the police to investigate] [the company] and its board members, including [a], the court cannot accept [the applicant’s] arguments.the wording of the statements was of such a nature as to make the reader believe that [a] was a suspect in a police investigation because of his criminal and punishable acts.19.  as to the reasoning, the supreme court stated: “... the aforementioned email from [the police prosecutor] can only be understood as meaning that no investigation had been instigated on account of the three reports [to the police] which are referred to in the email.with these comments, [and] with reference to the district court’s reasoning, the supreme court confirms the district court’s decision on declaring the statements null and void and confirms the publication of the judgment in the next issue of dv and the next online edition of dv after the delivery of this judgment.when examining the coverage and the publication of pictures of [the company] and its representatives in the printed issue of dv and in the online edition of [dv], [a’s] reputation was attacked, at a time when there were no grounds for it ...” 20.  by letter of 31 may 2013 the special prosecutor notified another company representative that “the investigation” into the complaints against him and a had been closed and the case had been dismissed.
6.  the second applicant and two other individuals were the heirs of a.s. in 1999 they asked the riga regional court to recognise their title to 30 ha of forest in jurmala (hereinafter “the contested property”) which had allegedly belonged to a.s. and was nationalised in 1940. they also asked the court to recognise their right to receive a plot of land of the same value in jurmala, as it had not been possible to establish the precise boundaries of the inherited land.referring to section 12 of the law on land reform in the cities of the republic of latvia (par zemes reformu latvijas republikas pilsētās), which provided that any requests after 1 june 1994 for the restoration of property rights should be decided by a court, the riga regional court recognised that the second applicant owned a two-third share of the forest in jurmala and that the other two claimants owned a sixth each.10.  after adoption of the above judgment, the jurmala city land commission informed the claimants, the jurmala city council and the state land authority several times of problems in enforcement of the judgment.14.  on 27 december 2002 the title to the four plots of land was entered in the land register, and on 8 and 9 january 2003 the second applicant and the other two claimants sold their respective plots to the fifth applicant, the limited liability company bulduru muiža, the owner and director of which at the material time was the second applicant.15.  on 24 october 2003 the president of the civil division of the senate of the supreme court lodged an application for supervisory review with regard to the judgment adopted on 7 may 1999 by the riga regional court, arguing that there was a lack of evidence to corroborate that a.s. had owned the property before 1940. as information received from the state archive had suggested, the contested property had consisted of undivided shares and therefore it could not be concluded that a.s. had been the sole purchaser of 30 ha of a forest.17.  at a hearing on 17 december 2003 attended by the representative of the claimants in the initial proceedings, the senate of the supreme court quashed the judgment and remitted the case to the riga regional court for fresh consideration.18.  in january and march 2004 the bureau for the prevention and combating of corruption (“the knab”) asked the prosecutor general’s office to initiate proceedings to reclaim the contested property from the applicants.23.  on 27 april 2004 and on 16 september 2004 (with regard to the first and the third applicants) the prosecutor general’s office, acting on behalf of the ministry of finance, lodged a claim against the jurmala city council, the applicants, a.v.26.  on 9 september 2005 the riga regional court dismissed the claim lodged by the prosecutor general’s office and upheld the decision recognising the second applicant and the two other claimants as owners of the contested property.the court revoked the decisions of the jurmala city land commission allocating the second applicant and the two other claimants the four plots of land, and ordered that the corresponding entries be deleted from the relevant land registry records.the appellate court also dismissed part of the claim of the prosecutor general’s office in which it claimed that the state (represented by the ministry of finance) had ownership rights over the property in question.29.  in relation to the applicants’ argument that they had all acted in good faith when acquiring their part of the contested property, the court at the outset noted that such criteria as the date of conclusion of a contested transaction and the nature of the infringed property rights have to be considered when assessing the protection of bona fide acquirers.the court also observed that after the second applicant had sold the contested property to the fifth applicant, the owner of which was the second applicant himself, all the transactions involving the contested property (see paragraphs 19-22 above) had been concluded after the senate of the supreme court had revoked the final judgment in the initial proceedings.31.  the five appellants complained, inter alia, that the state did not have sufficient interest in the property to justify the fact that the prosecutor general’s office had lodged a property claim on behalf of the state.with respect to the property claim brought by the prosecutor general’s office, the senate noted that even if the state’s property rights had not been infringed, that did not prevent the court from finding that the second applicant and the two other claimants in the first set of proceedings had had no rights to the contested property.
7.  on 23 february 2005 the applicant company was granted a licence by the national television and radio commission (“the ntrc”) permitting it to broadcast in gyumri, the second largest town in armenia, and the surrounding area.the report also stated that the applicant company had failed to include the prices for its services in its invoices or keep records, as required by the television and radio broadcasting act.10.  the srs’s report was based, inter alia, on: a)  documents requested from and subsequently submitted by gr.a., the head of the ntrc; b)  statements by the heads of companies and individual businessmen that they had placed advertisements on gala tv but had not received any documents acknowledging payment to the applicant company for such services.11.  the applicant company objected to the allegations of tax evasion as fabricated and politically motivated as home-made advertisements that had a social function, which gala tv had broadcast for free, had been taken into account by the authorities in calculating the tax arrears.13.  having received no payment from the applicant company as regards the amounts stated in its report of 12 november 2007, on 26 november 2007 the srs brought a claim with the commercial court to oblige the applicant company to pay amd 25,212,800 (approximately eur 50,000) in tax debt and to freeze its bank accounts and other assets in the amount of the alleged tax shortfall.14.  on 27 november 2007 the commercial court admitted the case to its proceedings and at the same time dismissed the application to freeze the applicant company’s bank accounts.16.  on 17 december 2007 the applicant company brought a counterclaim against the srs, challenging the results of the tax inspection.it argued, inter alia, that the relevant statements obtained from the heads of companies and individual businessmen, as well as the information obtained from gr.a., could not be used as evidence to support the findings of the srs in its report.17.  on 24 december 2007 the applicant company’s case was transferred to the administrative court, which had been set up as part of a reform of the court system that year.19.  on 12 march 2008 the applicant company’s lawyer lodged an application to obtain and examine the tax records of the companies that had advertised on gala tv and had been inspected by the srs.20.  on the same day the applicant company’s lawyer also asked the administrative court to summon, inter alia, the heads of the relevant companies and the businessmen, namely a.j., s.a., s.m., h.p., g.s., g.a.it annulled the srs’s report in respect of a charge of amd 96,000 (approximately eur 190) imposed on the applicant company for the alleged illegal production and sale of fireworks.the administrative court decided to levy a total charge of amd 25,116,700 (approximately eur 50,000) on the company, including amd 14,291,300 (approximately eur 28,400) for value added tax (vat), comprising arrears, a 60% fine and surcharges for late payment; amd 8,338,300 (approximately eur 16,600) for profit tax, comprising arrears, a 60% fine and surcharges for late payment; and amd 2,487,100 (approximately eur 5,000) for the tax authority’s development fund.the administrative court referred to the relevant provisions of the law on value added tax and the law on taxes when imposing the surcharges and fines.25.  on 4 august 2008 the court of cassation returned the applicant company’s appeal on the grounds that it had failed to pay the correct amount of state fee and set a deadline for resubmission.
5.  the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in cocieri.6.  the background to the case, including the transdniestrian armed conflict of 1991-1992 and the subsequent events, is set out in ilaşcu and others v. moldova and russia ([gc], no.48787/99, §§ 28-185, echr 2004‑vii) and catan and others v. the republic of moldova and russia ([gc], 43370/04 and 2 others, §§ 8-42, echr 2012 (extracts)).7.  on 22 august 2010 the applicant, who is an entrepreneur, was transporting merchandise to an agricultural market in the town of dubasari in the self-proclaimed “moldovan republic of transdniestria” (the “mrt”).he was stopped by two persons presenting themselves as customs officers of the “mrt” who seized his van and the merchandise contained therein on account of his having allegedly failed to register the vehicle.on 7 october 2010 the “mrt” customs authority issued a decision obliging the applicant to pay a fine of some 1,320 euros (eur) in return for being able to recover his van and merchandise.the applicant paid the fine.8.  in the meantime the applicant complained to the authorities of the republic of moldova about the seizure of his van and merchandise.on 9 september 2010 the dubasari prosecutor’s office initiated a criminal investigation into the facts of the case and several suspects were declared wanted.however, the investigation was suspended in 2014.9.  on 21 july 1992 the presidents of the russian federation and the republic of moldova signed an agreement in moscow to put an end to the military conflict in the transdniestrian region of moldova.under the agreement, a security zone was created between the conflicting parties and a joint control commission (hereinafter “the jcc”) was set up to monitor the implementation of the agreement in the security zone.the jcc is composed of representatives of russia, the republic of moldova, and the “mrt”.any decisions made by the jcc must have the consent of all the parties (for more details, see ilaşcu and others (cited above, §§ 87-91).10.  reports by inter-governmental and non-governmental organisations, the relevant domestic law and practice of the republic of moldova, and other pertinent documents were summarised in mozer v. the republic of moldova and russia ([gc], no.
he stated that first his cleaning lady had been obstructed by the applicant when entering the courtyard through a small door, and half an hour later he had been able to open neither the small door, nor the large electric sliding doors, which he had assumed had been the applicant’s fault.the applicant denied the charges, claimed that r.h. had lied and that multiple sets of proceedings had been brought against him following an attempt on his life in 1999. he requested that the video surveillance footage of the day of the incident be inspected.he handed in to the court the minutes from a hearing of 9 february 2004 in some other proceedings which noted that the applicant had changed the lock of the small door leading to the courtyard and that he had handed the new keys to r.h. at that hearing.r.h. further replied that he had not checked the video footage following the incident, but that in any event the cameras would have not covered the whole incident and that the server of the video surveillance system had broken down on many occasions; he later added that in any case the server had been changed by the maintenance company.the judge found it unnecessary to obtain the evidence in question and the following day acquitted the applicant finding that it had not been proved that the applicant had directed the threats against r.h. 12.  on 21 november 2007 the koper higher court upheld the appeal lodged by the district attorney’s office and remitted the case to the first-instance court.14.  the court also examined r.h. who stated that the cleaning lady had on the day of the incident told him that the applicant had not allowed her to enter the courtyard.he also drew attention to the fact that the police had not found any evidence to prosecute the applicant and submitted that that the charges had been based on two statements of unreliable witnesses, namely the injured party and k.c.it noted that the applicant had contested the credibility of r.h. and k.c., to whom the court referred as r.h.’s work colleague (sodelavec), because the former had been in several legal disputes with him and because the latter had been reported to the police for false testimony on several occasions.that the applicant had threatened the former by referring to the fact that he had bought a gun and that the threat had caused fear in r.h. the court also found the applicant’s argument that the whole incident had been made up unpersuasive.also the inspection of the site and a reconstruction of the events were not performed, since the manner how the incident occurred and moreover the content of the words said can already be established from the other evidence produced.” 18.  on 9 september 2009 the applicant lodged an appeal relying on, inter alia, article 6 § 3 (d) of the convention.he complained about the court’s refusal to hear d.č., stressing that the court should have taken into account the numerous proceedings to which the applicant and r.h. had been party and that it should therefore have shown more prudence when giving credence to the statements of k.c., who had been testifying for the benefit of r.h. in almost all of these proceedings.he also noted that, despite the fact that the whole grounds of the house had been under video surveillance, r.h. had not provided video footage to prove that he and the applicant had actually met on the relevant day, which the applicant had denied.on 29 may 2014 the constitutional court decided that the attack had not been duly investigated and that this had amounted to an infringement of the procedural aspects of the applicant’s rights to personal dignity and safety (article 34 of the constitution) and the inviolability of his physical and mental integrity (article 35 of the constitution).had not directly observed the incident leading to the applicant’s conviction but could only testify to r.h.’s influencing of witnesses and the nature of the relationship between the applicant and r.h. the court found that these facts had already been known to the trial court, which had refused to hear d.č.the latter noted, first, that d.č.’s testimony had not brought to light any new facts directly relating to the criminal offence for which the applicant had been convicted and, second, that the applicant had already attempted to prove r.h.’s had influenced witnesses and that his request to that effect had been rejected by the courts during the criminal proceedings, including by the supreme court, which meant that this could not be considered as new evidence.
took an m-75 hand grenade out of his pocket and pulled out the safety clip and placed the grenade into the hand of waitress t.b., ... who put it on the counter saying ‘what would i need this for?’, whereupon d.[m.], seeing that the grenade had been activated, took it in his right hand and turned sideways from the counter, after which an explosion occurred.the second applicant sought damages in connection with the life-threatening injuries he had sustained in the incident of 12 december 1996, while the first applicant sought damages on account of the stress and fear she had suffered because of the event in question.had been on duty at the time when he had exploded the grenade, that he had been dressed in his military uniform and that his mother had obtained a survivor’s pension after his death under a decision which stated that he had died on duty (specifically, “at work”).10.  their claim was allowed on 21 june 2002. that judgment was quashed by the zagreb county court on 25 april 2005. the first-instance court again allowed the claim on 17 september 2010. however, on 5 april 2011 the zagreb county court, after an appeal lodged by the defendant, overturned the judgment and dismissed the applicants’ claim.used an m-75 grenade, which served a military purpose and was registered for [use by] the members of the croatian army; - the decision of 12 october 1998 ... issued by the croatian pension fund stated that the mother of d.m., who had been a croatian homeland war veteran, obtained the right to a survivor’s pension because [d.m.]had been [serving in the] military when he had caused the damage, and the reasoning of that decision stated that he had died because of an injury sustained at work; - d.m.on the basis of the thus-established facts the first-instance court concluded that the defendant was liable because the said decision of the croatian pension fund stated that the death of [d.m.], as an active military serviceman, had occurred while [he had been] carrying out his official duties ... the first-instance court also concluded that there had been a failure on the part of the defendant [to carry out a weapons] check under section 14 of the instruction on the allocation, distribution, carrying and use of official short weapons.had the correct check (for which the military police were responsible under section 14 of the above-mentioned instruction) [been exercised in respect of] the carrying of weapons – namely the grenade [held by d.m.]first of all, d.m.’s parents’ right to obtain a survivor’s pension on the basis of a decision of the croatian pension fund is not decisive for the defendant’s liability for damage since the right to a survivor’s pension was obtained on the basis of d.m.’s status as a croatian homeland war veteran – that is to say an insured military person.the fact that the reasoning of that decision ... states that the ‘insured party’s death occurred because of an injury sustained at work’ is not relevant for an assessment of the defendant’s liability in these civil proceedings.was not on duty on the critical evening; that the m-75 grenade was not given to him by his military unit ([according to] a letter from the i croatian guard corps of 12 november 1998); that the record of the on-site inspection carried out on the day of [d.m.’s] death does not show that d.m.had unlawfully obtained the grenade from the defendant), regardless of the fact that such a grenade serves a military purpose and is registered for [use by] members of the croatian army; [therefore,] this court finds that the conclusion of the first-instance court regarding ... the liability of the defendant is not correct.lastly, this court considers ... in respect of the failure of the defendant to carry out a check on the carrying of weapons and to seize [weapons] where there is no licence [to carry them], as the basis of the defendant’s liability, that there is no proof ... that the military police had a duty to carry out a check in the pizza parlour in question on the critical evening or that the competent authorities knew that d.m.therefore, this court finds that the requirements for the defendant’s liability are not met ...” 11.  the applicants’ subsequent constitutional complaint of 7 july 2011 was dismissed on 17 june 2014. this decision was served on the applicants on 3 july 2014.
the investigators quickly made a connection with the applicant and a certain a.s. 13.  by decision of 9 july 1999 a police officer ordered the applicant’s detention for twenty-four hours, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the ministry of the interior act.on the other hand, it includes a handwritten statement by a.s., the applicant’s presumed accomplice, dated 3 october 1999, in which a.s. explained that the applicant had instigated the hold-up, that he himself had agreed to cooperate with the applicant and that the latter had used a gun during the incident.29.  on 7 march 2000 the applicant was charged with an additional offence, namely the unlawful purchase of the firearm which had been used during the robbery of 2 july 1999. on the same day the two suspects were questioned in the presence of their lawyers.31.  the regional court considered the criminal case between 25 july 2000 and 14 june 2001. during the proceedings the applicant, who was assisted by a lawyer, submitted that he and his presumed accomplice had indeed been in burgas on 1 july 1999 and that they had indeed intended to commit a robbery in the bureau de change, but that they had changed their minds and returned to sofia the same day.33.  drawing on the evidence gathered during the preliminary investigation and at the trial, the regional court established the facts as follows: the applicant’s former partner, d.k., had started work as a cashier in the bureau de change in question in 1997 when she was still living with him.the evidence gathered during the preliminary investigation, presented before the first-instance court and produced for the first time before the court of appeal had demonstrated that the two accused had planned and carried out the robbery in the bureau de change and that the two victims had been killed by a.s. yet the applicant had been the instigator of those crimes and had provided the weapon used by his accomplice.the court of appeal drew on the statements of the many witnesses questioned during the assessment of the case, on the results of the ballistic, technical and accountants’ reports and the medical and psychiatric opinions, and also on the physical and documentary evidence gathered.39.  the court of appeal turned its attention to the applicant’s version of events to the effect that the two murders and the robbery had been committed by a certain v., an iranian national, and that the applicant himself had been at his place of work in sofia at the material time.it was true that the applicant had been at his place of work in sofia on 2 july 1999. however, he had been working as a night watchman and the robbery and murders had been committed early in the morning, which had given him enough time to cover the distance between burgas and sofia and to arrive at work the same evening.the applicant’s lawyer added that his client had undeniably been deprived of a defence lawyer on 4 october 1999, when he had been taken into custody; he regarded this as an infringement of the provisions of section 70(4) of the ministry of the interior act and of the constitution.44.  furthermore, in endorsing the court of appeal’s other arguments, the supreme court of cassation considered that the facts had been well established, that the substantive and procedural rules had been appropriately applied and that the accused’s rights had been fully respected.50.  according to a report by the governor of burgas prison submitted by the government, the applicant had problems adapting to the prison regulations; his attitude to the wardens and the prison authorities had been refractory and disrespectful.55.  according to a report by the governor of sofia prison dated 11 october 2011, the high-security wing of sofia prison had been completely renovated in 2005 and 2006. on the date of the report in question the applicant had been held in an individual cell measuring 7.7 sq.57.  furthermore, in 2010 the applicant applied to have a number of the provisions of the implementing regulations of the prisons act declared void as regards the conditions for the execution of his life sentence.his application was dismissed with final effect by a judgment of 14 september 2011 delivered by the supreme administrative court, which found that the impugned provisions of the implementing regulations were not contrary to the prisons act and that the adoption of the regulations had not involved any irregularities justifying their being declared void.
6.  on the night of 25 july 2009 traffic police stopped the applicant’s car.following the applicant’s failure to produce his driving licence and suspecting that it had been withdrawn, police officers took him to the duty unit of the ezhvinskiy district police station, where he was kept in a cell for administrative detainees until the following morning.7.  on 26 july 2009 the justice of the peace of the vezhdinskiy court circuit of the ezhvinskiy district found the applicant guilty of driving a vehicle after the withdrawal of his driving licence (an administrative offence under article 12.7 § 2 of the russian code of administrative offences) and sentenced him to fifteen days of administrative detention.8.  on 31 july 2009 the applicant made a written request to the head of the detention unit seeking a family visit.the next day the request was returned to the applicant bearing a handwritten note by the acting head of the detention unit, mr s., which stated that family visits were not “provided for [by law]”.9.  on 14 august 2009 the applicant’s representative lodged a complaint with the syktyvkar town court, alleging that the applicant’s right to family life guaranteed by article 8 of the convention had been unlawfully restricted.10.  the police officials filed a written objection, arguing that the internal rules governing detention facilities for administrative detainees did not provide administrative detainees with the right to have a family visit.11.  on 15 september 2009 the syktyvkar city court dismissed the applicant’s complaint, having accepted the police authorities’ argument that administrative detainees were not entitled to a family visit under the domestic law in force and that the applicant had been subjected to those limitations of his rights as a negative consequence of the administrative detention.relying on the court’s judgments in the cases of messina v. italy (no.78146/01, § 123, 12 june 2008), he argued that the authorities’ assistance in maintaining contact with close family was an essential part of a detainee’s right to respect for family life.limitations imposed on the number of family visits constituted an interference with the applicant’s rights under article 8 of the convention.13.  on 22 october 2009 the supreme court of the komi republic upheld the city court’s decision, having reasoned as follows: “there is no prohibition on family visits for administrative detainees.... [at the same time] a refusal to authorise a family visit has a basis in russian law; however, it should be warranted by circumstances and conditions providing the competent authorities with the right to apply the disputed restriction.providing law‑enforcement bodies with unlimited powers in issues pertaining to fundamental rights could run contrary to the superior role of the law and could result in arbitrary interference with human rights.in the case under examination, there are no grounds for concluding that the actions of the acting head [of the detention unit of the police station where the applicant had been detained] were unlawful because, having applied for a family visit, [the applicant] had not indicated whom he had wanted to see and what the relationship was between him and that person.
5.  the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in bela crkva.7.  on 20 may 2003 the bela crkva municipal court ordered the debtor to pay the applicant specified amounts on account of salary arrears and social insurance contributions, plus the costs of the civil proceedings.8.  on 14 october 2003 upon the applicant’s request to that effect, the bela crkva municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the applicant the enforcement costs.9.  the government in its observations maintained that the said judgment had been fully enforced by the domestic decisions of 2 december 2004, 4 november 2005 and 19 may 2006 respectively.10.  on 10 february 2009 the bela crkva municipal court ordered the debtor to pay the applicant other specified amounts on account of salary arrears and social insurance contributions.in addition the domestic court ordered each party to pay its own costs of the civil proceedings.11.  on 30 april 2009 upon the applicant’s request to that effect, the bela crkva municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the applicant the enforcement costs.12.  the said decision remains unenforced to the present date.13.  on 12 may 2009 the pančevo commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor.14.  on 22 september 2009, upon a submission to that effect, the pančevo commercial court recognized the applicant’s respective claims.15.  on 27 august 2012 the pančevo commercial court terminated the insolvency proceedings against the debtor, having decided to continue with the insolvency action against the debtor’s estate.17.  on 8 august 2013 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal complaining firstly about the fairness of the insolvency proceedings.further, he requested the constitutional court to adopt a decision obliging the respondent state to pay from its own funds his unpaid salaries.in particular, the applicant had referred only to the judgment which had been adopted in his favour on 10 february 2009. in so doing, the applicant also relied on the court’s case-law related to the non-enforcement of domestic court decision rendered against socially-owned companies in serbia.18.  on 31 march 2015 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal finding that it is not vested with the power of the insolvency court to enable the payments of the claims recognized in the insolvency proceedings.
5.  on 23 august 2004 the disciplinary prosecutor (disziplinaranwalt) of the ministry of economics and labour reported to the disciplinary council (disziplinarkommission) of the ministry of economics and labour that it suspected the applicant of having committed disciplinary offences.the report indicated that the applicant had been working on a project for the implementation of an electronic administration system for foreign trade since 2001. the disciplinary prosecutor accused the applicant of not having conducted an award procedure (vergabeverfahren).7.  on 1 october 2004 the disciplinary council of the ministry of economics and labour decided not to institute disciplinary proceedings against the applicant as it considered that prosecution of the reported offences had become time-barred.8.  on 30 december 2004 the appeals commission at the federal chancellery (berufungskommission beim bundeskanzleramt) allowed the appeal of the disciplinary prosecutor and quashed the decision by the disciplinary council.13.  meanwhile, on 20 december 2005, the disciplinary council had decided to summon the applicant to an oral hearing and specified the offences of which he was accused, namely the breach of official duties.18.  in spite of the applicant’s request to stay the disciplinary proceedings (see paragraph 16 above), the disciplinary council held oral hearings on 27, 28 and 31 march, 5 april, 2, 3, 22, 23 and 24 may and 28 june 2006.19.  on 28 june 2006 the disciplinary council convicted the applicant of breach of official duties and imposed the disciplinary penalty of loss of all his rights and entitlements from his public employment.22.  on 14 december 2006 the appeals commission quashed the disciplinary council’s decision of 28 june 2006 (see paragraph 19 above) and remitted the case to the disciplinary council on the grounds that the disciplinary council had not sufficiently assessed the evidence before it.23.  on 9 january 2007 the appeals commission rejected the application for transfer of jurisdiction to the superior authority and on 15 march 2007 it dismissed the applicant’s appeal against the disciplinary council’s decision of 5 september 2006 (see paragraph 21 above).since, despite several previous summonses, the applicant failed to appear before the expert, on 4 april 2008 the disciplinary council requested the expert to deliver his opinion on the basis of the medical certificates and expertises obtained so far in parallel proceedings.25.  meanwhile, on 23 october 2007, the administrative court dismissed the applicant’s appeal against the decision of the ministry of economics and labour of 7 april 2006, and the applicant’s compulsory retirement became final (see paragraph 17 above).27.  on 2 december 2008 the appeals commission quashed the decision again and remitted the case to the disciplinary council on similar grounds to those set out in its decision of 14 december 2006 (see paragraph 22 above).30.  by decision of 28 october 2009, the appeals commission upheld in essence the reasoning of the disciplinary council and dismissed the disciplinary prosecutor’s appeal.31.  on 2 july 2010, after the disciplinary prosecutor had withdrawn her complaint, the administrative court discontinued the proceedings and ordered the disciplinary prosecutor to reimburse the applicant’s expenses in the amount of eur 1,106.40. this decision was served on the applicant’s counsel on 3 august 2010.32.  by judgment of the vienna court of appeal of 25 may 2011 concerning the official liability proceedings instituted by the applicant, he was awarded eur 4,608, corresponding to the costs of his appeals against the disciplinary council’s decisions of 28 june 2006 and 20 june 2008 (see paragraphs 19 and 26 above), which were both quashed by the appeals commission due to procedural errors and lack of reasoning (see paragraphs 22 and 27 above).
8.  on 7 april 2006 o. sold the flat to v. 9.  on 19 april 2006 v. sold the flat to the applicant and his minor daughter.on 30 january 2008 the police informed the moscow department of housing policy and housing fund (the housing department) about the investigation.11.  on an unspecified date the housing department brought an action against the applicant seeking the transfer of the title to the flat to the city of moscow and the applicant’s eviction.it considered all the transactions with the flat to be void and ordered the transfer of the title to the flat to the city of moscow and the applicant’s eviction.17.  according to the government, on 2 december 2014 the housing department entered into a social housing agreement with the applicant and his daughter who continued to reside in the flat.21.  on 15 april 2011 the nagatinskiy district court of moscow approved a friendly settlement agreement between the applicant and her father recognising the applicant’s title to the flat.23.  on an unspecified date the housing department brought a civil action against the applicant seeking the transfer of the title to the flat to the city of moscow and the applicant’s eviction.the court ruled that the case fell under one of the two exceptions to the protection of a bona fide purchaser’s title, which required that precedence be given to the previous owner who had been deprived of the property against his or her will.the applicant’s title to the flat was annulled and the title was transferred to the city of moscow.27.  according to the applicant, the judgment in the city’s favour has not been enforced and the applicant continues to reside in the flat.31.  on 6 december 2006 the moscow city registration board (the “registration board”) registered the certificate confirming p.’s title to the flat and issued the relevant deed.33.  on 6 february 2007 the registration board registered the flat purchase and issued the respective deed to the first applicant.34.  on an unspecified date the authorities opened a criminal investigation concerning the forgery of the will issued on behalf of n. 35.  on 26 april 2012 the perovskiy district court of moscow found p. guilty of several counts of fraud and sentenced him to five and a half years’ imprisonment.the court also found that the flat was bona vacantia which therefore vested in the state and, by having fraudulently acquired title to it and then sold it to the first applicant, p. had caused damage to the state.37.  on 25 march 2013 the housing department brought a civil action against the applicants seeking, inter alia, (1) revocation of the first applicant’s title to the flat; (2) the applicants’ eviction; and (3) restitution of the flat to the city of moscow.
4.  the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in vladimir.5.  in 2008 the applicant was indicted with fraud.on 21 march 2008 the frunzenskiy district court of vladimir (“the district court”) ordered temporary suspension of the applicant from the post of the chief accountant of municipal hospital no.4. at the same time, the district court awarded the applicant an allowance for the period of the suspension in the amount of five statutory monthly wages.the decision came into force on 1 april 2008.6.  on 11 august 2009 the district court cancelled the suspension of the applicant from the office as no longer necessary.the decision came into force on 24 august 2009.7.  on 12 july 2010 the presidium of the vladimir regional court (“the regional court”) quashed the decision of the district court of 21 march 2008 in the part concerning the monthly allowance.the presidium of the regional court found that while ordering the suspension and the allowance for the period of such suspension, the district court had failed to specify from which funds the allowance was payable, thus the decision of the district court in that part had remained unenforced.the case was remitted for a new examination.8.  on 3 august 2010 the district court awarded the applicant monthly allowance for the period of her suspension from the office in the amount of 266,812.92 russian roubles.the allowance was to be paid from the federal budget.that decision was upheld on appeal on 22 september 2010.9.  on 31 january 2011 the amount mentioned above was transferred to the applicant.
4.  the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in istanbul.5.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.6.  on 22 december 2009 the ankara magistrates’ court decided to restrict access to the investigation file in accordance with article 153 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure (the “ccp”), law no.5271 7.  on 9 february 2010 the applicant was arrested and taken into custody on suspicion of forming a criminal organisation and fraudulent use of credit cards.8.  on 11 february 2010 the applicant’s statement was taken by the police in the presence of his lawyer and he was questioned at length about his telephone conversations that had been intercepted.the police read out the transcripts of the intercepted conversations, and the applicant did not deny that he had had these conversations but claimed that they did not prove that he was guilty.9.  on 12 february 2010 the investigating judge questioned the applicant in the presence of his lawyer.the applicant denied that he was involved in a criminal organisation and submitted that the intercepted calls did not prove that he was guilty.the investigating judge ordered the applicant’s detention on remand taking into account the strong suspicion that he had committed the alleged offence, the risk of absconding and tampering with evidence as well as the risk of coercing some of the witnesses and victims.10.  on various dates the applicant requested his release pending trial.these requests were dismissed by the courts, having regard to the nature of the offence with which the applicant was charged, the existence of a strong suspicion that the applicant had committed the offence in question, the state of the evidence, the risk of absconding and tampering with evidence as well as the time spent in detention.the applicant objected to these decisions.by decisions of 22 april 2010 and 20 october 2010 the appeal courts, without holding a hearing, rejected the applicant’s objections based on the information contained in the case file.11.  upon his application, on 19 january 2011, the 26th chamber of ankara criminal court ordered the applicant’s release having regard to the time he spent in detention.
6.  as an officer in a sub‑unit of the special anti-terrorist unit within the special forces for state security (hereinafter “the securitate”), the applicant participated in the events which commenced in bucharest on 21 december 1989 and led to the fall of the ceausescu dictatorship on 22 december 1989.7.  the applicant was arrested by army forces and held in detention from 22 december until 23 december 1989. he was then held by the unit’s commander from 25 december 1989 until 2 february 1990. during this period of time, he was subjected to ill-treatment and, as a result, he suffered depression and he was placed on the officers reserve list on the grounds of poor health (see paragraphs 8 - 13 below).8.  on 29 april 1990 the applicant filed a criminal complaint with the military prosecutor, alleging that he had been ill-treated and illegally detained in the securitate building and requesting the punishment of various officials, including the unit’s commander, g.a.the military prosecutor questioned the defendants and a large number of witnesses during the criminal investigation and gathered medical evidence.10.  on 16 december 1993 the applicant asked the military prosecutor to extend the investigation to other officials he alleged were involved, including doctor p.i.on the ground that the constituent elements of the alleged offence were not present.following the applicant’s appeal, this decision was set aside by a decision of 25 september 1996 and the investigation continued.liable to pay an administrative fine; however, the type of offence he committed had been pardoned by a decree of july 1997. the military prosecutor discontinued the investigation in respect of the dead defendant, g.a.the criminal case related to the other defendants, the securitate officers, was severed into separate proceedings.13.  on 20 february 1998 and 16 february 1999 the military prosecutor decided not to initiate criminal proceedings against some of the defendants as the applicant’s complaint had become partly statute-barred.the investigation into crimes allegedly committed by three of the defendants was severed and jurisdiction was relinquished to the prosecuting authorities at the high court of cassation and justice in order to be joined to the main criminal investigation into the events of december 1989.14.  on 27 june 2005 and 23 august 2007 the applicant was heard as a witness and as a civil party in the main criminal investigation.15.  the most important procedural steps taken in the main criminal investigation are summarised in association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos.16.  following the entry into force of the new code of criminal procedure in february 2014, jurisdiction over the case was relinquished in favour of the military prosecutor’s office.17.  on 14 october 2015 the prosecutor’s office closed the main investigation, finding that the complaints were partly statute-barred and partly ill-founded.
6.  on 27 july 2005 the applicant was stopped by the traffic police for speeding.7.  by an order of 5 september 2005 the traffic police fined the applicant 60 moldovan lei (mdl) (the equivalent of some 4 euros (eur) at the time).the applicant did not challenge the police order.8.  as the applicant failed to pay the fine, on an unspecified date a bailiff applied to the ocnita district court to have the fine converted into thirty days’ administrative detention, under article 26 § 5 of the code of administrative offences (see paragraph 14 below).according to the bailiff, the applicant had been ordered to pay the fine by 28 february 2006; however, he had failed to do so and had thus acted in bad faith.9.  on 26 may 2006, at a hearing conducted without the presence of the parties, the ocnita district court accepted the bailiff’s request and ordered the applicant’s administrative detention for a period of thirty days.the document constituting the court’s decision was a pre-printed template which the judge had completed by hand with the specific details of the case, such as the names of the judge, the applicant and the bailiff, the relevant dates, the amount of the fine, the applicant’s address and the number of days of detention to be served by the applicant.it did not contain any indication that the applicant had been summoned to appear at the hearing.10.  at 8 a.m. on 12 june 2006 the applicant was arrested at home and placed in detention.at about 5 p.m. the same day he suffered a heart attack and was taken by ambulance to a hospital.11.  on 16 june 2006 the applicant lodged an appeal against the ocnita district court’s decision of 26 may 2006, arguing, inter alia, that he had not been summoned to appear at the hearing of 26 may 2006, that he had had no knowledge of the decision of 26 may 2006 prior to his arrest, and that he had not been given a chance to contest the court’s decision before being placed in detention.the applicant also argued that the traffic police’s order of 5 september 2005 imposing a fine on him for speeding had been abusive because the police had no evidence to prove that it had been his car which had been caught speeding and not other cars on the road.12.  on 30 august 2006 the balti court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal, finding that the applicant had not challenged the traffic police’s order of 5 september 2005 within the statutory time-limit.the court of appeal did not respond to the applicant’s argument about the failure to summon him to the hearing of 26 may 2006.13.  it does not appear from the materials of the case that the applicant served the rest of the detention term.
4.  the applicant, mr gökhan aydın, is a turkish national who was born in 1983. he was detained in tekirdağ f-type prison at the time of the introduction of the application with the court.5.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.6.  on 11 november 2002 the applicant was taken into custody by police officers from the anti-terrorist branch of the istanbul police headquarters on suspicion of membership of tkp/ml-tikko, an illegal organisation.7.  on 14 november 2002 the istanbul state security court ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention.8.  on 26 december 2002 the public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court filed a bill of indictment charging the applicant and ten other persons with attempting to undermine the constitutional order, an offence prescribed by article 146 § 1 of the former criminal code.9.  following the promulgation of law no.5190 of 16 june 2004, the case against the applicant was transferred to 10th chamber of the istanbul assize court.10.  during the proceedings, the first-instance courts examined the applicant’s continued detention at the end of every hearing, either on their own motion or upon the applicant’s request.11.  on 25 december 2007, at the end of the hearing and in the presence of the applicant, the 10th chamber of the istanbul assize court ordered the applicant’s continued detention.the applicant objected to this decision.on 27 december 2007 the 11th chamber of istanbul assize court dismissed his objection without holding an oral hearing and relying on the public prosecutor’s opinion which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative.12.  on 24 march 2009 the applicant was convicted as charged and sentenced to life imprisonment.this decision was upheld by the court of cassation and became final on 20 january 2011.
5.  the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in şanlıurfa.6.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.7.  on 22 july 2008 the applicant was dismissed from her post of officer in the army due to non-compliance with disciplinary rules and immoral behavior.8.  on 14 august 2008 the applicant brought an action before the supreme military administrative court and requested the annulment of her dismissal.9.  on 16 june 2009 the supreme military administrative court dismissed the applicant’s case taking into account “secret documents” submitted by the ministry of defence.these documents were not disclosed to the applicant.10.  on 29 september 2009 the applicant’s request for rectification was rejected by the same court.
the official mentioned that the department for the combat of organised crime (organizētās noziedzības apkarošanas pārvalde) had established the applicant’s address, but that it had declined to launch an investigation on the grounds that a sample of the product sold by the applicant did not contain narcotic or other dangerous substances.a record of the operation (pārbaudes akts), dated 11 june 2004 and signed by four police officers and the applicant, stated, inter alia: “given that company baltijas elektronikas izstrādes has been registered at [the applicant’s] address, and that the applicant himself lives at that address, [the applicant] voluntarily agreed that the apartment be subjected to an inspection (apskate) and to show the tools used to fabricate the medicaments.” 8.  immediately after the test purchase, the same police officers carried out an inspection at the applicant’s apartment.the inspection record of 11 june 2014 listed everything which the police officers had observed during the inspection at the applicant’s three-room apartment, including the composition of the apartment, and detailed content of shelves and boxes, and of the fridge.14.  in june and july 2004 the applicant submitted various complaints to the state police authorities concerning the events of 11 june 2004. an internal inquiry by the internal security office of the state police (valsts policijas iekšējās drošības birojs) was completed on 26 july 2004. it concluded that there had been no violations of law in the conduct of the police officers who had carried out the test purchase and the subsequent inspection of the applicant’s apartment.15.  in addition, the internal security office of the state police refused to initiate criminal proceedings following a complaint lodged by the applicant about the theft by the police officers of weights from his apartment on 11 june 2004 (decision adopted on 25 november 2004), the alleged unauthorised conduct of investigative activities and false testimonies given by one of the police officers present during the inspection (decision adopted on 30 december 2009).17.  on 30 may 2005, following the internal inquiry, the pre-trial investigation department of the state police (valsts policijas galvenās kriminālpolicijas pārvaldes pirmstiesas izmeklēšanas pārvade) dismissed the allegations that the police officers had carried out a search of the applicant’s apartment on 11 june 2004. they concluded that the police officers had verified the facts about the alleged sale of pharmaceutical products.after the test purchase and with the permission of the applicant, they had inspected the legal address of the company “baltijas elektronikas izstrādes” and had taken items in accordance with section 12(1)(23) of the law on the police, which authorised the examination of premises of legal entities (see relevant domestic law section).19.  according to information submitted by the office of the prosecutor general, between december 2004 and march 2012 the applicant complained to the office of the prosecutor general on sixty-two occasions in relation to the events of 11 june 2004, out of which the office examined forty eight complaints.20.  on 17 november 2004 a prosecutor in charge of investigating financial end economic crimes replied to the applicant that the inspection of the applicant’s apartment, which was also the registered address of company “baltijas elektronikas izstrādes”, had been carried out “in accordance with the law”, and that the items from the apartment had been seized, recorded and filmed in accordance with the provisions of the code of criminal procedure.23.  on 27 april 2005 a supervising prosecutor ordered an internal inquiry into the conduct of the police officers at the applicant’s apartment and the seizure of items there on 11 june 2004. the prosecutor noted that the police had had no legal grounds on which to carry out an inspection of the applicant’s apartment, in that the code of administrative offences did not provide for such a measure.the decision stated that the police officers had carried out the investigative measure – an inspection of the applicant’s apartment – on the basis of articles 179 and 183 of the code of criminal procedure.25.  by a final decision of 29 december 2009 a supervising prosecutor from the office of the prosecutor general upheld the decision not to initiate criminal proceedings with regard to the conduct of the police officers on 11 june 2004. the decision stated that the police officers had conducted an inspection and seizure at the applicant’s apartment pursuant to sections 10(1)(6), 12(1)(4) and 12(1)(24) of the law on the police.26.  meanwhile, in august 2009 and again in august 2010 the applicant claimed compensation for non-pecuniary damage from the office of the prosecutor general on the basis of the alleged unlawful activities of police officers on 11 june 2004. on 15 september 2009 the claim was dismissed and the applicant was informed that it was open to him to institute civil damages proceedings.30.  following the pre-trial investigation in the criminal case, in which the applicant was questioned as a witness, on 26 june 2006 the criminal proceedings were terminated owing to lack of evidence that a criminal offence had been committed, and the materials, including the items seized from the applicant’s apartment, were remitted to the vid for the initiation of administrative offence proceedings.it noted that, within the powers vested in the state police under section 18(2) of the law on the police, in june 2004 police officers had inspected the applicant’s apartment in the course of criminal proceedings.
9.  on 2 november 2009 the committee lodged an appeal on points of law against the decision of 7 october 2009 with the court of cassation.on the same date he decided to oblige the committee to comply with the requirements of the writ within two weeks.14.  on 23 march 2010 the bailiff received a response from the committee, stating that it was impossible to reinstate the applicant in his job, since the structure of the committee had been modified and the applicant’s former position did not exist anymore.16.  the applicant sent several letters to the committee and to different officials, complaining that no measures had been taken to enforce the final judgment of 11 august 2009 and requesting that the committee be compelled to comply with that judgment.17.  on 18 july 2011 the bailiff decided to terminate the enforcement proceedings on the grounds that it was impossible to enforce the judgment of 11 august 2009. in particular, the applicant could not be reinstated because his previous position was no longer vacant.21.  by a letter dated 5 march 2012 the bailiff again requested that the committee reinstate the applicant in his previous position and award him compensation for lost earnings until the date of his reinstatement.22.  on 26 april 2012 the bailiff again decided to terminate the enforcement proceedings on the grounds that it was impossible to enforce the judgment of 11 august 2009, since the structural unit of the committee where the applicant had been working had ceased to exist.24.  by a judgment of 16 october 2012 the administrative court decided to grant the applicant’s claim in respect of the payments for his forced absence, stating that the period should be calculated up to 15 december 2011, the day on which that particular unit of the committee had ceased to exist.as to the applicant’s second claim, the administrative court stated that the bailiff’s decision in this respect was lawful, since the applicant’s reinstatement had been impossible.26.  on 21 february 2013 the administrative court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s claim and upheld the administrative court’s decision of 16 october 2012.27.  on 11 march 2013 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law against the decision of 21 february 2013 with the court of cassation.30.  on 4 november 2013 the applicant was invited to the committee and the committee made him a verbal offer of a similar position in another tax inspectorate unit, but this offer was later turned down by the applicant.32.  on 8 november 2013 the head of the human resources department of the committee sent a letter to the applicant, offering to reinstate him in a position similar to his previous one, that is, the position of a tax inspector in current control division no.he claimed that the compensation for his forced absence should amount to amd 9,975,970. in response, the committee informed the applicant that it would consider the above-mentioned sum if the applicant submitted substantiating calculations.36.  on 22 may 2016 the administrative court allowed the applicant’s appeal and quashed the bailiff’s decision of 18 june 2015. that judgment became final on 26 may 2016.
10.  in their duty reports for the above dates, the police officers called by the applicant noted that she had been injured in a domestic dispute and that they had informed her that she could lodge formal complaints against n.c. in the report drafted on 24 june 2007, the police officer on duty also mentioned that when he had arrived at the scene of the incident he had found that n.c. had locked the applicant out of their joint residence.11.  on 3 august and 2 october 2007 the applicant lodged complaints with the prosecutor’s office attached to the petroşani district court, alleging that she had been physically assaulted by her husband in their home, in the presence of their children, on 24 june, and 3 and 8 september 2007. she attached copies of the medical certificates drawn up after the incidents.12.  on 28 august 2007 the applicant also sent a letter to the hunedoara county police chief, in which she alleged that she had been the victim of repeated acts of violence by her husband, who often assaulted her in the presence of their children.14.  in statements dated 12 september 2007, the applicant’s mother and brother told the police that throughout 2007 the applicant had very often come to their house, complaining that n.c. had beaten her, threatened to kill her or that he had locked her out of their apartment.17.  on 13 and 19 december 2007 the applicant wrote to the head prosecutor of the prosecutor’s office attached to the petroşani district court, complaining that n.c., who had moved out of their apartment and had taken two of the children with him, had threatened to kill her when they had accidentally met on the street a week before.she stated that she feared for her life and asked for the proceedings to be speeded up and for protection from n.c. 18.  on the same date, the prosecutor’s office attached to the petroşani district court decided not to press criminal charges against n.c. and imposed an administrative fine of 200 romanian lei (ron) (approximately 50 euros (eur)) on him.the prosecutor held that the applicant had provoked the disputes after drinking alcohol and referred to n.c.’s statements and those of the applicant’s two adult daughters.21.  on 21 april 2008 the applicant lodged a complaint against the prosecutors’ decisions of 19 december 2007 and 25 march 2008 with the petroşani district court, asking that n.c. be charged with bodily harm, be convicted and ordered to pay non-pecuniary damages for the suffering she had endured.she alleged that the administrative fine, which n.c. had refused to pay, had not had a deterrent effect on him as he had continued to assault her after the prosecutor’s decision of 19 december 2007. she also asked the court to impose criminal sanctions on him and requested permission to submit a recording of a conversation with n.c. in order to prove that she had been assaulted and threatened by him in september 2007. in the last paragraph of her submission, the applicant stated that she feared for her life and asked the court to “punish [n.c.] as provided for by law ... to forbid him from entering the apartment ... and to forbid him from coming near [her] ...”.23.  by an interlocutory judgment of 23 june 2008, the petrosani district court decided to partially quash the prosecutor’s decision of 19 december 2007 in respect of the crime of bodily harm and the penalty imposed for it and to examine that part of the case on the merits.the court considers, also in view of the evidence collected during the criminal investigation, that such assaults by the defendant took place principally because of the injured party’s alcohol consumption and because she was not taking adequate care of her four children.the defendant’s acts are not so dangerous to society as to be considered crimes and he shall therefore be acquitted of the three counts of bodily harm and shall pay an administrative fine of ron 500.” 27.  the court further dismissed the applicant’s claims for damages as ill-founded, without giving reasons.29.  on 12 may 2009 the hunedoara county court dismissed as ill‑founded the applicant’s appeal on points of law and upheld the decision of 17 february 2009. the court held that the acts of violence committed by n.c. had been provoked by the applicant and had therefore not reached the level of severity required for them to fall within the scope of the crime of bodily harm.31.  in the meantime, on 27 march 2008, the applicant asked the hunedoara county police to apply the measures provided by law in order to stop the constant assaults she was being subjected to by n.c. she stressed that she felt that her life was in danger.33.  the applicant’s letter of 27 march 2008, requesting the police to take the necessary measures in order to stop the constant assaults against her, was not taken into consideration.
7.  on 26 october 2011 the applicant visited the emergency medicine centre of the university hospital centre zagreb (centar za hitnu medicinu kliničkog bolničkog centra zagreb) owing to the pain in her neck and back.8.  the following day she visited her chosen general practitioner, who found that the applicant was unable to work and granted her sick leave starting from 27 october 2011 on the basis of an illness.she argued that she should be granted sick leave entitlement on the basis of the work-related injury that she had sustained on 20 april 2009. she submitted medical documentation in support of her argument.10.  following the lodging of the complaint, the applicant’s general practitioner referred the applicant for an expert medical evaluation, enclosing her medical documentation with the request for expert evaluation.11. on 6 december 2011 an authorised doctor of the zagreb office of the croatian health insurance fund (hrvatski zavod za zdravstveno osiguranje, područni ured zagreb – hereinafter “the zagreb office”), specialised in physical medicine and rehabilitation, examined the applicant’s medical documentation and reported finding no direct causal link between the work-related injury sustained by the applicant in 2009 and the sick leave she had begun on 27 october 2011.12. the zagreb office forwarded the report to the applicant and informed her of her right to seek the delivery of a written decision on the matter of her sick leave entitlement.13.  by a decision of 23 january 2012 the zagreb office, relying on the report of 6 december 2011, refused the applicant’s request that the sick leave from 27 october 2011 be granted on the basis of her work-related injury.14.  the applicant challenged this decision before the central office of the fund (hrvatski zavod za zdravstveno osiguranje, direkcija – hereinafter “the central office”), submitting further medical documentation and requesting that her sick leave be granted on the basis of her work-related injury.15.  following the appeal by the applicant, the central office asked an in-house medical commission to conduct an expert examination regarding the matter.on 16 march 2012 the medical commission, consisting of three doctors of medicine, examined the applicant’s overall medical documentation and reported that her sick leave from 27 october 2011 could not be granted on the basis of the work-related injury that she had sustained in 2009.16.  on 5 april 2012 the central office, relying on the findings of the medical commission, dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of the zagreb office.she contested the findings of the fund’s expert medical bodies, relied on her medical documentation and alleged that it indicated a causal link between the work-related injury she had sustained in 2009 and her sick leave.the zagreb administrative court then dismissed the proposal to hear the applicant and to obtain a further expert medical report on the matter and closed the hearing.it stressed, in particular, that two expert medical bodies of the fund, as well as the applicant’s chosen general practitioner, had established without a doubt that the applicant’s sick leave beginning on 27 october 2011 was not linked to the work-related injury she had sustained in 2009. it also stressed that the applicant, by the submissions in her administrative action, did not manage to put into doubt the findings of the expert medical bodies and that thus there was no need to hear her or to obtain a further expert medical report on the matter.21.  the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint, alleging that the proceedings had been unfair in that she had been excluded from the procedure of commissioning and obtaining the administrative authorities’ expert reports, whereas the zagreb administrative court had refused to hear her and to obtain an independent expert medical report on the matter.
9.  the proactive investigation continued until 17 september 2008. on that date a report was drawn up by the police officer in charge summarising all the evidence gathered, summarising all the evidence gather in the framework of the proactive investigation.12.  a report drawn up on 25 september 2008 by the police officer in charge mentioned information on the existence of a criminal organisation which had served as the grounds for using observation and infiltration at the proactive search stage, as well as the confirmations obtained in the framework of the said special investigative measures.15.  by written submissions of the federal prosecutor of 29 december 2009, the indictments division of the antwerp court of appeal was instructed to verify, pursuant to article 235ter cic, the conformity of the confidential file with the evidence contained in the criminal case file and to ensure that there were no irregularities (see paragraphs 50-54 below).17.  by interim judgment of 20 may 2010, the indictments division stated that, as regards the scrutiny of the special investigative measures, it had to verify the information in the confidential file concerning not only the reactive investigation but also the proactive one.20.  as regards in particular the use of those methods during the proactive investigation, the division stated the following: “the proactive investigation, including the special investigative methods of observation and infiltration, fulfilled the conditions of articles 28bis, 47sexies and 47octies of the code of criminal procedure.the reports in question demonstrate that the special investigative methods used during the proactive investigation met the conditions of proportionality and subsidiarity.” ... 22.  the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law against the judgment of 24 june 2010. that appeal was dismissed by judgment of the court of cassation on 21 september 2010. relying on article 6 of the convention, the applicant complained that the criminal file contained neither the report on the basis of which the public prosecutor had instigated a proactive investigation on 10 may 2006 nor the documents relating to that proactive investigation.... 27.  as regards the applicant’s request for a face-to-face meeting with the undercover agents, the court ruled as follows: “having regard to the procedure followed, to the proceedings relating to the special investigative methods implemented in the indictments division from the judicial investigation to the hearing stage, to the evidence before us, to the fact that two undercover agents drew up a report and that their results were compared, to the fact that the defendants were able to call witnesses and therefore, in particular at the request of the [applicant] and the second defendant, witnesses were heard in connection with the [applicant’s] statements on the undercover agents, and to the fact that the court and the defendants were able to compare the reports on the evidence gathered by the undercover agents with such objective facts as the items discovered during the searches (e.g. the card), the conversation between the undercover agent billy and the [applicant], sms messages (e.g. between the [applicant] and billy) and telephone conversations (e.g. the conversation with the third defendant), the court considers it unnecessary for the establishment of the truth, the exercise of the rights of the defence and the safeguard on a fair trial for the undercover agents to be heard.the [applicant] and the second defendant only wish to put questions to the undercover agent billy concerning the recovery of the debit indicator allegedly thrown away by the [applicant].the defendants have an opportunity at the hearing to put forward their pleas concerning the recovery of the debit indicator and to contradict the undercover agent’s version.” 28.  the court replied to the applicant’s plea that he had been unable to verify whether an undercover agent had been engaged in incitement to crime in the present case as follows: “in the present case the undercover agent only acted in the framework of the offence mentioned in point c of the indictment.[that offence] covered the period from january to june 2009, whereas the judicial investigation had begun on 18 september 2008. on the basis, inter alia, of the regular reports on the undercover work which were submitted during the judicial investigation and the text messages and telephone calls tapped, the agreements and transactions relating to those facts, as well as the prior operations, [were] scrutinised.as before the court of appeal, he alleged that there had been a breach of the right to a fair trial, the rights of the defence and the principle of adversarial proceedings, complaining more specifically of the use by the trial courts of evidence gathered against him even though that evidence transpired from the confidential case file, which had been brought to the attention of the defence neither during the judicial investigation nor during the investigation into the merits of the case.it dismissed the argument concerning access to the confidential file as follows: “the fact that, inter alia during the investigation into the merits of the case, the defendant was not allowed to consult the confidential file does not in itself amount to a violation of article 6 of the [convention].that restriction of the right to adversarial proceedings is exceptional throughout the proceedings and is counterbalanced by the fact that the lawfulness of the investigative methods implemented is overseen by an independent and impartial tribunal, in this case the indictments division, which has discretionary power to ascertain that the content of the criminal file, including the implementation report and the [reports] on the proactive investigation, correspond to the evidence in the confidential file.the ground of appeal accordingly has no basis in law.” 33.  as regards the face-to-face meeting with the undercover agents, the court of cassation primarily adduced the following: “article 6 § 3 (d) of the [convention] secures the defendant’s right to examine or have examined witnesses against him and to obtain the attendance and examination of witnesses on his behalf; that provision does not prevent the judge from using his unfettered discretion to assess the necessity and relevance of hearing a witness who has been requested and to reject such request, unless that rejection violated the parties’ right to present evidence.the ground of appeal accordingly has no basis in law.” 34.  for the remainder, the court of cassation held that the appellate courts had legally justified their decisions and that in adopting the reasons for the impugned judgment, particularly those concerning the alleged incitement, those courts had replied to the applicant’s specific plea relating to that matter.
), as applicable at the relevant time, the president of the supreme court automatically held the office of the president of the judicial council.of the remaining seventeen members, eight were elected by judges and three were appointed by each the national council of slovakia, the president of slovakia, and the government of slovakia.this decision followed another decision of the judicial council taken on the same day under section 120(2)(c) of the act to file disciplinary charges against the applicant.9.  the accusation was that the applicant had committed what was classified as a “serious disciplinary offence” by failing to comply with his duties, such as abstaining from behaviour which might cast doubt on the respectability of his judicial office, abiding by the principles of judicial ethics and enhancing the good reputation of the judiciary.in particular, reference was made to the fact that the applicant (i) had filed a criminal complaint accusing the president of the supreme court of abuse of authority, and (ii) had publicly stated that the distribution of cases at the supreme court had been modified with a view to allowing its president to influence the outcome of proceedings.10.  under section 22(7) of the act, the decision to suspend him entailed a 50% reduction in the applicant’s salary for the duration of the disciplinary proceedings.the same provision prevented him from spending time at the workplace, with the exception of time which was necessary for asserting his rights in relation to the administration of human resources.the withheld part of the applicant’s salary might or might not be restored to him, depending on the outcome of the disciplinary proceedings (section 22(8) and (9) of the act).11.  the applicant sought protection of his rights in relation to the decision to suspend him as a judge by way of what he termed an appeal (rozklad) to the judicial council of 29 october 2009, an administrative-law action of the same day, and a constitutional complaint of 2 november 2009.13.  as to the applicant’s submission to the judicial council, its president responded to it in a letter of 27 january 2010 informing the applicant that the law did not allow for decisions of the council to be challenged by means of appeals to the council and that its decisions were reviewable by administrative tribunals.14.  on 13 may 2010 the bratislava regional court discontinued the proceedings on the applicant’s administrative-law action and on 23 february 2011 the supreme court upheld that decision following an appeal lodged by the applicant.the courts found that the decision to suspend the applicant had been of a preliminary nature, that it had not amounted to a determination of his rights with final effect, and that as such it had no bearing on his fundamental rights and freedoms.15.  on 17 june 2011 the applicant lodged a fresh complaint with the constitutional court, alleging a breach of article 6 § 1 of the convention on account of the ordinary courts’ decisions, as detailed above.17.  according to a communication from the judicial council dated 6 august 2016, submitted and relied on by the government, the applicant had addressed various submissions to the council, but had never requested it to lift his temporary suspension, pursuant to section 22(5) of the act (as applicable at the relevant time – see paragraph 24 below).21.  on that ground the supreme court discontinued the disciplinary proceedings against the applicant on 13 may 2011. the applicant challenged that decision by way of an appeal, only to withdraw it on 11 august 2011. the decision thus became final on 27 september 2011.
by a ruling of 29 may 2012 the administrative court refused to examine the applicant’s complaint, underlining that the acts adopted by the president of the republic or the seimas could not be challenged in the administrative courts (see paragraph 108 below).in the character assessment report for 2012 drafted by the prison administration for the purpose of a pardon, it was further noted that the applicant had fully admitted his guilt and that no civil claims were outstanding against him.in a final decision of 5 december 2003, the court of appeal took into account the fact that, as noted in the court decision convicting the applicant, he had committed the crimes in cold blood (šaltakraujiškai), those crimes had had particularly grave consequences for society, and the applicant had two prior convictions.that being so, on the basis of the applicant’s character reports which lukiškės prison administration had drawn up for the purpose of possible transfer, the courts observed that in 2003 and 2008 he had received disciplinary punishments and had been placed for ten and fifteen days in a punishment cell, having been found in possession of a mobile phone, which was forbidden under the prison regulations.although from 2003 until 2008 the applicant had received positive assessments and his behaviour was not conflictual, it was only in 2009, one month before he had asked the prison administration to intervene on his behalf so that he could be transferred to a correctional home, that he had fully admitted his guilt for the crimes committed.lastly, it was also pertinent that throughout his imprisonment the prison administration had assessed the applicant’s behaviour only as “satisfactory” (patenkinamai); he had not been assessed positively (teigiamai) until 2011. the courts thus held that it was not yet possible to conclude that the applicant had really changed and that therefore it was safe to make the conditions of serving his sentence less strict by transferring him to a correctional home.on the basis of the applicant’s character assessments by lukiškės prison administration, the court held that the applicant’s behaviour had clearly improved as of april 2011, which was also proved by his active participation in the social rehabilitation programmes.in a final decision in that regard, the court of appeal upheld the decision of the lower court, holding that the maintenance of the life sentence for aggravated murder was substantiated and corresponded to the basic principles for imposition of a penalty taking into account the established circumstances, the gravity of the offence and the personality of the perpetrator.the assessment of march 2014 stated that the applicant had not paid compensation to the victims of the crimes he had committed (turi priteistą civilinį ieškinį, kurio nedengia) and had only partly acknowledged his guilt.44.  in 2015 the applicant asked the vilnius regional administrative court to refer to the constitutional court the question whether article 158 of the code for the execution of sentences, which prohibits life prisoners’ release on parole, was in compliance with article 29 of the constitution, which prohibits discrimination, and with article 14 of the european convention on human rights, as well as article 1 of its protocol no 12.referral of a question to the constitutional court was within the discretionary powers of the administrative court, and the parties’ wish to have the question referred to the constitutional court did not bind the administrative court.52.  the relatives of some of the applicants in this case (k. matiošaitis, r. lenkaitis, a. kazlauskas, s. katkus and j. maksimavičius) or of other life prisoners have addressed the state authorities asking for legislative amendments establishing the possibility of parole for life prisoners in lithuanian law.57.  a month later, the committee on legal affairs (teisės ir teisėtvarkos komitetas) of the seimas wrote to the petitioners stating that while lithuanian penal legislation was in conformity with the european convention on human rights, the committee did not disregard the possibility that because society had developed, penal legislation could also evolve.58.  by a letter of 5 july 2013, the ministry of justice informed the third applicant, s. katkus, that on 22 december 2011 the seimas had amended the code for the execution of sentences, including its provisions on conditional release.59.  by a letter of 18 july 2013, the committee on legal affairs of the seimas informed the third applicant, s. katkus, that the question of release on parole for life prisoners whose behaviour indicated that they were no longer dangerous to others was very complex and had wide social, legal and moral repercussions.
their agreement, which was approved by the szolnok district court, placed the daughter with her mother and granted the applicant contact every other weekend, during the school holidays, easter sunday, whit monday, the first holiday following christmas eve and three weeks during the summer holidays.9.  the applicant could exercise contact on 25 and 26 june and 24 july 2006. however, his daughter was reluctant to stay with him during the summer holidays and preferred to spend her holidays with her grandparents.10.  the applicant’s further attempts to exercise contact failed, seemingly because in the mother’s view it was up to the child to decide whether she wanted to see her father.the parties’ attempt to stabilise the relationship between the applicant and his daughter during the suspension of the custody proceedings were unsuccessful and the szolnok district court ordered that any meetings between them take place at a child protection centre.13.  in a judgment of 10 june 2008 the szolnok district court reduced the applicant’s contact with his daughter to every first and third saturday of the month from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. it held that the previously agreed form of contact was unlikely to be implemented and would only lead to further proceedings before the guardianship authority, which would be to the detriment of the child.the court dismissed the applicant’s claim concerning custody, stating that the child’s wishes had to be taken into account, given that she was now fourteen years of age.14.  on 19 november 2008 the jász-nagykun-szolnok county regional court upheld the first-instance judgment in essence but amended the applicant’s contact rights to every other saturday between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. until 31 may 2009, and all weekend-long visits every other weekend as of 1 june 2009.on 29 january 2010 the szolnok district court dismissed an action brought by him seeking to decrease the amount of child allowance, and a review of the way contact should be exercised.the court established that since the court decision of 19 november 2008, no contact had taken place between the applicant and his daughter and, despite a request by the applicant, the guardianship authority had taken no steps to implement the judgment on the grounds that he had made no efforts to resolve the conflict with his daughter.the court also found that in the absence of any significant change in circumstances, there was no reason to amend the arrangements for contact.17.  in a final judgment of 15 april 2010 the jász-nagykun-szolnok county regional court reviewed the applicant’s parental rights, granting him contact every other weekend on the condition that the daughter, who was by now already 16 years old, be allowed to visit him by herself.the court dismissed the applicant’s request for a decrease in the child allowance.18.  it appears from the case file that meetings between the applicant and his daughter only took place sporadically in 2010 and did not happen at all in 2011, despite the applicant lodging numerous enforcement requests with the guardianship authority.on 12 december 2011 the budapest regional guardianship authority appointed the budapest xv district guardianship authority to deal with any further proceedings concerning the enforcement of the applicant’s contact rights, noting that at that point there were eight enforcement requests pending, the oldest dating back to january 2010.20.  the applicant lodged a number of requests seeking to end his obligation to pay child allowance, which were finally accepted by the budapest iv and xv district court on 10 october 2012 and on appeal by the budapest high court on 3 september 2013. nonetheless, an additional request by him for the reimbursement of the child allowance he had already paid was dismissed at both levels of jurisdiction.
8.  on 27 november 2000 the applicant applied to the croatian employment bureau’s regional office in slavonski brod (hrvatski zavod za zapošljavanje, područna služba slavonski brod, hereinafter “the slavonski brod bureau”), for unemployment benefit.9.  on 6 december 2000 he was granted unemployment benefit of 900 croatian kunas (hrk) per month[1] for the period between 21 november 2000 and 10 july 2013, provided that no grounds for terminating payment or the applicant’s entitlement to payment arose before the end of the period.11.  on 11 january 2001 the applicant’s employer brought a counterclaim and asked the court to set 20 november 2000 as the day of the termination of his employment (sudski raskid ugovora o radu).at the same time it ordered the applicant to reimburse the severance pay he had received, and dismissed the remainder of the employer’s counterclaim.13.  on 15 february 2008 the slavonski brod county court (županijski sud u slavonskom brodu) reversed the first-instance judgment in the part ordering the applicant’s reinstatement and decided that his employment had been terminated on 23 january 2007. it also awarded the applicant damages.15.  on 2 june 2008 the slavonski brod bureau rejected the applicant’s claim, finding that it had been lodged outside the time-limit from the termination of his employment on 23 january 2007, as provided by section 31 of the job placement and unemployment insurance act (hereinafter “the job placement act”).16.  the applicant appealed to the central service of the croatian employment bureau (hrvatski zavod za zapošljavanje, središnja služba, hereinafter “the central bureau”).in particular, he contended that the time-limit for lodging the unemployment benefit claim should not have been calculated from 23 january 2007, given that the termination of his employment had only been established by the slavonski brod county court judgment of 15 february 2008.17.  on 15 october 2008 the central bureau, acting as a second-instance administrative authority, dismissed the applicant’s appeal as unfounded and upheld the decision of the slavonski brod bureau.it also noted that the applicant himself had informed the slavonski brod bureau of the outcome of the labour dispute, and had communicated with one of its officials on 27 march 2008 and 2 april 2008. he had also been informed of the consequences of the slavonski brod county court judgment setting 23 january 2007 as the day of the termination of his employment.18.  in an administrative claim the applicant argued that he had only learned about the day of the termination of his employment after receiving the slavonski brod county court’s judgment in march 2008, and that the time-limit for lodging the unemployment benefit claim should have been calculated from that date.20.  a subsequent constitutional complaint by the applicant was dismissed by the constitutional court on 4 april 2012. the decision was served on the applicant’s representative on 9 may 2012.21.  on 21 november 2008 the slavonski brod bureau found that the applicant had not been due unemployment benefit from 21 november 2000 to 31 march 2008. given that the applicant had already reimbursed part of the unduly received sum, it ordered him to reimburse the rest within 15 days of receipt of the decision at issue.22.  on 16 july 2013 the central bureau upheld the decision of the slavonski brod bureau, save in the part concerning the start of the deadline for the applicant having to pay back the money.it found that according to the civil courts’ rulings in the labour dispute the applicant had not been entitled to unemployment benefit for the period up to 23 january 2007. it further found that his unemployment benefit claim for the period after that day had already been dismissed in another set of proceedings.
6.  the background to the case, including the transdniestrian armed conflict of 1991-1992 and the subsequent events, is set out in ilaşcu and others v. moldova and russia ([gc], no.7.  on 21 january 2005 the applicant was arrested by the authorities of the break-away “moldavian republic of transdniestria” (the “mrt”) on charges of robbery.8.  during the criminal proceedings, two and a half years after the robbery, the victim of the robbery was asked to identify the applicant from a picture.the applicant claims that no procedural guarantees were in place and suggests that the investigator indicated to the victim which picture to choose.moreover, the applicant’s alibi regarding his being away from the “mrt” on the date when the offence was committed had been dismissed without any investigation.according to the applicant, at the time of the alleged offence, he was in moscow.he obtained a letter from his employer to confirm that on the particular day of the offence the applicant had been at work.the courts refused to accept a copy of the letter as evidence and/or to check the information contained in it.the food was inedible and therefore detainees had to rely on the food supplied to them by their relatives.there was no dentist in the prison, and the inmates had to remove each other’s teeth in emergencies.11.  on 26 september 2006 the supreme court of the “mrt” dismissed the applicant’s appeal.12.  on an unspecified date after his final conviction, the applicant’s mother engaged a lawyer with a view to lodging an application to the court.she later went to visit the applicant to obtain his signature on the application form.however, the prison guards refused to allow her to do so on the grounds that the application was not in russian and that it had to be authorised first by the prison authorities.14.  it appears from the material in the case file and from the parties’ submissions that the applicant never informed the authorities of moldova about his detention in the “mrt” or about the criminal proceedings against him.
the court held as follows: “on the basis of [the submitted documents] it appears that [the applicant] is the head of the department of pharmacology at the [yaroslavl state medical academy], so a person with organisational/executive functions; the witnesses in the case are students at the above [academy], who had been taking or were to take pharmacology exams.one of the [witnesses] in the case made a statement expressing concern as to the possible exertion of pressure on him by [the applicant], as well as to the possible emergence of difficulties for him in further studies.on both occasions the court held that the grounds relied on by the court when applying the custodial measure still persisted, and that the applicant was charged with eight counts of a serious crime, committed between december 2007 and february 2009 and punishable by three to seven years’ imprisonment.all of the above, as well as the position which the applicant had taken in the proceedings, gave the court grounds to believe that, if released, he might exert pressure on witnesses (the students at the medical academy), destroy evidence or otherwise interfere with the proceedings.in particular, according to the investigator’s submissions made before the court, two more witnesses in the case had explained that they had had problems passing their pharmacology exams and that they believed it to be a means of making them change their position in the case in respect of the applicant.13.  on 30 july 2009 the district court further extended the applicant’s detention until 19 september 2009. the court held that some of the grounds on which it had relied when extending the applicant’s detention were no longer valid.however, it noted the gravity of the charges against the applicant, the fact that he was suspected of having committed a further fifteen similar offences and that three more criminal cases had been opened against him in that connection in february-march 2009, and the fact that on 29 july 2009 seventeen other criminal cases had been opened against him on suspicion of twenty-nine criminal offences.the court further relied on the applicant’s refusal to give evidence as either a suspect or an accused and the potential for him to influence the witnesses (the academy’s students), destroy evidence and otherwise obstruct the course of justice.the court found unconvincing the applicant’s argument to the effect that the students had already taken their pharmacology exams and were on summer holidays, since this did not exclude the risk of the applicant’s meeting them outside the academy.21.  on 18 may, 15 june and 29 june 2009 respectively, the investigator again refused the applicant’s requests, relying on the ongoing investigation and the risk of the family visits obstructing the establishment of the truth.22.  meanwhile, on 1 june 2009 the district court found unlawful the decision of 23 march 2009 refusing the applicant’s request to see his wife and obliged the investigator to reconsider the applicant’s request for a family visit.24.  on 24 july 2009 the investigator decided to allow the applicant’s wife to visit the applicant in the remand prison, but limited the visit to fifteen minutes.25.  the applicant challenged the ruling that the visit was limited to fifteen minutes and had to take place in the presence of the investigator.26.  on 11 august 2009 the leninskiy district court found the decision of 24 july 2009, in so far as it limited the duration of the visit and imposed the presence of the investigator, unlawful.28.  in view of the repeated violations of the applicant’s rights, the yaroslavl regional prosecutor’s office sent the head of the investigating department an information letter on the inadmissibility of the practice of limiting the constitutional rights of defendants and on the need to examine the issue of imposing disciplinary sanctions on the investigator in charge of the applicant’s case.
6.  the background to the case, including the transdniestrian armed conflict of 1991-1992 and the subsequent events, is set out in ilaşcu and others v. moldova and russia ([gc], no.7.  in 2001 the applicant was arrested in the self-proclaimed “moldavian republic of transdniestria” (the “mrt”) on charges of murder.8.  according to the applicant, during his pre-trial detention he was subjected to ill-treatment to make him confess to committing the murder.9.  after his conviction the applicant’s mother made many requests to various ukrainian official bodies to obtain the transfer of her son to a ukrainian prison.in particular, the ministry of foreign affairs of ukraine informed the applicant that it had contacted its counterpart in moldova, which had informed it that moldova could not secure the applicant’s transfer to a ukrainian prison because it did not have control over the territory of the “mrt”.in a letter to the applicant’s mother, the “mrt” authorities stated that they would only transfer the applicant to a ukrainian prison after the conclusion of a treaty between ukraine and the “mrt” which would make the transfer of prisoners possible.the applicant’s mother went so far as to initiate court proceedings against the ukrainian ministry of foreign affairs, denouncing its lack of action, but she was not successful.10.  on several occasions the applicant’s representative also contacted the moldovan authorities, enquiring about the status of the transdniestrian region and, on at least two occasions, asking them for assistance with the question of the applicant’s transfer to a ukrainian prison.it does not appear from the material submitted by the applicant and his mother that he complained to the moldovan authorities about alleged breaches of his convention rights by the “mrt” authorities.in a letter of 25 april 2003 the prosecutor general’s office of moldova informed the applicant’s representative that it had contacted the prosecuting authorities of the “mrt” and requested the necessary documents to have the applicant transferred to a ukrainian prison.it is not clear from the case file whether the “mrt” authorities reacted to that letter.in another letter sent to the applicant’s representative by the office of the president of the republic of moldova, the lawyer was informed that the moldovan authorities were unable to bring about the applicant’s transfer to a ukrainian prison while the transdniestrian conflict remained unsettled.11.  the applicant’s mother also wrote to the osce mission in moldova, which informed her that her letter had been forwarded to the ukrainian embassy in chisinau.13.  on 24 may 2006 the applicant was found hanged in the gym of the prison in which he was being detained.it does not appear that the applicant’s mother requested or obtained a medical forensic report concerning the circumstances of his death.
6.  the background to the case, including the transdniestrian armed conflict of 1991-1992 and the subsequent events, is set out in ilaşcu and others v. moldova and russia ([gc], no.48787/99, §§ 28-185, echr 2004‑vii) and catan and others v. the republic of moldova and russia ([gc], nos.at the time of the events they were living in the self-proclaimed “moldovan republic of transdniestria” (the “mrt”).8.  on 7 april 2010 the first applicant was arrested by agents of the secret service of the “mrt” on charges of treason and/or espionage undertaken for the republic of moldova.a search was carried out in the applicants’ apartment and many of their belongings – such as pictures, computers and a bank card – were seized.9.  on 16 december 2010, a tribunal from the “mrt” convicted the first applicant and sentenced him to fifteen years’ imprisonment.following international pressure, on 5 may 2011 the president of the “mrt” pardoned him.10.  during his detention the first applicant met on several occasions with representatives of the “mrt” secret services, including the chief of the secret services, and was led to believe that his family might suffer if he refused to cooperate with them.on another occasion he was asked to write a letter to the foreign ambassadors to moldova “disclosing” the fact that the moldovan secret services were spying on the foreign embassies based in chisinau.he subsequently was given to understand by representatives of the “mrt” secret services that the letter had served the purpose of creating tensions between chisinau and western countries and that the whole matter, including his arrest, was being coordinated from moscow.11.  the second applicant could only visit the first applicant on a limited number of occasions during his detention and lawyers representing the first applicant in the proceedings before the court were denied access to him on the grounds that they were not members of the “transdniestrian bar association”.12.  in the meantime, the moldovan authorities made numerous attempts to secure the first applicant’s release.in particular, the problem of his detention in the “mrt” was raised by the moldovan authorities with the european union and the united states authorities in april 2010 in brussels.the moldovan delegation distributed a circular letter during the april 2010 session of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe and raised the first applicant’s situation during meetings of the committee of ministers of the council of europe in january and february 2011. the first applicant’s situation was also raised by the moldovan authorities in their discussions with the osce representatives in chisinau, and a criminal investigation was initiated by the moldovan prosecutor’s office in respect of the applicant’s detention in the “mrt”.13.  the moldovan government also awarded financial assistance to the first applicant’s family during the period of the first applicant’s detention in the “mrt” and transferred to them ownership of a flat in chisinau worth 53,000 euros (eur) after the first applicant’s release from detention.
5.  the applicant was born in 1960 and is detained in vadul lui voda.6.  on 22 february 2002 at 7 a.m. the applicant was arrested and placed in detention.she was released at 4.40 p.m. on the same day after a court had found that her detention had been abusive and had ordered her release.7.  in the meantime, during her detention, the applicant was subjected to ill-treatment by the police.in particular, she was punched and strangled.after release, the applicant went to a hospital, where she was diagnosed with concussion and multiple bruises on her head and neck.she lodged a criminal complaint in relation to the above-mentioned facts; however, it was not successful.8.  on an unspecified date, the applicant initiated civil proceedings against the state, claiming compensation for unlawful detention and ill‑treatment.9.  by a final judgment of 9 august 2012, the supreme court of justice found a breach of the applicant’s rights, as guaranteed by articles 3 and 5 of the convention, on account of her unlawful detention and ill-treatment on 22 february 2002. the supreme court also found a breach of the applicant’s rights, as guaranteed by articles 6 and 13 of the convention, on account of the length and ineffectiveness of the criminal investigation conducted into the applicant’s complaints of abusive actions on the part of the police.the supreme court awarded her 3,200 euros (eur) in compensation.
z.b.” 11.  on the same day a record of the examination was drawn up by the investigator in charge of the case, who examined z.b.’s body at the headquarters of military unit no.15.  on 17 november 2009 the investigator also took signature and writing samples from the soldiers of the military unit in order to identify the author of the written note found at the crime scene.16.  on 19 november 2009 the investigator requested the khachmaz district department of education to provide the investigation with the signature and samples of the applicant’s son’s writing.709 dated 27 january 2010 concluded that the coloured elements used in the writing of the note in question and of the pen found at the scene of the crime had the same chemical characteristics.died ... and the agents of the prosecuting authorities went to the scene of the crime, but it was not possible for them to inspect the scene of the crime, given the foggy weather conditions in the mountainous area.the military commander who carried out the preliminary inspection of the scene of the crime presented the collected material evidence to the gazakh military prosecutor’s office.in order to reconstruct the conditions in which the incident took place, the scene of the crime should again be inspected ...” 23.  on 11 january 2010 the investigator visited the “a” military post and inspected the scene of the crime.it further found that the investigator had not had the right to decide to destroy the material evidence found at the scene of the crime.that decision was identical in its wording to the investigator’s previous decision of 9 february 2010, except for the part concerning the preservation of the written note found at the scene of the crime and two newly added paragraphs.moreover, relying on the questioning of the expert on 23 march 2010, the investigator concluded that the seam of the left pocket of z.b.’s uniform had been unstitched because it had come into contact with his service weapon after his suicide and not as a result of any ill-treatment.he complained of the ineffectiveness of the criminal investigation, pointing out that, taking into consideration that there had been a national holiday in the country from 20 to 28 march 2010, it had been impossible to carry out a new investigation between 19 and 29 march 2010. the applicant also argued that the investigator should have questioned z.b.’s parents and relatives – not the two soldiers in question – in order to establish whether z.b.38.  as can be seen from the documents in the case file, on 21 april 2010 the military prosecutor of the republic of azerbaijan overruled the investigator’s decision of 29 march 2010 and remitted the case for fresh examination.despite the court’s explicit request to the government that they submit copies of all the documents relating to the criminal proceedings concerning z.b.’s death, the government failed to provide the court with a copy of the decision of 21 april 2010 of the military prosecutor of the republic of azerbaijan.the government failed to provide the court with a copy of the decision of 23 july 2010 of the military prosecutor of the republic of azerbaijan.he also complained of the investigator’s failure to address the contradictions in the statements of the soldiers relating to the alleged existence of a fiancée and a mother-in-law and the alleged family problems of z.b.
4.  the applicants were born in 1978, 1980 and 2007 respectively.5.  the first applicant came to bulgaria in 1997. in 2001 he was granted long-term resident status, and in 2003 – permanent resident status.in 2005 he married the second applicant, and in 2007 the third applicant, their son, was born.6.  on 29 may 2008 the head of the national security service issued an order withdrawing the first applicant’s residence permit, ordering his expulsion and imposing a ten-year ban on his re‑entering bulgaria on the ground that his presence in the country represented a “serious threat to national security”.factual grounds justifying the order were not indicated; it was merely noted that it was based on “proposal no.7.  that proposal, drawn up by the national security service on 27 may 2008 and initially classified, was declassified in 2016 and has been submitted by the government.it stated that the first applicant was a member of a “russian criminal group” implicated in money laundering, extortion, smuggling, illegal arms deals and the financing of “terrorist groups” on the territory of the russian federation.it said further that the first applicant had lowered bulgaria’s international reputation, by “implicating the country in the financing of terrorist organisations, transnational criminality, corruption and drug trafficking”.8.  on 12 june 2008 the first applicant applied for judicial review of the order of 29 may 2008. he denied the allegations against him and stated that his family resided in bulgaria and that the measures against him breached his convention rights.in addition, he presented a certificate that he had no criminal convictions in bulgaria.9.  in a final judgment of 8 january 2009 the supreme administrative court dismissed the application for judicial review and held that the 29 may 2008 order was lawful.after summarising the allegations made in proposal no.b848, it held merely that they were sufficient to justify a conclusion that the first applicant represented a threat to national security.furthermore, it dismissed his arguments relating to his family life, considering that “any restriction of the rights under the convention is justified [when based] on national security considerations, in cases where foreign citizens’ behaviour threatens the national security and the public order of the state where they reside.” 10.  the first applicant was expelled on 24 april 2009. it is unclear whether the second and third applicants remained in bulgaria after that.in 2012 the first and second applicants had another child.
5.  the applicant was born in 1941 and lives in the small village of yamna, which forms part of yaremche, a resort town located in the carpathian mountains in the ivano-frankivsk region of ukraine.6.  on 16 july 1996 the executive committee of yaremche town council (“the executive committee”) allotted a plot of land next to the applicant’s house to st john’s church to build a new cemetery (“the new cemetery”).7.  as is evident from the photographs submitted by the applicant, as of the date when they were taken (which is not specified) her land was adjacent to the cemetery.the nearest row of graves was about a metre from the fence (some eleven metres from the house) and was clearly visible from the applicant’s yard.8.  according to the applicant’s statements, at the time, when she lodged the present application, her family was routinely disturbed in its daily life by the sight of funeral processions and the sound of people mourning by the graves.in addition, the well from which the applicant’s family drew water for drinking and other household needs was situated some twenty-five metres from the cemetery and they were worried it could become contaminated with the by-products of human decomposition.12.  on an unspecified date in 2001 the applicant received authorisation from the municipality to bury her son in the old cemetery in yamna (“the old cemetery”) in exchange for a promise not to contest the location of the new cemetery.14.  on an unspecified date in 2002 the applicant instituted court proceedings seeking the revocation of the executive committee’s decision of 25 june 2002 and the prohibition of burials.17.  on 23 june 2003 the acting chief sanitary officer of the ivano‑frankivsk region sent a letter to the mayor of yaremche, demanding that he take urgent measures to bring the new cemetery in yamna into conformity with the applicable law.18.  on 24 july 2003 the yaremche court found that the bailiffs’ service had failed to act to enforce the judgment of 16 january 2003, but dismissed the applicant’s claim for non-pecuniary damages arising from the bailiffs’ inaction.19.  on 26 august 2003 the enforcement proceedings concerning the judgment of 16 january 2003 were terminated on the grounds that enforcement was impossible because the executive committee members refused to vote to proscribe the burials.it noted that the yaremche council had failed to take all the necessary steps to prevent unlawful burials on the disputed land and ordered it to take the requisite measures.24.  on 28 february 2005 the enforcement proceedings were terminated because of the impossibility of enforcement as members of the council refused to vote against the burials.25.  on 26 july 2005 the yaremche council informed the applicant that it had been unable to relocate the cemetery in view of the unavailability of other suitable land.29.  according to the government, the municipality has not authorised any burials in the new cemetery since 2011 owing to the applicant’s continued protests and the old cemetery has been used instead.
on the same day, the penitentiary commission, viewing the applicant as someone who posed a severe danger to the safety of the facility, classified him as a “dangerous detainee”.24.  on 17 april 2012 the director of the lublin remand centre examined his complaint and found that the search had been performed in accordance with the law and that the applicant had not been debased or humiliated.25.  on 29 april 2012 the applicant complained about another strip search, which had taken place on 28 april 2012. his complaint was examined on 29 june 2012 by the director of the lublin remand centre, who found that the search had been carried out in accordance with the law.27.  in his observations before this court, the applicant’s lawyer submitted that the applicant had been ordered to undergo a strip search on 5 june 2012, even though he had had severe back pain and had barely been able to walk.he submitted that after the search of his cell his personal belonging had been thrown on the floor, mixed in with other inmates’ possessions and that the cell had “looked like after a hurricane”.the relevant part of the director’s decision read as follows: “the strip search and cell inspection were conducted in accordance with article 116 §§ 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the code of execution of criminal sentences.the relevant part of the decision read: “the strip search you were subjected to was carried out in accordance with the relevant provisions and with respect for your personal dignity.” 33.  on 3 november 2012 the applicant received a visit from members of his family and was allowed to have direct contact with them.34.  on 3 november 2012 the applicant complained to the central board of the prison service about the way the strip search of 3 november 2012 had been conducted.he also submitted in the complaint that he had been unable to get dressed after the strip search because of the severe pain in his back and that he had been left standing in only his underpants for about fifty minutes.35.  on 7 november 2012 the applicant also complained about the imposition of the disciplinary penalty on him after the strip search of 3 november 2012.36.  on 20 november 2012 the director of lublin remand centre informed the applicant that his complaint of 3 november needed further investigation, which would last until 7 december 2012. the applicant did not provide any further information about the outcome of those proceedings.37.  the complaint of 7 november 2012 was dismissed on 20 november 2012. the decision, issued by the deputy director of the lublin remand centre, said that the “applicant refused to undergo a strip search and only agreed to comply when the chief duty officer was called”.the decision does not refer to the applicant’s submissions that the alleged reason for his refusal to undergo the strip search had been severe back pain.the applicant then lodged a further complaint with the lublin regional court, which, on 17 december 2012 upheld the decision given by the deputy director of the lublin remand centre.the court found that the decision had been issued in accordance with the relevant provisions of the law and that it had no competence to examine whether the decision had been well-founded or not.
7.  on 7 october 2010 the applicant sent a document to the mayor of the tomaszów mazowiecki district (starosta powiatowy - “the district mayor”) entitled “petition” (wniosek - “the document”), which was signed by the applicant and three other residents of jadwigów who confirmed their agreement with the petition.8.  the text read as follows: “on 27 september in the village of jadwigów a legally valid village meeting took place, during which residents of the village decided by a large majority to appoint me to be in charge of investigating the concerns detailed below.i came to the realisation that the best way to approach [it] would be to file a request with the mayor of the district in order to clarify the issue, even though i had already informed the current local mayor and mayor of the tomaszów mazowiecki commune (wójt) of the allegations.the local mayor of jadwigów, z.m., whose term in office was concluded on the election of the current local mayor, ms j. g., received grants for the benefit of the village from the commune and accepted payments from the lease of the village shop.[signatures of three residents] i, other signatories of this request for a petition and all the residents believe that, thanks to the mayor of the district, they will receive a full and plausible explanation of the facts described above.” 9.  the document was sent to the district mayor before local elections which took place on 21 november 2010 (wybory samorządowe).he requested that the court order the applicant to publish an apology in the local weekly newspaper and pay 4,000 polish zlotys (pln) to the voluntary fire brigade (ochotnicza straż pożarna – “the vfb”).12.  on 31 may 2011 the regional court decided that the applicant had violated z.m.’s personal rights and ordered that he send a statement by post to the district mayor, the tomaszów mazowiecki commune office (urząd gminy w tomaszowie mazowieckim) and z.m.for violating his reputation by forwarding to the mayor of tomaszów district a document on [7 october] 2010 entitled “petition”, which contained false allegations that the local mayor, z.m., arbitrarily managed funds for the benefit of the village; that he took, as local mayor, the payments under the lease of the village shop; and a statement that the community hall had not been available to the residents for the past [ten] years.” 13.  in the course of the proceedings the court examined a statement made at the village meeting on 10 february 2011 at which six residents of jadwigów confirmed that they had all been instigators of the enquiry in october 2010 which had resulted in the applicant’s document to the district mayor.the residents explained that their intention had been to clarify the questions raised, given z.m.’s involvement in matters such as the community hall refurbishment and running of the vfb.the court also found that the village shop was located in the building owned by the vfb, which also hosted the community hall, and that the rent under the lease was paid to the vfb through an intermediary, its treasurer.the court also found that during z.m.’s time in office, the community hall had been open for public use; in that respect it dismissed the testimony of some witnesses stating the opposite.the commune had paid the costs of the renovations of the vfb’s building.16.  on 12 july 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal with the łódź court of appeal, alleging that the court had not considered that the relevant text had been communicated in the public interest.the court considered that the timing of the applicant’s actions proved that they had not served the public interest and had been motivated by his desire to win the elections.18.  on 1 march 2012 the regional court issued a writ of enforcement in respect of its final judgment of 31 may 2011. the applicant instituted proceedings to have the enforcement order quashed on the grounds that he had a case pending before the european court of human rights.
she is the sister of seyran ayvazyan, who was born in 1961 and was killed by police officers on 6 march 2006. he had been suffering from a mental disorder (paranoid-type schizophrenia) and at the material time had been living alone in the village of odzun, in the lori region of armenia.as he was lying on the ground, seyran ayvazyan tried to stab him again, but at that moment another police officer, h.gri., who was guarding the entrance, fired a warning shot in the air from his automatic rifle and, seeing that seyran ayvazyan was still trying to stab h.gev., shot at seyran ayvazyan’s legs.were also on the porch to the left of the main entrance, while police officers a.s. and a.a. were outside the porch in front of the main entrance.the wording of the decision first outlined the facts, as established by the investigation (see paragraphs 7-12 above), and concluded that the police officers had employed their service weapons in the light of the exigencies of the situation for the purpose of repelling a life-threatening attack on police officer h.gev.and her two other sisters, lodged a complaint with the lori regional prosecutor seeking to quash the part of the decision of 3 october 2006 relating to the refusal to institute criminal proceedings against the police officers.32.  on 16 november 2006 the lori regional prosecutor informed them by letter that there were no legal grounds for quashing the decision of 3 october 2006 since it had been taken on the basis of an accurate legal assessment of the circumstances of the case.lodged a complaint in her capacity as a victim with the lori regional court against the decision of 3 october 2006, seeking to have invalidated the part of the decision concerning the refusal to institute criminal proceedings against the police officers for killing her brother.as to the finding of a grenade in seyran ayvazyan’s house, an.a stated that this could not serve as justification for the police officers’ actions, since it had been discovered only after the fatal incident had taken place, and her brother had never threatened the policemen that he would use it.37.  on 12 september 2007 the lori regional court, relying on the facts, as established by the investigation, examined the complaint and decided to dismiss it, finding that the use of firearms by the police officers had been justified as they had opened fire to prevent, and protect themselves from, seyran ayvazyan’s unlawful violent actions.39.  on 23 october 2007 the criminal court of appeal examined the merits of the appeal and dismissed it, upholding the findings of the regional court concerning the lawfulness of the police officers’ actions.this in itself was sufficient grounds for rejecting the appeal; however, the court of cassation found it necessary – taking into account the fact that (a) both courts had examined the merits of the case and had reached findings on the merits, and (b) it was called upon to ensure uniform application of the law – to express a number of legal positions on the matter, which could provide guidance to lower courts in similar cases.secondly, the wording of the decision to discontinue the proceedings also contained a refusal to institute criminal proceedings against the police officers implicated in his shooting, which confirmed that no criminal proceedings had been instituted on account of that incident.thus, the descriptive part of the wording of the decision to institute proceedings had mentioned the fact that seyran ayvazyan had been taken to hospital and had died.lastly, certain investigative measures taken in the course of the criminal proceedings had been aimed at obtaining evidence concerning the circumstances of seyran ayvazyan’s death, including the inspections of the crime scene, of seyran ayvazyan’s body and of his clothes, the autopsy, the forensic examination of his clothes and the interviews with the police officers who had shot at seyran ayvazyan or witnessed the shootings.nevertheless, the court of cassation decided to dismiss the appeal on points of law on the ground that neither the lori regional court nor the criminal court of appeal had had temporal competence to examine the complaint against the decision of 3 october 2006.
and the first applicant as the political leaders of the regional government of carinthia, the head of the management board of h. bank, the head of another shareholder, as well as an investors group.17.  the landesholding management board had to sign the contract for the transfer of the shares and the supervisory board had to authorise the transaction in advance.21.  after the meeting of the supervisory board, the media reported on d.b.’s claim and expressed doubts as to his contribution to the negotiation process and the amount of the fee.following the media coverage and the discussion at the supervisory board’s meeting, the landesholding management board (the second applicant and the third applicant) commissioned lawyers and legal experts and asked them to confirm the appropriateness and reasonability of the claim for fees.the ksta conducted an investigation, closed the preliminary proceedings against the public prosecutors and transferred the file to the klagenfurt public prosecutor’s office, proposing the reopening of the preliminary proceedings.47.  on 21 march 2012 the public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment, charging the second applicant and the third applicant for breach of trust under article 153 of the criminal code and the first applicant and d.b.conceded on 11 july 2012 that the findings of the official expert, f.s., were correct inasmuch as his services to the negotiation process had not corresponded to a fee of eur 6 million but only to a fee of eur 300,000. he further stated that, in his view, the second applicant and the third applicant had known at the relevant time that his fee was inappropriate and unreasonable.should the court not appoint another official expert for the trial, the third applicant requested that the privately commissioned expert reports presented to the court be included in the file.as regards the argument that he had answered questions of assessment of evidence and questions of law in the preliminary proceedings, the court found that, even assuming that this had been the case, such statements had to be disregarded by the court.as regards the private experts commissioned by the applicants as court appointed experts the regional court pointed out that only after having examined and discussed the report by the court appointed expert, the necessity of appointing other experts could be decided.in the negotiation process only corresponded to fees in the amount of eur  300,000 and that the second applicant and the third applicant had been aware of that fact but had breached their obligation of diligence by authorising the payment of eur 6 million to d.b.this was aggravated by the fact that the expert reports commissioned by the applicants and their co-accused and submitted to the trial court had not been admitted to the file and the experts had not been summoned as requested.65.  on 11 march 2014 the supreme court dismissed the applicants’ pleas of nullity and the appeals of the second applicant and of the public prosecutor, but partly granted the appeals of the first applicant, the third applicant and d.b.66.  with regard to the alleged violation of article 6 of the convention, the supreme court found that article 126 § 4 of the ccp should in general ensure that two different official experts were not appointed in the preliminary proceedings and the trial, as this would result in delays in the proceedings.in the event of a dispute between the public prosecutor and the accused about the amount of the expert’s fees, it was up to the court to fix the amount and to pay the expert.
5.  the applicants were born in 1932, 1929, 1965 and 1956 respectively and live in sofia.6.  on 15 january 1968 the second applicant, together with the antecedents of the other applicants, bought from the then existing local agricultural co-operative a plot of land situated on the outskirts of sofia measuring 953 square metres.until 2002 the applicants or their antecedents enjoyed undisturbed possession of that land.7.  on 10 may 2002 a group of persons, the heirs of mr t.s., mr g.s.and ms k.s., brought against the applicants a rei vindicatio action, stating that the plot of land was theirs.they stated that the plot, once the property of their antecedents, had been collectivised in the years after 1945, but had been returned to them within the context of the process of the restitution of agricultural land by a decision of the relevant body, the local land commission, dated 27 december 1999. they claimed that under section 10(13) of the agricultural land act (see paragraph 13 below), the fact that the second applicant and the remaining applicants’ antecedents had purchased the land in 1968 could not be held against them.8.  initially, the sofia district court (its judgement is undated) dismissed the action against the applicants.after an appeal by the heirs of mr t.s., mr g.s.and ms k.s., on 5 november 2009 the sofia city court overturned that ruling, allowed the rei vindicatio claim and ordered the applicants to surrender possession of the plot.it found in particular that the land commission’s decision of 27 december 1999 was sufficient to render the claimants the owners of the disputed land.it pointed out that of the two rival claims to the same plot the law – namely section 10(13) of the agricultural land act – gave priority to the one based on restitution, and thus had the effect of rendering devoid of any legal force the contract under which the second applicant and the remaining applicants’ predecessors had bought the plot.9.  in a final decision of 18 june 2010 the supreme court of cassation declined to entertain a cassation appeal by the applicants.10.  on an unspecified date soon after that the applicants surrendered possession of the plot.
in the same year, his grandparents, who had been looking after him while his father had been working, moved to turkey and took the applicant and his sister with them.between 15 and 30 january 2006 the applicant and a group of his friends partly attempted and partly succeeded in stealing the handbags of nine elderly women through threats or the use of force.he had ripped the handbags from some of the victims; grabbed one of the women from behind, holding her mouth and dragging her to the ground; hit another one on the head and pushed his knee into her back so that she would fall down; and had also beaten some of them.the criminal court considered as mitigating factors that the applicant had no previous criminal record, that he had confessed to his crimes and that he had shown willingness to afford redress to the victim.in its reasoning of the judgment, the criminal court noted that the applicant had been notorious for excessive acts of violence and had had to change schools several times already.moreover, the criminal court found that the applicant had been one of the main perpetrators, which is why there was no leeway to pronounce a more lenient sentence than two and a half years’ imprisonment.11.  on 7 august 2006 the vienna federal police authority (bundespolizei­direktion) imposed a ten-year exclusion order (aufenthaltsverbot) on the applicant pursuant to section 60(1) and (2)(1), section 63(1) and (2), and section 66 of the aliens police act (fremdenpolizeigesetz).it found that even though most of his family lived in austria, the applicant’s expulsion was justified because of the severity of his offences in order to protect public order and security.15.  on 11 december 2007 the administrative court set aside the vienna security authority’s decision of 16 march 2007 for lack of jurisdiction and held that the independent administrative panel (unabhängiger verwaltungssenat – hereinafter, “the iap”) was the competent authority to examine the appeal.it considered that the robberies in particular had been serious offences which demonstrated the applicant’s severe disrespect for the well-being and property of others.the iap further took into consideration that the applicant had only been 14 and 15 years old at the time of the offences, and therefore had still been in the process of reaching maturity.18.  the iap then assessed whether the exclusion order violated the applicant’s rights under article 8 of the convention.the serious nature of the offences and the resulting public interest in his expulsion therefore outweighed the applicant’s interest in remaining in the country.19.  on 30 september and 16 december 2008 respectively, the constitutional court and the administrative court declined to hear prior appeals by the applicant against the iap’s decision.20.  on 8 september and 17 november 2009 and on 4 january 2010 the applicant was informed of the possibility to leave the country voluntarily.
12.  at 5.15 p.m. that day, 13 may 2004, the investigator formally charged the first applicant with attempted murder, based on his confession, and, without informing the latter of his right to call in a lawyer of his own choice, assigned a public defence lawyer to him; according to the case materials, that public lawyer was dismissed by the applicant on 4 june 2004 (see paragraph 23 below), and, in general, the latter replaced his defence lawyers several times as the criminal proceedings unfolded.41.  on 8 october 2004 the first applicant’s lawyer wrote to the tbilisi city prosecutor requesting, among other things, that secret recordings of various meetings between the first applicant’s wife and the member of parliament’s lawyer (see the details of the journalistic inquiry at paragraphs 83‑85 below) be obtained from the investigation into the ill‑treatment case (see paragraphs 46‑53 below) and added to the applicants’ criminal case file.48.  on 8 october 2004 the first applicant’s wife complained to the inspectorate general of the cppo and the inspectorate general of the ministry of the interior that her husband had been ill-treated by police officers and that there had been a lack of response by the investigator and the tbilisi city prosecutor to her various previous complaints.they first noted that the first applicant had repeated the statements he had made in his complaint of 7 september 2004. the medical experts also observed that the applicant suffered from epileptic fits, and that, according to the applicant himself, the first fit had occurred on 22 july 2004. their view, on the basis of ultrasound and computed tomography (ct) scans, was that the applicant suffered from epileptic fits which had been caused by a traumatic head injury.52.  between late october and early november 2004, the inspectorate general of the cppo questioned a number of potential witnesses to the first applicant’s alleged ill-treatment: p.b., the investigator in the applicant’s case; m.s., a ministry of the interior camera operator who had recorded the applicant’s confirmation of his initial confession at the crime scene; the public defence lawyer who had been assigned to the applicant after his arrest and first interview; g.b., the judge who had ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention on 16 may 2004; two relatives of the first applicant who had attended the above-mentioned hearing; and the doctor from prison no.56.  after the reopening of the investigation the prosecutorial authority questioned the same people who had already been questioned in october‑november 2004. the applicant was also examined again in april 2005. a report issued on 27 april 2005 suggested that the deformation of the zygomatic bone surrounding the applicant’s left eye could not be said with certainty to have been caused by a traumatic injury from a dense or blunt object in 2004.61.  when questioned by the trial court, the woman and son who had allegedly handed in the weapon used to commit the crime to the police on 25 february 2004, according to the official version of events contained in the case file (see paragraph 8 above), stated that they had never handed in such a gun to the police.62.  among other statements concerning a possible motive for the attack allegedly perpetrated by the applicants, the member of parliament told the court that as one of the founders of the bank and one of its largest shareholders, he had recommended the second applicant’s brother for the post of manager of the bank’s batumi branch (see also paragraph 15 above).66.  when questioned by the trial court, the two taxi drivers who had signed the report of 25 february 2004 on the handing in of the psm pistol by the woman and her son stated that they had been taken to the main police headquarters under coercion, on pain of having their driving licences confiscated by the police, in order to take part as witnesses in an investigative procedure.68.  four people who had attended the wedding party of 19 january 2004 also attended the hearing and confirmed the applicant’s alibi by stating that they had seen him at the party, that he had stayed until late in the evening, and definitely until after 9 p.m. 69.  a member of an independent human rights organisation told the trial court that at the time of the events she had had official permission from the state to visit prisoners who had allegedly been subjected to abuse.72.  on 21 february 2007 the tbilisi regional court ruled that the following pieces of evidence were inadmissible owing to significant procedural shortcomings in the way they had been obtained: (i)  the first applicant’s confession at his first interview on 13 may 2004 (see paragraphs 10 and 11 above); (ii)  the record of 25 february 2004 of the woman and her son handing in the psm pistol at the police station (see paragraph 8 above); (iii)  the record of 13 may 2004 of the first applicant identifying the psm pistol (see paragraph 14 above).75.  the court found that the charge of attempted murder had been proved by the following items of direct evidence, which it considered to have been obtained without any major irregularities: (i)  the written record of the first applicant’s confession given during the reconstruction at the scene of the crime on 13 may 2004 (see paragraph 12 above); (ii)  the record of his identification by the member of parliament on the same day (see paragraph 13 above); (iii)  the member of parliament’s statements concerning the private talk he had had with the first applicant on 13 may 2004 (see paragraph 13 above).in the trial court’s opinion, the same evidence as used against the first applicant had proven the charge of attempted murder against the second applicant (see the preceding paragraph): (i)  the written record of the first applicant’s confession during the reconstruction at the scene of the crime on 13 may 2004; and (ii)  the member of parliament’s statements concerning the private talk he had had with the first applicant on 13 may 2004.according to him, numerous witnesses questioned by the judges had raised a reasonable doubt that he had been able to participate properly in the confirmation of his confession during the reconstruction of the events at the scene of the crime on 13 may 2004. nevertheless, the record of that procedure had been considered a key piece of evidence in establishing his guilt.he specifically complained that while the trial court judges had confirmed his guilt by reference to the record of the confirmation of the first applicant’s confession during the reconstruction at the scene of the crime on 13 may 2004, that specific item of evidence had clearly been tainted by the ill-treatment the first applicant had suffered at the hands of the police.
6.  the first and second applicants, a married couple, arrived in bulgaria in 1997. their three children, the remaining applicants, were born in that country.in 2005 the first applicant bought a flat in sofia, where the family lived.7.  on 29 may 2008 the head of the national security service issued an order withdrawing the first applicant’s residence permit, ordering his expulsion and imposing a ten-year ban on his re‑entering bulgaria, on the ground that his presence in the country represented a “serious threat to national security”.8.  that proposal, drawn up by the national security service on 27 may 2008 and initially classified, was declassified on 22 february 2016 and has been submitted by the government.it stated that, according to intelligence data, the first applicant was the leader of an international terrorist group, working towards the aiding and financing of chechen extremist and separatist organisations.it also stated that he was being searched on the territory of the russian federation and that his actions lowered the prestige and the interests of the bulgarian state.the document claimed, in addition, that the first applicant had been implicated in extortion, drug trafficking, smuggling, money laundering and other criminal activities.it was stated, for example, that in 2006 the applicant and another person had attempted to smuggle into bulgaria a “highly toxic substance”, and that, also in 2006, he had threatened the seller of an expensive property in varna forcing him to choose as a buyer a person close to the applicant.he pointed out that his family was living in bulgaria and that his children had been born in the country, and claimed that the proposed separation of his family was “unjustified”.in particular, the first applicant presented certificates issued by the bulgarian and the russian authorities stating that he had no convictions in the two countries and explained that in february 2008 he had travelled to russia, where, as he claimed, he would have been arrested had he indeed been searched by the authorities of that country.in addition, in his written submissions the first applicant’s representative pointed out that the allegations made in the proposal were not substantiated by any evidence, and that they could not justify a conclusion that the applicant represented a threat to national security.in his oral pleadings he pointed out once again that the first applicant had “created his family” in bulgaria.thus, in its view “it should be concluded that the presence and the activity of the [first applicant] amount to a serious threat to national security and to the international prestige of the republic of bulgaria.” 12.  in a decision of 29 may 2008 the head of the ministry of internal affairs’ migration directorate ordered the first applicant’s detention pending expulsion.that decision was quashed in a judgment of the sofia administrative court of 17 july 2008. in another decision dated 28 august 2008 the head of the national security service ordered once again the applicant’s detention.that decision was quashed as well, in a judgment of the supreme administrative court of 27 november 2009. the first applicant effectively remained in detention from 10 september 2008 to the date of his expulsion, 3 september 2009.
28.  on 11 february 2010, following the publication of 4 february 2010, mrs bettencourt brought urgent proceedings against the applicants in the paris tribunal de grande instance claiming a manifestly unlawful nuisance under articles 808 and 809 of the code of civil procedure ... she asked the urgent-applications judge to find that the reproduction of procedural documents from the file of the preliminary investigation initiated by the nanterre public prosecutor breached section 38(1) of the law of 29 july 1881 on freedom of the press (“section 38”, ...), which prohibited the publication of documents from a criminal case file before they had been read out in open court, and article 9 of the civil code, guaranteeing the right to respect for private life ... she requested that a court-ordered notice be published in le point, on pain of a coercive fine, and that the applicants be ordered to pay her, by way of an advance, compensation for her non-pecuniary damage, on account of her portrayal as an individual with diminished intellectual faculties who had been duped.the judge indicated that while section 47 of the 1881 law reserved the prosecution of the section 38 offence for the public prosecutor, an individual who claimed to have sustained pecuniary or non-pecuniary damage as a result of a publication was entitled to act as a civil party in the proceedings or to bring a case before the urgent-applications judge under article 809 of the code of civil procedure, in order to seek the requisite protective or remedial measures to put an end to the unlawful nuisance resulting from such publication, or to request a sum by way of an advance.he added that those statements all helped the case for the prosecution, as indicated on the magazine’s cover, “the accusations of madame’s employees”, and observed as follows: “... the publication of long passages emanating from insiders helps to give the reported facts an appearance of authenticity and objectivity (that the article does not seek to nuance but, on the contrary, to reinforce); the reader is thus led to regard those facts as proven, because they are presented through the prism of a journalist’s analysis, which is bound to contain a degree of subjectivity or opinion.for those reasons, the alleged breach of section 38 cannot be combined with the breaches under article 9-1 of the civil code (presumption of innocence) or article 9 of the civil code (private life) or section 29 of the law of 29 july 1881 [defamation proceedings, ...], nor can it result in redress on the basis of those separate legal provisions.” the judge concluded that the publication was capable of infringing the rights of mrs bettencourt as it portrayed her, at a time when the nanterre criminal court had not yet begun to examine the criminal cases, as a woman who was manipulated and weak, a description that she categorically denied.the judge went on to explain as follows: “... the impugned restriction cannot be compared to the case of disclosure of professional secrets or of secrets from the preliminary or judicial investigation, on account of the possession by a journalist of documents covered by secrecy and used in publications imparting information to the general public, in so far as the journalist, who is not bound [by those secrets], is required to possess such documents in order to justify the veracity of the facts reported or the seriousness of his investigation, but also to use them in compliance with the applicable legislation.” 33.  all of the claims submitted by mrs bettencourt alleging a breach of her privacy were dismissed on the ground that such a breach had not been sufficiently established, having regard to the general public’s right to be informed, and interest in being informed, of current affairs or events in the general interest: “... the claimant has not relied on any specific breaches of her private life which would go beyond the information that it is permitted to mention in connection with the criminal case before the court of nanterre, as le point did not, in particular, provide details about any health problems she may have.” 34.  the applicants appealed.they argued in particular that the procedural documents in question, which had been included in the case file solely on the initiative of the claimant, and not on that of the public prosecutor, could not be regarded as carrying the degree of authority which justified, by derogation to the principle of freedom of expression, the prohibition imposed by section 38. they further emphasised that neither mrs bettencourt’s right to a fair hearing, nor any undermining of the authority or impartiality of the courts, was at stake.], which the reader is all the more likely to regard as the truth as [the observations] are presented as emanating from individuals who have played a particular role, making them privileged observers of her private life.” lastly, the court of appeal confirmed that there had been no breach of mrs bettencourt’s privacy in the following terms: “... the mere mention of mrs bettencourt’s mental health in the body of the article, without any details falling within her private sphere, and in the testimony reproduced, which was mainly about the conduct and manoeuvres attributed to [b.in their grounds of appeal they argued, under article 10 of the convention, that they had a duty to inform the public about a case pending before the courts which had been revived after a private prosecution, following its discontinuance by the public prosecutor, and which had given rise to wide media coverage especially on account of the personality and wealth of mrs bettencourt; that the judgment of the court of appeal had found against them solely for publishing the statement extracts and not on account of their content; that there had been no impairment of the interests protected by section 38(1) because mrs bettencourt was not the defendant in the proceedings; that there was a manifest contradiction in the court of appeal’s position, as it had declared mrs bettencourt’s action admissible on the basis of the damage sustained, while taking the view that she had not been portrayed as a weak and manipulated woman in terms of her right to respect for her private life.it gave the following reasons for its decision: “... the judgment observes that long extracts were published from the statements taken during the preliminary investigation ..., in which [mrs bettencourt] was portrayed as a manipulated and weak woman; proceeding with a correct application of article 10 of the convention ..., the court of appeal was able, without contradicting itself, to conclude from that publication, since the documents drawn up by the police during an investigation are procedural documents within the meaning of section 38 of the law of 29 july 1881, that [mrs bettencourt] was justified in claiming, solely on the basis of that publication, that she had sustained personal damage ...” 38.  on 11 february 2010 b. brought urgent proceedings against the applicants in the paris tribunal de grande instance following the publication of 4 february 2010, arguing that it had caused him a manifestly unlawful nuisance, infringing both his copyright to the photographs illustrating the article and his defence rights, including his right to be presumed innocent.after observing that section 38 usefully contributed to preserving the orderly functioning and impartiality of the justice system and to guarantee due process, since the full and verbatim publication of documents from a criminal file before the trial could hinder the conduct of pending investigations or influence individuals who might subsequently be called upon to testify, or even lay magistrates who might have to adjudicate upon the case, the court gave the following reasons for its decision: “... the prohibition that it establishes must not, however, restrict the ability of journalists to report on criminal cases, even those which have not yet been publicly examined by a court, and specifically those which, raising issues of general interest, involving significant interests, or concerning people with high-level responsibilities, especially in political, economic or artistic fields, particularly deserve to be brought to public attention.this is the case here: extracts ... from reports which have been drawn up by the police acting on the instructions of the public prosecutor and which have been appended, after the discontinuance of the proceedings for which they were produced, to the file of further proceedings brought directly by a civil party in a criminal court – those extracts, therefore, were included by [the second applicant] in two successive articles which were each the result of a journalistic investigation and sought to present readers with information, analysis and comments on a criminal case that would soon be adjudicated upon by a court, that involved considerable financial interests and concerned one of the richest individuals in france and a photographer and writer who has, as he himself boasts, ‘undeniable success and notoriety’.if one were to accept, in those circumstances, that these two bodies of text should be examined by this court only on the basis of the strict-liability offence under section 38 of the freedom of the press act, that would lead, as the respondents rightly argue, to preventing them from initiating the debate that is warranted by the journalist’s work, within which the impugned extracts are merely one element; and they would be deprived, in the present case, of the defences made available by law to persons who are prosecuted for defamation or for a breach of the right to be presumed innocent, in other words precluding them from proving the veracity of the allegations or, at least, the journalist’s good faith, and from submitting argument to the effect that the impugned texts do not contain any final conclusions expressing a biased view that the person in question is definitely guilty.47.  the court of appeal explained that the assessment of the offending publication “clearly” went beyond “the framework of that of so-called ‘procedural’ offences” and that it would have to be carried out with regard to article 10 of the convention and to the question whether the interference with the applicants’ freedom of expression was necessary to protect the reputation or rights of others and to maintain the authority and impartiality of the judiciary.being entitled to bring his case to the civil court under section 38, it cannot be suggested to the claimant that he should have opted for other types of proceedings on the erroneous ground that his action contravenes article 10 of the convention ...” 49.  as regards the article of 4 february 2010, the court of appeal took the view that the editorial choices – front cover of the magazine, presentation of whole swathes of statements, highlighting of the exclusive publication of the witness statements – constituted a communication of some importance directly aimed at b. who had not been able to explain before a court his position “on the accusations of the staff”.51.  in a judgment of 29 may 2013 giving the following reasons, the court of cassation dismissed the applicants’ appeal: “having found, first, that the article of 10 december 2009 was based on an analysis of extracts from various statements taken by the criminal investigation police, in order to portray [b] as having taken advantage of mrs bettencourt’s weakness, the day before his appearance before a criminal court, which was to rule on the relevance and merits of the accusations made against him by her daughter, and, secondly, that the article of 4 february 2010, based on a partial reproduction of statements taken by the criminal investigation police, seeking to portray [b.]
5.  the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in kiev.6.  the applicant came to bulgaria in 1995. in 1996 he started a relationship with ms m., also a ukrainian national.7.  on 6 november 2006 the head of the ministry of the interior’s national security service issued an order withdrawing the applicant’s residence permit, ordering his expulsion and imposing a ten-year ban on his re-entering bulgaria, on the ground that his presence in the country represented a “serious threat to national security”.factual grounds justifying the order were not indicated; it was merely noted that it was based on “proposal no.it stated that the applicant had allegedly been involved in acts of extortion, smuggling, arms deals and money laundering, that he operated with large amounts of illegally obtained money, that he had established contacts with bulgarian officials, including police officers, who had been providing him with illegal services, and that he had been in contact with presumed terrorists.while enumerating the applicant’s presumed illegal activities, the proposal referred to specific dates and names, but to no evidence to support the allegations.9.  unaware of the ministerial order of 6 november 2006, on 15 november 2006 the applicant attempted to re-enter the bulgarian territory but was stopped at the border and not permitted entry.10.  through his lawyer, the applicant submitted an appeal to the bulgarian minister of the interior against the order of 6 november 2006. the appeal was dismissed on 22 december 2006, the minister pointing out, in particular, that he considered irrelevant the applicant’s argument that he had settled in bulgaria with his family.11.  after that the applicant applied for judicial review of the order of 6 november 2006. in particular, he pointed out in his application that his family resided in bulgaria and that their separation had been unjustified.12.  in the course of the judicial proceedings the applicant’s lawyer was shown proposal no.13.  in a decision of 30 october 2007 the supreme administrative court held that it was competent to examine the application, with reference to the court’s judgment in the case of al‑nashif v. bulgaria (no.50963/99, 20 june 2002) and article 13 of the convention, even though, at the time the impugned order had been issued, judicial review had not been available under the legislation then applicable (see paragraph 16 below).14.  the judicial proceedings ended on 19 march 2009 with a final judgment of the supreme administrative court, which upheld the order of 6 november 2006. after enumerating the applicant’s alleged unlawful activities described in proposal no.b4923, it stated merely that the impugned order did not breach the law.furthermore, it dismissed the applicant’s arguments relating to his family and private life, stating: “any restriction of the rights under the convention is justified [when based] on national security considerations, in cases where foreign citizens’ behaviour threatens the national security and the public order of the state where they reside.”
12.  on 22 february 2002 the investigator in the case requested an opinion from psychiatrists on a number of questions, namely: (i)  whether the applicant was suffering from a psychiatric condition; (ii)  whether the applicant was sane at the time of the commission of the acts he was accused of and at the time of the assessment; (iii)  if the experts established that the applicant had been suffering from a psychiatric condition or a temporary disruption of his mental capacities at the time of commission of the act, whether he had been conscious of the meaning of his actions and whether he could control them; and (iv)  whether the applicant was in need of compulsory psychiatric treatment.13.  on 25 february 2002 the investigating prosecutor instituted criminal proceedings against the applicant for the murder of k. and joined them with the criminal case concerning the kidnapping and murder of s. it appears from the applicant’s submissions that on the same day he was given the procedural status of an accused and was allowed for the first time to consult a lawyer in connection with the charges related to the attack on k. article 142 of the code of criminal procedure required that procedural rights had to be explained to a person who acquired the status of an accused, including the right to remain silent and to have a lawyer.according to the report, in the course of the interview with the experts the applicant gave a description of k.’s murder that was identical to the one he had given to the investigator (“обстоятельства его подготовки и убийства... излагает так, как излагал в ходе следствия”).in convicting the applicant of k.’s robbery and murder the trial court relied in particular on: (i)  the applicant’s initial confessions; (ii)  the crime scene report, which showed that the layout of the victim’s flat, the placement of furniture and the position of her body matched the applicant’s confessions; (iii)  medical evidence that the victim’s clothing and injuries matched the applicant’s confessions; (iv)  the statement of ms o.k., the victim’s friend, who said she had asked the victim to place an advertisement for the purchase of a flat on her behalf; (v)  the testimony of ms v.s., the victim’s neighbour, who stated at the trial that she had run a sausage business from the victim’s block of flats and that she had had a conflict with the victim over that matter; (vi)  the testimony of the victim’s son and daughter-in-law that relations between the victim and the daughter-in-law had been tense; (vii)  evidence from an expert to the effect that it could not be ruled out that the victim’s injuries had been caused by a knife found at the applicant’s home.16404/03), alleging that his conviction for the murder of k. had been based on incriminating evidence that had been obtained in violation of his right to remain silent and the privilege against self-incrimination and that he had been hindered in the effective exercise of his right to defence when questioned at the pre-trial stage of the proceedings.this was the applicant’s situation, in that he was already charged with a murder and being accused of the second murder made a sentence of life imprisonment a possibility... the court considers that the legal representation of the applicant during the period in question was required in the interests of justice.although the applicant failed to substantiate any physical coercion by the investigators, the fact that another person within the same proceedings also confessed to the murder of mrs k. and retracted his statement, alleging coercion by the same investigator, could raise reasonable doubts as to the practices of the investigator in the present case.the statements did not in fact contain any information which was not already known to the investigators (in contrast to the case of the kidnapping and murder of s., in which the applicant showed the police where the corpse had been hidden) and had been received in unclear circumstances and in clear violation of the applicant’s right to defence.” (shabelnik, cited above) 20.  the shabelnik judgment (cited above) became final on 19 may 2009.they asked the court to amend the trial court’s judgment and the supreme court’s 2002 decision by striking out references to the records of the questioning of the applicant as a witness about k.’s murder and the result of the on-site reconstruction of that murder.23.  on 30 april 2010 the supreme court, sitting in a formation composed of all the judges of the criminal and military chambers of the court, allowed the above applications in part, quashed its own 2002 decision and remitted the case for fresh examination in cassation proceedings by a panel of three judges of the supreme court.in particular, he made the following arguments: (i)  the psychiatric report, in so far as it provided a record of the applicant’s alleged statements about k.’s murder, was unspecific and constituted a judgment by the experts about the applicant’s statements which the experts had been unqualified to make, as opposed to an accurate record of those statements.moreover, the applicant’s supposed statements to the experts were inadmissible because they were marred by the same problems as the confessions that had been obtained in breach of his convention rights; (ii)  as to the other evidence, in particular the crime scene examination report and the witness evidence, it only had evidentiary value as corroboration for the applicant’s statements, but as those statements had to be ruled inadmissible to give effect to the first shabelnik judgment (cited above), the other witness evidence could also not be used to support a finding of the applicant’s guilt; (iii)  certain circumstances, such as the fact that no traces of the applicant’s presence had been found in k.’s flat, pointed to the applicant being innocent of the murder.28.  in particular, the supreme court approved of the trial court’s reliance on: (i) evidence from the expert that it could not be ruled out that the victim’s injuries had been caused by the knife found at the applicant’s home, and (ii) the statements of the witnesses o.k., v.s.29.  in support of its findings the supreme court also referred to material and circumstances on which the trial court had not explicitly relied: (i) the fact that “in the course of psychiatric assessment [the applicant], told the experts about [k.’s murder] under the circumstances established by the [trial] court”; (ii) the applicant’s admission in court that he had visited the victim’s flat; and (iii) the testimony of ms g., the victim’s neighbour, that she had seen the applicant in the victim’s block of flats.the supreme court concluded that, other than the breaches which led to the exclusion of the applicant’s original confessions, there had been no other breaches of the rules of criminal procedure which would put in doubt the correctness of the conclusions of the trial court (the court of appeal) concerning his guilt or legal qualification of his actions.
g. and her son resided there as tenants under the social housing agreement with the city.9.  on an unspecified date a. submitted a forged copy of a court judgment to the department of the municipal housing and housing policy (the “housing department”) recognising her right to reside in the flat and on 9 february 2005 the housing department entered into a social housing lease agreement with a. and her family.10.  on 25 february 2005 the housing department transferred the title to the flat to a., her husband and her daughter under the privatisation scheme.11.  on 15 december 2005 a. and her husband sold the flat to the applicant.on 29 december 2005 the city registration body issued a certificate confirming the first applicant’s title to the flat.12.  on an unspecified date the housing department obtained information that the court judgment submitted by a. might have been forged and on 15 december 2005 the housing authorities asked the prosecutor’s office to conduct a relevant inquiry.13.  on 20 march 2008 the nikulinskiy district court of moscow invalidated the social housing lease agreement of 9 february 2005 and the privatisation agreement of 25 february 2005.14.  on an unspecified date the housing department brought an action against the applicants seeking the transfer of the flat to the city and the applicants’ eviction.15.  on 9 october 2009 the district court granted the housing department’s claims in full.the court ruled that the case fell under one of the two exceptions to the protection of a bona fide purchaser’s title, which required that precedence be given to the previous owner who had been deprived of the property against his or her will.the first applicant’s title to the flat was annulled and the title was transferred to the city of moscow.16.  on 25 february 2010 the city court upheld the judgment of 9 october 2009 on appeal.18.  on 12 march 2012 the district court granted the applicant’s additional time to comply with the judgment of 9 october 2009. the applicants were required to vacate the flat by 1 august 2012. on 14 may 2012 the city court upheld the said decision on appeal.19.  the applicants continued to reside in the flat.on 14 august 2013 the housing department entered into a housing agreement with them in respect of the flat for a term of five years.
the charge sheet stated, in particular, that the applicant had entered into a criminal conspiracy with n. and other unidentified managers of the menatep bank to murder kr., r. and p. with whom the yukos oil company had been in conflict for various reasons.k. said, in particular: “n., a member of the committee of directors of the yukos oil company and the first deputy president of that oil company, [the applicant], the head of the 4th division of the internal and financial security service of that oil company, and other still unidentified persons among the employees of that oil company founded a criminal gang for committing criminal offences in their personal and other interests.in 1998 [the applicant], upon instructions from n. and other employees of the yukos oil company ..., organised the murder of the head of the nefteyugansk town council p[.]...” “[the applicant], upon instructions from n. and other unidentified persons from among the managers of the menatep bank, organised the murder of the director of the fenix company kr[.]he complained that the prosecutor’s statements had encouraged the public to believe him guilty and prejudged the assessment of the facts by the competent court.the applicant also stated that he had wished to ask for a trial by jury but had had to renounce his wish for fear that the jurors might be influenced by the prosecutor’s statements to the press.in his statements to the press k. had related the facts as established by the investigation and confirmed by the materials in the criminal case file.[the applicant], the former head of the internal financial security service, has been charged with six [counts of murder]... the crimes were organised by, among others, n. ... in fact, n. organised and financed all these crimes.19.  on 21 february 2007 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the conviction in respect of the applicant’s co-defendants.that note had been found among the personal belongings of the late g. who, according to witness statements, had been an intermediary between the applicant, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, ts.in the report of 24 december 2003 the experts found that it could not be excluded that the note had been written by the applicant.in the report of 7 october 2004 the experts found, after having examined additional samples of the applicant’s handwriting, that the note in question had been written by him.22.  the applicant submitted to the court a “specialist” opinion of 4 july 2004 by v. according to v., the samples of the applicant’s handwriting submitted for comparative analysis were insufficient to make any firm conclusions as to whether he was the author of the note.the court refused the request, finding that the case file already contained two expert opinions and a “specialist” opinion and that there was no need for an additional expert examination of the note.25.  as regards the attempted murder of r., the court relied, inter alia, on the expert opinion of 7 october 2004, finding that the applicant had been the author of the handwritten note containing r.’s address.
9.  on 6 march 2012, in another set of criminal proceedings, the kuybyshevskiy district court, found the applicant guilty of two counts of aggravated extortion committed within an organised criminal group and imposed a cumulative prison sentence of fifteen years.he suffered heart attacks in 2000 and 2007 and a kidney affected by cancer was removed in 2003. at the time of his arrest the applicant’s diagnoses listed: ischemic disease, exertional angina of the second functional group, atherosclerotic and post infarction cardiosclerosis, third-stage hypertension with a high risk of vascular complications; cardiac failure of the second functional group; chronic post-traumatic pericarditis with effusion; remote cancer metastases requiring permanent supervision; kidney stones; concretion of the right kidney; chronic pyelonephritis; chronic kidney failure of the first degree; adenocarcinoma of the prostate gland; chronic prostatitis; chronic cystitis, and constantly recurrent multidrug-resistant infection of the urinary tract.iz‑77/1 in moscow the applicant informed the prison medical authorities of his condition, submitting the full list of his diagnoses.on 20 november 2007 a surgeon recommended urinary catheterisation, that is to say the insertion of a tube into the patient’s bladder via the urethra.15.  on 12 october 2009, at the request of the applicant’s lawyer, three medical experts prepared a report assessing the capability of the custodial authorities to properly treat the applicant.having examined the medical file on the applicant compiled in the civilian hospital, submissions by the custodial authorities and the applicant’s own comments, the experts concluded that he required systematic treatment with amendments to the chemotherapy regimen and periodic admissions to a specialised cardiology hospital for instrumental examinations and necessary amendments to drug regimen.given the absence of proper medical supervision, the experts also warned of a possible deterioration of the applicant’s urinary and oncological problems and a risk of those illnesses advancing to a stage requiring surgery, or to a stage with no prospects of the applicant being cured or even his life being saved.the experts observed that the medical unit of the detention facility where the applicant was kept was not equipped for treating patients in such a medical condition.16.  on 28 december 2009, 19 march, 15 june, 26 july, 25 august and 30 november 2010 the applicant was examined in the moscow scientific institute of urology (hereinafter “the urology institute”), having been diagnosed with neurogenic bladder dysfunction.17.  on 21 december 2010 the doctors from the urology institute performed a surgery on the applicant.the applicant was discharged from the hospital to a remand prison under the supervision of the resident doctor.19.  in april 2011, in the remand prison, the applicant developed an acute inflammation of the urethra, which was successfully treated in the institute.21.  in the meantime, in december 2009 the applicant brought a court claim against the detention authorities, seeking that the lack of appropriate medical treatment be declared unlawful.the court found as follows: “from the [applicant’s] medical file submitted by the [remand prison] it is apparent that ... [the authorities] provided him with medical aid, subjected him to medical testing, and prescribed treatment.it is not apparent from the medical file that the authorities refused to provide [the applicant] with the medical assistance or that he was deprived of the requisite medication”.
9.  an autopsy report issued on 31 january 2007 by the forensic medicine institute stated that the applicant’s husband had died as a result of the burns he had sustained at the time of the accident rather than from trauma caused by the impact of the crash.10.  according to the initial report prepared by the traffic police at the scene, the driver of the truck, whose identity could not be established at the time, bore the main responsibility for the accident as he had hit the other vehicle, driven by s.s.h., from behind.13.  on 9 november 2006 a.s. submitted a petition to the sultanbeyli public prosecutor’s office for an investigation into the liability for the accident of both the transport company which had leased his truck and of the seller and buyer of the inflammable cargo, whom he accused of concealing the dangerous nature of the goods in question.the applicant claimed that the liquid in question contained ethanol and methanol, which had both been classified as “hazardous goods subject to control” in the regulation on dangerous goods and the regulation on the transport by land of dangerous goods, and which accordingly had to be packed, labelled, stored and transported in compliance with the strict requirements set down in those regulations.she reiterated that her husband had not been informed that the truck was carrying inflammable liquids, and also argued that the prosecutor had failed to identify the companies involved in the shipment of such dangerous goods, including the seller, buyer and transport company, and had not established the relations of the truck owner, a.s., to those companies.şti., as the producer and/or the shipper of the goods, and a.s., as the owner of the truck, also bore responsibility for the accident on account of their failure to comply with the relevant legislation on the transport of dangerous goods.reiterating mainly the arguments she had raised in her objection to the forensic medicine institute’s report, she submitted that the public prosecutor had failed to establish the facts of the case and had disregarded essential evidence in the investigation file which pointed to the representatives of salihli ltd. şti.32.  at the request of the sultanbeyli civil court of first instance, on 19 march 2012 three experts from the traffic branch of the forensic medicine institute submitted a report (“the first report”) on the defendants’ liability for the accident in question, where they made the following findings: -  şenocak ltd.had described the consignment as sixteen tonnes of raw material, without indicating that it consisted of inflammable goods; -  the fire that had broken out upon impact with s.s.h.’s vehicle and that had claimed the applicant’s husband’s life had been caused by the inflammable goods loaded in the truck; -  şenocak ltd. şti.and a.s. were liable on account of their failure to pay heed to the type of raw material they had accepted, which had resulted in the transportation of dangerous goods in a truck which had not fulfilled the relevant criteria for such transportation; -  a.s. was also liable for having unlawfully loaded other goods in the truck and accepting a passenger (the applicant’s husband); -  the driver of the truck was liable owing to his failure to drive with care.35.  on 19 november 2013 the applicant objected to the forensic medicine institute’s report, which in her opinion conflicted with its previous report of 19 march 2012. the applicant reiterated that her husband had not died as a result of a simple traffic accident, but had burned to death because of the inflammable goods carried unlawfully in the truck, for which all the defendants bore responsibility.37.  in their report dated 13 november 2014 (“the third report”), the experts established at the outset that the action brought by the applicant concerned the death of her husband as a result of the burns he had sustained because of the fire caused by the accident.the examination in the instant case therefore had to focus not on the technical cause of the accident per se, which was what the second report had done, but on the reasons and the responsibility for the fire that had claimed her husband’s life.the experts stated in that connection that the fire had been caused by chafing fuel, which was a “highly inflammable liquid”, according to the regulation on the transport by land of dangerous goods and which therefore had to be transported in accordance with the relevant legislation concerning the transportation of such dangerous substances.the truck in which the chafing fuel had been loaded in the instant case had, however, not been suitable for the transportation of dangerous goods: it had not been equipped with an electrical system to prevent short circuits and fire; it had had no warning signs; and the driver had not been trained in the transportation of such goods.
the article then quoted from the official information note issued by the regional prosecutor’s office: “the investigation has established’, states the information note, ‘that in 2003 [the applicant] and f[.]the murder was carried out by two residents of the town of kalyazin, who were charged with f.’s murder.” 11.  according to the applicant, several more articles reporting on the arson and murder cases were published in the local press at around the same time.12.  the jury trial started on 16 august 2004. at the beginning of the trial the presiding judge asked the jurors whether they had read about the case in newspapers or heard about it from other sources.at the request of the prosecutor, the written statements he had made during the investigation were read out to the jury.were your statements to the investigator voluntary?’ the presiding judge rules [the applicant’s] question out of order and warns him that he should not [raise issues] of admissibility of evidence in the presence of the jury as it may be considered an attempt to influence the jury.[the applicant says]: ‘the witness was drunk, the police officers had given him alcohol, he was made [temporarily] insane.” the presiding judge interrupts [the applicant] and directs the jury to disregard [his] remarkds about the circumstances in which sh.[the applicant continues]: ‘all the evidence has been forged and the case does not hold water.’ taking into account [the applicant’s] repeated attempts to influence the jurors, the presiding judge decides to exclude him from the courtroom.the presiding judge directs the jurors that they should disregard [the applicant’s statements] ... and should proceed from the understanding that all evidence presented to them ... was collected in accordance with the procedure established by law and was not [declared inadmissible].” 14.  the trial court continued the hearing in the applicant’s absence.one of the co-defendants pleaded not guilty, while the other confessed to the murder and stated that he had committed it on the applicant’s instructions and had received remuneration from him.they found it established that applicant had hired i. and a. to murder f. 16.  the presiding judge indicated in the verdict that (1) the applicant’s actions, as established by the jury, should be characterised as incitement to murder, and (2) the jury had not established that the applicant had been the organiser of the murder or had directed its execution.in particular, he complained that his presumption of innocence had been violated by publications in the press, that he had been removed from the courtroom and that the presiding judge had recharacterised his offence after the jury had delivered the verdict.the court noted, in particular, as follows: “... as regards the [applicant’s] removal from the courtroom, [the appeal court] finds that the presiding judge’s decision was in full compliance with [the applicable rules of criminal procedure].in those circumstances, the counsel’s argument that [the applicant’s] right to participate directly in the examination of the evidence and to defend himself in person was violated is unfounded.before the commencement of the trial all jurors replied in the negative to the question whether they had heard about the case from the media ... .it was permissible to change the legal characterisation of [the applicant’s] actions from organisation of murder to incitement to murder, as the new legal characterisation was based on the same evidence as established in the verdict.
8.  on 7 december 2004 the moskovskiy district court in cheboksary held a hearing with the participation of the applicant and ms h. and rejected her claim.on 31 january 2005 the supreme court of the chuvashiya republic quashed the district court’s judgment and remitted the matter for a new examination.9.  on 17 october 2005 the district court gave judgment in favour of h. it was quashed on appeal by the supreme court on 14 december 2005 in particular on the ground that the parties had not been informed of the date and place of the hearing in which genetics experts had been cross-examined.11.  on 15 march 2007 the district court sent a letter of request (судебное поручение) to the director of the remand prison, asking him to clarify the applicant’s position on the merits of the dispute and to ascertain whether he agreed to having the matter examined in his absence or wished to appoint a representative.on 26 march the district court refused the applicant leave to be present at the hearings on the ground that the code of civil procedure made no provision for bringing detainees to courts.12.  on 4 april 2007 the district court held the hearing in the presence of ms h., as well as mr k. and ms u. who represented the applicant.it mentioned that the applicant was held in a remand prison, that he did not recognise the paternity and that he had “previously given similar testimony before the court”.it held that the applicant’s absence from the hearing did not entail a violation of his rights because he had been represented and had previously given testimony to the court.15.  on 27 march 2008 the moskovskiy district court decided that he had breached the terms of the bail by exercising pressure on witnesses, issued a detention order and put the applicant’s name on the list of fugitives from justice.20.  the applicant complained to a prosecutor about the unlawful actions of the police on 8 april 2008. on 16 may 2009 the prosecutor refused to institute criminal proceedings, finding that no criminal offence had been committed.the officer k. testified that he had entered the flat with the consent of the applicant’s daughter and that he had stayed inside no longer than two or three minutes.s., a relative who was present at the scene, stated that the police had entered the flat with the daughter’s consent, that they had “moved beds, looked under the carpets, displaced closets and paintings, gone into the basement”.citing section 11 of the police act and section 8 of the operational-search activities act, the district court held that the officers had acted lawfully, on the basis of the detention order of 27 march 2008, and that they had the right to enter the applicant’s flat because they had information that he might have been at home.24.  on 17 april 2009 the moskovskiy district court found the applicant guilty of forcing students to pay bribes into the account of his law firm in exchange of passing grades and gave him a custodial sentence.26.  by judgment of 27 november 2009, the leninskiy district court rejected his claim, noting that the applicant had been ultimately convicted in the criminal proceedings and given a custodial sentence and that the supreme court had quashed the detention order as being “unjustified” rather than “unlawful”.
6.  the applicant was born in 1965. on 27 march 2009 the leningrad regional court convicted him of murder and sentenced him to thirteen years and six months’ imprisonment.7.  according to the applicant, his eyesight began deteriorating in 2008. in september 2010 he complained about this to a resident colony doctor.8.  eight months later the applicant was examined by an ophthalmologist, who visited the detention facility.the doctor diagnosed an “almost mature” cataract of the right eye and a focal cataract of the left eye.9.  on 1 july 2011 the applicant was sent to a prison hospital for an examination by an ophthalmologist.the ophthalmologist confirmed the presence of cataracts on both eyes.he established that the patient had lost his vision in his right eye and prescribed cataract surgery.it was noted that owing to the lack of intraocular lenses in stock and the overcrowding of the facility, the surgery would have to be performed later, in a “planned manner”.10.  the applicant was sent back to the detention facility, the ophthalmologist having recommended that the applicant undergo another eye examination between january and march 2012.11.  on 7 april 2012 the applicant complained about the quality of medical assistance he had received to the federal service for the execution of sentences in st petersburg.his complaint was then referred to the medical unit of his detention facility, which dismissed it in a letter dated 25 april 2012, stating that the patient had been provided with medical assistance in full.12.  in may 2012 the applicant was seen by the head of the medical unit and put on a waiting list for admission to the ophthalmological department of the prison hospital for a medical examination and eye surgery.the doctor endorsed the advice that the applicant had received on 1 july 2011 and confirmed that he needed cataract surgery.14.  on 14 january and 22 june 2014 the applicant underwent repeated eye examinations, which revealed that the cataract on his left eye was growing.the surgery was performed in the prison hospital on 1 october 2014.
7.  before the operation, which took place on 19 july 2006, the patient’s father signed a form setting out the potential risks facing his daughter in undergoing the surgical operation, consenting to the operation (“the consent form”).14.  the report drawn up following the internal investigation commissioned by the governor’s office stated that the patient was suffering from a very serious congenital heart disease, that treating that disease would entail a high-risk surgical operation and that in 52% of cases a leak was noted around the membrane, necessitating a second operation.17.  the applicants’ challenge to that administrative decision was dismissed by the regional administrative court on 18 december 2007 on the grounds that the preliminary investigation report and the appendices thereto were not such as to enable the prosecutor’s office to instigate a judicial investigation.20.  the expert appointed by the latter submitted his report on 14 july 2008. this one-page document stated that the patient had displayed a congenital anomalous left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery (alcapa), that open-heart surgery had been carried out in order to irrigate the left coronary artery from the aorta, that six months later a leak had been detected on the membrane which had been applied to the incision during that first operation, that a second operation had been carried out which had resolved that problem, but that the patient had suffered a stroke.the expert pointed out that the patient’s anomaly had been extremely serious, that it was liable to be fatal, and that the probability of complications occurring during or after such an operation had been high.the complication [which occurred in the present case] was an eventuality which can be observed in cases of anomalies [such as that suffered by the patient] and as a result of open-heart surgery.” 21.  on 23 may 2008 the applicants brought an action for damages against the doctors before the ankara civil court of general jurisdiction (“ccgj”) alleging that they had not practised their profession properly and had caused the very severe sequelae with which their daughter duru kurt was afflicted.24.  according to that report the patient had originally been diagnosed with dilated cardiomyopathy (an illness which significantly diminishes the “pumping” capacity of the heart) at ankara university hospital, and following more detailed examinations at the sami ulus hospital, alcapa, also known as bland-white-garland syndrome, had been diagnosed.25.  the experts explained that the patient had undergone a takeuchi operation to create an intrapulmonary tunnel and that a leak had been noted on the periphery of the membrane during the check-ups conducted six months later.they stated that that leak had led to a second surgical operation, that the patient had been placed on respiratory support owing to the emergence of a tonic-clonic contraction after the operation and that the neurological sequelae had appeared during that period of intensive care.the board of experts considered that the only treatment for that disease was surgery, and that the most appropriate type of surgery was the takeuchi operation.the board added that the latter had a mortality rate of up to 23%, that in 50% of all cases a leak could occur around the membrane following such heart surgery and that, taking all types of complications together, the rate of re-operation was up to 30%.according to the report, the leak which had been observed around the membrane after the first operation had been a complication which occurred in 50 % of cases, and the operation carried out to resolve that issue had been even riskier than the first one.with regard to the expert report of 31 july 2009 and the facts set out in the prosecution investigation file, the court held that the doctors had not been responsible for the sequelae affecting the child after her high-risk operations, to which her parents had given their consent.furthermore, under established case-law, the experts should have begun by explaining the acts and procedures required by medical lege artis and comparing them with the acts which the doctors in question had actually carried out in order to determine whether and how far the said rules had been observed.they alleged, moreover, that one of the doctors who should have been present during the operation had stayed away from the theatre after having been alerted by telephone that the patient’s heart had stopped during the operation, pointing out that the expert report had neither analysed nor even mentioned that fact.
4.  the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in perm.5.  on 22 april 2008 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of drug dealing and was placed in pre-trial detention on the ground that he was suspected of committing a serious offence, was a foreign national, had no permanent place of residence in perm, no job, no income, he could abscond and commit crimes.6.  on 18 june 2008 the permskiy district court of the perm region extended his pre-trial detention on the same grounds.7.  on 5 august 2008 the permskiy district court issued the first conviction which was quashed by the perm regional court on 14 october 2008. the court held that the applicant should remain in detention without indicating any reasons.8.  by decisions of 1 november 2008 and 18 march 2009, as upheld on appeal, the permskiy district court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention reiterating its earlier reasoning and stating that he could interfere with the investigation and put pressure on witnesses.9.  on 20 may 2010 the district court issued a new conviction.on 14 december 2010 the perm regional court quashed this conviction.the applicant remained in detention.10.  on 26 may 2011 the perm regional court convicted the applicant of drug dealing and smuggling and sentenced him to 10 years’ imprisonment.on 25 october 2011 the supreme court of russia commuted the sentence to 8 years’ imprisonment.
5.  the applicant was born in 1954 and died on 27 may 2014. on 24 october 2014 his wife, mrs schwab, was established as his heir.6.  as of 1987 the applicant had intermittently received emergency relief benefits (notstandshilfe) under the unemployment insurance act (arbeitslosenversicherungsgesetz).7.  on 4 february 2008 the vienna prandaugasse labour market service (arbeitsmarktservice) retroactively revoked these benefits in so far as they related to the period from 22 august 2002 to 31 july 2007, and ordered the applicant to refund the payments concerned, holding that he had not been entitled to them as he had been living in a joint household with his wife during that period.8.  the applicant appealed, claiming that his wife had moved to her parents’ house in september 2000, and that they had been running separate households ever since.9.  on 8 august 2008 the vienna regional labour market service (arbeitsmarktservice landesgeschäftsstelle; hereinafter, “the labour market service”) dismissed the appeal.it held that its preliminary investigations had not shown that the applicant and his wife had terminated their joint household during the period in question.10.  the applicant made a request to the constitutional court (verfassungsgerichtshof) for legal aid to lodge a complaint against this decision.on 6 november 2008 the constitutional court dismissed the request for lack of prospects of success.11.  on 6 november 2008 the applicant complained to the administrative court (verwaltungsgerichtshof) about the labour market service’s decision of 8 august 2008 (see paragraph 9 above), explicitly requesting an oral hearing before the administrative court.he contested, inter alia, that he had been living in a joint household with his wife during the period in question.12.  by decision of 25 may 2011 the administrative court, without holding an oral hearing, dismissed the complaint as unfounded.it held that the labour market service had, in view of the evidence established during its preliminary investigations, reasonably assumed that the applicant had been living in a joint household with his wife.the applicant’s request for an oral hearing was not addressed.13.  the administrative court’s decision was served on the applicant’s counsel on 17 june 2011.
8.  on 27 june 2008 the applicant lodged an application with the vienna inner city district court (bezirksgericht innere stadt; hereinafter, “the district court”) to transfer sole custody to him, or to grant him joint custody together with s.o.9.  on 8 october 2008 the parents agreed that the applicant would be able to see his children every second monday from 2.30 pm or 3 pm until 6 pm and every second saturday from 10 am until 6 pm.10.  on the same day the applicant applied for an extension of his visiting rights to the whole weekend.12.  the vienna juvenile court assistance office (jugendgerichtshilfe) submitted its statement on 10 march 2009 and recommended maintaining sole custody for the mother and visiting rights for the applicant according to the agreement the parents had concluded on 8 october 2008.13.  on 6 april 2009 the district court decided to grant the applicant visiting rights on every second saturday from 8 am until 7 pm.according to article 176 of the civil code (allgemeines bürgerliches gesetzbuch) as in force at the relevant time, a transfer of custody was only possible if the children’s best interest was at risk.in the present case the court found no such risk and the applicant actually had not claimed such a risk.the court further held that the visiting rights were decided in accordance with the parents’ mutual agreement.15.  the applicant appealed on 14 april 2009 and argued in essence that he was discriminated against, compared to the mother.also, he complained that the court had not decided on the question of whether the parents could be awarded joint custody.16.  according to the applicant’s submissions, his visiting rights were resumed on 24 april 2009 in the amount determined by the district court (see paragraph 13 above).it confirmed the reasoning of the district court and held that there was no indication of a risk to the children’s best interest if the mother maintained sole custody.18.  the applicant lodged an extraordinary appeal with the supreme court (oberster gerichtshof) on 10 november 2009, again claiming that he was discriminated against compared to the mother and that the decision of the lower instances violated his rights under article 8 of the convention.19.  on 1 september 2010 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s extraordinary appeal for lack of an important issue of law.20.  after the amendment of the civil code (see paragraph 22 below), the applicant on 5 february 2013 again applied for joint custody, or sole custody in the alternative.
4.  the relevant details of the application are set out in the appended table.5.  the applicant complained of the inadequate conditions of his detention.he also raised other complaints under the provisions of the convention.6.  the government submitted a declaration with a view to resolving the issues raised by the applicant.7.  in particular, the government acknowledged that the conditions of the applicant’s detention in facility no.iz-42/2 in novokuznetsk had not complied with the requirements of article 3 of the convention.they offered to pay the applicant the sum of 4,480 euros and invited the court to strike the application out of the list of cases in accordance with article 37 § 1 (c) of the convention.the amount would be converted into the currency of the respondent state at the rate applicable on the date of payment, and would be payable within three months from the date of notification of the court’s judgement.in the event of failure to pay this amount within the abovementioned three-month period, the government undertook to pay simple interest on them, from the expiry of that period until settlement, at a rate equal to the marginal lending rate of the european central bank during the default period plus three percentage points.the declaration did not mention the applicant’s complaint concerning the inadequate conditions of detention in correctional colonies, no.ik-13 in nizhniy tagil and no.ik-2 in yekaterinburg.8.  the applicant informed the court that he agreed to the terms of the declaration.
the next day the inter-district prosecutor’s office of the presnenskiy district of moscow (“the prosecutor’s office”) – relying on article 61 of the minsk convention, article 16 of the european convention on extradition and articles 97-101, and 108 of the code of criminal procedure of russia (“the ccrp”) – applied to the presnenskiy district court of moscow (“the district court”) for the authorisation of his detention pending extradition.10.  on 25 september 2010 the district court granted the application, having found that the applicant was a national of kazakhstan and that his russian nationality had been annulled in 2006 by a court.12.  in the meantime, on 19 november 2010 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 23 march 2011. it repeated the reasons put forward in the original detention order and noted that the russian authorities had received a request on 25 october 2010 for the applicant’s extradition.it furthermore considered that the applicant’s state of health did not prevent his further detention, regard being had to the constant medical supervision and the appropriate quality of care ensured by the custodial authorities.it noted that the delivery of a decision on the extradition request by the general prosecutor’s office was the only procedural step that had to be taken and that it could not thus justify such a lengthy detention of the applicant.15.  on 18 february 2011, the district court, unaware of the decision of the kazakh investigators, extended the applicant’s detention until 23 march 2011. the applicant appealed.16.  on 3 march 2011 the district court noted the fact that the kazakh authorities had ordered that the applicant be released from detention; accordingly it ordered his release from detention.according to the lawyer, the hypertensive crisis and the heart pain were signs of a serious deterioration in the applicant’s health.24.  on 10 december 2010 the court decided to indicate to the government, under rule 39 of the rules of court, that the applicant should be provided with immediate access to an independent medical practitioner for an examination of his current state of health and, if considered necessary, should be admitted to an appropriate civilian or prison hospital.in the hospital he was subjected to a number of tests and examinations, including an electrocardiography examination, an ultrasound heart examination, ultrasound imaging of blood vessels in the applicant’s neck and legs, x-ray examinations of the chest, hip and bowels, a gastroscopy, and a colonoscopy.having approved the treatment administered by the detention authorities, the board noted that the applicant should be seen by a vascular surgeon, neurologist, urologist and a cardiologist.28.  on 14 february 2011 the applicant’s lawyer, citing the seriousness of the applicant’s medical condition, asked that the applicant be medically examined by a general practitioner.32.  in april 2011 the applicant lodged a claim with the district court against the detention authorities, seeking that the following be declared unlawful: their refusal to submit him to medical examinations (including those ordered by the court) (see paragraphs 24 and 28 above); and the refusal of 14 february 2011 to allow him to receive medical attention and to grant his lawyer access to the applicant’s medical file.33.  on 4 october 2011 the district court declared that the authorities had unlawfully restricted the lawyer’s access to the medical file and dismissed the remainder of the claim.it in particular found that by admitting the applicant to the prison hospital in moscow the authorities had complied with the interim measure indicated by the court.
the municipal authorities reclaimed the flats, and the applicants’ title to the real property in question was annulled.as it was later established by the police, a. submitted to the registration authorities a written consent for her registration in the flat allegedly signed by ye.7.  on 28 august 2007 the housing department transferred the ownership of the flat to a. under the privatisation scheme.the transaction and the applicant’s title to the flat were verified and registered by state authorities.10.  on 15 february 2010 the police opened a criminal investigation into the fraudulent acquisition of the flat by a. the government did not inform of its outcome.11.  on 16 may 2012 the housing department brought a civil claim seeking invalidation of all the transactions with the flat, transfer of the title to the flat to the city of moscow, and the applicant’s eviction.the court considered the housing and privatisation agreements to the benefit of a. to be null and void and reinstated the city’s title to the flat.the court also dismissed the applicant’s argument that she had bought a flat in good faith noting that the purchase price she had paid for the flat had been below the market value.t. resided there as a tenant under the social housing agreement with the city from 1966 until her death on 16 april 2009. on 5 may 2009 the municipal authorities were informed of her death and annulled her registration in the flat.16.  on 7 may 2009 the city administration asked the police to carry out an inquiry as regards the persons residing in the flat.applied to the state registration authorities for the registration of the sale of the flat by t. to her.according to the documents submitted with the application, on 5 june 1992 the title to the flat was transferred from the city of yekaterinburg to t. under the privatisation scheme and on 16 january 1997 t. sold the flat to tikh.the sale was verified and registered by the state authorities and the title to the flat was transferred to tikh.19.  on 26 november 2012 the city administration brought an action seeking the invalidation of all the transactions with the flat.20.  on 19 december 2013 the leninskiy district court of yekaterinburg invalidated the privatisation agreement and transferred the title to the city of yekaterinburg.
5.  the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in balıkesir.6.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.7.  on 26 may 2010 the applicant was dismissed from his post as an officer in the army due to non-compliance with disciplinary rules.8.  on 22 june 2010 the applicant brought an action before the supreme military administrative court and requested the annulment of his dismissal.on 9 november 2010 the chief public prosecutor submitted his observations to the supreme military administrative court.these observations were notified to the applicant and he replied to it in his petition of 14 december 2010.9.  on 8 february 2011 the supreme military administrative court dismissed the applicant’s case taking into account the “secret documents” submitted by the ministry of defence.these documents were not disclosed to the applicant.10.  on 26 april 2011 the applicant’s request for rectification was rejected by the same court.
5.  the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in ankara.6.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.7.  on 13 april 2010 the applicant was dismissed from his post as an officer in the army due to non-compliance with disciplinary rules.8.  on 16 may 2010 the applicant brought an action before the supreme military administrative court and requested the annulment of his dismissal.on 21 october 2010 the chief public prosecutor submitted his observations to the supreme military administrative court.these observations were notified to the applicant and he replied to it in his petition of 24 january 2011.9.  on 15 february 2011 the supreme military administrative court dismissed the applicant’s action having regard to the “secret documents” submitted by the ministry of defence.these documents were not disclosed to the applicant.10.  on 3 may 2011 the applicant’s request for rectification of the above judgment was rejected by the same court.
9.  on the same day the applicant published an article on pressan under the headline “liu pays 20 million for offensive material” and referred to the article in dv.the article stated that a had to do better than just denying that direct payments had been made to website b and that the liu, directed by a, was accountable for the offensive material published anonymously on website b. furthermore, the applicant called into question whether or not the respectable representatives of the liu’s member companies had agreed to the organisation’s funds being paid through intermediaries to gossips such as the owners of website b.the article stated that the liu supposedly supported website b with isk 20 million annually through companies owned by [mr y], who was also the owner of website b. furthermore, the article stated that the applicant knew that not all liu board members were aware of the organisation’s support for the offensive material on website b since the payments were well-disguised in the organisation’s financial records.12.  moreover, it stated that the applicant had been told that it was possible that none of the liu’s board members knew about the organisation’s millions being used to support anonymous slander on website b and that a alone had decided to use the funds in this way.13.  on 28 december 2011 a lodged defamation proceedings against the applicant before the reykjaness district court and requested that the following statements be declared null and void: “a.the liu, directed by [a], is left accountable for the offensive material that is published anonymously on the gossip [website b] 14.  by judgment of 29 november 2012 the district court found that only one of the statements, namely that under item d above, had been defamatory and ordered the applicant to pay a isk 300,000 (approximately 2,500 euros (eur)) in non‑pecuniary damages under the tort liability act, plus interest, and isk 450,000 (approximately 3,750 eur) for a’s costs before the district court.15.  the judgment contained the following reasons: “... [a] is the chief executive officer of the federation of icelandic fishing vessel owners or liu, as the federation is called in everyday speech, and he has held the job for almost 12 years.article 73(3) of the constitution states that freedom of expression may only be restricted by law in the interests of public order or the security of the state, for the protection of health or morals, or for the protection of the rights or reputation of others, if such restrictions are deemed necessary and in agreement with democratic traditions.... in the court’s view the following statement applies directly to [a]: “i know that some of the liu board members are not aware of the financial support for the offensive writings on [website b], because the payments are well-disguised in the organisation’s financial statements.i have been told that it is possible that no members of the liu board know that the organisation’s millions are being used to support anonymous slander on [website b] - that the ceo alone decided to use the organisation’s funds this way”.[the applicant] does not maintain that this does not apply directly to [a], his plea for acquittal is based on the fact that the statement does not imply that [a] has committed a criminal offence; furthermore he claims that this is not something he maintains, since he pointed out [in the article] that he was not able to confirm that statement.the evaluation of whether or not the statement includes an accusation of a criminal act or is defamatory will not be based on how [the applicant] understands it but on how readers are expected to perceive and interpret it.the claim that the payments to [website b] have been disguised in the organisation’s financial statements seems to imply that [a], who is responsible for the liu’s financial accounts as the ceo of the organisation, condones accounting deception to hide the alleged support to [website b].the court considers that the second part of the statement, “i have been told that it is possible that no liu board members know that the organisation’s millions are being used to support anonymous slander on [website b] - that the ceo alone decided to use the organisation’s funds in this way”, can be understood as an insinuation of fraud by abuse of position [umboðssvik] and negligence at work as it implies that [a] allocated liu funds against the board’s will and without authorisation.19/1940, the statement is declared null and void.” 16.  the applicant sought leave to appeal to the supreme court, which was refused on 25 february 2013.
5.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.6.  on 15 february 2009 the applicant was arrested by police officers from the istanbul police headquarters on suspicion of being involved in the activities of a terrorist organisation.7.  on 18 february 2009 the applicant’s statement was taken by the public prosecutor.the same day the investigating judge at the istanbul assize court ordered that the applicant be detained on remand taking into account the strong suspicion that the applicant had committed the offence he was charged with and risk of tampering with evidence.8.  on 27 march 2009 the istanbul public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul assize court.he charged the applicant with membership of an armed terrorist organisation, making the propaganda of an armed terrorist organisation, contravening the meetings and demonstration marches act (law no.9.  on 5 may 2009 at the end of the preparatory hearing, the istanbul assize court decided that the applicant’s detention should be continued taking into account the nature of the offence, the state of evidence and the fact that his statements had not yet been taken.at the first hearing, in the presence of the applicant, the court ordered that the applicant’s detention on remand be continued on the same grounds.11.  at hearings held on 16 february 2010 and 8 june 2010, respectively, the applicant’s requests to be released from detention on remand were rejected by the trial court.on 15 march 2010 and 7 july 2010, the istanbul assize court dismissed the objections.the court decided on the basis of the case file, without holding a public hearing.in delivering its decisions, the court also took into consideration the written opinion of the public prosecutors, which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative.12.  on 23 november 2010 the istanbul assize court released the applicant from detention on remand taking into account the period he had remained in detention.13.  on 17 october 2010 the case was transferred to the juvenile court.14.  according to the information in the case file, the case is still pending before the istanbul anadolu juvenile court.
6.  on 9 august 2004 the applicant lodged a civil claim concerning a property issue against eleven other persons with the court of first instance (osnovni sud) in herceg novi.7.  on 15 march 2011 the court of first instance in herceg novi ruled partly in favour of the applicant.8.  on 18 march 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal with the high court (viši sud) in podgorica.9.  on 8 november 2013 the high court in podgorica quashed the judgement and remitted the case back to the court of first instance.10.  on 6 july 2015 the court of first instance in herceg novi ruled against the applicant.on 3 august 2015 the applicant lodged an appeal against this judgment.the proceedings are still pending at the second instance.
11.  on the same day the applicant applied to the united nations high commissioner for refugees (“the unhcr”) and the ministry of the interior for recognition as a refugee.it noted, in particular, that the first-instance court had failed to attach a photograph of the applicant to his case file for identification purposes, to keep a record of the last hearing in the case file, to inform him of his legal rights, in breach of law no.lastly, the court of cassation noted that the first-instance court had ordered the applicant’s extradition, whereas it should merely have declared the extradition request admissible, given that extradition could only be ordered by the cabinet of ministers.16.  on 3 june 2010 the bakırköy assize court asked the opinion of the bakırköy public prosecutor as to whether the applicant could continue to be detained under articles 100 and 101 of the code of criminal procedure.it took account the nature of the offences, the state of the evidence, the content of the case file, the existence of a strong suspicion that he had committed the offences in question and the risk that he might abscond.22.  on 27 december 2010, at the eighth hearing, the trial court asked the applicant to submit observations in response to the documents received from the uzbek authorities and adjourned the hearing.the unhcr also informed the authorities in its letter that it had rejected the applicant’s application for refugee status since he did not qualify for that status but that he should nevertheless not be removed to uzbekistan in the light of the non-refoulement principle and the requirements of article 3 of the convention.24.  on 7 january 2011 the bakırköy assize court decided to ask the ministry of the interior to submit a certified copy of the unhcr’s letter to it and adjourned the hearing.25.  the ministry of the interior submitted the document requested at a hearing on 4 february 2011. the court also decided to await the outcome of the applicant’s appeal against the unhcr’s decision not to grant him refugee status.26.  the proceedings were adjourned between 4 february and 30 march 2011 as the assize court waited for a response from the unhcr but on the latter of those dates it decided to annul its previous decision on the grounds that the unhcr’s examination of the applicant’s appeal could take a long time.29.  by a letter dated 2 june 2011, the ministry of the interior provided information about the applicant’s new status to the ministry of justice, the ministry of foreign affairs, the istanbul and sakarya governors’ offices and the police’s interpol‑europol department attached to the general police headquarters.the ministry of the interior asked the ministry of justice to take the necessary measures to prevent possible extradition of the applicant to uzbekistan because he had been granted a permit to reside in sakarya.34.  on 6 december 2011 the public prosecutor at the court of cassation asked the high court to quash the judgment of 20 june 2011. he argued that the first-instance court had ruled without having made an examination of the case in the light of article 3 of the convention and the relevant provisions of other human rights treaties.37.  on 9 may 2012, at the request of the bakırköy public prosecutor, the bakırköy assize court ordered the applicant’s release from prison on the grounds that he had been granted subsidiary protection status.40.  between 7 june 2010 and 23 may 2011 the bakırköy assize court ordered the applicant to be kept in detention owing to the nature of the offences in question, the state of the evidence and the fact that he was not a permanent resident of turkey.
6.  in 2001 the applicant had a civil dispute with her sister regarding division of the house.on 17 january 2001 the taganrog town court determined that the sisters had equal shares in respect of the inherited property.7.  on 29 may 2002 the taganrog town court factually determined the equal shares of the house, as well as the way of its sharing.8.  on an unspecified date the applicant’s sister lodged a separate claim, requesting the court to acknowledge her property right to the corridor and the kitchen in the house, referring to the fact that she had invested in their reconstruction in 1989 and built some attachments to the house.9.  on 17 october 2003 the taganrog town court held that the attachments to the house belonged to the applicant’s sister because she had built them after the inheritance.the court increased the share of the applicant’s sister in the property up to 64/100 and reduced the applicant’s part to 36/100.10.  on 22 october 2004 the taganrog town court on request of the applicant’s sister held that the judgment of 17 october 2003 established “new circumstances”, i.e. that the attachments in the house had been built by the applicant’s sister.thus the court quashed the judgment of 29 may 2002 and re-opened the case on account of the “newly-discovered circumstances which were not and could not have been known at the moment of delivering the judgment of 29 may 2002”.11.  the proceedings resumed, but on 8 february 2005 the applicant withdrew her claim and the proceedings were terminated.the house was divided in two parts and the parties were ordered to pay dividing costs.the court rendered the judgment in the absence of the applicant and her representative on the ground that she failed to appear without any reasons despite her having been duly summoned to the hearing.the court noted that the applicant had attended several hearings and had already presented her arguments on the merits.it also mentioned that the applicant had begun to avoid the court hearings in order to delay the trial.the applicant appealed, claiming, inter alia, that the trial court had rendered the judgment in her absence though she had been ill. 14.  on 6 december 2006 the rostov regional court upheld the judgment on appeal.as to the applicant’s absence, the court found that the applicant had been properly notified about the hearing in question but had failed to inform the trial court that she had been ill and never requested to suspend the proceedings.
5.  the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in belgrade, serbia.6.  the relevant facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.7.  on 18 september 1995 the applicant and her family members instituted proceedings before the court of first instance (osnovni sud) in herceg novi, seeking division of their joint property.8.  on 5 may 1997 the court of first instance in herceg novi discontinued these proceedings and instructed the parties to initiate a separate civil case given a number of contentious issues.9.  on 8 september 1997 the applicant’s cousins brought a claim against the applicant and her parents before the court of first instance in herceg novi.on 30 december 1997, the cousins lodged an additional claim concerning the same matter.both claims were subsequently joined and examined in the same civil proceedings.10.  on 1 october 2002 the court of first instance in herceg novi ruled against the applicant and her parents.11.  on 25 june 2004 the high court (viši sud) in podgorica upheld this judgment on appeal.it was served on the applicant on 15 july 2004.12.  on 17 august 2004 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law (revizija) with the supreme court of montenegro.13.  this appeal was misplaced until 20 january 2006, when the applicant’s lawyers intervened and urged the authorities to find it.on 12 january 2007 the applicant amended her appeal on points of law.14.  on 14 february 2008 the supreme court of montenegro rejected the applicant’s appeal on points of law as unfounded.this decision was served on the applicant on 6 march 2008.
under article 201 § 1 of the criminal code ...” 10.  after publication of the statement the newspaper’s editorial department received a number of telephone calls from residents of fryazino who informed the applicant that s.p., an employee at fryazino town administration, had been rude to them when they had tried to make an appointment with the mayor through the administration’s public reception office.combines her activities in the public reception office – where, judging by the telephone calls to the editorial department, she does not always behave appropriately towards visitors: [she] raises her voice and is rude, for which she has been reprimanded by the head of the public reception office, k., – with jobs as accountant at strela-3 zhsk ... and head of strela zhsk, and so forth.brought defamation proceedings against the applicant and the newspaper’s editorial department before the shchelkovo town court (“the town court”), seeking a retraction of the information contained in the article and non‑pecuniary damages.was allegedly responsible during the time she performed the duties of head of strela zhsk ... have not been proven [by the applicant] ... in determining non-pecuniary damages ..., the court takes into account that ... the published material was based on unverified information and that s.p., being a municipal civil servant ... is particularly deeply affected by articles alleging violations of the law by her, a lack of conscientiousness and unethical behaviour ...” 14.  the applicant appealed against the decision to the moscow regional court (“the regional court”).she stated, in particular, that the amount of damages was excessive as the town court had failed to take into account the small size of her retirement pension and had failed properly to examine the evidence she had submitted to prove the impugned statements.the text of the article included the following statement by n. concerning l.k., the then head of the fryazino technical inventory bureau (the bti)[2] and also the wife of u., the incumbent mayor: “... as transpires from a complaint by residents to the shchelkovo town prosecutor’s office, u.’s wife, a certain l.k., in abuse of her position as head of the fryazino bti ..., committed forgery by stealing ... the land-use plan for the building at 23 polevaya street and replacing it with [another] land-use plan ...” 19.  on an unspecified date in 2006 l.k.n. and the applicant argued that the impugned statement had in fact been a value judgment which had not been susceptible of proof, which the town court dismissed as follows: “the argument by n. and his representative that the impugned statement was a value judgment is refuted by the case material.had committed a crime by stealing and replacing the land-use plan ... having analysed the complaint by members of the public to the shchelkovo town prosecutor regarding l.k., the court concludes that the defendant presented a statement of fact, not a value judgment, in the newspaper article.... a statement of fact that a crime has been committed should be examined in the way established by the code of criminal procedure, therefore n.’s statement cannot be considered by the court as a value judgment or opinion and [its veracity] should be proven by presenting criminal-procedure documents to the court confirming that l.k.’s actions constituted a crime.has argued before the court that she ... is a civil servant who discharges her duties in good faith and that publication in the media ... of the statement that she had committed a ... crime caused her distress, on the basis of which the court concludes that l.k.’s claims for non-pecuniary damages should be granted.” 21.  the applicant and n. both appealed.the arguments [contained in] the statements of appeal are aimed at a reassessment of the evidence and do not contain circumstances that would refute the findings of the [first-instance] court and require additional examination.” 23.   n. stood for office as mayor of fryazino in elections scheduled for 4 september 2005. he paid from his election fund to have an appeal addressed to president putin published in the newspaper, which was signed “n., a candidate for the office of mayor”.the article read, in so far as relevant, as follows: “... one of the covert heads of the limited liability company roads of the xxi century, who is also the head of the prince casino, a certain g.a., who is in direct contact with the mayor of fryazino, u., and connected to him by a dubious financial relationship linked to the construction of housing and commercial car parks in fryazino, arranged for a criminal case opened against u. to be terminated.informed me that in the near future he would be working in the fryazino town administration as chairman of the council of deputies – [that he would be] controlling and distributing the funds belonging to ... fryazino to ‘his own companies’, and, first and foremost, to roads of the xxi century.... it turned out that, in violation of ... the law on the main guarantees of election rights ..., the campaign material was not paid for from g.a.’s campaign funds, but [from the assets of] the very same company, roads of the xxi century!!!30.  the applicant appealed arguing, in particular, that the amount of damages was excessive and disproportionate in view of her small pension and that the town court had failed to properly examine the evidence she had submitted to prove the impugned information.
7.  the second applicant is the mother of mr p., who died of the same disease in the same hospital on 19 june 2009.12.  having complained of abdominal pain, on 4 march 2007 mr b. was admitted to the prison hospital, where he was later diagnosed with tuberculosis of the peripheral lymph nodes.the test, performed five days later, showed that the level of cd4 cells was 163 cells/mm3, which corresponded to an advanced stage of the disease.a viral load test was performed, the results of which, as alleged by the second applicant, were not given to mr p. 25.  on 13 july 2007 mr p. returned to the prison medical facility.26.  on 27 october 2008 at the request of mr p., the segezha town court of the republic of karelia ordered his release on parole.27.  on 26 may and 4 june 2010 a russian non-governmental organisation, agora, complained to the russian prosecutor general’s office of the lack of hiv treatment for detainees, including mr b. and mr p. the complaint was referred to the prosecutor’s office in the republic of karelia.28.  in a letter to the russian prosecutor general’s office dated 6 july 2010 the prosecutor’s office in the republic of karelia observed that in 2007 and 2008 prison authorities in karelia had experienced difficulties with providing medical assistance to hiv-infected convicts in view of the fact that a large number of infected inmates had been sent to the republic from other regions.the prosecutor’s office said that the supply of drugs had been limited and the number of medical professionals had been insufficient, and acknowledged that the medical care of mr b. and mr p. had fallen short of the domestic standards.the prosecutor’s office had sent the evidence it had gathered to the investigative committee in the republic of karelia to determine whether a criminal case should be opened.29.  on 5 august 2010 the investigative authorities refused to open a criminal case into the deaths of mr b. and mr p. citing the difficulties encountered by the prison authorities of the karelia republic in 2006-08, including the large number of hiv-positive inmates, a lack of specialists trained to treat inmates suffering from that infection, the absence of an immunological laboratory and the lack of medication, the investigators concluded that the prison authorities had taken all possible measures to provide medical assistance to hiv-infected inmates.no causal link between the absence of hiv therapy and the deaths of mr b. and mr p. was established.the conduct of the prison and medical authorities, in the investigators’ opinion, did not reveal any signs of a criminal offence.31.  in 2011 the applicants lodged a claim for non-pecuniary damages against the russian ministry of finance, arguing that their relatives’ death from hiv had been caused by the authorities’ failure to provide appropriate medical care.it found that the burden of proof was on the applicants, who had to prove the unlawfulness of the prison officials’ conduct, the alleged damage, and the causal links between the officials’ conduct and that damage.having noted the absence of a decision establishing a breach of the law by the prison authorities, and having referred to the decision not to open a criminal case into the deaths of the applicant’s relatives, the court dismissed the claim as unsubstantiated.
at about 3.40 a.m. the police stopped the car; two men from the narcotics unit approached the car and asked the passengers to step out and produce their identity documents and luggage for inspection.the officers then put the black bag into the trunk of the police car and took the applicant and b. to the premises of the narcotics unit.9.  at 8.15 p.m. the investigator compiled the record of the applicant’s arrest.11.  the detention hearing before the zyuzinskiy district court in moscow began at 7.15 p.m. on 16 july 2007. counsel for the applicant submitted that, in view of the actual time of the applicant’s detention, the maximum statutory period of forty-eight hours had already expired.however, the court did not heed that argument and ordered that the applicant be remanded in custody because the gravity of charges against her.on 25 july 2007 copies of the appeal were forwarded to the applicant and to the prosecutor for comments.13.  on 27 august 2007 the city court rejected the appeal against the detention order in a summary fashion, noting that “the pre-trial investigation authorities did not commit any substantial breaches of the rules of criminal procedure”.14.  the case against the applicant was referred for trial to the babushkinskiy district court in moscow.15.  the defence claimed that the attesting witnesses who had been present during the opening of the bag were in fact employees of the narcotics unit rather than independent observers as required by law.the reports contained the same text to the effect that the witnesses could not be reached on the phone, that no one opened the door at their residence and that neighbours had told the bailiff that they had not seen them for a long time.16.  counsel for the applicant requested the court to obtain the visitors journal from the reception of the narcotics unit.it further held that there existed “exceptional circumstances” for the absence of the witnesses ms p. and ms a. and allowed their pre-trial statements to be read out, overriding the objections from the defence.17.  the trial court also authorised the reading-out of the pre-trial statement of mr f., the driver of the car, of which the applicant and b. had been passengers.18.  by judgment of 8 april 2008, the district court found the applicant and b. guilty as charged and sentenced each of them to eight years’ imprisonment in a high-security correctional colony.it held in particular that the applicant’s claim that she did not know she was carrying marijuana in her friend’s bag was refuted by the seizure report of 14 july 2007 and the statements by the witnesses ms p. and ms a.
4.  the applicant was born in 1976.5.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.6.  in 1994, the applicant was convicted of theft and given a two-year custodial sentence conditional on one year’s probation.however, the court applied a general amnesty act and the applicant’s conviction, including the probation period, was spent with immediate effect.7.  less than one year later, on 29 may 1995, a different court convicted the applicant of aggravated robbery and sentenced him to six years’ imprisonment.considering that the applicant had breached the terms of his probation by committing a new offence, the court ordered the suspended sentence to be activated and increased the total length of the sentence by one year.8.  on 11 december 2001 the presidium of the omsk regional court acknowledged that the 1995 judgment had been unlawful in the part relating to the increase of the final sentence in connection with the prior conviction that had already been spent.the length of the sentence was varied to six years’ imprisonment, calculated from 2 january 1995 which was the date of the applicant’s arrest.given that the applicant had already spent more than six years in detention, the presidium ordered his immediate release.10.  he sought first to exercise the “right to rehabilitation” under the code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 13 below).on 5 august 2003 the oktyabrskiy district court in omsk rejected his application, pointing out that the “right to rehabilitation” only accrued to those who have been acquitted or exonerated which was not the applicant’s case.the applicant did not appeal against that decision.11.  the applicant also tried to initiate criminal proceedings against judge b. who had given the judgment of 29 may 1995. his criminal-law complaint was rejected on the ground that the limitation period had expired.12.  finally, the applicant filed a civil claim for compensation under the tort provisions of the civil code (see paragraph 14 below).on 20 december 2005 the tsentralniy district court in omsk rejected his claim, finding that paragraph 1 of article 1070 did not apply because the applicant had been found guilty rather than acquitted and that the special condition of applicability of paragraph 2 – the criminal conviction of the judge – was not fulfilled.
when the applicant tried to help his friend, the men punched the applicant in the face and head several times, causing him to fall to the ground, where they kicked him in the head.7.  on the day of the incident the skuodas police (hereinafter “the police”) opened a pre-trial investigation, interviewed the applicant and granted him victim status.the expert concluded that the injuries corresponded to negligible health impairment (nežymus sveikatos sutrikdymas) and that they could have occurred at the time and in the circumstances described by the applicant (see paragraph 6 above).the expert found that a few days after the incident the applicant’s doctor had detected a fracture in the applicant’s nose, without any displacement of the bone (nosies kaulo lūžiai be dislokacijos), and that the applicant had been granted sick leave from work for four days.13.  in the course of the pre-trial investigation, the police interviewed twelve witnesses, examined the victims’ clothes and other items, obtained a video recording of the incident from the petrol station, and carried out various other investigative measures.the expert found that although a few months previously the applicant had been diagnosed with inflammation of the auditory nerves, that condition was not related to the injuries sustained during the incident of 17 february 2007.the court considered that the charges had been proven by victim and witness testimony, the confessions of the accused, and the video recording from the petrol station’s camera.the klaipėda regional court held that the district court had not based its judgment on circumstances examined at the hearing but solely on the description of the charges in the indictment.the klaipėda regional court concluded that such breaches had affected the district court’s objective impartiality, and the case was again remitted to the skuodas district court for re-examination.21.  on 26 march 2012 a different panel of the skuodas district court held that the five-year statute of limitations (see paragraph 26 below) had expired and discontinued the case as time-barred, leaving the victims’ civil claims unexamined.the victims, including the applicant, appealed against that decision, arguing that the court had erred by applying the statute of limitations because the legal classification of the charges had been incorrect.however, on 28 june 2012 the klaipėda regional court dismissed their appeal, finding that the legal classification of charges was the prerogative of the prosecutor and that the code of criminal procedure did not provide for any possibility to continue criminal proceedings after the expiry of the statute of limitations.however, the court considered that the applicant had not proven the pecuniary damage claimed and awarded him ltl 124.45 (approximately eur 36) under that head on the basis of petrol receipts he had submitted.the court further observed that the applicant’s nose had been broken and that he must have suffered a certain amount of inconvenience owing to the need to attend numerous court hearings; however, the injury had not caused him any long-term physical or psychological damage.it found that the district court had erred in refusing to award the applicant pecuniary damages related to the legal costs which he had incurred in the criminal proceedings, and granted him ltl 5,000 (approximately eur 1,448) under that head, thereby increasing the total amount of pecuniary damages to ltl 5,124.45 (approximately eur 1,484).
4.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.5.  on 25 march 1996 the applicant brought a compensation claim for damages suffered as a consequence of an expropriation of his property against the municipality of bar and one of the local primary schools before the court of first instance (osnovni sud) in bar.6.  on 11 april 1996 the applicant’s representative informed the court of first instance that he had initiated a separate set of proceedings to determine the value of the above-mentioned damages.the court of first instance suspended the above mentioned civil proceedings pending the final resolution of this matter.7.  no document was submitted by the parties as to whether or not the compensation proceedings have ended in the meantime.accordingly, it would appear that the said two sets of proceedings are still pending before the court of first instance.8.  on 2 february 2004 the applicant instituted proceedings before the court of first instance in bar, against his neighbour, seeking a demarcation between their two plots of land.9.  on 25 march 2004 the applicant amended his proposal to this effect.10.  on 14 september 2004 the applicant and the respondent reached a friendly settlement which was approved by the court of first instance on the same day.
according to the applicants, the care assistant, who was specially trained and had taken care of the first applicant for many years, was the only person with whom the latter felt secure when he needed to go out of his home, in particular to go to his office, as this involved the assistant carrying him and installing him in a car.8.  on 7 april 2011, at about 11 a.m., the first applicant, while travelling in his car which was being driven by his care assistant, was stopped by police officers and ordered to follow them to the police station.while the parties have not specified the grounds for this arrest, it is very likely that it was on the basis of the ministry of the interior act, which allowed, inter alia, the detention for up to twenty-four hours of a person suspected of having committed an offence, and that it was related to the investigation against the first applicant.9.  the car remained in the carpark and the first applicant remained in it.10.  during the time the first applicant spent in front of the police station, police officers searched his home, his office and his pawnshop, as well as his parents’ flat and house.11.  at about 6 p.m., while still in the car and in the presence of his lawyer who had arrived in the meantime, the first applicant had charges of usury brought against him by an investigator.12.  the first applicant remained in the car in front of the police station until about 7.30 p.m. after that he was brought in front of the building of the blagoevgrad regional court, which was to hold a hearing to examine an application by the prosecution to place him under house arrest.in the court carpark police officers attempted to take the applicant out of the car and place him in a wheelchair, despite the second applicant’s protests.the first applicant was thus able to get out of the car at about 9.30 p.m. he attended the court hearing, which ended at 11.30 p.m. the care assistant remained with him until the end of the hearing.14.  the blagoevgrad regional court’s decision to place the first applicant under house arrest was upheld on appeal by the sofia court of appeal on 14 april 2011. before taking its decision, that court heard evidence from, among others, a.z., who stated that she was the first applicant’s sister and a neurologist and gave evidence concerning the applicant’s state of health.16.  the observance of the first applicant’s house arrest was supervised by the police.the police checked on him at his home in the evening of the same day.on 29 april 2011 the applicant was met by officers in front of the building as he arrived in his car.one of the visits on 16 june was provoked by the fact that the applicant, having received authorisation to visit a physiotherapist, had not shown up for his appointment.24.  on 21 june 2011 the first applicant was released from house arrest, by a decision of the sofia court of appeal, which noted in particular his grave state of health and the fact that much of the evidence in the investigation against him had already been collected.
after the grandfather’s death the applicant’s uncle lived with his family on the first floor of the house, while the applicant’s family lived on the second floor.and the state real estate registry, seeking to annul e.t.’s title in respect of the first floor and the adjacent land, and to oblige her to demolish the buildings constructed without the permission of the authorities and to restore the stone wall that she had destroyed.in her turn lodged a counterclaim against the applicant, seeking to annul the will and the subsequent registration of his title as regards the plot of land adjacent to the house.15.  on 24 october 2003 the civil and economic chamber of the court of cassation (հհ վճռաբեկ դատարանի քաղաքացիական և տնտեսական գործերի պալատ) dismissed e.t.’s appeal on points of law and upheld the judgment of the court of appeal.17.  thereafter the head of the kentron division of the state real estate registry (անշարժ գույքի կադաստրի պետական կոմիտեի կենտրոն տարածքային ստորաբաժանում) requested the civil court of appeal to clarify the judgment of 22 august 2003.it stated, in particular, that the title to the plot of land adjacent to the house was to be registered in the applicant’s name.19.  on 11 april 2006 the applicant lodged a civil claim against the kentron division of the state real estate registry, the deja and e.t., seeking to oblige the kentron division of the real estate registry to comply with the requirements of the judgment of the court of appeal of 22 august 2003 and the decision of 22 october 2004 concerning its clarification, to evict e.t.it stated, in particular, that the applicant’s title was to be registered in respect of the plot of land adjacent to the house and the constructions situated therein, that e.t.in doing so, it stated that the judgment of 22 august 2003 and the decision of 22 october 2004 had not yet been enforced since the applicant’s title had not been registered and the constructions had not been demolished.the court of appeal went on to state that the non-enforcement of the above-mentioned judicial acts was in violation of article 6 of the convention and article 1 of protocol no.had been ineffective in view of the fact that the deja needed to suspend the proceedings in order to conclude a contract with a construction company, given the absence of technical equipment necessary for conducting the compulsory construction works.24.  by a letter of 25 december 2008 the minister of justice informed the applicant’s lawyer that the kentron division of the state real estate registry had justified the non-registration of the applicant’s title in respect of his property by pointing to the fact that the constructions situated therein had not been demolished because the deja did not have the appropriate technical equipment and workforce at its disposal.25.  it appears that until 2010 other measures were initiated by the deja, such as obliging the kentron division of the state real estate registry to perform the registration of the applicant’s title, in accordance with the judgments in his favour, and setting new time-limits for e.t.27.  following a complaint lodged by the applicant, on 3 july 2007 the district court annulled the decision of the general prosecutor’s office to refuse to institute criminal proceedings, on the grounds that the investigator had not taken proper action to verify whether the bailiffs had carried out their duties properly with a view to securing the enforcement of the above-mentioned judicial acts in favour of the applicant.32.  thereafter, the criminal proceedings were again terminated three times, namely on 14 june 2008, 17 july 2009 and 23 april 2010. the first two termination decisions were successfully challenged by the applicant at two levels of jurisdiction, following which the criminal proceedings were re-opened on the orders of those courts.
8.  the evening herald called into question the manner in which the tendering procedure had been conducted, the qualifications of ms l. for the work involved, the high level of remuneration she received, as well as the amount of work that was in fact done by ms l. it referred to eight trips abroad on which ms l. had been part of the ministerial entourage, in particular a trip to new york to attend a united nations conference.a report issued in 2005 at the request of the then prime minister (taoiseach) found that while there had been certain shortcomings in the way that the contracts had been awarded and in the monitoring and recording of the work done, there had not been any specific infringement of the relevant norms, guidelines or practices.the case was heard before a jury in the high court over seven days in june 2009. the two issues put to the jury were whether the articles, as a whole, including the accompanying photographs, meant that ms l. had an extra-marital affair with mr c., and whether the last article in the series meant that ms l. had travelled to new york at government expense in the company of mr c. for a united nations conference, but that she had not in fact attended it.15.  in his charge to the jury, the trial judge explained that in an action for defamation, damages serve three functions: to afford consolation for the distress caused by the defamatory statement; to repair the harm to reputation, including business reputation; and to vindicate the person’s reputation.he stated that the jurors could take account of ms l.’s standing in society and in the business community, the nature of the libel (the insinuations that she had betrayed husband and family and that she had misused public funds), the mode and extent of publication (carried repeatedly in a widely-read daily newspaper), the absence of an apology, and the fact that the applicant company pleaded the defences of justification and fair comment throughout the trial.16.  the trial judge did not give any specific guideline to the jury regarding the appropriate level of compensation, stressed the limited nature of the guidelines he could provide and indicated, in broad terms, that, when assessing damages the jury must bear in mind reality, the current times, the cost of living and the value of money.put those out of your mind completely ... it is this case and what is appropriate in this case that is important and you have to reach that decision yourself and without as much help as i would like to be able to give you, but i am not permitted to give you.” 18.  after the jury had retired, the plaintiff’s counsel requested the trial judge to retract the reference to the lottery, as he feared it would be understood by the jury as a warning to keep any award significantly lower than one million euros.he observed to counsel: “i do find myself in difficulties because of the supreme court’s ruling [in the de rossa case] in that i can’t even indicate to a jury upper and lower in the most general terms, which i would like to be able to do because i think it would save a lot of trouble and i can’t do it because of the decision of the supreme court.” he concluded the exchange with counsel on this matter as follows: “i did think that i had traversed the question of damages and, each successive case i do, i get more long-winded about it because i started with very short charges and i used to be very surprised, one way or another, at the amounts juries brought in.” 19.  on the first issue the jury found that the newspaper had alleged an extra-marital affair between the plaintiff and mr c. on the second issue, it found that the meaning of the article was not defamatory.21.  the applicant company accepted the jury’s decision that it had defamed ms l. the evening herald published an apology to her in its edition of 19 january 2010. it appealed the amount of damages, arguing that no reasonable jury could have made such an award, that it was disproportionate to the damage caused and amounted to an unlawful interference with the applicant company’s rights under the constitution and the convention.it appears from the case file that, in its subsequent submissions before the supreme court, in the event that the latter set aside the high court award, it argued that the supreme court should itself decide the amount of compensation.consequently, while awards made by jury must, on appeal, be subject to scrutiny by the appellate court, that court is only entitled to set aside an award if it is satisfied that in all the circumstances, the award is so disproportionate to the injury suffered and wrong done that no reasonable jury would have made such an award.” 25.  she further recalled the need for the law to reflect a due balancing of the constitutional right to freedom of expression against the constitutional protection of every citizen’s good name, which, as stated in case-law, brought the concept of proportionality into constitutional jurisprudence.she stated: “[t]he position in irish law is that an appellate court will be slow to interfere with the verdict of a jury on the assessment of damages but nevertheless awards by juries are subject to scrutiny and if an award is so disproportionate in the circumstances of the case having regard to the respective rights of freedom of expression on the one hand and on the other hand the requirement under the constitution to protect the good name of every citizen that no reasonable jury would have made such an award then the award will be set aside on appeal.” 26.  she reviewed the terms used by the trial judge in his charge to the jury.it could not, however, be regarded as being in the category of the gravest and most serious libels to come before the courts, as was the libel in the de rossa case (the case that led to the independent news and media case, it having been alleged that mr de rossa personally supported anti-semitism and violent communist oppression).even accepting that this case is one that comes towards the higher end of the scale, i am satisfied that the award made by the jury in this case was excessive and must be set aside.” 33.  she continued: “i am conscious of the firm instructions of ms. l to her legal representatives that in the event that this court came to the conclusion that the amount of the award was excessive that the court should in those circumstances remit the matter to the high court for assessment by a jury again.whilst i understand those to be her instructions i am satisfied that in the context of this case it would be desirable for all parties to bring an end to the litigation between the parties and in those circumstances it seems to me that the approach to be taken by the court should be to set aside the verdict of the jury on damages and to substitute a sum in the figure of €1,250,000 for damages.” 34.  the other, partly-dissenting judgment was given by mckechnie j. he stated that the issue was whether the award was reasonable and fair and bore a due correspondence with the injury suffered, which was essentially a matter of proportionality.
two of his eleven co-accused, a.d. and v.p., had given evidence against him when questioned by the police between january and may 2001; when giving that evidence they stated that the applicant had incited them to engage in certain criminal activities.7.  the trial commenced before the kurzeme regional court (kurzemes apgabaltiesa) on 16 april 2003 and lasted until 16 july 2003. during that period at least ten court hearings were held in the presence of the applicant and his defence council.testified that they had never before met the applicant, and that p.b., who had died in the meantime, had been the instigator of some of the crimes.a.d. submitted that the statements had been illegible and that he had not been given the opportunity to engage a lawyer.lodged with the first-instance court a written request for the court to take into account his submission that the police had coerced him into incriminating the applicant.9.  on 7 may 2003 a.d. submitted a written request to the first-instance court for it to disregard his pre-trial statements as he had been ill-treated and tortured during the pre-trial investigation in order to force him to incriminate his co-accused, including the applicant.however, after the completion of the pre-trial investigation he had complained to the prosecutor, who had ignored his complaint.10.  in his closing statement, the prosecutor denied the allegations of a.d. and v. p., emphasising that they had not lodged any complaints prior to the first-instance proceedings.had made the allegations of coercion in an attempt to explain why they had subsequently given evidence in favour of their other co-accused, including the applicant, and against their late co-accused, p.b.at the following hearing, held on 25 october 2004, the applicant was represented by a different lawyer, v.k., who had been retained by the applicant’s wife.15.  on 25 october 2004 the criminal cases chamber of the supreme court, referring to article 442(7) of the code of criminal procedure (kriminālprocesa kodekss), declined to examine the appeal lodged by a.v.in the applicant’s absence the court was unable to ascertain whether he wished to maintain the appeal lodged by his lawyer.appealed against the aforementioned decision to the criminal cases division of the senate of the supreme court (augstākās tiesas senāta krimināllietu departaments).it noted that the applicant had repeatedly failed to attend the appeal hearings and that “in the criminal case at hand only the accused could maintain the appeals lodged by their lawyers”.18.  on 27 october 2004 the criminal cases chamber of the supreme court delivered judgment with respect to the appeals lodged by the applicant’s co-accused.
on 9 june 2008 the first-instance court convicted the applicant of large-scale smuggling of oil products, aggravated forgery and money laundering in an organised group and sentenced him to imprisonment of five years and one month.the parties disagree as to whether or not the transcripts of the applicant’s telephone conversations with o.s.10.  over a period of time, the constitution protection bureau (satversmes aizsardzības birojs), which is one of the latvian intelligence services, intercepted the applicant’s telephone conversations with several individuals, including o.s.telephone conversations with the latter were recorded on 8 april, 22 and 27 may, 7 october 2005. four pages of transcripts of those recordings were subsequently included in the evidence in the criminal case material against the applicant (see paragraph 7 above).12.  according to a document (uzziņa) prepared by the supreme court on 27 june 2012 and addressed to the government, on 26 november 2004 an operational measure – the interception of the applicant’s telephone conversations – had been authorised until 26 january 2005. the document was based on “the supreme court’s register of special proceedings (lietvedība) relating to classified state secrets for the year 2004, volume 11, entry no 2‑4249s of 26 november 2004”.13.  on 27 june 2006 a prosecutor examined the applicant’s inquiry concerning the recording of his telephone conversations, referring to section 35(1) of the law on operational activities (operatīvās darbības likums).14.  on 13 october 2006 the same prosecutor examined a further complaint from the applicant concerning the lawfulness of the recordings.transcripts of the telephone conversations that had been of relevance for the criminal proceedings had been sent to the relevant authority (procesa virzītājs) and would be assessed in the context of those criminal proceedings.15.  on 13 november 2006 the same prosecutor refused the applicant’s request to have sight of the decisions authorising the interception of his telephone conversations as they constituted classified information.16.  on 21 december 2007 the applicant lodged another complaint with the prosecutor’s office concerning the fact that his telephone conversations with his lawyer had been intercepted and that the recordings of those conversations had been played back at a court hearing.the applicant asked that the lawfulness of the prosecutor’s actions be examined and that it be decided whether he was suitable for his position.18.  on 15 january 2008 the applicant appealed against the refusal to institute criminal proceedings and also complained that the reply of 3 january 2008 had not provided an answer to his request for evaluation of the lawfulness of i.k.’s actions and his suitability for the position of prosecutor.to represent him in those criminal proceedings until 27 september 2005 and that the intercepted conversations prior to that date had therefore taken place between the applicant and o.s.a reference was made to the fact that the applicant’s complaint concerning the playing back of his telephone conversations at a court hearing had been examined by the first-instance court.lastly, in rejecting the applicant’s complaint under article 8 of the convention, she referred to that article and the permissible limitations contained therein.
9.  on 11 april 2005 the applicant was brought by the police to the warsaw psychiatric hospital in order to undergo the psychiatric assessment.on the same day he was ordered to come to the hospital on 18 april 2005, on pain of detention on remand.10.  on 7 june 2005 the warsaw district court ordered the applicant’s detention on remand in accordance with articles 249 § 1 and 258 § 1 (1) and (2) of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccp”) (see paragraphs 25 and 26 below).the court held that in view of the applicant’s parents’ and his sister’s  testimonies there was a reasonable suspicion that the applicant had committed the offences with which he was charged.the court noted that the applicant’s mother had admitted that he had stayed irregularly at his home address: he had been coming home late in the evening and leaving early in the morning.the court also attached importance to the fact that the applicant had previously behaved in a similar manner.consequently, in the court’s view the applicant’s submissions that he would comply with the order to undergo a psychiatric assessment were not convincing.11.  an appeal lodged by the applicant was dismissed by the warsaw regional court on 20 september 2005. the court mainly referred to the fact that the applicant had still to undergo a psychiatric assessment.13.  on 18 october 2005 the warsaw district court ordered that the applicant undergo a psychiatric assessment at the hospital wing of the warsaw detention center.the court stressed that there was a reasonable risk that the applicant would obstruct the proceedings and that he would go into hiding.this risk was particularly valid in view of the difficulties which the applicant had caused in the past by his repeated refusal to undergo a psychiatric assessment.19.  following an appeal by the applicant, the judgment was quashed (in its part concerning possession of drugs) by the warsaw regional court on 9 august 2007. the proceedings were subsequently discontinued by the warsaw district court on 6 november 2007. the court found that the prohibited act committed by the applicant had not constituted an offence because of its insignificant social consequences (znikoma szkodliwość społeczna czynu).21.  his claim was dismissed by the warsaw regional court on 18 march 2010. the court referred at the outset to the supreme court’s resolution of 15 september 1999 (see paragraph 28 below).it further noted that in the present case there had been no breach of procedural provisions of the ccp since the detention on remand had been applied mainly in view of the applicant’s repeated refusal to comply with the courts’ orders.lastly, the court noted that as soon as the applicant’s parents and sister had refused to testify, the applicant had been released.
8.  on 1 september 2003 the ohrid restitution commission, operating within the ministry of finance (министерство за финансии на република македонија - комисија за денационализација со седиште во охрид – “the restitution commission”), accepted the applicant’s request and ordered the restitution of the land (“the restitution decision”).on 4 and 9 june 2003 the state archives and the ohrid court of first instance informed the restitution commission that they had no information as to whether any compensation had been paid to the applicant’s predecessor for the appropriated land.11.  on an unspecified date, a., an association that ran a campsite near the plot in question (“the association”), submitted documentation to the solicitor general that the plot in question was developed building land and was in use by the campsite.as stipulated in the minutes, the plot in question had been given to the association for its use even earlier, on 9 march 1966. the association also submitted a decision from 1981 in which the municipality was ordered to pay compensation to the applicant’s predecessor for the plot.12.  on an unspecified date in 2004 the solicitor general requested that the appeal commission of the government, acting as a second-instance body (комисија на влада на република македонија за решавање во управна постапка во втор степен од областа на денационализацијата – the appeal commission), either annul (поништи), declare null and void (огласи за ништовно) or quash through a supervisory-review procedure (укине по право на надзор) the restitution decision of 1 september 2003. the solicitor general argued that the association had submitted documentary evidence that contradicted the facts established by the restitution commission in that the land had been in use by the association and that compensation had been paid to the applicant’s predecessor.relying on section 8 of the restitution act, the appeal commission stated that: “from all admitted evidence in the proceedings it can be established that the undeveloped building land was appropriated from the [applicant’s] predecessor, that compensation was paid to the latter, and that the land in question is developed building land with playing fields and other leisure and recreational facilities, which are an integral part of camp e. the [appeal commission] established that in the present case the final restitution order was based on a wrong application of the law, which was preceded by erroneous and incomplete establishment of the facts.” 16.  on 14 august 2007 the applicant lodged an administrative action, arguing that the restitution commission, in its decision of 1 september 2003, had established the facts correctly.in this connection he referred to the ministry of finance’s report of 16 march 2005 (see paragraph 14 above) and another on-site report of 13 july 2007 drawn up for the purpose of an “action for disturbance of possession” in which it had been confirmed that the land had been vacant – a fact that had been established by bitola court of appeal in an earlier civil dispute between him and the association (see paragraph 33 below).it referred to section 267 of the general administrative proceedings act, sections 8(1) and 10 of the restitution act, sections 1 and 2 of the protection of lakes ohrid, prespa and dojran act, as well as sections 2, 69(4) and 70 of the waters act (see paragraphs 39, 40, and 42-44 below) and relied on the fact that the land in question was part of the shoreline.the relevant part of the judgment reads as follows: “in the court’s opinion, in deciding the present case, the [appeal commission] acted correctly when it declared null and void the final restitution order, in accordance with section 267(1)(3) of the administrative proceedings act, under which a decision whose enforcement is not possible shall be declared null and void.in relation to this, the court emphasises that this provision does not concern only the factual, but also the legal impossibility of enforcement ... ... in view of the above-cited statutory provisions, it is undisputed that lake ohrid and its shore are ... of general interest (добро од општ интерес), which is relevant, in the court’s view, for the restitution proceedings, within the meaning of the restitution act.20.  on 19 july 2010 the applicant applied to the public prosecutor (јавен обвинител на република македонија) seeking that protection of legality proceedings (барање за заштита на законитост) be instituted regarding the judgment of the administrative court of 4 september 2009, as well as regarding the rejection of his request for the reopening of the proceedings.it appears that the public prosecutor accepted the applicant’s application and lodged an application for the protection of legality with the supreme court, which the latter rejected as inadmissible on the grounds that the remedy in question was no longer available due to change in legislation.25.  on 7 june 2012 the solicitor general, acting on behalf of the state, challenged the latter decision with an administrative action, arguing that the restitution commission had failed to obtain information as to whether the land was of public interest owing to its situation on the ohrid lakeshore.33.  in a separate set of proceedings concerning the same plot of land on 17 september 2009 the bitola court of appeal overturned the lower court’s decision and finally upheld the applicant’s action for protection from disturbance of possession (смеќавање на владение) against the association which ran the camp regarding the same plot of land.34.  according to a document from the land registry dated 3 september 2010, the historical records of the plot of land show that the association was granted use of the plot as of 9 march 1966. the state had at the time remained the owner of the plot, which continued to be the case until the day the document was issued.
6.  in 2004 the practice signed a contract with the state health insurance fund (“the fund”) on the funding of treatment provided by the practice to health insurance beneficiaries.8.  in compliance with the inspectorate’s orders, the psychiatrist applied to the ministry of health to have the practice re-registered and to change its name, as required by the new statutory provisions.9.  on 28 february 2006 the ministry of health issued a decision on the registration of the private health institution dr marija karanfilova’s specialist psychiatric practice (приватна здравствена установа – специјалистичка ординација по невропсихијатрија „д-р марија каранфилова„ – “the new practice”) at the same address as the previous practice.14.  on 2 august 2007, on the basis of a request by the new practice, the central registry allowed the new practice to change from being a private health institution to one that was a limited liability company established by a single person (дооел) and entered that transformation in its records.15.  on 25 january 2006 the practice initiated compensation proceedings against the fund in the skopje court of first instance (основен суд скопје) for non-adherence to the terms of the contract.17.  on 26 august 2008 the fund lodged an appeal against the first‑instance judgment, objecting to the applicant company’s standing in the proceedings for the first time.it argued that the claimant was a different legal entity than the one which had signed the contract with the fund in 2004, as evident in the two entities’ different individual tax numbers.18.  the applicant company submitted in reply that the re-registration of the practice had been carried out in compliance with the inspectorate’s orders and that the fund had been aware of the changes.it also argued that the fund had implicitly recognised the legal continuity of the two entities as it had accepted reports submitted by the new practice under the contract of 2004 and had given notice of the termination of the contract to the new practice.it established that the contract had been signed by the fund and dr marija karanfilova’s independent psychiatric practice and that the applicant company could not be considered as the practice’s legal successor as they had different individual tax numbers.21.  the applicant company appealed, complaining that the first-instance court had disregarded the evidence that had shown the existence of a legal relationship between the parties and had based its assessment solely on the different tax numbers.in particular, the first-instance court had disregarded the fact that the new practice had continued to perform its contractual obligations until the contract had been terminated by the notice of 29 november 2006 (see paragraph 13 above).the applicant company maintained that those circumstances indicated that the fund had implicitly recognised the legal continuity of the original and the new practice.23.  on 7 july 2006 the new practice lodged a civil claim against the fund for the payment of an undetermined sum for failing to adhere to the terms of the contract of 2004. after the new practice turned itself into the applicant company (see paragraph 14 above) the latter continued the proceedings as the claimant.the first-instance court relied in its reasoning on the difference in the tax numbers between the original practice that had been party to the contract with the fund in 2004 and the applicant company.
they challenged the compatibility of section 4 of the law on protection of the morality and health of children in the ryazan oblast with the provisions of the constitution, in particular with the principle of equal treatment and the freedom of expression enshrined in articles 19 and 29 of the constitution, and also the provisions of article 55 § 3, setting out the conditions under which the constitutionally guaranteed rights and freedoms may be restricted.20.  on 19 january 2010 the constitutional court declared the complaint inadmissible, for the following reasons: “section 14 § 1 of the federal law clearly sets out the responsibility of the state bodies of the russian federation to take measures for the protection of children from information, propaganda and activism which is harmful to their health and moral and spiritual development.... the laws of the ryazan oblast “on protection of the morality of children in the ryazan oblast” and “on administrative offences” do not strengthen any measures which prohibit homosexuality or provide for its official censure; they do not contain signs of discrimination, and there is no indication in their intent of superfluous actions by the state bodies.22.  on 24 october 2013 the constitutional court declared the complaint inadmissible, for the following reasons: “... it follows that the given prohibition, determined by the fact that such promotion is capable of harming minors by virtue of the age-specific features of their intellectual and psychological development, cannot be considered as permitting a limitation on the rights and freedoms of citizens exclusively on the basis of sexual orientation.... however, this does not rule out a need to define – on the basis of a balancing exercise with regard to the competing constitutional values – the limits of the given individuals’ effective practice of their rights and freedoms, in order not to infringe the rights and freedoms of others.... given that it is bound up with the investigation into the factual circumstances of the case, the assessment of whether the appellant’s actions with regard to the targeted and unchecked dissemination of generally accessible information were capable of causing harm to the health and moral and spiritual development of minors, including creating a distorted impression of the social equivalence of traditional and non-traditional marital relations, does not come within the competence of the constitutional court of the russian federation; nor does verification of the lawfulness and validity of the judicial decisions issued in the appellant’s case.” 23.  on 29 june 2013 the code of administrative offences of the russian federation was amended, introducing in article 6.21 administrative liability for the promotion of non-traditional sexual relations among minors.25.  on 23 september 2014 the constitutional court examined the complaint on the merits and dismissed it, for the following reasons: “... citizens’ enjoyment of the right to disseminate information concerning the question of an individual’s sexual self-determination ought not to infringe the rights and freedoms of others; in regulating of this right by means of legislation, it is necessary to ensure that a balance is struck between the values protected by the constitution.consequently, bearing in mind the sensitive nature of such questions, since they belong to the sphere of individual autonomy, and without encroaching on its very essence, the state is entitled to introduce, on the basis of the above-mentioned requirements of the constitution of the russian federation, specific restrictions on activities linked with the dissemination of such information if it becomes aggressive [and] importuning in nature and is capable of causing harm to the rights and legal interests of others, primarily minors, and is offensive in form.... in so far as one of the roles of the family is [to provide for] the birth and upbringing of children, an understanding of marriage as the union of a man and a woman underlies the legislative approach to resolving demographic and social issues in the area of family relations in the russian federation...regulation of freedom of speech and the freedom to disseminate information does not presuppose the creation of conditions which would facilitate the formation of other interpretations of the family as an institution, and the associated social and legal institutions, which would differ from the generally accepted interpretations nor society’s approval of them as being equivalent in value...these aims also determine the need to protect the child from the influence of information that is capable of causing harm to his or her health or development, particularly information that is combined with an aggressive imposition of specific models of sexual conduct, giving rise to distorted representations of the socially accepted models of family relations corresponding to the moral values that are generally accepted in russian society, as these are expressed in the constitution and legislation.nonetheless, in assessing the necessity of introducing one or another restriction, the federal legislature is entitled to use criteria that are based on the presumption that there exists a threat to the child’s interests, especially as the restrictions introduced by it concern only the tendency of the information in question to target persons of a given age group, and cannot therefore be regarded as excluding the possibility of exercising one’s constitutional right to freedom of information in this area.the fact that this ban does not extend to situations concerning the promotion of immoral conduct in the context of traditional sexual relationships, which may also require state regulation, including through [the existence of] administrative offences, is not grounds for finding that the given norm is incompatible with the constitution of the russian federation from the perspective of infringing the principles of equality as applied to the protection of constitutional values, which ensure the uninterrupted replacement of generations ... the imposition on minors of a set of social values which differ from those that are generally accepted in russian society, and which are not shared by and indeed frequently perceived as unacceptable by parents – who bear primary responsibility for their children’s development and upbringing and are required to provide for their health and their physical, psychological, spiritual and moral development – ... may result in the child’s social estrangement and prevent his or her development within the family, especially if one considers that equality of rights as set out in the constitution, which also presupposes equality of rights irrespective of sexual orientation, does not yet guarantee that persons with a different sexual orientation are actually regarded in equal terms by public opinion; this situation may entail objective difficulties when trying to avoid negative attitudes from individual members of society towards those persons on a day-to-day level.such transmission of information, if it is devoid of indications of promotion, that is, if it is not aimed at creating preferences linked to the choice of non-traditional forms of sexual identity and ensures an individualised approach, taking into account the specific features of the psychological and physiological development of children in a given age group and the nature of the specific issue being clarified, may be conducted with the help of experts such as teachers, doctors or psychologists.... does not signify a negative appraisal by the state of non-traditional sexual relationships as such, and is not intended to belittle the honour and dignity of citizens who are involved in such relationships... ... cannot be regarded as containing official censure for non-traditional sexual relationships, in particular homosexuality, far less their prohibition... ... the person [disseminating information] must understand that what appears to him or her as the straightforward provision of information may, in a specific situation, resemble activism (promotion), if it is shown that the aim was to disseminate (or especially to impose) information with the above-mentioned content.
8.  the first hearing was a summary interview at the centre for reception and procedure (empfangs- und verfahrenszentrum) in kreuzlingen on 1 july 2014. the applicant stated that he had not been allowed to continue at school beyond the eighth grade because he had failed the national admission exams for secondary school, and had been summoned for military service, which he had tried to avoid.they had not been sure whether they had reached ethiopian territory until soldiers who spoke amharic had apprehended them at around 3 a.m. when informed by the interviewer that his account in relation to his departure might not be considered credible, which would result in the conclusion that he had left the country legally, the applicant said that he could not give more details about the departure because he did not know the area well and had been following the person with whom he had fled.17.  the interviewer explicitly advised the applicant that the interview was taking place to give him another opportunity to describe his departure from eritrea, and that the account he had so far provided in this regard would probably be dismissed as not credible, which would result in the conclusion that he had left the country legally.he and the smuggler had left a. on foot at around 6 p.m. when confronted with his previous account that he had left with a person from the neighbourhood, the applicant clarified that the person he had travelled with (the smuggler) came from a neighbouring village.20.  the state secretariat for migration pointed out that the applicant had stated in the first hearing that he had been detained for a period of one year and three months, from june 2012 to september 2013, whereas in the second hearing he had said that he had been detained for seven months, from march to october 2013. it added that the applicant had also contradicted himself a number of times in the second hearing in relation to the commencement of his military training and the end of his schooling.the state secretariat for migration argued that, particularly in relation to the hours during which the applicant and the smuggler had lost their way, it could legitimately be expected that the applicant would provide a substantiated account, which he had failed to do.23.  with regard to the alleged discrepancies relating to his schooling, the applicant submitted that he had difficulties with dates concerning the duration of his schooling and his age when he had started and left school, but emphasised that he had consistently stated that he had left school after eighth grade, having failed the exams to move on to secondary school, and referred to a report by easo regarding the national examination at the end of eighth grade (see paragraph 49 below).in relation to the conditions of detention, he argued that the account he had given to the asylum authorities very much reflected his personal experiences: he had stated that the prison had been dirty, that it had been very hot, that detainees had had lice, that there had been fixed meal times, and that he had been taken outside in the mornings and evenings to relieve himself.he emphasised that the interviewer had not questioned him about his scars, which he alleged were the result of that incident, or about specific events surrounding his escape from prison, pointing out that the latter issue had been raised by the representative of the non-governmental organisation who had been present as a neutral witness at the second hearing.as to the time between his escape from prison and his departure from eritrea, the applicant argued that his first statement that he had left eritrea one week after escaping from prison, and his second statement that he had spent two days at his parents’ home in a. during that time, were not contradictory.25.  with regard to the circumstances of his departure from eritrea, he emphasised that his account had been consistent as regards the time when he and the smuggler had left the village and when they had been apprehended by ethiopian soldiers.referring to a letter from unhcr – the original of which he presented – stating that he was registered in the hitsas refugee camp in ethiopia on 8 november 2013, and to the fact that crossing the border to enter ethiopia by land was always unlawful (see paragraph 49 below), he argued that he had proved his illegal exit from eritrea.it noted that it was not apparent why the applicant’s age – he was 24 years old at the time of his interviews – or level of education should lead to different conclusions as to the credibility of his account, and considered that his two statements concerning the end of his schooling, either in 2005/2006 or 2007/2008, could not be reconciled with each other or with his student identity card, which indicated that he was a student in 2010. the court also considered that the applicant’s statements regarding the time and content of his military training lacked substance.viewing the duration and dates of the applicant’s detention as key elements of his asylum claim, the court noted that a discrepancy of eight months as regards the duration, and the different dates given in the first two hearings as regards the end of the detention, constituted fundamental contradictions which could not be resolved by his references to conditions of poor hygiene and being let outside twice a day to relieve himself.31.  the federal administrative court added that the applicant could not rely on the letter from unhcr stating that he was registered in the hitsas refugee camp in november 2013, since the conditions in ethiopian refugee camps were chaotic and, in the case of people of eritrean origin, there was no comprehensive assessment of whether they faced persecution at the time they were registered in those camps.
7.  in november 2007 the applicant learnt that a photograph of her son had been published on the cover page of a booklet prepared by the centre for psychological, medical and social support of the usolskiy district, perm region (“the centre”), entitled “children need a family”.10.  in november 2007 the applicant asked the local department of the interior and the prosecutor’s office to carry out an investigation into the unauthorised publication of her son’s photograph on the booklet.the photograph of the child had been placed on the booklet by mr p., who had been engaged by that company to prepare the layout of the booklet and who had found the photograph of the applicant’s son on the internet.16.  on 23 april 2008 the district court held, with the applicant’s consent, that the centre was not a proper respondent in the case and that the claim should have been made against the publishing company and mr p. the centre was invited to take part in the proceedings as a third party.mr p., who had been engaged by the company for the preparation of the layout of the booklet, had found the photograph on the internet and placed it on the cover page of the booklet.20.  the representative of the centre, acting as a third party, submitted that the use of the photograph of the applicant’s son had not been agreed with the centre.he replied to a question put by the court that after publication of the booklet, a number of people had called the centre and asked whether it was possible to adopt the child whose photograph was on the cover page of the booklet.21.  it appears from the record of the court hearings that the applicant’s representative, g., submitted to the court that it had been established that the photograph of the applicant’s son had been used on the booklet without his parent’s consent, contrary to the requirements of article 152.1 of the civil code.22. the publishing company contested the application of article 152.1 of the civil code in the case and considered that the applicant’s consent to the publication of her son’s photograph had not been required.the judgment consisted of a summary of the submissions of the parties and the third party, a summary of the relevant domestic law, a summary of the witnesses’ submissions and other evidence examined by the court, and several paragraphs of conclusions.in particular, the district court held as follows: “... the court has established that the honour, dignity and professional reputation of the plaintiff were not affected by the publication of the booklet with the photograph of the plaintiff’s son.therefore, the evidence submitted [to the court] has demonstrated [that the booklet had] a strictly value character, and did not contain any defamatory details, diminishing the plaintiff’s and her son’s honour, dignity and reputation in the public’s opinion and the opinion of certain individuals.25.  in an appeal against the judgment of 20 june 2008 the applicant submitted, in particular, that in taking its decision the district court had not applied the provisions of article 152.1 of the civil code of the russian federation concerning the protection of one’s image or the provisions of article 8 of the convention.regarding the applicant’s argument about the district court’s failure to examine her claims under article 152.1 of the civil code, the regional court held that the court had taken a decision on the claims as they had been submitted by the applicant, in accordance with article 196 § 3 of the code of civil procedure (see relevant domestic law and practice below).28.  by a judgment of 20 january 2009 the justice of peace of the bereznikovskiy circuit granted the centre’s claim for recovery from the applicant of the legal costs it had incurred when it had taken part in the libel proceedings as a third party, in the amount of 5,200 russian roubles.
12.  the applicant made a second asylum application on 27 march 2008. in doing so, he described two violent incidents he had experienced in zimbabwe: first, he claimed that in 2000 he had been attacked by zanu-pf supporters with knives, sticks and sandbags while protesting about gay rights; and secondly, he claimed that later that same year he had been arrested for demonstrating and beaten on his back and the soles of his feet while detained at a police station.the representatives sent a second letter to the secretary of state on 8 july 2010, in which they again requested that the applicant be released due to his medical conditions and pursuant to the secretary of state’s policy on not detaining mentally ill persons.the secretary of state, having considered the particulars of your client’s case, is satisfied that the presumption in favour of release is outweighed by the seriousness of the offence, risk of harm to the public, and risk of absconding and that your client’s detention is justified and lawful.- it is conducive to the public good for your client to be detained.” 24.  on 26 july 2010 the secretary of state set a time limit of 31 august 2010 for the provision of further information in support of the applicant’s asylum claim.30.  on 14 january 2011 the applicant submitted his application for permission to apply for judicial review, in which he challenged his continuing detention on the grounds that it was contrary to the secretary of state’s published policy on the detention of persons suffering from serious mental illness (“the mental health concession”); that it was contrary to the secretary of state’s published policy on the detention of persons who had been victims of torture (“the torture concession”); and that it was contrary to the principles set down in r v. durham prison governor ex parte hardial singh [1984] 1 wlr 704 (“the hardial singh principles”).32.  on 8 february 2011 the secretary of state refused the applicant’s second asylum claim and made a deportation order pursuant to section 32(5) of the united kingdom borders act 2007. the applicant’s appeal was dismissed on 7 april 2011. on 4 may he was refused permission to appeal against that decision.34.  with regard to the torture concession, the judge noted that the alleged torture which had happened some eleven years previously and which was said to be the cause or part cause of the mental illness the claimant was suffering from could have no bearing on the reasonableness or otherwise of the current detention.there has been no lack of expedition by the defendant since the expiry of the claimant’s sentence in late 2008.” 35.  the applicant was released from detention on 15 september 2011 after being granted bail by the upper tribunal.in the renewed application, the applicant had contended that his detention became unlawful on 28 june 2010, when the pre-action letter was sent to the secretary of state.in particular, he noted that there was no evidence to suggest that his mental illness could not be satisfactorily managed in detention; that there was no independent evidence that he had been tortured because his scarring was only consistent with an assault by zanu-pf supporters which did not amount to torture, and there was no scarring consistent with his allegations of ill-treatment at the police station; and finally, that there was nothing to indicate the applicant’s prospects of removal at the relevant time were nil or that efforts did not take place to effect his removal.37.  on 22 february 2012 the court of appeal, civil division refused the applicant permission to appeal the decision of 31 october 2011, finding that the high court had been correct on every point.there was no independent evidence of torture and the fact that the mental health concession had been clarified on 26 august 2010 to refer to satisfactory management in detention did not mean that the position was otherwise before that date.38.  in the meantime, the applicant had challenged the decision to refuse his asylum claim and sought to appeal to the court of appeal.on 28 april 2012 the secretary of state agreed that the decision of 8 february 2011 refusing the applicant’s asylum claim was flawed and that the case should be remitted to the upper tribunal.on 30 january 2013 the deportation order was revoked and the applicant was subsequently granted discretionary leave until 25 september 2013. he applied for further discretionary leave on 26 september 2013. according to the observations submitted, a decision on that application remains outstanding.
6.  on 11 december 2002 the applicant instituted proceedings for restitution of a hotel in skopje which had been confiscated from his predecessor in 1948. on 7 june 2004 a commission responsible for such matters within the ministry of finance dismissed the applicant’s claim.the proceedings are currently pending before the higher administrative court, awaiting a decision on an appeal by the applicant of 26 january 2016 against a judgment of the administrative court.7.  on 3 july 2014 the applicant applied to the supreme court for a ruling that the length of the restitution proceedings had been excessive, to award him compensation and set a three-month time-limit for the court dealing with his case to decide on his restitution claim.8.  by letters dispatched between 8 july 2014 (received on 3 september 2014) and 20 january 2015, the supreme court requested the case file from the administrative court.the case file, which was with the administrative bodies, was forwarded to the supreme court on 13 february 2015.9.  on 28 april 2015 the first-instance panel of the supreme court found that the relevant period to be taken into consideration had started to run on 16 november 2004 (see paragraph 6 above).it further established that the case had not been complex and that there had been no delays attributable to the applicant.it concluded that there had been a violation of the applicant’s right to a hearing within a reasonable time and awarded him the equivalent of 810 euros (eur) in compensation.10.  by a letter of 3 june 2015 (received on 10 august 2015), the supreme court asked the ministry of justice to provide assistance in delivering its decision because the applicant lived in serbia.between 25 august and 21 december 2015, the ministry of justice of the respondent state asked, on three occasions, that the relevant ministry in serbia serve the supreme court’s decision on the applicant.by a letter of 28 december 2015 (received on 10 march 2016), the ministry of justice of serbia informed the relevant ministry of the respondent state about the date of service of the supreme court’s decision to the applicant.11.  in an appeal against the supreme court’s decision of 28 april 2015, the applicant complained that it had taken too long for that court to decide on his application.he referred to section 36(4) of the courts act, which required the supreme court to decide on a length of proceedings remedy within six months (see paragraph 14 below).12.  on 21 march 2016 the second-instance panel of the supreme court ruled partly in favour of the applicant.it endorsed the findings of the first-instance panel regarding the complexity of the case and that no delays were attributable to the applicant, found that the proceedings had lasted for ten years, five months and twelve days and set compensation at the equivalent of eur 1,050.
6.  on 17 january 2008 he attended a rally organised by a basque agricultural trade union and by the gfam (a mutual-benefit land alliance), the “lurra”, on the occasion of a meeting of the technical committee of the land use and rural settlement corporation (safer) in the pyrénées-atlantiques département.the rally was held in a political and trade-union situation where tensions had been heightened by the fact that the majority agricultural union in the département was backing candidates other than mr f.l.at the end of the meeting scuffles broke out between the demonstrators and the gendarmerie.7.  the applicant was placed in police custody and brought before the bayonne criminal court under “immediate summary trial” procedure, and charged with intentional violence not entailing total unfitness for work, against gendarmes whose identity has not been established, and against a person exercising public authority, using or threatening to use a weapon, in this instance an umbrella.in its judgment, the court noted that the applicant had refused to answer questions during the investigation or to admit to any wrongdoing, and had denied that he had been carrying an umbrella.the judges noted that witnesses had nevertheless stated that he had attempted to cross the barrier by clambering over demonstrators and trying to hit the gendarmes with his umbrella.the applicant pointed out that he had refrained from appealing in order to calm the situation and in the framework of a friendly settlement of the dispute that had been the cause of the rally.9.  on 24 december 2008, following a request from the bayonne public prosecutor’s office, the applicant was ordered by the police to give a dna sample, on the basis of articles 706-55 and 706-56 of the code of criminal procedure (cpp).as regards the legal aspect of the offence, it stated, in particular, that unlike the applicants in the case of s. and marper v. the united kingdom ([gc], nos.30562/04 and 30566/04, echr 2008), the applicant had been convicted, rather than suspected, of an offence, which precluded him from arguing that the impugned judgment had entailed a disproportionate interference with his private life.relying, in particular, on the 16 september 2010 decision of the constitutional council (see paragraph 16 below), it held that “the provisions of national law applied [to the applicant] were such as to reconcile respect for private life and the protection of public order in a manner that was neither manifestly unbalanced nor in breach of the requirements of article 8 of the convention”.in connection with the substantive aspect of the offence, the court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s plea that a sample had already been taken from his headgear during his police custody and that he was entitled to refuse further sampling, given that there had been no dna profiling the first time.his first plea was that the sample geared to identifying his dna and storing the corresponding data amounted to a disproportionate interference with his private life, having regard to the duration of the data storage and his personal situation (an easily identifiable person who was socially well-established, with a job, a family and a fixed abode).in his second plea, he argued that the court of appeal had provided no reasons for its decision in connection with the substantive aspect of the offence.13.  by judgment of 28 september 2011, the court of cassation dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law as follows: “... the court of appeal responded adequately and cogently to the main points of the pleadings submitted to it, and characterised all the substantive and purposive aspects of the offence of refusing to undergo a biological test, of which it found the defendant guilty, in full compliance with the provisions of article 8 of the convention.”
he withdrew the request he had made for his outstanding salary on 20 december 2006. on the same date, the third belgrade municipal court: (a)  declared the employer’s decision null and void; (b)  ordered the applicant’s reinstatement within eight days, and (c)  awarded the applicant rsd 49,500 on account of costs.9.  in the meantime, the debtor company appears to have been subject to insolvency proceedings before the commercial court between 19 march and 14 may 2007. on the latter date the insolvency proceedings were stayed (obustavljen) and the debtor continued its business activities.10.  on 21 january 2009 the applicant filed a request for enforcement of the judgment of 20 december 2006 and the payment of the outstanding salaries till his reinstatement, submitting amendments on 6 march 2009. it would appear that the court sent the request to the debtor for comment on 2 april 2009, but it has not been served on the debtor.in his complaint of 31 august 2009, the applicant submitted that the debtor was an active company and, in that respect, provided a copy of the decision on staying of insolvency proceedings of may 2007, certified by the commercial court.15.  on 9 july 2007 the novi pazar municipal court declared the dismissal null and void and ordered her employer to: (i)  reinstate her within eight days to a post which corresponded to her professional qualifications; (ii)  pay her the minimum salary arrears for the period 8 november 1990 to 16 march 2007, together with statutory interest; (iii)  pay her pension and disability insurance contributions for the period 1 january 1994 to 16 march 2007; and (iv)  pay rsd 11,700 for her legal costs.17.  following a claim by the applicant, on 6 may 2008 the municipal court ordered her employer to pay her pension and disability insurance contributions for the period 16 march to 22 october 2007 and rsd 13,000 for her legal costs, while rejecting her claim for her outstanding salary for the same period.the terms were as follows: (a)  the dismissal of the applicant in 2002 was to be declared null and void and the employer was to reinstate the applicant within eight days into a post which corresponded to his professional qualifications.(b)  the employer was to pay the applicant rsd 1,544,783 and rsd 484,810.65 on account of his outstanding salary arrears and corresponding social contributions for the period 11 march 2002 to 31 may 2010, as well as the required court stamp duties.21.  the second belgrade municipal court – sopot unit (hereinafter “the enforcement court”) issued an enforcement order on 29 june 2010. the applicant asked the court to expedite the enforcement proceedings on several occasions.22.  on 9 february 2011 the belgrade commercial court opened preliminary insolvency proceedings, inviting the claimants to pay the deposit for the opening of the insolvency proceedings and register their claims.the call for the claimants was displayed on the court’s notice board between 9 february and 9 april 2011. on 18 april 2011 the court opened and terminated the insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor.the court ordered the debtor’s liquidation as the latter had gone bankrupt, seemingly without having any legal successor, and none of the claimants had deposited costs of the proceedings or registered claims.27.  the part of the judgment in respect of reinstatement and contributions became final on 16 february 2005 and enforceable on 19 march 2005, while the leskovac district court quashed the remaining part concerning his salary arrears.by a registered letter dated 17 march 2016, he was notified that the periods allowed for appointment of a lawyer and for submission of his observations and claim for just satisfaction had both expired and that the court had extended the deadline for submissions until 28 april 2016. the court also sent copies of the previous letters of 17 april and 14 august 2015 and enclosures.the applicant’s attention was again drawn to article 37 § 1 (a) of the convention, which provides that the court may strike a case out of its list of cases where the circumstances lead to the conclusion that the applicant does not intend to pursue the application.
10.  on an unknown date in may 2003 the applicants wrote a letter to the highest authorities of the bd, namely the international supervisor for bd, the president of the assembly of bd and the governor of bd, while the procedure for the appointment of a director of the bd’s multi-ethnic public radio station was still pending.this proposal is unacceptable, all the more so because it concerns a person who lacks the professional and moral qualities for such a position.” 11.  the letter continued as follows: “according to our information (našim informacijama), the lady in question (1)  stated in an interview published in ‘nin’[6], commenting on the destruction of mosques in brčko, that muslims were not a people (muslimani nisu narod), that they did not possess culture and that, accordingly, destroying mosques could not be seen as destruction of cultural monuments, (2)  as an employee of the bd radio demonstratively tore to pieces on the radio’s premises (demonstrativno kidala) the calendar showing the schedule of religious services during the month of ramadan, (3)  on the radio’s premises covered the coat of arms of bosnia and herzegovina with the coat of arms of the republika srpska, (4)  as an editor of the cultural programme on the bd radio banned the broadcasting of sevdalinka[7] arguing that that type of song had no cultural or musical value.the relevant part of the judgment reads as follows: “it is clear that the defendants’ letter was addressed personally (upućeno na ruke) to the governor, to the president of the assembly and to the supervisor for brčko district ... and it was not sent to the media ... the court established that the aim of the letter was to bring the attention of the authorities to (these) issues and to enable them to draw certain conclusions on verification of that information, and not to publish unverified information.relying on section 6(5) of the defamation act (see paragraph 41 below), the court held as follows: “... even if the aggrieved party is a public servant or a candidate for a post in a public body and he or she is generally perceived as having an important influence on public issues of political interest ... (a defendant) is to be held liable for defamation if he knew that a statement was false or negligently disregarded its inaccuracy.” 23.  referring to the first part of the letter (see paragraph 10 above), the bd court of appeal did not go beyond noting that it contained value judgments for which no responsibility could be attributed to the applicants under the defamation act.26.  after analysing the statements of the witnesses and the respondents, the court found that the facts reported in the letter regarding the calendar of religious services during the month of ramadan and the broadcasting of sevdalinka were untrue, since “the letter obviously did not contain what (r.s.was the author of the statement published in the newspaper was untrue, the court stated: “... on the basis of s.c.’s statement [the court establishes] that at the meeting that preceded the preparation of the letter a distinguished member of a [respondent] had informed those attending the meeting that the appellant had given a statement to the newspaper, whose contents were identical to the contents of the letter.on subsequent verification [s.c.] established that such a text had been published, but that the appellant had not been the author ...” 27.  the court further stated that: “the respondents also did not prove the truthfulness of the allegation that in her office the appellant had covered the coat of arms of bosnia and herzegovina with the coat of arms of republika srpska.), [the court] established that the appellant had put an invitation card, which bore the coat of arms of republika srpska, in the corner of the coat of arms of bosnia and herzegovina ...” 28.  in conclusion, the court stated: “by the letter sent to the office of high representative bd - international supervisor of the bd, the president of the bd’s assembly and the governor of the bd, the respondents damaged the plaintiff’s reputation and honour in the place in which she lives and works.they did so by expressing and disseminating to the above persons facts about the appellant’s behaviour, actions and statements which they knew or ought to have known were false ...” 29.  the court of appeal ordered the applicants to inform the international supervisor for bd, the president of the assembly of bd and the governor of bd within 15 days that they retracted the letter, failing which they would have to pay jointly the equivalent of eur 1,280 in non-pecuniary damages to m.s.at the outset the constitutional court notes that the appellants did not deny that their liability for defamation was based on the defamation act 2003 and that, therefore, the interference with the right [to freedom of expression] protected by article 10 of the european convention was prescribed by law ... 35.  the impugned judgment was delivered in civil defamation proceedings initiated by the respondent against the appellants ... accordingly, the interference pursued the legitimate aim of the protection of the “reputation or rights of others”.36.  what remains to be determined is whether the interference complained of was ‘necessary in a democratic society’... 37.  with regard to the existence of a ‘pressing social need’, the constitutional court observes that the impugned (court) decisions concern the letter which the appellants sent to the authorities of the bd and the supervisor for bd casting the plaintiff (m.s.)‘made a point of removing from the wall (and tore to pieces) the calendar with the schedule of religious services during the month of ramadan and as the editor of the entertainment programme banned the broadcasting of sevdalinka arguing that that type of song had no cultural or musical value’), the court of appeal established that there was an evident inconsistency between what had been said to the appellants and what they had reported in the letter.[t]he constitutional court considers that the measure imposed on the appellants in the present case was proportionate to the aim pursued ...the court further considers that the court of appeal did not go beyond its discretionary power in deciding on the claim in respect of non-pecuniary damage ... [t]he constitutional court finds that the reasons the court of appeal gave were ‘relevant’ and ‘sufficient’ within the meaning of article 10 of the european convention.45.  in view of the above, the constitutional court considers that the interference with the appellants’ right to freedom of expression was ‘necessary in a democratic society’ and that, therefore, there has been no violation of article ii/3.h) of the constitution of bosnia and herzegovina or article 10 of the european convention.” 35.  according to the minutes of a meeting of the management board of the bd’s radio station dated 9 may 2003, there were two candidates for the post of the radio’s director, one of whom was m.s.the relevant part of this annex reads as follows: “the republic of bosnia and herzegovina, the federation of bosnia and herzegovina and the republika srpska (the ‘parties’) have agreed as follows: ... article v: arbitration for the brčko area 1.  the parties agree to binding arbitration of the disputed portion of the inter-entity boundary line in the brčko area indicated on the map attached at the appendix.
8.  the relevant excerpts from the television show are set out below: “[a.g., the host of the show, acting as a moderator, asks [the applicant], a journalist in constanţa]: what types of clans are we talking about, are they gangs, are they clans, who are these people we are talking about?the hostility occurred, if my memory is not mistaken, on the occasion of the construction of hotel o., when one of the v. brothers was excluded from the business, in spite of the initial plan.the latter is a business partner of the president of the regional council and during the night anything can happen because the police have made a pact ... and do not want to sanction anyone.except that they do not succeed in finalising it ... two years ago, when there was a big fight in the city centre, before the eyes of everybody, when the g. clans were opposed to the p. clan – and here we are talking about the same clan masters – the police did not intervene promptly because, they said it clearly, these were r.m.’s men and they were afraid, because m.i do not even know him, i have never seen him in my life and i have never spoken to him .... i have listened for fifteen minutes to her [the applicant’s] lucubrations, in which she tries to create about constanţa the image of a demonic city, in which the mayor runs everything, is a smuggler, has clans with kalashnikovs and bodyguards ... [a.g.]: would i be entitled to believe that this conflict was generated by one of your actions, or by one of your past activities, or your past partnerships; maybe you had relations with them and in this context they came to vandalise your hotel?everything else is just a fantasy of [the applicant], worthy of a psychiatric hospital ... [a.g.]: ... this is what the mayor says, that everything is false ... [the applicant]: what i have said, i said as an observer of the daily events; these things have been observed, discussed, noted for years.complained that the applicant had attempted to persuade people that constanţa city was divided between two gangs, “m.’s men and those who were against m.”, and that he himself had at one point been familiar with certain persons from the underworld (“persoane interlope”), namely with the v. clan, who had allegedly been at the origin of the violent incident in august 2006. he considered that the applicant’s imagination had proved to be “diabolical and of an infinite malice”, as her remarks had gone beyond what was permitted not only by freedom of speech, but also by professional deontology.the court started with an overview of the echr’s case-law on freedom of expression, referring specifically to the essential role played by journalists in a democratic society and to the fact that the essential criteria in assessing their statements is whether they are made in good faith.the court held that in the case before it, the applicant’s statements could not be interpreted as a personal attack on the claimant and in any event, they were not of such a severe nature as to harm r.m.’s honour, reputation or dignity.the court further noted that in answering the questions of a.g., the host of the show, the applicant had provided an objective explanation for her opinion; in support of her opinion, she had submitted before the court excerpts of articles from the local press, as well as from a publication issued by several investigative journalists on the topic of public integrity, a project implemented by transparency international romania, in which the name of the mayor, r.m., was connected to several ongoing criminal investigations.the court concluded that the applicant’s intervention had not been made in bad faith; her opinions concerned a matter of general interest and did not have an illicit nature; at the same time, her opinions were not found to have harmed the reputation of the claimant.15.  the county court considered that the conclusion of the television show, as drawn by a.g., was based essentially on the applicant’s statements, namely that the city was “torn between the underworld clans, in which the offenders retaliate against the mayor” (see paragraph 8 above), and that the same conclusion would have been drawn by anyone else who had watched the show.20.  while drawing a clear distinction between opinions and information, the court held that that the applicant had not put forward any argument or explanation to support her allegation that what she had expressed in the show were her opinions, and not factual elements: “by setting herself up as a connoisseur of what was going on in the local area, she had presented to the public, in the form of undeniable truth, some information that was not true”.22.  the court considered the amount of damages to be paid by the applicant to be fully justified, in view of the fact that the defamatory statements had been broadcast in prime time on a national television channel, and that the amount had been reduced by the appeal court to one quarter of the full amount claimed by r.m.the court held: “if she had complied with the first obligation, namely ‘to apologise’, the court would have examined the proportionality of the amount in relation to her intentions, as she does not contest the allegations, but by means of victimisation, she gives them strength, albeit without any evidence or documents having been submitted to the present day”.
8.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.the other applicants entered the proceedings as defendants on different dates and on the basis of different legal entitlements as outlined in the annexed table.it also took some time to determine the parties who were actually to be sued in the proceedings in view of multiple deaths among the original defendants and various transactions made in respect of the property in question.11.  on 27 april 2010 the constitutional court delivered a judgment, finding that the applicants’ (or their predecessors’) right to a hearing within a reasonable time had been violated by the district court.it ordered the district court to proceed without undue delay and to reimburse the complainants’ legal costs.it also awarded just satisfaction in respect of non‑pecuniary damage in the amount of eur 300 to the applicants listed under points 1 to 17 and eur 500 to those listed under points 18 to 28 and to the deceased predecessor of the applicants listed under points 29 to 32 of the appendix.the constitutional court noted inter alia that the district court had failed to proceed with the matter between 1995 and 2009. it also observed some of the applicants’ lack of interest in those proceedings.12.  on 22 november 2011 the district court delivered a judgment on the merits of the case, which was not served on the parties to the proceedings until seven months after its delivery.13.  on 19 march 2013 the constitutional court rejected a fresh constitutional complaint that had been lodged by the applicants (except those listed under points 30 to 32).it found no further undue delays in the proceedings before the district court after the constitutional judgment of 27 april 2010. it noted the delay of seven months which the district court had taken to serve its judgment on the parties.14.  on 15 may 2013 the district court transferred the case file to košice regional court following an appeal lodged by the applicants listed under points 9 and 18 and some other defendants in the proceedings.15.  on 12 march 2014 the regional court had to identify and deal with successors of some of the deceased parties to the proceedings.it partly upheld the district court’s judgment and partly dismissed the claim concerning some of the contested property.16.  on 8 august 2014 the applicants listed under points 4 and 30 to 32, together with several other defendants in the proceedings, lodged an appeal on points of law.on 21 january 2015 the proceedings in respect of that appeal were discontinued without examination of its merits due to the appellants’ failure to pay the court fees.
5.  in disputes between the applicants and the domestic pension authorities, the first‑instance courts ruled in their favour, ordering increases of their pensions based on the rise in the average wages in the country since their retirement.6.  the defendant authorities appealed to the dnipropetrovsk administrative court of appeal (“the court of appeal”).7.  under domestic law (see paragraph 18 below), when an appeal arrived at the court of appeal, a judge rapporteur of that court, if he or she believed that it complied with the necessary formal requirements, had to issue a ruling opening appeal proceedings (“the ruling”) and send it to the applicants together with a copy of the appeal.8.  the government and the applicants disagree as to whether those documents were actually sent to the applicants (see paragraphs 11 to 13 below).9.  on various dates set out in the appendix, the court of appeal quashed the judgments in the applicants’ favour, dismissing their claims for pension increases holding that the domestic law did not require the pensions to be increased in case of rise in the average wages in the country following retirement.in the fifth applicant’s case the court of appeal held a hearing in his presence (see paragraph 14 below).in the other applicants’ cases the court sat in camera without summoning the parties.10.  in the second to sixth applicants’ cases the court of appeal’s decisions became effective immediately since no further appeal lay against them (see the related legislative provisions in paragraph 16 below).on 26 october 2012 it upheld the court of appeal’s decision, without commenting on the complaint she had presented that she had not been informed of the appeal proceedings.11.  according to the applicants, the domestic courts did not send them either (i) a copy of the defendants’ appeals or (ii) a copy of the rulings opening appeal proceedings in their cases.they therefore had no knowledge of the appeal proceedings prior to the court of appeal’s decisions in their cases.12.  according to the government, the applicants were duly informed of the appeal proceedings.13.  it can be seen from the material before the court that: (i)  the first to third and sixth applicants’ domestic case files contain copies of either the rulings opening appeal proceedings in their cases or notification letters from the court clerks addressed to them informing them of the upcoming examination of their cases in camera and referring to the fact that a judge’s ruling and a copy of the appeal were enclosed with the letter; (ii)  the notification letters addressed to the first and second applicants contain a note to the effect that they were intended to be sent by registered mail with acknowledgement of receipt; (iii)  the third applicant’s case file also contains a copy of a letter from the first-instance court informing her that her case file with an appeal had been sent to the court of appeal; (iv)  the fourth applicant’s case file does not contain a ruling or notification letter; (v)  none of the case files contain any postal documents or registers of sent correspondence showing that the documents in (i) to (iii) above had been sent or delivered to the applicants.14.  on 23 june 2012 the court of appeal sent the fifth applicant a summons to attend a hearing on 1 november 2012. the delivery slip is in his domestic case file.at the hearing, which he attended, the court examined the pension authority’s appeal in its absence and quashed the first-instance court’s judgment.
brought a civil action against the applicant before the sinj municipal court (općinski sud u sinju), seeking that a will be declared null and void.7.  on 8 december 2006 the sinj municipal court adopted a judgment in the applicant’s favour.8.  the plaintiff lodged an appeal with the split county court (županijski sud u splitu).on 27 august 2009 a panel of three judges presided over by judge d.p., sitting in a closed meeting, reversed the first-instance judgment and upheld the appeal.it held that the first-instance court had correctly established the facts but had wrongly applied the relevant law.9.  the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law with the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske) alleging, inter alia, that she had not had a fair hearing before an independent and impartial tribunal because judge d.p.was the father of a trainee lawyer working at the law office of v.lj.and ž.v., who had both represented the plaintiff in the proceedings.10.  on 14 september 2011 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law as unfounded and upheld the second-instance judgment.it held in particular: “the case file shows that n.p., judge d.p.’s son, did not participate in any manner in the proceedings at issue.in such doubt as to exclude his participation in the adoption of the appeal judgment.” 11.  in a constitutional complaint of 29 june 2012 the applicant argued that even though n.p.had not participated at the hearings held in the proceedings at issue, there were no indications that he had not been otherwise involved in the case.he had been in a relationship of subordination (employer-employee) to the opposing party’s legal representative and the law office concerned had employed only a very small number of people.the applicant noted that the first-instance judgment in her favour had also later been reversed on appeal.the constitutional complaint was declared inadmissible on 3 october 2012 by the constitutional court.
7.  at the applicant’s request her name was taken of the list of practising advocates on 19 december 2003. as noted by the civil courts afterwards, the applicant had acknowledged that her request had been made owing to the fact that a criminal case had been pending against her (see paragraph 8 below).in addition, the court found that the applicant had forged the signatures of pre-trial-investigation officers on the above documents, submitted them to court officials to receive payment and thereby obtained payment.the crimes she had committed fell into the category of minor intentional crimes (nesunkus tyčinis nusikaltimas), because the maximum possible sanction for them was up to three years of deprivation of liberty (article 11 § 3 of the criminal code).given that only three years and twenty-four days had passed since the applicant’s conviction, and taking into account the nature of the applicant’s criminaloffence – misappropriation of property for non-existent legal services – as well as the specifics of the professional practice of an advocate, it was reasonable to conclude that the applicant had not regained high moral character within such a short time frame, to meet the requirements set out in articles 7 § 4 and 8 § 4 of the law on the bar (see paragraph 21 below).the court partly annulled the bar association’s decision and ordered the latter to reconsider the applicant’s request to be readmitted to the bar.consequently, and relying on article 8 (1) of the law on the bar (see paragraph 21 below), the vilnius regional court found that the bar association had erred in finding that the applicant had not met the high-moral-character criterion.it pointed out that the applicant was not of high moral character as she failed to meet the criteria listed in article 8 (4) of the law on the bar.15.  the court of appeal concurred with the first-instance court’s finding that the term of the applicant’s conviction had expired and that therefore she could not be reproached under article 8 (1) of the law on the bar.nonetheless, taking into account the fact that she had committed the criminal offence in the course of her professional practice and that her professional practice had been aimed at committing crimes, of which there were more than thirty counts, it was reasonable to conclude that the applicant’s behaviour did not meet the criteria set out in article 8 (4) of the law on the bar.for the appellate court, insufficient time had passed from the date when the applicant had committed the crime to when she had asked the bar association to readmit her to the bar.in the present case, despite four years having passed since the date the crime had been committed, there was still no sufficient basis to conclude that the applicant was of high moral character within the meaning of article 8 (4) of the law on the bar.17.  the court of appeal lastly dismissed certain arguments by the applicant that the lower court had erred when interpreting some other legal norms unrelated to the matter of the applicant’s reputation.on the question of reputation, the supreme court noted its practice to the effect that no breach of law (joks nusižengimas) was too serious to unconditionally preclude an individual from ever asking to be reinstated to the bar (the supreme court referred to its earlier ruling in case no.20.  the supreme court then held that the expiry of a conviction for a minor intentional crime, as it was indicated in article 8 (1) of the law on the bar, was only one of the criteria when considering the question of a person’s reputation.on the facts of the applicant’s case, the court of appeal therefore had been correct in finding that the applicant had not proven that she had regained high moral character, in particular given the nature of the criminal acts she had committed.
... i support the [applicant’s] request.” 7.  on 18 february 2005 the court completed the examination of evidence.the presiding judge instructed the jury to disregard the counsel’s statement as referring to the applicant’s character.9.  on 21 february 2005 the applicant asked the court to replace counsel sh.10.  on the same date the regional court found the applicant guilty of murder and sentenced him to fifteen years’ imprisonment.11.  on 1 march 2005 the applicant asked the regional court to appoint legal counsel to represent him before the appeal court.on 8 march 2005 the court refused to appoint a lawyer referring to the relevant legal provisions that did not provide for a right to have a state-appointed lawyer before the appeal court.12.  on 21 july 2005 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the judgment of 21 february 2005 on appeal.13.  on 6 june 2007 the presidium of the supreme court quashed the appeal judgment of 21 july 2005 by way of supervisory review.the court noted that the applicant had not been provided with legal assistance in the appeal proceedings and remitted the matter for fresh consideration to the appeal court.according to the applicant, he participated in the hearing by means of a video link.the court also dismissed as unsubstantiated the applicant’s complaint about the alleged ineffectiveness of the legal assistance provided by counsel sh.in this connection, the court noted that the applicant had consented to be represented by sh.the court also concluded, on the basis of the trial record, that sh.lastly, the court took into account that, prior to the jury verdict, the applicant had not complained about the quality of the defence provided by sh.17.  on 18 august 2008 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s supervisory review complaint against the judgment of 16 august 2007.
the court also took account of the fact that the applicant had not committed any violations of administrative law, had been bringing up a child alone, had been described in positive terms by people at his place of residence and at his workplace, had drawn the right conclusions from the crimes he had committed, and had promised not to commit any crimes in the future.15.  on 20 june 2007 the bar association held that by failing to inform it of the conviction, the applicant had withheld information relevant to assessing his reputation, and that therefore he had shown that his attitude towards the standing of the lithuanian bar and towards becoming a trainee advocate was not honest and respectful.17.  in a letter of 4 september 2007 to the bar association the chief prosecutor of šiauliai region wrote that the applicant lived in the city of šiauliai and that in the course of his work as a trainee advocate he had interaction with the same investigators, prosecutors and judges with whom he had worked before committing his crimes and with those who had later investigated his crimes or examined his case in court.21.  the court of honour also held on the same day that the applicant had breached the code of ethics and imposed the disciplinary measure of ordering his removal from the list of trainee advocates, on the basis of articles 13 § 1 and 54 § 2 of the law on the bar (see paragraph 34 below).similarly, point 13.2 of the code of ethics set out that an advocate had to act honestly and ethically, even if certain acts or behaviour that did not meet the requirements of the law on the bar or the code of ethics were not described specifically in that code (see paragraph 37 below).in the light of such considerations, the court of honour was convinced that the applicant, who had a university degree and had previously had a law-related job, had deliberately withheld information about his prior conviction, because he had been aware that, if information not only about his crimes but also about the manner in which he had committed them had come to light, then the bar association would have rejected his application to become a trainee advocate.furthermore, j.k., the advocate who had been the president of the court of honour, had been questioned as a witness by the vilnius regional court and had testified that he had not been biased against the applicant; he had only had an opinion about the particular actions performed by the applicant.lastly, the change in the composition of that court when the case had been decided on 23 november 2007, removing a.p., a member said by the applicant to have been favourable to him (see paragraph 20 above), had not been a decisive factor because the court had been unanimous in its finding against the applicant.25.  the vilnius regional court concurred with the court of honour that the applicant had had a moral obligation to disclose important information such as a prior conviction to the bar association when submitting an application to become a trainee advocate, even though that requirement had not been explicitly stated on the application form (see paragraph 12 above, advokato įskaitos lapas).the fact that, according to the applicant, his supervising advocate, several other advocates in šiauliai and some members of the bar association council had known about his prior conviction, did not absolve him from the obligation to provide information that was as comprehensive as possible when applying to the bar, so that it would be possible to assess his reputation objectively and comprehensively.according to the applicant, the president of the court of honour had clearly acknowledged to the vilnius regional court that anyone who had disclosed a prior conviction had been admitted to the bar and that the applicant would also have been admitted if he had done the same.28.  as to the merits of the complaint, the vilnius regional court had been correct in its interpretation of the law on the bar and of established court practice in looking at the applicant’s crimes, their manner and scale not only in the light of the law on the bar, but also taking into account the rules for advocates’ professional ethics.contrary to the applicant’s submission, the first-instance court had relied on article 8 (4) of the law on the bar and on the code of ethics, not on article 8 (1) of the law on the bar.the court of honour’s conclusion had been supported by point 12.1 of the code of ethics, which set out that the relationship between an advocate and the bar was based on mutual respect and good-will assistance, and by point 13.2, which stated that an advocate must also adhere to the traditions and customs which corresponded to the common principles of ethics and decency (see paragraph 37 below).as a result, the court of honour had had grounds to impose a disciplinary penalty on the applicant and to strike his name off the list of trainee advocates on the basis of articles 7 § 1 (4), 8 (4), 13 § 1 (1) and 35 of the law on the bar.
14.  by a letter of 10 april 2003 the data protection ombudsman asked the data protection board (tietosuojalautakunta, datasekretessnämnden) to prohibit the applicant companies from processing the taxation data in the manner and to the extent that had been the case in 2002 and from passing those data to the sms service.it found that the derogation laid down in the personal data act concerning journalism, which had its origins in directive 95/46/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data was adopted (oj 1995 l 281, p. 31, hereafter “the data protection directive”), should not be interpreted too strictly, as an overly strict interpretation would favour protection of privacy over freedom of expression.21.  on 23 september 2009 the supreme administrative court, applying the ruling of the cjeu and with reference to the case-law on article 10 of the convention, quashed the impugned decisions of the data protection board and the helsinki administrative court and referred the case back to the data protection board for a fresh examination with a view to issuing an order pursuant to section 44(1) of the personal data act.22.  in its legal assessment, the supreme administrative court gave the following reasoning: “scope of the matter the present case does not concern the question of the extent to which taxation data and official documents concerning taxation are public under the act on the public disclosure and confidentiality of tax information.... it therefore appears from the aforementioned ruling of the court of justice of the european communities that the concept of journalism must, as such, be interpreted broadly within the meaning of article 9 of the directive, that, on the other hand, the protection of privacy can be derogated from only in so far as it is strictly necessary, and that this task of reconciliation of the two fundamental rights is the task of the member states.... it transpires from the preparatory work on the personal data act (he 96/1998 vp) that the purpose of the adoption of the personal data act was to maintain the existing situation in respect of journalistic files kept by the media, provided it remained within the limits imposed by the data protection directive.in the present case, it must be assessed to what extent the impugned processing of personal data as carried out in the course of the companies’ activities falls within the scope of the exception concerning journalistic purposes that is provided for in section 2(5) of the personal data act.in this respect it must be decided whether a derogation is possible from the requirements relating to the processing of personal data on the basis of section 2(5) of the act, that is to say whether the impugned processing of personal data by publishing those data in the veropörssi newspaper came within the scope of the exception provided for journalistic purposes.by contrast, the processing of personal data collected in the company’s background file by publishing it and by rendering it available to the general public to the extent that has been done in the present case, and beyond the scope of the minimum requirements set out in section 2(5) of the act, cannot be regarded as compatible with the purpose of the personal data act.open public-interest debate, the monitoring of the exercise of power in society and the freedom to criticise, which are necessary in a democratic society, do not require the disclosure of the personal data of specific individuals in the manner and to the extent described above.when regard is also had to the foregoing comments on the narrow interpretation of section 2(4) of the personal data act and the fact that a strict literal interpretation of that provision would result in a situation incompatible with the purpose of the act as regards protection of personal data, the processing of personal data with a view to publishing them in the veropörssi newspaper, and as far as the contents of this publication itself are concerned, was not conducted for journalistic purposes within the meaning of the personal data act.... having regard to sections 2(5) and 32 of the personal data act and article 9 of the data protection directive, as interpreted by the court of justice of the european communities in its preliminary ruling, the collection of personal data prior to its publication in the veropörssi newspaper and its processing in the background file of satakunnan markkinapörssi oy cannot as such be regarded as contrary to the regulations concerning the protection of personal data, provided that, inter alia, the data have been protected properly.having regard to the preliminary ruling of the court of justice of the european communities and its effect on the interpretation of section 2(4) of the personal data act, as well as all that has been said above about the processing of personal data in the veropörssi newspaper, the handover to satamedia oy of personal data collected in the background file of satakunnan markkinapörssi oy, even though they were published in the veropörssi newspaper, cannot be regarded as processing of personal data for journalistic purposes within the meaning of personal data act.in addition, it follows from the preliminary ruling of the court of justice of the european communities that the exception provided for in the data protection directive, which concerns the processing of personal data for journalistic purposes, requires the disclosure of data to the public.the assessment would be the same if the company processed, on the basis of a request by an individual, the personal data of another individual by using some other mode of transmission.” 23.  pursuant to the above-mentioned judgment of the supreme administrative court, on 26 november 2009 the data protection board prohibited the first applicant company from processing taxation data in the manner and to the extent that had been the case in 2002 and from forwarding that information to an sms service.
6.  on 20 october 2011 the applicant lodged a claim with the martin district court (“the district court”) (file no.as the defendant challenged the order, the matter fell to be determined by the court in ordinary proceedings.8.  it took the district court more than eight months to deal with an application by the applicant to change the particulars of claim.9.  in october 2014 the applicant lodged a complaint with the constitutional court under article 127 of the constitution, contesting the length of the proceedings before the district court.iii.ús 172/20150), on the grounds that, prior to lodging his constitutional complaint, the applicant had failed to exhaust ordinary remedies, in particular lodging a complaint with the president of the district court under the courts act (law no.757/2004 coll.).the constitutional court referred to the court’s previous case-law in ištván and ištvánová v. slovakia (no.it observed that the case of ištván and ištvánová concerned proceedings lasting more than six years, which was substantially longer than the duration of the proceedings in the applicant’s case (three years).the constitutional court further stated that only in cases where the length of proceedings was prima facie excessive at the time of lodging a constitutional complaint was it not necessary to lodge a complaint with the president of a court, and therefore the applicant should have lodged a complaint with the president of the district court.11.  in the meantime, the district court had appointed an expert in economics, accountancy and tax, and had ordered the applicant to pay fees in advance for the expert evidence.that order was challenged by the applicant before the žilina regional court, but to no avail.12.  subsequently, the district court scheduled a hearing for 16 march 2016. on that date the district court delivered a judgment by which it granted the applicant’s claim in part and dismissed the remainder of the claim.however, in their submissions to the court the parties failed to specify the exact date when the judgment was served on the applicant, and they did not provide appropriate evidence to confirm this.they also did not inform the court about any possible further development in the proceedings.
followed him, grabbed him by the collar through the bars separating the barbershop from the corridor, and hit him on the head and nose.in a report drawn up several days later, the social worker in charge of the applicant’s group said that there was no evidence of such an incident as no other inmate had confirmed the applicant’s allegations, and the applicant had not requested a medical examination.the social worker carried out an enquiry over the following days at the request of the prison governor and obtained statements from eight other inmates, confirming the events.18.  after the incident on 21 february 2012 he was brought to varna prison’s medical centre, where he was seen by the feldsher as the prison’s only doctor was on long-term sick leave at the time (see paragraph 40 below).the applicant told the feldsher that he had been punched next to his right ear and had pain in the ear and the lower jaw.the government said the delay was because the applicant’s symptoms had not suggested that he had a medical condition that required urgent attention and because it took time to organise a medical examination outside the prison.the surgeon noted that the applicant had a fracture of the right condyloid process that had not healed properly and post-traumatic arthritis of the right temporomandibular joint.34.  on an unknown date in 2012 the applicant complained to the varna district prosecutor’s office about the incidents on 15 and 21 february 2012. in june 2012 the prosecutor’s office refused to open criminal proceedings.on appeal by the applicant, the varna regional prosecutor’s office upheld that decision in august 2012. the applicant appealed further and, on 10 october 2012, the varna appellate prosecutor’s office quashed the refusal to open criminal proceedings against mr k.i., but upheld the refusal to open proceedings against prison staff.38.  the varna administrative court heard the case on 1 december 2014 and 2 february 2015, when the applicant unexpectedly withdrew his claim and the court discontinued the proceedings.relevant reports of the european committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment 39.  a delegation of the european committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment (“the cpt”) visited bulgaria between 18 and 29 october 2010. the visit included a visit to varna prison.... 121.  despite the goodwill and commitment of health-care staff at the prisons visited, the provision of health care to prisoners remained problematic, due to the serious shortage of staff and resources.the committee must stress again that the duty of care which is owed by the prison authorities to prisoners in their charge includes the responsibility to protect them from other prisoners who might wish to cause them harm.further, it appeared that reporting of injuries depended on the prisoner concerned making a specific request, usually to the social worker, on a special form (a copy of the form was not kept in the medical file).in this context, the report completed by the doctor should contain, in addition to a detailed description of injuries observed, any allegations made by the prisoner concerned and the doctor’s conclusions as to the consistency between those allegations and the objective medical findings.
it appears that the organisers of the demonstrations gave no proper prior notice to the relevant authority, the baku city executive authority (“the bcea”).the demonstrations of 12 january and 10 march 2013 were aimed at protesting about the deaths of soldiers in the army, while the demonstration of 26 january 2013 condemned the use of force by the police against the participants of previous demonstrations.according to the second applicant, during the demonstration she was giving an interview to the media and the moment of her arrest was recorded.11.  on the day of each applicant’s arrest administrative-offence reports (inzibati xəta haqqında protokol) were issued, which stated that the applicants had committed an administrative offence under article 298.2 of the code of administrative offences (“the cao”) (participation in a public assembly that was not organised in accordance with the law).14.  according to a statement (ərizə) written by the second applicant at the police station on the day of her arrest, she refused the services of a lawyer.according to documents from the case file of the second applicant, on the day the hearing recommenced, the lawyer she had hired failed to appear and she decided to defend herself in person.18.  none of the material submitted to the court contains any records showing that the state-funded lawyer, mr v.m., made any oral or written submissions on behalf of the first applicant.19.  the only witnesses questioned during the court hearing with respect to the second applicant were the police officers who, according to the official records, had arrested her or had drawn up the administrative-offence report.24.  on various dates the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicants’ appeals and upheld the decisions of the first-instance courts (see appendix).during the search the domestic authorities seized a large number of documents, including all the case files relating to the pending applications before the court, which were in mr aliyev’s possession as a representative.the files relating to the present cases, which, it appears, included copies of all the documents and correspondence between the court and the parties, were also seized in their entirety.he further complained about the seizure of the documents and files relating to the pending court proceedings before the court and the domestic courts.as to the seizure of the documents relating to the cases pending before the court and the domestic courts, it found that they could not be returned to the applicants at that stage of the proceedings.29.  on 25 october 2014 the investigating authorities returned a number of the case files concerning the applications lodged with the court, including the files relating to the present cases, to mr aliyev’s lawyer.the investigator’s relevant decision specified that “since it [had] been established that among the documents seized on 8 and 9 august 2014 there [had been] files concerning applications by a number of individuals and organisations lodged with the european court of human rights, which ha[d] no relation to the substance of the criminal proceedings [against mr intigam aliyev], [those files] ha[d] been delivered to [mr aliyev’s lawyer,] mr javad javadov”.
the son said that on the morning of 8 august 1995 some members of the croatian army had come to their house and asked for the keys of a golf vehicle parked in the courtyard but that his grandmother had shouted at them.12.  on 30 march 2006 the karlovac state attorney’s office asked the slunj police whether the veljun area had been occupied on 7 august 1995; whether the perpetrator of the killing of g.o.on 6 july 2006 the karlovac police department replied that veljun had not been occupied on 7 august 1995 because serbian paramilitary forces had left the area the previous day as the croatian forces had advanced from the direction of slunj.however, owing to the disorganised nature of the withdrawal of the serbian paramilitary forces, there had still been some armed members of the “serbian army” in the area.13.  on 25 october 2006 the police interviewed the first applicant, who said that he had lived with his mother and grandmother in slunj and that his father had been a croatian policeman.on the same day another police officer, z.g., made a note stating that on 8 january 2007 he had inspected the premises of the elementary school in veljun, where he had found the following inscriptions on the walls: “tigers, i.v.the first applicant added that in his opinion the croatian soldiers who had killed his mother and grandmother had not been those who had been the first to enter veljun because that group had treated civilians correctly.18.  on 9 november 2012 the karlovac police asked the ministry of defence about the croatian army units which had been in veljun between 7 and 12 august 1995, the identity of their commanders and all their members.19.  on 9 january 2013 the first applicant asked the president’s office, the state attorney, the karlovac county state attorney, the ministry of justice and the state attorney’s department of war crimes to identify the perpetrators of the killing of his mother and grandmother.it stated that documents about the croatian army units present in veljun in the material period (those documents have not been submitted to the court by the government) showed that on 7 august 1995 at 10.30 a.m. veljun had been liberated by members of the 143rd domobran regiment of ogulin (143. domobranska pukovnija ogulin), under the command of captain (satnik) n.n.on 7 august 1995 at about noon the armoured battalion of the “tigers” first guards brigade (oklopna bojna 1. gardijske brigade “tigrovi”) under the command of captain lj.u., as well as the second infantry battalion of the first guards brigade (2. pješačka bojna 1. gardijske brigade) under the command of major a.k., had arrived.on 8 august 1995 the following croatian army units had been in veljun: the second infantry battalion of the 143rd domobran regiment from ogulin under the command of captain m.k.21.  between 27 february and 28 march 2013 the police interviewed several croatian soldiers who belonged to the units of the croatian army that had been in veljun on 7 and 8 august 1995.n.n., the commander of the second battalion of the 143rd domobran regiment, said that they had entered veljun on the morning of 8 august 1995. at the same time the first guards brigade under the command of i.k.s.p., the commander of the medical squad of the second battalion of the 143rd domobran regiment, said that his battalion had entered veljun at about noon on 7 august 1995 and had stayed there for two days.
7.  on 11 may 2010 the applicant company, whose main activity is the retail distribution of fuel in specialised outlets, entered into a contract with company “n.” sarl for the carriage of “automobile lubricants and other goods”.the contract stipulated that it was incumbent on the company n. to “complete the transport documents with the requisite, correct and accurate information”.8.  on the same day, two fuel tankers belonging to the company s.c. service benz com s.r.l.9.  before the two fuel tankers could reach their destination, they were stopped for inspection by representatives of the romanian fraud squad.after laboratory analyses, the romanian authorities found that the liquid transported did not have the same specifications as those indicated in the transport documents.10.  by official report of offence of 7 june 2010, the fraud squad representatives decided to: – impose on the company “n”, the owner of the goods carried, a fine of ron 100,000 (approximately eur 23,000) for non-compliance with the regulations on goods subject to excise duty pursuant to article 220 § 1 (k) of the code of tax procedure (“cpf”); and – confiscate the goods (the liquid carried) and the two fuel tankers belonging to the applicant company, pursuant to article 220 § 2 (a) and (b) cpf.11.  the applicant company challenged the part of that official report relating to the confiscation of its two fuel tankers.before the slobozia court of first instance it argued that: – it had only carried its customer’s goods and accordingly held no responsibility for their compliance with the law; – article 220 § 1 (k) cpf had not been applicable to it since, according to the transport documents in its possession, it had not been transporting goods subject to excise duty.12.  by judgment of 15 november 2010 the slobozia court of first instance allowed the applicant company’s challenge and annulled the part of the official report relating to the confiscation of the fuel tankers.the trial court held as follows: – the transport company’s responsibility could not be incurred because it had not been in a position to verify the legal conformity of the goods and a tax office representative had sealed the two fuel tankers after loading; and – in the instant case the confiscation had therefore been unacceptable and unlawful.14.  on 28 february 2011 the ialomiţa county court allowed the tax authorities’ appeal: it quashed the judgment and, ruling on the merits, dismissed the applicant company’s challenge as being ill-founded.the court reasoned as follows: – the administrative offence laid down in article 220 § 2 (b) cpf authorised the ancillary penalty of confiscation, without specifying whether the property to be confiscated belonged to the administrative offender or to a third party; – furthermore, articles 24 and 25 of government ordinance no.2/2001 of 12 july 2001 governing administrative offences provided for the eventuality of the confiscated property belonging to someone other than the administrative offender.the court gave the following reasons for its judgment: “... the owner of the confiscated property, the company service benz com sarl, is not an administrative offender, such that there is no need to [discuss] any fault on its part; the confiscation is conducted exclusively in pursuance of the law as an ancillary penalty; it can only be annulled in the event of breach of the relevant legal provisions.the ground of appeal based on negligence on the part of the transporter, who was directly responsible for the safety and lawfulness of the goods transported, is also well-founded.”
6.  on an unspecified date a.r., a member of the political party self‑defence of the republic of poland (“samoobrona”) sent gazeta wyborcza, a daily newspaper, an electronic mail containing information about an alleged “sex scandal” in the party.after their conversation he informed her that he had recorded the call and that he intended to use the transcript for an article.the interview, entitled “payment for sex, the choice is yours” (“płaca ze seks, wybór należy do pani”) concerned the “sex scandal” story which had broken in poland earlier in 2006. public figures, including samoobrona activists, had offered and accepted sexual favours in the course of exercising public functions.initially, she had been unpaid and when she had demanded payment, one of the activists, k.z., had told her: “i will pay if you go to bed with me” she also said that in july 2004 during a party organised by a.k.: “did you get the job?” 10.  on the same page, to the right of the article, the newspaper quoted three prominent samoobrona activists referred to in the interview, namely k.z., b.s.according to the indictment the defamation consisted of the publication of the interview with a.r.13.  on 16 march 2010 the warsaw district court ruled the indictment partially accurate: it then discontinued the proceedings for a probationary term of one year and ordered the applicant to pay 1,000 polish zlotys (pln – 232 euros (eur)) to charity and to pay the costs of the proceedings.14.  the district court found the applicant guilty of the defamation of m.c.according to the court the applicant neglected his professional obligations because he did not verify that the job had been offered to m.c.’s daughter.it did not accept the applicant’s argument that he had acted with due diligence because before publication he had sent the text of the interview to a.r.it found that in this respect the applicant had fulfilled his professional obligations because he had published the statement of b.s., who had denied propositioning a.r.for the above reasons, in the district court’s view, the average reader should not have had the impression that m.c.17.  on 18 june 2010 the warsaw regional court upheld the challenged judgment, repeating in essence the same reasoning as the district court.regarding the applicant’s arguments concerning his right to freedom of expression under article 10 of the convention, it noted that “in the light of the journalist’s right to publish critical comments (prawo do krytyki dziennikarskiej), an individual’s right to legal protection of good name and reputation should also be taken into account”.18.  on 3 february 2011 the applicant’s lawyer requested the ombudsman to lodge a cassation appeal on the applicant’s behalf.
5.  the first applicant was detained in lukiškės remand prison from 23 june 2011 to 30 september 2011. the documents submitted to the court show that he was held in various different remand prison cells where most of the time he had between 1.8 and 2.46 square metres of living space, except for the following periods: -  from the evening of 24 june 2011 to the morning of 27 june 2011 he had 3.69 square metres of personal space; -  on the evening of 23 june 2011, the morning of 24 june 2011 and the morning of 31 august 2011 he had between 7.38 and 7.8 square metres of personal space.7.  on 19 april 2012 the vilnius regional administrative court established that the applicant had been held in overcrowded cells for three months and three days, given that for that duration he had been held in cells where he had had less than 3.6 square metres of personal space.9.  from 22 october 2008 to 10 november 2010 the second applicant was detained in lukiškės remand prison, except for the following periods when he was moved to švenčionys police station: -  from 3 december 2008 to 10 december 2008; -  from 23 september 2009 to 29 september 2009; -  from 23 december 2009 to 29 december 2009; -  from 3 february 2010 to 16 february 2010. the documents submitted to the court show that he was held in several different remand prison cells where he had between 1.2 and 2.68 square metres of personal space, except for the following days: -  the whole of 29 october 2008, the morning of 31 october 2008, the morning of 3 march 2009, the morning of 15 june 2009, the evening of 20 july 2009, the whole of 21 july 2009, the morning of 22 july 2009, the evening of 21 september 2009, the morning of 22 september 2009, the morning of 31 december 2009, the evening of 9 march 2010, the morning of 10 march 2010, the morning of 7 april 2010, the morning of 26 april 2010, the morning of 14 june 2010, the evening of 28 june 2010, the morning of 29 june 2010, the evening of 3 november 2010 and the morning of 4 november 2010. during those periods he had between 3.74 and 3.97 square metres of personal space; -  the morning of 23 november 2008, when he had 7.94 square metres of personal space.he argued that the conditions in which he had been held in lukiškės remand prison had been degrading: the cells had been overcrowded, had had rats and insects and mould on the walls.11.  on 7 september 2012 the vilnius regional administrative court established that the applicant could only request compensation for the period from 3 april 2009 onwards because the applicant had missed the three-year time-limit to lodge a complaint for the preceding period.the court further held that the relevant period was 559 days, and that the applicant had been held in conditions that satisfied the personal space requirement for only 2.5 days.13.  from 20 july 2009 to 16 june 2010 the third applicant was detained in lukiškės remand prison, except for 9 june 2010 to 11 june 2010. he complained about his conditions of detention from 20 july 2009 to 16 june 2010. the documents before the court show that he was held in several different remand prison cells where he had: -  between 1.8 and 2.65 square metres of personal space from 23 july 2009 to the morning of 24 july 2009; from the evening of 27 july 2009 to 25 august 2009; from the evening of 1 september 2009 to 22 september 2009; from the evening of 23 september 2009 to 27 september 2009; from the evening of 28 september 2009 to 4 november 2009; from the evening of 6 november 2009 to 22 december 2009; from the evening of 23 december 2009 to 16 february 2010; on the evening of 17 february 2010 and on 18 february 2010; from the evening of 19 february 2010 to 22 february 2010; from the evening of 23 february 2010 to 2 march 2010; on the evening of 3 march 2010; from the evening of 4 march 2010 to 19 april 2010; from 21 april 2010 to 12 may 2010; from the evening of 13 may 2010 to 23 may 2010; from the evening of 11 june 2010 to the morning of 12 june 2010; on the morning of 14 june 2010; -  between 3.7 and 3.97 square metres of personal space from the evening of 24 july 2009 to the morning of 27 july 2009; from 26 august 2009 to the morning of 1 september 2009; on the morning of 23 september 2009; on the morning of 28 september 2009; on the morning of 5 november 2009; on the morning of 23 december 2009; on the morning of 17 february 2010; on the morning of 19 february 2010; on the morning of 23 february 2010; on the morning of 3 march 2010; on the morning of 4 march 2010; on 20 april 2010; on the morning of 7 may 2010; on the morning of 13 may 2010; on the evening of 12 june 2010; -  between 3.13 and 4.3 square metres of personal space from 24 may 2010 to the morning of 9 june 2010; -  between 7.24 and 7.31 square metres of personal space from 13 june 2010 to the morning of 16 june 2010.the court also held that the applicant had been held for only ten days in conditions that had satisfied the statutory personal space requirement and awarded him ltl 800 (approximately eur 232) in compensation for non-pecuniary damage on account of overcrowding.the court reiterated that the applicant’s complaints about his health were unsubstantiated and that the applicant himself had not been able to prove that his health had deteriorated or that he had complained to a doctor.17.  the fourth applicant was detained in lukiškės remand prison from 25 february 2011 to 27 august 2012, except for the following periods when he was in a prison hospital: -  from 17 may 2011 to 1 june 2011; -  from 8 september 2011 to 19 september 2011; -  from 21 november 2011 to 24 november 2011; -  from 15 january 2012 to 15 february 2012; -  from 18 june 2012 until 26 june 2012; -  from 5 july 2012 to 19 july 2012; -  from 8 august 2012 to 13 august 2012. the documents before the court show that he was held in several different cells in the remand prison where he had: -  between 1.2 and 2.7 square metres of personal space from the evening of 25 february 2011 to the morning of 28 february 2011; from the morning of 3 march 2011 to 15 march 2011; from the evening of 16 march 2011 to 7 april 2011; from 13 may 2011 to the morning of 16 may 2011; on the evening of 1 june 2011; on 27 july 2011; on the evening of 28 july 2011; from 26 august 2011 to 29 august 2011; from 20 september 2011 to the morning of 21 september 2011; on the evening of 24 november 2011; from the evening of 30 november 2011 to 7 december 2011; from the evening of 8 december 2011 to 10 january 2012; from the evening of 11 january 2012 to 21 february 2012; from the evening of 22 february 2012 to the morning of 7 march 2012; from the evening of 8 march 2012 to 14 march 2012; from the evening of 15 march 2012 to 28 march 2012; from the evening of 29 march 2012 to 1 april 2012; from the evening of 2 april 2012 to 3 april 2012; from the evening of 4 april 2012 to 5 june 2012; from the evening of 6 june 2012 to 26 june 2012; on the evening of 26 june 2012; on the evening of 27 june 2012; from the evening of 28 june 2012 to 1 july 2012; from 19 july 2012 to 22 july 2012; from the evening of 23 july 2012 to 7 august 2012; from the evening of 16 august 2012 to the morning of 21 august 2012; from the evening of 23 august 2012 to the morning of 27 august 2012; -  between 3.27 and 4 square metres of personal space from the evening of 28 february 2011 to 2 march 2011; on the morning of 16 march 2011; from 8 april 2011 to 20 april 2011, from the evening of 21 april 2011 to the morning of 12 may 2011; on the evening of 16 may 2011; on the evening of 2 june 2011; on the evening of 3 june 2011; from 4 june 2011 to 16 june 2011; on the evening of 17 june 2011; from 18 june 2011 to 20 june 2011; on the evening of 21 june 2011; on the evening of 22 june 2011; from 23 june 2011 to the morning of 21 july 2011; from the evening of 21 july 2011 to 26 july 2011; on the morning of 28 july 2011; from the evening of 30 august 2011 to 7 september 2011; from the evening of 27 september 2011 to 9 october 2011; from the evening of 10 october 2011 to 12 october 2011; on the evening of 13 october 2011; from the evening of 14 october 2011 to 1 november 2011; from the evening of 5 november 2011 to 17 november 2011; from the evening of 18 november 2011 to 20 november 2011; from 29 november 2011 to the morning of 30 november 2011; on the morning of 11 january 2012; from the evening of 7 march 2012 to the morning of 8 march 2012; on the morning of 15 march 2012; on the morning of 29 march 2012; on the morning of 2 april 2012; on the morning of 4 april 2012; on the morning of 6 june 2012; on the morning of 27 june 2012; on the morning of 28 june 2012; from 2 july 2012 to 4 july 2012; on the morning of 23 july 2012; from the evening of 14 august 2012 to the morning of 16 august 2012; from the evening of 21 august 2012 to the morning of 23 august 2012; -  between 6 and 10.6 square metres of personal space on the morning of 8 april 2011; on the morning of 21 april 2011; on the evening of 12 may 2011; on the morning of 2 june 2011; on the morning of 3 june 2011; on the morning of 17 june 2011; on the morning of 21 june 2011; on the morning of 22 june 2011; from 29 july 2011 to 25 august 2011; on the morning of 30 august 2011; on the evening of 19 september 2011; from the evening of 21 september 2011 to the morning of 27 september 2011; on the morning of 10 october 2011; on the morning of 13 october 2011; on the morning of 14 october 2011; from 2 november 2011 to the morning of 5 november 2011; on the morning of 18 november 2011; from 25 november 2011 to 28 november 2011; on 22 february 2012; from the evening of 13 august 2012 to the morning of 14 august 2012; on the evening of 27 august 2012.he argued that the conditions in which he had been held in lukiškės remand prison had been degrading: the cells had been overcrowded; he had been held together with prisoners who smoked; the toilets had not been separated from the rest of the cell; and his health had deteriorated.21.  in the application form, the fifth applicant complained about his conditions of detention in lukiškės remand prison from 29 november 2007 until 9 march 2010. however, in his reply to the government’s observations, he claimed that the period to be considered was from 10 june 2009 to 27 september 2011. the applicant was not in prison between 2 july 2009 and the morning of 13 july 2009 as he was in a prison hospital while from 12 january 2010 to the morning of 26 january 2010 he was held in tauragė police station.it can be seen from the documents before the court that he was held in several different remand prison cells where he had: -  between 1.2 and 2.8 square metres of personal space from 17 june 2009 to 1 july 2009; from the evening of 13 july 2009 to 3 november 2009; from the evening of 4 november 2009 to the morning of 2 december 2009; from 3 december 2009 to the morning of 7 january 2010; from the evening of 26 january 2010 to 5 february 2010; from 8 february 2010 to 10 february 2010; from the evening of 27 february 2010 to 28 february 2010; from the evening of 1 march 2010 to the morning of 2 march 2010; -  between 3 and 3.97 square metres of personal space on the morning of 4 november 2009; from the evening of 7 january 2010 to 11 january 2011; from 6 february 2010 to 7 february 2010; from the evening of 11 february 2010 to the morning of 27 february 2010; on the morning of 1 march 2010; from the evening of 2 march 2010 to 8 march 2010; -  7.45 square metres of personal space on the evening of 2 december 2009; -  5.3 square metres of personal space on the morning of 11 february 2010.the applicant later further specified the period for which he was complaining as being from 29 november 2007 to 27 september 2011. he argued that the conditions in which he had been held in the remand prison had been degrading: the cells had been overcrowded; there had been rats and insects; and his sight had deteriorated owing to insufficient lighting.the court applied the three-year period of limitation and found that the relevant period to be considered was from 10 june 2009 to 10 june 2012. the court held that the applicant had been held in overcrowded cells for two years, although the period was non‑consecutive, and awarded him ltl 300 (approximately eur 87) in compensation for non-pecuniary damage.
5.  the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in novosibirsk.6.  on 10 april 2007 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of robbery as part of an organised group and of abuse of position.7.  on 11 april 2007 the zheleznodorozhnyy district court of novosibirsk remanded him in custody.he remained in detention pending the completion of the investigation and trial.referring to the seriousness of the charges, the courts extended his detention on the grounds that he might threaten witnesses, abscond, interfere with the investigation, reoffend or destroy evidence.8.  on 13 april 2009 the oktyabrskiy district court of novosibirsk found the applicant guilty and sentenced him to nine years’ imprisonment.9.  on 18 january 2010 the novosibirsk regional court quashed the judgment on appeal and remitted the case for fresh examination.the court decided to place the applicant in pre-trial detention.his detention was subsequently extended on the same grounds as described above.10.  on 14 april 2011 the district court convicted the applicant as charged and sentenced him to nine years’ imprisonment.on 5 september 2011 the novosibirsk regional court upheld the judgment on appeal.they acknowledged that the applicant had been detained “without well-founded justification on the basis of decisions rendered by the courts”, which did not “comply with the requirements of article 5 § 3 of the convention”.they stated their readiness to pay 1,500 euros (eur) to the applicant as compensation for his pre-trial detention from 18 january 2010 to 14 april 2011 and asked the court to strike the case out of its list of cases.12.  on 10 march 2015 the applicant rejected the government’s offer.he expressed the view that the amount of money offered by the government was insufficient.
8.  on 24 may, 28 may and 6 december 2010 the ruv broadcast news items, prepared and presented by the applicant, on its news programme at 7 p.m. the subject of all three news items was a loan transaction of 3,000,000,000 icelandic krónur (isk; approximately eur 19,736,842 at the exchange rate applicable in december 2010) between an icelandic company, y, and a shelf company in panama, that had been written off in its entirety.9.  on the evening news on 24 may 2010 the news anchor introduced the news items, stating that the authorities were investigating whether the isk 3,000,000,000 had made its way back to iceland and that there was a suspicion that b, the owner of company y, had returned the money to his business partners.in the film clip, the applicant stated that the icelandic authorities believed that they had found the money trail and they thought that the money had made its way back to iceland, not necessarily into b’s pockets but into those of his business partners.10.  on the evening news on 28 may 2010, the news anchor introduced the news items by stating that the authorities were investigating whether b, a and c, an investor in iceland, had jointly planned a business deal where isk 3,000,000,000 seemed to vanish in panama.furthermore, the anchor stated that documents, from the year 2007 and onwards, supported this suspicion and that the documents indicated that the money had found its way back into the pockets of the same group.in the film clip the applicant stated that the authorities believed that they had found the money trail, as had been previously reported, and that they were in possession of documents indicating that a, b and c had planned the panama deal in advance, in order to send the money to panama and then back into their own pockets again, via a circuitous route.lastly, the applicant stated: “the icelandic authorities have also searched for the funds, as we have previously reported, and they believe that they have found the money trail, as they have documents indicating that [b], [a] and [c] organised the panama deal in advance.13.  on 12 january 2011 a lodged defamation proceedings against the applicant before the reykjaness district court and requested that the words “[a]” and “threesome” in the above-mentioned statement of the news item broadcast on 6 december 2010 be declared null and void.15.  during the proceedings before the district court the applicant submitted a letter dated 5 september 2011 from the special prosecutor confirming that the loan transaction, which was the subject of the news items, had been reported to the police and was under investigation.in determining whether the content of the news item is a part of the social debate and therefore of public interest, it should be kept in mind that [a] himself, as well as the companies he has represented, has been in the media and public debate for many years.news about [a] has therefore more often than not been about his role in the banking collapse, and after the collapse of the icelandic banks in the autumn of 2008 the media was full of news on the banking collapse and crisis, the reasons behind them and related matters.as previously noted, the court must consider the circumstances under which the statements are made, that they are necessary for a social debate on the causes and repercussions of the bank failure and also that some discrepancies can occur when dealing with complicated loan facilities and business deals.20.  the judgment contained the following reasoning: “... in assessing where the line should be drawn between freedom of expression, as protected by article 73 of the constitution, and the right to privacy, as protected by article 71 of the constitution, it is important to determine whether the content published can be considered a part of the social debate and therefore of public interest, see the supreme court judgments of 1 june 2006 in case no.the collapse that occurred in the icelandic economy following the failure of the three icelandic commercial banks in the autumn of 2008 has had a significant and broad effect on all activity in the country and the general public’s quality of life.when the content of the news item debated in this case is assessed as a whole, and the disputed remarks are evaluated in context with other statements in the news report and in consideration of the visual presentation, the comments clearly implied that [a] had committed an act which was punishable in accordance with the penal code no.
before the valongo court, seeking payment of an alleged debt of 32,992.99 euros (eur) plus eur 18,413.35 in interest it considered to be due up to that date, amounting to a total sum of eur 51,406. it also sought the payment of the interest accrued until the date of repayment of the debt in full.6.  on 12 october 2005 a judicial enforcement officer (agente de execução) was appointed to the case by the valongo court.8.  between 15 december 2005 and 3 march 2016 information was exchanged between the valongo court and the judicial enforcement officer about the date on which m.c.9.  on 30 may 2006 the applicant company gave its reply to the opposition to enforcement proceedings.11.  in the meantime, on 22 february 2008, in the proceedings for opposition to enforcement the court had given a preparatory decision setting out the facts that had already been established and those that remained outstanding (despacho saneador).13.  on 6 december 2010 the court requested that the judicial enforcement officer provide a report on the procedural steps taken (see paragraph 10 above).14.  on 14 january 2011 the court could not contact the applicant company at the address it had provided to the court.15.  on 16 december 2011 a hearing in the proceedings for opposition to enforcement was scheduled for 30 may 2012. for reasons related to the health of m.c.’s lawyer, the hearing was postponed to 27 november 2012. on an unknown date the hearing was postponed to 6 march 2013, the date on which it took place.16.  for unknown reasons, on 23 december 2011 the chamber of judicial officers (câmara dos solicitadores) informed the valongo court that a new judicial enforcement officer was to be appointed.19.  between 25 september and 11 december 2012 discussions took place between the new judicial enforcement officer, the court and the previous judicial enforcement officer regarding the transmission of the necessary case documents from the previous judicial enforcement officer to the new one.20.  between 9 april and 1 october 2013 correspondence took place between the new judicial enforcement officer and the court regarding the applicant company’s representation by a lawyer (whether it was represented in the case and by whom).21.  on 29 april 2013 the valongo court adopted a decision against the applicant company in the proceedings for opposition to enforcement.22.  on an unknown date before or during february 2014 the applicant company appealed against that decision to the oporto court of appeal.24.  on an unknown date the applicant company appealed against that judgment to the supreme court of justice.on 11 september 2014 that appeal was rejected by the oporto court of appeal because the applicant company had not submitted any grounds of appeal.
5.  the facts of the cases, as submitted by the applicants, may be summarised as follows.6.  on various dates between 2004 and 2008 the applicants were criminally prosecuted for and convicted of various offences under the russian legislation then in force.all of the applicants appealed, but their cases were examined by the appeal courts in the absence of their respective counsel.the appeal courts upheld their convictions.7.  in the case of mr chernenko (application no.51264/07) the first‑instance court ordered him to pay the legal fees incurred in respect of his representation in the criminal proceedings against him.on 6 november 2012 the supreme court of the russian federation quashed the order of the first-instance court and waived the legal fees that mr chernenko had been ordered to reimburse.8.  following the communication of the applications, the prosecutor lodged requests for supervisory review of the criminal cases of ms ichetovkina and mr dubrovskiy (applications nos.9.  following the communication of the other four applications (nos.45075/05, 11343/06, 51264/07 and 59378/08), the prosecutor lodged a request for supervisory review of the judgment of the appeal courts.the domestic courts examined his request and expressly acknowledged that these four applicants’ right to legal assistance in the appeal proceedings in respect of their cases had been breached.the applicants’ cases were remitted for re-examination by the same appeal courts.the court requested additional observations from the government in respect of these four cases regarding the conformity of the second set of appeal proceedings with the requirements of article 6 §§ 1 and 3 (c) of the convention.when the applicants’ cases were heard and re-examined by the appeal courts, they were represented by lawyers, and they participated in the respective proceedings via video link.10.  the details of the applicants’ cases are set out in the appendix.
part of the zdjelar family – father milan, mother anđelija, daughter dragica (the third applicant) and sons janko (the first applicant), slavko (the eighth applicant) and čedo (the ninth applicant) – lived in crni potok, a village situated in the krajina.milan zdjelar, the applicants’ father, was on the list and next to his name was a note that he had been shot in the head and a leg on 8 august 1995 by members of the croatian army’s “tigers” brigade.13.  on 29 july 2005 the state attorney’s office issued a document concerning enquiries into the killings of civilians between 1991 and 1995. the document was addressed to the county state attorney’s offices, which were instructed to examine all the information collected to date on the killings of civilians during that period and to concentrate their activities on identifying the perpetrators and gathering the relevant evidence in order to instigate criminal proceedings.14.  on 26 september 2005 the applicants and their mother lodged a criminal complaint with the sao in connection with the killing of milan zdjelar, classifying the offence as a war crime against a civilian and alleging that the victim had been of serbian ethnic origin, unarmed and never involved in any military activity during the war in croatia.19.  on 9 october 2008 the state attorney’s office issued an instruction for implementation of the criminal code and the code of criminal procedure to the county state attorney’s offices, in which they indicated that an inspection of the work of these offices had highlighted two main problems: the possible partiality of persons involved in the pending proceedings as a result of the ethnicity of the victims or the perpetrators; and the problem of trials in absentia.the instruction advocated the impartial investigation of all war crimes, irrespective of the ethnicity of those involved, whether victims or perpetrators, and stressed the duties of those working for the state attorney in that respect.22.  on 12 may 2009 the police informed the sisak state attorney’s office that they had asked the ministry of defence for information regarding the members of brigade 153 of the croatian army who had arrived in crni potok after operation storm and the killing of milan zdjelar.on 20 july 2009 the ministry of defence informed the police that milan zdjelar had been buried by members of brigade 153 of the croatian army which had been under the command of a person named m., and provided a list of all members of that brigade with that name.had been a soldier in the unit under the command of i.p., and the smaller unit to which he had belonged had been under the command of k. m.m.27.  in a separate development, on 8 october 2012, ž.l., who had been a member of the “tigers” brigade for about a month in 1994, after which he had been transferred to the third battalion, lodged a criminal complaint with the sao against p.m. – the minister for war veterans – and others for alleged abuse of authority.he alleged that the crime had been “tolerated by the command of the third battalion (bojna) of the first brigade of the croatian army (“gbr.” which stands for “gardijska brigada”) whose commander had been m.a.in which he alleged that he had witnessed the killing of civilians in crni potok, which had been both encouraged and perpetrated by the officers in command of the third battalion (bojna) of the first brigade of the croatian army.sent a note back to the state attorney’s office referring to the summons and stating that he refused to give any statements because of his health problems, the passage of time, and the fact that he had not actually witnessed any crimes and that his prior allegations in that respect had been unfounded.36.  on 5 june 2015 the investigation in respect of a number of victims killed on the broader territory of the sisak county by unknown perpetrators during operation storm was assigned to the osijek county state attorney’s office (hereinafter the “ocsao”).44.  the claim was dismissed on 14 july 2005. this judgment was upheld on appeal by the sisak county court on 18 june 2009 and by the supreme court on 5 october 2011. the national courts found that the claim for compensation had been submitted after the expiry of the statutory limitation period prescribed by the law governing damages awards in civil proceedings.
the applicant stated that had he not done so, the police officers would have killed him as they had killed a certain m., whom the police had suspected of being the applicant’s accomplice, during his questioning in the same police station on 18 march 2004. as was later found by the trial court, m. had died in the course of a robbery he had committed together with the applicant (see paragraph 54 below).during his medical examination the applicant stated that he had been beaten up by the police officers at the police station during the night of 11 to 12 june 2004. the expert noted that the applicant could have been punched and kicked in the head and body during that time.it was also noted that at some point in time the applicant and his lawyer had made statements that the applicant had not been ill-treated by the police after his arrest, and that he had refused to give details as to how he had received the injuries noted in the medical examination of 12 june 2004 (see paragraphs 14 and 15 above).30.  the applicant did not appeal against the decision of the town court of 25 june 2004. nor did he appeal against the decision of the same court of 10 august 2004 extending the maximum period of his detention to 21 october 2004.32.  subsequently, the applicant was detained partly on the basis of the decision of the town court of 24 december 2004 and the decisions of the odesa regional court of appeal (“the appeal court”) of 3 june 2005 and 10 january 2006 returning the case for additional investigation, and partly on the basis of the decisions of the appeal court of 4 march, 29 july and 2 november 2005 and 10 march 2006 repeatedly extending the maximum period of his pre-trial detention.33.  some of the periods of the applicant’s detention between 4 march 2005 and 18 april 2006 – notably, from 10 may to 3 june and from 4 to 16 december 2005 – were not covered by any decision at all, the applicant having been detained on the grounds that the case was pending commencement of the trial.[his] statements contained information about the way the victim had been stabbed ... which was later confirmed by a forensic expert ... and which was not present in the statements of [his accomplice] ... [o]n 15 june 2004, immediately after that information was received, the police officers searched the lake which [mr sadkov and his accomplice] had indicated and found a knife, which, according to the experts’ report, could have been used to inflict the injuries of the victim ...” 37.  subsequently, the applicant took part in a number of investigative procedures, notably crime reconstructions and witness confrontations.51.  the court based its judgment regarding most of the charges mainly on the testimony of the applicant’s co-defendants obtained in the course of the investigation and during the trial.52.  the court noted that the applicant’s and his co-defendants’ arrest and administrative detention at the initial stage of the investigation (in the applicant’s case between 11 and 24 june 2004) had been contrary to articles 106 and 115 of the code of criminal procedure (setting-out rules on pre‑trial detention), as they had actually been arrested on suspicion of having committed crimes.53.  as regards the charge of murder, the court relied principally on the statements of one of the applicant’s accomplices and the applicant’s self‑incriminating statements made at the pre-trial stage, in particular during his interview on 15 june 2004 and during subsequent questioning, having noted that the applicant had been assisted by a lawyer when he had made those statements (see paragraphs 36 and 38 above).the court also found that, contrary to the applicant’s submissions, one of his accomplices, m., had died of blood loss after he had been injured by the applicant’s other accomplice in the course of one of the robberies they had committed.while the prosecution disagreed with the first-instance court’s legal qualification of some of the crimes, the applicant argued that he had not been guilty, that he had made self-incriminating statements as a result of ill-treatment by the police and that his co‑defendants had made untruthful statements concerning his involvement in the crimes.the application to the court 66.  in june and july 2005 the applicant made submissions to the court, complaining principally of ill-treatment by the police and of the unlawfulness of his arrest and detention.in particular, in september 2005 the prosecutor’s office informed the applicant that the ccrp did not provide for the issuing of copies of documents from criminal case files and that once the investigation had been completed the applicant and his lawyer would be given a possibility to study the case file and to make copies of documents by hand.71.  in their reply to the court’s letter of 5 december 2005, the government also stated that pursuant to the ccrp the applicant had the right to study the case file and to make copies of documents after the completion of the investigation against him.
4.  the applicant was born in 1956 and is currently detained in the centre for persons in preventive detention on the premises of schwalmstadt prison.furthermore, after a first preventive detention order made in that judgment had been quashed by the federal court of justice, the regional court, on 25 july 1988, again ordered the applicant’s preventive detention under article 66 §§ 2 and 1 of the criminal code (see paragraph 24 below).6.  the regional court found that between june and august 1986 the applicant, having absconded during a leave from prison where he served a term of imprisonment for rape, had again raped a twenty-two-year-old woman and a sixteen-year-old girl on a farm track, had attempted to rape another randomly chosen woman and had stolen two cars by use of threats or force.it had endorsed the findings of medical expert w. who had diagnosed the applicant with a mental abnormality with schizoid and psychopathic elements which was not pathological and thus did not affect the applicant’s criminal responsibility, and with a propensity to commit serious sexual and property offences.8.  on 13 december 2011 the marburg regional court ordered the applicant’s preventive detention to continue also after 9 april 2012, when the applicant would have served ten years in that form of detention.9.  the regional court considered that the requirements for an extension of that detention beyond ten years, laid down in article 67d § 3 of the criminal code and modified by the federal constitutional court’s judgment of 4 may 2011 (see paragraph 24 below), were met.10.  having heard the applicant, his counsel, the prosecution, psychiatric expert j. and a representative of schwalmstadt prison, the regional court considered that there was still a high risk that the applicant, owing to specific circumstances relating to his person and his conduct, would commit the most serious crimes of violence and sexual offences if released.the regional court referred to the applicant’s previous convictions of numerous counts of rape of randomly chosen victims who had suffered most serious mental damage and of robbery by potentially mortal stabs in the chest in this respect.11.  furthermore, the regional court found that the applicant suffered from a mental disorder for the purposes of section 1 § 1 of the therapy detention act (see paragraph 24 below).it noted that expert j., in his report dated 15 september 2011, having regard to the relevant tool for the classification of diseases, the icd-10[1], had diagnosed the applicant with a dissocial and schizoid personality disorder, which was to be classified as a mental disorder under the said act.14.  on 23 january 2013 the marburg regional court, having heard the applicant in person, his counsel, the prosecution and a representative of schwalmstadt prison and having regard to the report of psychiatric expert j. dated 15 september 2011, again ordered the extension of the applicant’s preventive detention.15.  the regional court endorsed the reasons given by the frankfurt am main court of appeal and by itself in the previous set of proceedings.18.  at the outset of the execution of the preventive detention order, the applicant was detained in a separate department for persons in preventive detention in schwalmstadt prison.19.  in the government’s submission, which was not contested by the applicant, both in schwalmstadt prison and in weiterstadt prison, measures were taken in the interim period between september 2011 and the entry into force of the new legislation on preventive detention on 1 june 2013 (in particular the act on establishment, at federal level, of a difference between the provisions on preventive detention and those on prison sentences, see paragraph 24 below) by which the conditions of detention for persons in preventive detention and the offers of therapy were gradually improved.21.  on 26 april 2012 the marburg regional court dismissed the prosecution’s request to transfer the applicant to a psychiatric hospital for the further execution of his preventive detention under article 67a § 2 of the criminal code (see paragraph 24 below).
7.  on 25 august 1991 a number of members of the “wolves” (vukovi) unit of the sisak police entered the house of the applicant’s son z.t., they abducted z.t., the applicant’s second son b.t.10.  on 14 june 1993 the applicant lodged a criminal complaint with the state attorney’s office 11.  on an unspecified date broader police enquiries were opened into the killing of individuals of serb ethnicity in the sisak area during the war.13.  on 15 october 2002 an investigating judge of the sisak county court heard evidence from z.g., a former croatian soldier who firstly denied knowing anything about the fate of the applicant’s sons and former husband but later on, through tears and saying that he was scared, said that he had seen all three of them in ora, a military base near sisak.18.  on 29 july 2005 the state attorney’s office issued a document concerning enquiries into the killings of civilians between 1991 and 1995. the document was addressed to the county state attorney’s office, which were required to examine all the information collected to date on the killings of civilians during that period and to concentrate their activities on identifying the perpetrators and gathering the relevant evidence in order to initiate criminal proceedings.23.  on 9 october 2008 the state attorney’s office issued an instruction to the county state attorney’s offices concerning implementation of the criminal code and the code of criminal procedure, in which it indicated that an inspection of their work had indicated two main problems: possible partiality on the part of the individuals involved in the pending proceedings as regards the ethnicity of the victims or the perpetrators; and the problem of trials in absentia.the instruction advocated the impartial investigation of all war crimes, irrespective of the ethnicity of those involved, whether victims or perpetrators, and reiterated the duty of those working for the state attorney in that connection.24.  on 14 october 2008 the sisak police compiled an analysis of the criminal complaints concerning the crimes committed in 1991 and 1992 in the broader sisak area and adopted a plan for further actions to be taken, including in the trivkanović case.26.  on the same day the sisak county state attorney’s office compiled a report on the cases concerning war crimes, including the killing of the applicant’s sons.31.  the enquiries into the killing of the applicant’s former husband and sons were a part of broader police enquiries which concerned officials of the sisak police as suspects and altogether thirty-four victims (see paragraph 61 below).on the same day đ.b., head of the sisak police in 1991 and 1992, v.m., police commander at the border territory of sisak and banovina in 1991 and 1992 and deputy head of the sisak police, and d.b., a member of the wolves, a reserve unit of the sisak police, were arrested.as well as the applicant all testified as witnesses that they had either seen or heard that the applicant’s former husband and two sons had been abducted from their home by the members of the wolves unit and taken to ora.with the osijek county court, alleging that they had been in command of the unit whose unnamed members had committed a number of crimes against the civilian population between july 1991 and june 1992, including the killing of the applicant’s relatives.was found guilty of war crimes against the civilian population in that, in his capacity as “commander of police forces in the broader area of sisak and banovina” and “deputy head of the sisak police”, he had allowed the killings of individuals of serb ethnicity and had failed to take adequate measures to prevent such killings.the relevant part of the judgment concerning the applicant’s sons and former husband reads: “on the afternoon of 25 august 1991 a number of members of the ‘wolves’ unit of the sisak police forcibly abducted n.t.was taken to an unknown place on the same day and shot and killed and his body was found on 26 august 1991 at the left bank of the river sava at a place called gušće, whereas the fate of z. and b.t.
the applicant submitted that, in accordance with the domestic law, taking a person’s home in order to enforce a court judgment was only permitted when the debt in question was larger than ltl 3,000 (see paragraph 22 below), which had not been the case here (see paragraph 7 above).in view of the alleged unlawfulness of the sale, the applicant claimed damages jointly from the bailiff and the bailiff’s professional liability insurer.therefore, he claimed ltl 51,000 (approximately eur 14,770) in damages, an amount corresponding to the market price of the apartment at the time of the submission of the claim.they submitted that the value of the applicant’s land had been insufficient to cover his debt, so the enforcement had had to be directed against the apartment.they also argued that the applicant’s debt (ltl 2,861) and the enforcement expenses (ltl 540), taken together, had exceeded ltl 3,000, and thus the sale of his apartment had been in accordance with the domestic law.the defendants further argued that the applicant had acted in bad faith – he had not appealed against the execution writ or the results of the public auction, and he had submitted his claim at the very end of the time-limit because he had been waiting for the market price of the apartment to increase.therefore, they argued that the applicant could not claim damages corresponding to the market price of the apartment at the time of the submission of the claim, but only the price for which the apartment had been sold at the public auction – ltl 3,390 (see paragraph 7 above).the court also noted that the applicant had submitted his claim three years after the sale and on the last day permitted by the time-limit, when the market price of housing was several times higher than in 2004. therefore, his claim for damages corresponding to the market price of the apartment at the time of the submission of the claim could be regarded as an attempt at unjust enrichment (vertintinas kaip siekimas nepagrįstai praturtėti).the court held that the bailiff had acted in violation of domestic law, firstly by failing to direct the enforcement against the applicant’s land, but also by selling his apartment at a public auction even though his debt had been less than ltl 3,000. the court considered that the bailiff had failed to respect the balance between the interests of the debtor (the applicant) and the creditor.it submitted, inter alia, that the amount of damages awarded to the applicant had no basis, and the court should have either ordered restitution in integrum or awarded the applicant the amount for which his apartment had been sold at the auction (see paragraph 7 above), but not its market price in 2007, which had increased significantly since 2004.17.  the applicant contested the appeal, arguing that there was no legal obligation for him to ask for restitution rather than for damages, and that the amount of damages was a question of fact which the supreme court could not examine.it upheld the conclusion that the sale of the applicant’s apartment had been unlawful for the reasons established by the lower court (see paragraph 14 above).the supreme court then reiterated its own case-law that, where the sale of property at a public auction is unlawful because of a bailiff’s actions, restitution in integrum should not be applied; accordingly, it considered that the most appropriate way of protecting the applicant’s rights was by awarding him damages.however, the court considered that, in line with “the nature of the obligation and the principles of equity, reasonableness and good faith” (pagal prievolės esmę, atsižvelgiant į teisingumo, protingumo ir sąžiningumo kriterijus), the amount of damages in the applicant’s case had to be assessed at the moment of the unlawful act, that is, the sale of the apartment.according to the state enterprise centre of registers, the market price of the applicant’s apartment at the time of its sale had been ltl 12,100 (approximately eur 3,504).
16.  the applicant asked the police to carry out a criminal investigation in connection with the injuries sustained by his daughter, who had allegedly explained that the injuries had been inflicted by v. 17.  after her return to sumy, the child continued to live with the applicant and his parents.18.  on 9 december 2011 the zarichnyy district police of sumy refused to open a criminal investigation in respect of the alleged abduction of the child, stating that the facts of the case did not indicate that the crime of child abduction had been committed.the child explained that during her stay with the mother in the village of bezdryk she had regularly observed v. and f. naked, embracing and kissing each other and engaging in some “backwards and forwards movements” which she had not been able to understand; f. had taught the child how to kiss in an adult fashion, uncovered his genitals in front of her and asked her to touch his genitals.25.  the investigator ordered that measures be undertaken to establish the whereabouts of f. during the investigation v. denied the allegations and submitted that she had been a victim of domestic violence, that she had been threatened and beaten by the applicant, and that this had prompted her to run away with the child on 20 september 2011; she also submitted that she had moved to the village of bezdryk, where her grandfather lived, and that she had had no sexual relations with f., her uncle.28.  the experts found that the child had not been suffering from any mental illness at the time of the events or at the time of the examination; that she had not shown any tendency to fantasise; and that she was able to remember the circumstances of the events at issue and to give truthful statements in that regard.30.  on 28 april and 29 september 2014 the sumy district police closed the criminal proceedings for lack of corpus delicti in the actions of v. and f. having assessed the available material, the investigator found that there had been insufficient evidence submitted to enable the bringing of charges of sexual abuse.in examining the statements of the applicant’s daughter, the investigator considered that these statements could not convincingly prove the alleged events since the child had made those statements belatedly; furthermore, the child had only been three years old at the time of the events in question.the investigator furthermore noted that these statements did not suggest anything in respect of mens rea, in particular whether there was any sexual intent in v.’s and f.’s alleged actions in relation to the child, or whether they had been aware of the fact that the child had been observing them during the alleged instances of sexual intercourse.the latter two women stated in particular that the applicant’s daughter had told them stories which had suggested that she had been subjected to sexual abuse while she had been living with v. and f. the investigator noted that those individuals had not directly observed the alleged instances of sexual abuse and that they had simply repeated statements made by the child.36.  on 20 june 2012 the zarichnyy district court of sumy dissolved the marriage between the applicant and v. and ruled that the child should live with v. the court ordered the applicant to hand over the child to v. and to pay her a monthly amount for the support of their daughter.37.  in determining the place of the child’s residence, the court first established that until 20 september 2011 the child had lived with both parents and her paternal grandparents in the applicant’s flat and that all of them had participated in the upbringing of the child; the paternal grandparents had taken care of the child when both parents had been abroad for six months in 2009; when v. had been abroad for six months over 2010 and 2011 she had transferred money earned by her to the applicant to cover the needs of the family.40.  the court dismissed as unsubstantiated the applicant’s allegation that the mother was negligent with the child and that she might have exercised physical violence against the child: in contrast to the results of the medical examination of 2 december 2011 documenting the injuries on the child’s body (see paragraph 15 above), the staff of the bezdryk child-minding centre had signed a certificate stating that on 1 december 2011 the child had had no injuries; furthermore, the police had refused to institute criminal investigation in respect of the child’s injuries (see paragraph 19 above).41.  relying on the united nations declaration of the rights of the child of 1959 the united nations convention on the rights of the child and article 161 of the family code, the court found that the facts did not disclose any exceptional circumstances which could justify the separation of the child from her mother.the court had failed to properly examine the allegations that v. had behaved violently towards the child and the possibility that the child had been the target of sexual abuse during the period when she had lived apart from her father with her mother.important pieces of evidence had not been included in the case file and part of the evidence had been assessed wrongly – namely, the certificate issued by the bezdryk child-minding centre regarding the child’s good state of health was a fabricated document that had been discredited by the forensic medical expert report of 2 december 2011.
on the same day an investigating judge of the osijek county court (županijski sud u osijeku) heard his evidence and ordered his pre-trial detention under article 102 § 1 (3) of the code of criminal procedure (risk of reoffending).following an appeal lodged by the applicant, on 3 may 2011 the decision on his detention was upheld by a three-judge panel of the osijek county court.however, following an appeal lodged by the osijek county state attorney’s office (županijsko državno odvjetništvo u osijeku), on 26 may 2011 a three-judge panel of the osijek county court quashed that investigating judge’s decision and ordered him to re-examine the case.they reversed the investigating judge’s decision and ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention under article 102 § 1 (3) of the code of criminal procedure.12.  on 17 june he lodged an appeal with the supreme court against the decision of 10 june 2011. judge m.r., acting as a single judge of the osijek county court, declared it inadmissible on 27 june 2011 on the grounds that it was not amenable to further appeal.13.  on 6 july 2011 the osijek county state attorney’s office indicted the applicant in the osijek county court on charges of trafficking illegal substances.14.  on 8 july 2011 a three-judge panel of the court extended the applicant’s detention under article 102 § 1 (3) of the code of criminal procedure.16.  on 15 july 2011 the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) declared the constitutional complaint about the decision of 10 june 2011 inadmissible, on the grounds that on 8 july 2011 a new decision extending the applicant’s detention had been adopted.17.  on 18 october 2012 the osijek county court dismissed the indictment against the applicant because the prosecutor had withdrawn the charges against him.19.  on 1 august 2013 the applicant brought a claim in the osijek municipal court against the state under article 480 of the code of criminal procedure, seeking non-pecuniary and pecuniary damages for his detention, which he claimed had been unfounded (neosnovan).the documents in the case file show that the claimant was finally acquitted of the charge [sic] that he had committed the criminal offence against the values protected by international law – abuse of illegal drugs, described and punishable under article 173 § 2 of the criminal code in conjunction with section 41 of the criminal code amendments act (official gazette no.kv-138/2011-3 of 26 may 2011 (pages 16 and 17 of the case file) shows that the claimant had already been finally convicted by the donji miholjac municipal court of the criminal offence of abuse of illegal drugs under article 173 § 1 of the criminal code, that is to say for an offence of the same type but in its basic form.against the above background, this court considers that the claimant is to be awarded the amount of hrk 350 for each day he spent in detention, which in total amounts to hrk 137,550 since the claimant was detained without basis for 393 days.when assessing the adequate amount of [just] satisfaction, the court has taken into account all the circumstances of this case: that the claimant was indicted for the criminal offence of abuse of illegal drugs, described and punishable under article 173(2) of the criminal code in conjunction with section 41 of the criminal code amendments act; was deprived of his personal liberty for 393 days; [and] that the proceedings ended by the osijek county court’s judgment no.however, in the opinion of this court the sole fact that the claimant was previously convicted has no effect on the defendant’s obligation to compensate him for his unfounded deprivation of liberty, or his detention.
15.  in a final judgment of 19 december 2007 the court of appeal upheld the applicant’s conviction for threatening and insulting conduct, but reduced the sentence to 265 day-fines, amounting to a total of eur 530. it held that there was no need for a fresh assessment of the facts because the applicant had not succeeded in challenging the validity of the assessment conducted by the court of first instance.19.  in a judgment of 5 july 2011 the court declared admissible the complaint under article 6 § 1 of the convention and found a violation of that provision, holding as follows: “... 33.  the court notes that in the present case the court of appeal was invited to determine several questions relating to the facts of the case and to the person of the applicant.34.  the court takes the view that that question could not have been settled by the court of appeal without a direct assessment of the applicant’s personal testimony, particularly since the judgment of the matosinhos district court had departed slightly from the conclusions of the psychiatric report without setting out the reasons for such a departure, as required under domestic law ... the court of appeal’s re-examination of that question should therefore have comprised a full rehearing of the applicant ... 35.  those factors are sufficient for the court to conclude that in the instant case a public hearing should have been held before the appellate court.there has therefore been a violation of article 6 § 1 of the convention.” 20.  as regards the claims in respect of pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage under article 41 of the convention, the court stated the following: “41.the court firstly considers that when, as in the instant case, an individual has been convicted after proceedings that have entailed breaches of the requirements of article 6 of the convention, a retrial or the reopening of the case, if requested, represents in principle an appropriate way of redressing the violation.however, the specific remedial measures, if any, required of a respondent state in order to discharge its obligations under the convention must depend on the particular circumstances of the individual case and be determined in the light of the terms of the court’s judgment in that case (see öcalan v. turkey [gc], no.42.  secondly, the court notes that in the present case the only applicable basis for an award of just satisfaction lies in the fact that the applicant was not afforded the safeguards of article 6. in that regard, it does not discern any causal link between the violation found and the pecuniary damage alleged, and rejects this claim.the court cannot speculate as to what the outcome of the proceedings before the court of appeal would have been if it had examined the applicant at a public hearing (see igual coll v. spain, no.on the other hand, it considers it appropriate to award the applicant eur 2,400 in respect of non-pecuniary damage.” 21.  on 5 july 2012 the portuguese government submitted an action plan to the committee of ministers concerning the execution of the court’s judgment of 5 july 2011. they confirmed that the amount awarded to the applicant had been paid to her on 14 december 2011. as regards the general measures, the government pointed out that the prime minister’s office had proposed amending the code of criminal procedure to allow hearings to be held in any court of appeal determining the issue of guilt or the sentence in respect of an accused person.22.  at the hearing before the court it was pointed out that the aforementioned proposal had not been approved and had therefore not in fact been included in the final version of the revised code of criminal procedure.it considered that the lack of a hearing for the applicant in the court of appeal had constituted a procedural irregularity that was not amenable to review, and held as follows: “... under domestic law, an application for review can be submitted solely in respect of judgments (in particular, convictions), and not in respect of orders concerning the conduct of proceedings, it being understood that ... ‘judgment’ denotes any judicial decision on a case or on a procedural application (see article 156 § 2 of the code of civil procedure).in the light of domestic law, however, a review of the judgment in the present case cannot be allowed on the basis invoked by the applicant, because the conviction is not incompatible with the european court’s judgment (article 449 § 1 (g) of the code of criminal procedure).on the other hand, the procedure followed by the court of appeal in holding the hearing at the close of which the appeal was determined was incompatible with what the european court has deemed vital in order to guarantee the rights of the defence.however, even where a nullity is irremediable, it cannot give rise to an extraordinary application for review of the judgment ... furthermore, as noted by the european court, it is impossible to speculate about the decision which the court of appeal might have taken if the convicted person had been examined at the hearing which led to the decision on her appeal, and, in particular, about whether or not the sentence would have been the same.for that reason, being aware that it is not always possible to secure a retrial or the reopening of proceedings under the applicable domestic law, as in the present case, the european court decided to require the portuguese state to compensate the applicant in respect of non-pecuniary damage, and thus to afford redress not for the unfairness of the conviction, which has not been established, but for a serious defect in the conduct of the proceedings which infringed the applicant’s defence rights ... for the above reasons, the applicant’s argument in support of her application to be granted a review is not substantiated.
a report of 22 february 2011, available in the file, contains a finding of the police that the applicant had often been under the influence of alcohol when visiting croatia.13.  on the same day the police dismissed the applicant’s request for renewal of his firearms licence and ordered him to hand over his weapons on the grounds that a police inquiry had shown that he had a problem of alcohol abuse.15.  on 11 october 2011 the ministry ordered the police to produce a new assessment of the background check on the applicant, on the grounds that the report of 22 february 2011 (see paragraph 9 above) had not been substantiated with the relevant evidence.17.  on 12 december 2011 the ministry dismissed the applicant’s complaints, on the grounds that the documents from the case file suggested that he had a problem of alcohol abuse.19.  on 14 april 2012 the applicant asked the police to disclose the relevant reports containing the allegations against him, in particular the identity of those who had seen him under the influence of alcohol and the date and place when that had happened.the ministry’s representative explained that further details of the applicant’s background check, in particular the names of individuals from whom the relevant information had been obtained, were confidential as provided under the confidentiality of information act.21.  as the parties did not have any further proposals for the examination of evidence, the administrative court concluded the proceedings and scheduled a hearing for the delivery of the judgment for 4 may 2012.it scheduled a hearing for 17 may 2012, and ordered the ministry to provide the confidential case file containing the details of the information on the applicant’s background check.23.  at a hearing on 17 may 2012 the administrative court examined the confidential file of the police without the presence of the parties.24.  on 23 may 2012 the administrative court dismissed the applicant’s administrative action and upheld the decisions of the administrative bodies refusing to renew the applicant’s firearms licence.it explained that it was satisfied from the examination of the confidential reports that the reasons for the police’s refusal to renew the applicant’s firearms licence were well founded.the relevant part of the administrative court’s decision reads: “by examining the classified file of the defendant the court ... established that the police officer’s conduct, while searching for and collecting information from citizens, ... was in accordance with the by-law on the conduct of the police in the procedure for issuing a licence for the procurement of weapons to a natural person ... and, based on data and information collected from interviewed citizens, found that the plaintiff is prone to common and excessive alcohol abuse, which indicates a possibility of weapons abuse.... consequently, the plaintiff’s claim that the defendant wrongly applied the substantive law, is unfounded, while the plaintiff’s objection that the medical certificate is sufficient evidence showing that the defendant wrongly determined the facts of the case was not accepted by this court because the medical fitness for possessing and carrying weapons which is established through a certificate of medical fitness is only a special requirement for the weapons acquisition permit to natural persons within the meaning of section 10 paragraph 3(1) of the weapons act, while the defendant acting in accordance with the [above-cited] by-law ... established that the plaintiff does not meet the requirement of section article 10(5) of the weapons act, as one of the general requirements which natural persons need to meet in order to be issued a firearms licence.” 25.  the applicant challenged this decision before the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske), complaining that he had been denied access to the evidence containing allegations against him and that therefore he had been left without any opportunity to challenge those allegations.it explained that it was primarily the function of the relevant authorities to examine the facts and apply the relevant law and that it was not its function to deal with alleged errors of law or fact, in so far as they had not infringed human rights and freedoms guaranteed under the constitution.the constitutional court held that since the applicant had had access to the police reports on his background check, which contained details for dismissing his request (see bakırcı the reports referred to in paragraphs 9 and 16 above), the fact that further details on which those report had been based, including personal details about individuals who had provided information to the police, had not been disclosed to him did not infringe any of his rights.
7.  the applicant stated that she was a muslim and had decided, on her own initiative, to wear the niqab – a veil covering the face except for the eyes – in accordance with her religious beliefs.she said that she had taken the decision to wear the full-face veil when she was sixteen years old.8.  on 18 february 2008 the vesdre district administrative authorities proposed an amendment to the district regulations regarding the wearing of the burqa in public thoroughfares and in public places ... .9.  the president of the police district invited the verviers public prosecutor to express an opinion on that proposal.10.  the municipal councils of the three municipalities belonging to the police district – the municipal council of pepinster on 23 june 2008, dison on 26 june 2008 and verviers on 30 june 2008 – enacted the following provisions of the consolidated by-laws of the vesdre police district, which differed, moreover, from the original proposal.“article 113. save where authorised by the mayor (bourgmestre) of the municipality, wearing a mask or using any strategem whatsoever for the purposes of concealing personal identity shall be forbidden at all times, at any public meeting and in all public places and in public thoroughfares.the wearing of clothing concealing the face shall be forbidden at all times and in all public places.however, a helmet, balaclava or other headgear may be worn where authorised by the legislation on the safety of workers or other legislation.... 11.  on 29 august 2008 the applicant lodged an application with the conseil d’état for annulment of article 113bis.she argued that the provision in question expressly targeted the islamic veil, which she wore, and that the resulting ban constituted an interference with her rights guaranteed by articles 8, 9 and 10 of the convention and discrimination in breach of article 14 of the convention.she contended that the interference did not pursue a legitimate aim as the principle of secularism was not a constitutional principle and there could therefore be no blanket ban on wearing the veil.in any event, even supposing that the aim could be regarded as legitimate, the applicant maintained that the means were disproportionate in the absence of public disorder or threat of public disorder and thus of a pressing social need.in their memorial in reply of 18 april 2011, the three municipalities submitted that the impugned provision sought to guarantee public safety and not to regulate or restrict the exercise of any form of worship.12.  the auditeur at the conseil d’état delivered a detailed 26-page report in which he concluded that in his opinion the applicant’s above-mentioned submission was well founded because public safety could not serve as a basis for a ban on wearing the full-face veil in all places generally open to the public, as no specific public disorder was associated with it as such.213.849 of 15 june 2011, the conseil d’état, refusing to follow the opinion of the auditeur, dismissed the application for annulment of the provision ... .
6.  on 3 may 2007 the applicant lodged a criminal complaint with the police alleging that in the past two years she had been a victim of multiple acts of domestic violence by her husband, b.b.on the basis of those findings, the police forwarded the applicant’s criminal complaint to the relevant state attorney’s office.8.  on 3 july 2007 the p. municipal state attorney’s office (općinsko državno odvjetništvo u p.) asked an investigating judge of the s. county court (županijski sud u s.) to open an investigation into the matter.9.  in the course of the investigation, the investigating judge heard the applicant and b.b.the judge also heard another witness, v.k., who confirmed that the applicant had often complained of emotional and physical harassment by her husband and had twice sustained injuries as a result of the alleged harassment.10.  on the basis of the results of the investigation, on 29 january 2008 the state attorney’s office indicted b.b.the relevant part of the indictment reads: “in the period between 1 january 2004 and 26 april 2007 in p., ...he raised his hand [threatening] to hit her, punched her in the face and body, and ordered her to go to the corner of the room.in december 2004 he grabbed her head and banged it against the bathroom wall and on 27 april 2007 he pushed her from a chair, as a result of which she fell to the ground.to a position of helplessness and debasement ...” 11.  during the proceedings, the trial court heard the applicant, b.b., and several witnesses.12.  on 2 march 2010, following an appeal lodged by b.b., the s. county court quashed the first-instance judgment and remitted the case to the municipal court on the grounds that all the relevant facts of the case had not been established.13.  in the resumed proceedings, the municipal court again heard the applicant, b.b.on 14 october 2011 the s. county court quashed the judgment and remitted the case for further examination on the grounds that some relevant facts still needed to be established.16.  in the resumed proceedings, on 16 january 2013 the municipal court discontinued the proceedings on the grounds that the 2011 criminal code (see paragraph 21-22 below) had abolished the criminal offence of domestic violence under article 215a of the 1997 criminal code, and that further proceedings against b.b.18.  on 28 february 2013 the s. county court declared the applicant’s appeal inadmissible on the grounds that she did not have legal standing to challenge the decision on the discontinuation of the criminal proceedings.
the inquiry report, issued on 16 june 2009, found that some erroneous entries had been made in the first applicant’s medical file, the assessment of her and the baby’s condition had probably been inadequate, and certain actions to resuscitate the baby had been taken too late.a provisional report, issued on 22 june 2009, found that the first applicant’s labour had not been induced in compliance with the relevant rules, the condition of the foetus had not been properly monitored, there had been shortcomings in the resuscitation of the baby, and one of the doctors (r.b.)11.  the state inspectorate for medical inquiries issued its report on 26 august 2009, in which it identified several shortcomings in the work of doctors who had provided care to the first applicant, and concluded that the medical services had been inadequate.17.  in october 2009 the police asked four court-appointed doctors for a specialist opinion on the causes of the baby’s death and the actions of the doctors at jurbarkas hospital.the opinion, delivered on 5 may 2010, stated that no causal link between the doctors’ actions and the death could be established, and that it was not possible to determine whether the death could have been avoided because an autopsy of the body had not been performed.18.  on 4 march 2011 the prosecutor discontinued the pre‑trial investigation on the grounds that no causal link between the actions of the doctors at jurbarkas hospital and the baby’s death had been established.19.  on 2 june 2011 the prosecutor asked the court to order a forensic examination of the causes of the baby’s death and the causal link between the doctors’ actions and the death.on 27 june 2011 the jurbarkas district court ordered the examination, but that order included only the prosecutor’s questions and did not provide any reasons as to why the applicants’ questions had not been included.the applicants appealed against it, but on 14 october 2011 the kaunas regional court dismissed their appeal on the grounds that deciding which questions to forward to the expert was the lower court’s prerogative.the expert found that the cause of the baby’s death had been determined correctly, the medical services provided to the first applicant had been adequate, and there was no causal link between the doctors’ actions and the death.among other things, the expert found that some of the doctors’ actions had not been in line with the relevant requirements, but there was no direct causal link between their actions and the applicants’ daughter’s death.24.  on 5 july 2013 the prosecutor discontinued the investigation on the grounds that no causal link between the actions of the doctors at jurbarkas hospital and the applicants’ daughter’s death had been established (see paragraphs 17, 21 and 23 above).it firstly held that the legal provision cited by the applicants had been adopted after the alleged offence had been committed, and that at the time the alleged offence had been committed domestic law had not provided for suspension of the statutory limitation period during the adjournment of a case (see paragraphs 39-40 below).33.  the government in their observations informed the court that on 15 september 2011 the applicants instituted civil proceedings against jurbarkas hospital, claiming compensation in respect of pecuniary and non‑pecuniary damage caused by inadequate medical services provided to the first applicant and their newborn daughter.relying on the available inquiry reports, as well as the specialist opinions and results of the forensic examinations delivered in the criminal proceedings (see paragraphs 9, 10, 11, 17, 21 and 23 above), the court held that the doctors at jurbarkas hospital had breached their duty of care and that their actions “had contributed” (turėjo įtakos) to the death of the applicants’ daughter, so there were grounds for the hospital incurring civil liability.
5.  at the material time the first applicant was a chairman of the sumgait city branch of an opposition party musavat and the fourth applicant was a deputy chairman of the goychay district branch of that party.7.  the second applicant attended the demonstration of 2 april 2011. the first and third applicants attended the demonstration of 17 april 2011. according to the first applicant, he also intended to participate in the demonstration of 20 october 2012.8.  prior to those demonstrations, on 18 march 2011, 11 april 2011 and 15 october 2012 respectively the organisers had given notice to the relevant authority, the baku city executive authority (“the bcea”).9.  the bcea refused to authorise those demonstrations at the places indicated by the organisers and proposed a different location on the outskirts of baku – the grounds of a driving school situated in the 20th residential area of the sabail district.12.  according to the fourth applicant, prior to the rally of 18 october 2011, on 9 october 2011, he and the other organisers gave notice to the relevant authority, the goychay district executive authority (“the gdea”).the information about the rally was sent to the gdea by post and the fourth applicant’s home address was indicated (for reference) as the address of the sender.its purpose was to mark the twentieth anniversary of the independence day and to honour the memory of those buried in the cemetery of martyrs in the town of goychay.15.  as mentioned above, the demonstration of 2 april 2011 was attended by the second applicant; the demonstration of 17 april 2011 was attended by the first and third applicants.16.  the circumstances related to the dispersal of the demonstrations of 2 april and 17 april 2011, the first, second and third applicants’ arrests and custody, and subsequent administrative proceedings against them are similar to those in gafgaz mammadov v. azerbaijan (no.17.  the circumstances of the fourth and first applicants’ arrests on 15 october 2011 and 20 october 2012 respectively, their custody and subsequent administrative proceedings against them are similar to those in huseynli and others v. azerbaijan (nos.18.  according to the first and third applicants, after being arrested during the dispersal of the demonstration of 17 april 2011 and brought to a police station, they were subjected to ill-treatment by the deputy chief of the nasimi district police office, police officer s.n.19.  in a photograph, submitted to the court by the first applicant and allegedly taken after his police custody, he is shown with a bruise on his forehead.21.  the applicants raised their ill-treatment complaints during the administrative proceedings following their arrest on 17 april 2011. namely, in their appeals against the first-instance court’s decisions the applicants complained that they had been ill-treated during their police custody, and requested the baku court of appeal to order a forensic examination of their injuries, to question particular witnesses and to obtain the review of the medical records drawn up at their check-in to a detention facility where they had served their sentence.22.  on 21 april and 4 may 2011 respectively the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicants’ appeals and upheld the decisions of the first‑instance court (see appendix).only in january 2012, after making enquiries about the outcome of the investigation, did they manage to obtain copies of the investigator’s above-mentioned decisions.
4.  the applicants’ dates of birth and places of residence are given in the appendix.5.  the applicants were opposition-oriented activists.at the material time the first applicant was a member of one of the opposition parties, the popular front party of azerbaijan.he participated in a number of peaceful demonstrations organised by the opposition and on several occasions was arrested and convicted for that.6.  on 12 october 2013 an opposition group i̇ctimai palata held a demonstration, authorised by the relevant authority, the baku city executive authority (“the bcea”).the demonstration was held in the mahsul stadium, a place proposed by the bcea.it was intended to be peaceful and was conducted in a peaceful manner.the participants were protesting against alleged irregularities and fraud during the presidential elections of 9 october 2013.7.  all three applicants participated in that demonstration.8.  after the end of the demonstration of 12 october 2013 the applicants were arrested at the entrance to a nearby metro station, inshaatchilar.9.  the circumstances of the applicants’ arrests, their custody and subsequent administrative proceedings against them are similar to those in huseynli and others v. azerbaijan (nos.67360/11 and 2 others, 11 february 2016) and huseynov and others v. azerbaijan ([committee] nos.34262/14 and 5 others, 24 november 2016) (see also appendix).
7.  on 1 july 1996 the applicant asked the kardzhali municipal council (“the municipal council”) to sell to her the first floor of the shopping centre under the preferential privatisation procedure for tenants of state- and municipally-owned property as provided for in section 35 (1) of the transformation and privatisation of state and municipally-owned enterprises act (закон за преобразуване и приватизация на държавни и общински предприятия) (“the privatisation act”).on 20 february 2004 the kardzhali regional court quashed the council’s refusal and instructed it to open a privatisation procedure under which it would offer the applicant the option to buy the first floor of the shopping centre under preferential conditions, in accordance with the privatisation act.9.  in the meantime, on 8 may 2001 the mayor of kardzhali sent a notice to the applicant announcing the termination of the contract concluded in 1993 (see paragraph 6 above).11.  on 11 april 2005 the applicant requested the municipal council to open a privatisation procedure so that she could buy the first floor of the shopping centre, in accordance with the final decision of the supreme administrative court of 18 february 2005 (see paragraph 8 above).12.  on 20 april 2006 the municipal council decided to open a privatisation procedure in favour of the applicant in respect of part of the first floor of the shopping centre.14.  on 24 july 2008 the municipal council authorised the mayor to open a privatisation procedure in favour of the applicant in respect of part of the shopping centre’s first floor.on 20 august 2008 the applicant brought judicial review proceedings in respect of the tacit refusal of the municipality to offer to her the whole first floor of the shopping centre and not just a part of it.while those proceedings were pending, on 29 september 2008 the municipal council and the applicant, acting as a sole trader, signed a contract under which the applicant purchased the part of the first floor of the shopping centre offered by the council.the applicant’s challenge to the municipality’s tacit refusal was dismissed as inadmissible by the kardzhali administrative court on 7 october 2009. the court found that the municipality’s failure to sell to her the entirety of the property, as decided in the final judgment of 18 february 2005 in the applicant’s favour (see paragraph 8 above), did not constitute a new refusal to initiate a privatisation procedure; rather, it represented a failure on the part of the authorities in question to comply with the said final judgment ordering the start of that privatisation procedure.her claim concerned the period between the date of the final judgment of 18 february 2005 and the date of her lodging the claim for damages – 18 december 2007.16.  the sofia administrative court rejected her claim on 10 november 2008. the court found in particular that the applicant had not proved her claim in respect of the pecuniary damages she had sought, given that there had been no certainty that, had the municipality made an offer, she would have actually paid the price for the property and thus completed the deal.however, the suffering was more intense during the several months immediately following the municipal council’s initial refusal to sell the premises to the applicant.18.  the applicant continued to pursue the purchase, under the preferential privatisation procedure, of the remaining part of the shopping centre’s first floor.that part was identified as consisting of two separate units, which she claimed were due to her on the basis of the final judgment of 18 february 2005. in response to a request made by the applicant on 21 june 2013 to be offered to buy the remaining part of the shopping centre’s first floor, the municipal council decided in december 2013, on the advice of the municipal council’s counsel, as well as on the basis of various expert reports, to offer her the option to buy the remaining part of the shopping centre’s first floor.19.  on 18 august 2014 the municipal council sold to the applicant the outstanding part of the first floor of the shopping centre.
8.  on 16 december 2005 the riga regional court, acting as the court of first instance, found the applicant guilty and imposed on him a fine to the amount of five minimum monthly salaries.9.  with respect to the applicant, the court established that on 31 march 1999 at a customs control point he had acted contrary to the applicable regulations in the processing of documentation for the importation of the used semi-trailer.further, he had not issued an administrative violation record on the non-compliance with the forty-eight hour time-limit for the delivery to the customs office of the used semi-trailer.11.  the regional court relied on a report drawn up by the state revenue service, dated 24 march 2000. the report stated that the applicant had not complied with a number of applicable regulations.had testified that he had purchased the semi-trailer at the beginning of 1999. he had come to the customs control point together with the vendor’s representative.according to the documentation, the customs clearance of the vehicle was carried out by the applicant.after the statements were read out, the applicant’s defence asked the court to explain on what grounds a certified copy of the statements of e.a.14.  the court relied on a set of documentary evidence attesting to the fact that the documentation for the semi-trailer in question had been processed by the applicant and that the semi-trailer had not entered the customs territory.asked the appellate court in writing to excuse his absence from the hearing on the grounds of hospitalisation (in september 2007) and his being abroad and having a technical problem with a car which had prevented him from coming to the hearing (in february 2008).19.  during the court hearing, the applicant’s defence and the court questioned a defence witness – a customs expert on the customs procedure and its application.25.  the appellate court referred to the evidence of witness e.a., i.e., that the semi-trailer had not been at the customs warehouse and the customs officer could not have inspected it.the court also relied on the applicant’s statements in which he considered that the verification on the merits had been carried out by the customs broker and therefore those tasks fell outside his duties.however, it deemed that the applicant’s contention – that a customs broker and not a customs officer had been responsible for the truthfulness of the information – indicated that, in fact, the applicant had not verified anything.he insisted that the evidence attested to the fact that he had verified the power of attorney and had compared the bank accounts indicated in the payment orders.no electronic database had existed at the time and the only way to check the payment documents had been to compare the bank accounts listed.
6.  on 12 september 2007 the applicant was convicted of forming a criminal organisation, of – together with others − kidnapping an adult, of robbery committed together with others, and of the theft and illegal possession of a gun, and was sentenced to twenty-two years’ imprisonment by the nafplio three-member court of appeal for felonies (τριμελές εφετείο κακουργημάτων) acting as a first-instance court (decision no.7.  following the delivery of the judgment, the applicant expressed his wish to lodge an appeal against the decision of the first-instance court and was escorted, handcuffed, by policemen to the registry of the court in order to do so.in the registry there were pre-printed forms for lodging an appeal, which included the following wording: “in nafplio, in the nafplio court of appeal today on ... day... and time ... came to me, the registrar of nafplio court of appeal .... (name), the ... (name) of ... (father’s name) and of ... (mother’s name) who was born on ... in ..., whose profession is ... and resides in ..., street ... no..... of the nafplio three‑member court of appeal by which he was convicted of ... to a total sentence of ... requesting that the decision under appeal be set aside and that he be acquitted from the charge for the reasons he will cite before the appeal court.” 8.  under the above paragraph there was an empty space and then followed the phrases: “he appoints as his representative the lawyer practising in nafplio ...(name).this report was read and confirmed and is signed by the person lodging the appeal and the registrar”.9.  the registrar completed the pre-printed form with the applicant’s personal data, the number of the decision against which he wished to lodge the appeal, the sentence that was imposed to him and the name of the applicant’s representative.he then signed the report and the applicant was momentarily released from handcuffs in order to sign it as well.10.  on 7 may 2009 the applicant’s appeal was heard by the nafplio five‑member court of appeal (“the appeal court”).the appeal court by a majority dismissed the legal remedy as inadmissible on the grounds that no reasons had been included in the report, as required by law (decision no.the president of the appeal court did not agree with the majority of the panel, expressing the view that from the phrase “...for the reasons he will cite before the appeal court”, one could easily infer that the applicant was complaining about erroneous assessment of the evidence by the court of first instance.11.  the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law against the decision of the appeal court, arguing that his appeal should not have been dismissed as inadmissible.the applicant submitted that it was standard practice in all appeal courts for the defendants to be given a pre-printed form which included the phrase: “because the court of first instance did not assess correctly the facts of the case and declared the defendant guilty of an act he did not commit and for the reasons he will cite before the appeal court”.in the instant case, the nafplio court of appeal had printed a form in which the first part of the phrase was omitted and the applicant was not to blame for this omission.he was only given the form to sign and was handcuffed at the time, making it even more difficult for him to read the report thoroughly.12.  the court of cassation dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law as unfounded on the grounds that the content of the appeal was the applicant’s responsibility, as distinct from the formalities which were the responsibility of the registrar (decision no.
however, the second charge was subsequently dropped and in july 2007 a prosecutor indicted the applicant for acquiring the notes “in the period between 2002 and 10 january 2007”, in the knowledge that they were counterfeit.it was noted in the description of the facts in the bill of indictment that in 2002 the applicant had sold a flat and that with part of the money had bought several one hundred dollar bills from a person on the street.he testified to pazardzhik regional court (hereinafter “the regional court”), which examined the case at first instance, that it had been his brother who had given him money in 2002 after selling a flat.he added that in the following years he and the applicant had regularly exchanged the bulgarian levs they had had for dollars.he admitted that he was uncertain whether the counterfeit notes found in the applicant’s home by the police had been the ones the applicant had acquired in 2002.however, the conviction was for having acquired counterfeit notes “in the period between 26 march 2005 and 10 january 2007”, as it had been only on the former date that the act of acquiring such notes had been criminalised (see paragraph 16 below).11.  when summarising the facts of the case as it had established them, the regional court repeated what the applicant had said, namely that in 2002 his brother had given him money to buy dollars.finding in addition that he had been aware at the time of obtaining those notes that they had been counterfeit (the key evidence in that regard had been a statement by the applicant made in a telephone conversation with another person on 9 january 2007), the regional court found him guilty of that charge.12.  the applicant lodged an appeal, arguing that there was no evidence substantiating the conclusion that, when he had bought the five hundred dollar bills in 2002, he had been aware that they were counterfeit.13.  in a judgment of 24 april 2008 the plovdiv court of appeal (hereinafter “the court of appeal”) upheld the regional court’s judgment, endorsing its reasoning.once again, when summarising the facts, it restated what the applicant had said, namely that in 2002 his brother had given him money to buy dollars, which he had done, and had kept usd 500 hidden in his house.it did not comment any further on the question as to when the applicant had acquired the counterfeit notes found on him.14.  in an appeal on points of law lodged with the supreme court of cassation, the applicant stated in particular the following: “the two lower instances established unconditionally that [the applicant] had bought the five counterfeit dollar bank notes in the spring of 2002 with money given to him by his brother.... at the time that did not amount to a criminal offence, which is why [the applicant] was acquitted of having acquired the notes in the period before 26 march 2005. but where is the proof that those notes in particular were acquired after that date?there can only be guesses ... and a conviction cannot be based on guesses.” 15.  in a final judgment of 24 november 2008 the supreme court of cassation upheld the court of appeal’s judgment, failing to comment on the applicant’s argument that it had not been shown that he had acquired the counterfeit bank notes after 26 march 2005.
it advised the central government that relocation of the plant would not be in the public interest in view of the acute energy crisis in the country and suggested that the residents of the affected area be offered electricity and heat free of charge as a form of compensation.15.  on 1 october 2001, in an official response to a query by the applicants, the city hall confirmed that the plant’s activities fell within the “first category” within the meaning of the environmental permits act (see paragraphs 43-44 below) and that the ministry of the environment and natural resources (“the ministry of the environment”) was responsible for issuing the relevant permit.17.  on 25 october 2001 the applicants and three other residents of the building (“the claimants”) brought a fresh action against the plant and other respondents including the tbilisi electricity distribution company, aes telasi jsc (“aes”), the city hall and the ministry of the environment.(ii)  expert examinations commissioned by the court 18.  on 7 march and 23 september 2002 the tbilisi regional court granted a request by the claimants and ordered the ministry of justice, the ministry of labour, health and social affairs and the ministry of the environment to arrange a number of expert examinations.(α)  air pollution 19.  an expert examination dated 28 october 2002 and carried out by the expertise and special research centre at the ministry of justice concluded as follows: “as the “tboelectrocentrali” plant does not have a [buffer] zone and is immediately adjacent to a residential building, the plant’s chimneys must be equipped with appropriate filters and other equipment to protect the population from the hazardous gases.” 20.  on 17 january 2003 the institute of environmental protection (“the iep”) at the ministry of environment issued an expert opinion on the air pollution and noise levels in the residential area concerned.it noted that while the plant’s equipment responsible for the emission of toxic substances stood idle, it was impossible to determine the real pollution situation with which the residents had had to cope for years and noted that “the results were considerably minimised compared to the possible real picture.” 21.  the expert opinion disclosed that the plant’s technical compliance document was defective as it did not reveal all the chemical substances known to be emitted into the atmosphere in the course of natural gas burning.22.  with regard to the air pollution and the possible impact upon the residents of the building, the expert opinion concluded as follows: “considering the fact that the plant does not have a [buffer] zone and is immediately adjacent to a residential building ..., taking into account the direction of the wind, a whole bouquet of emissions is reaching into the homes ... negatively affecting the population living in the adjacent area.” 23.  the opinion specified that even where individual hazardous substances were considered to be within the acceptable margin, it was necessary to consider the combined impact of various substances upon the health of the population as the combined toxicity might go beyond the acceptable limits.it continued to note in this connection that the concentrated toxicity of the gases emitted by the plant was twice the norm and the residents of the building concerned had to live in conditions where the concentration of toxic substances surpassed the acceptable limits twenty-four hours a day.without specifying the noise levels in the individual flats of the applicants, the opinion concluded in generic terms that “the residential building ... situated at 4 uznadze street [was] affected by noise in excess of the permissible limits.” 26.  on 6 february 2004 the iep expert carried out an additional investigation aimed at determining the noise levels in the individual flats of the claimants.the panel considered it “possible that the asthenic syndrome and neurasthenia ... [had been] caused by the prolonged and combined effect of being exposed to harmful factors.” it added that “taking into account the circumstances of the case, the worsening of the health conditions of the persons examined [had not been] excluded.” (iii)  regional court’s findings 31.  on 12 march 2004 the tbilisi regional court dismissed the claims of the applicants and another claimant, but partially allowed the claims of two other claimants (“the successful claimants”) with respect to the noise pollution emitted by the plant’s generators.that is to say, despite the claimants’ numerous requests and complaints, [the authorities concerned] failed to take specific measures to ensure an environment safe enough for the claimants’ health.” 32.  furthermore, acknowledging that the plant was responsible for the infiltration of water into the foundations of the building, the court ordered it to halt the leakage and make the necessary repairs to the ruptured walls.34.  while the court accepted the experts’ conclusions that the plant had breached certain environmental standards by not having filters and other purification equipment in place to decrease the emission of toxic substances, it refused to order the plant to install such equipment on the grounds that the sole remedy requested by the claimants had been compensation for the damage caused by the pollution.303‑c) and the findings of the court‑commissioned expert examinations at the domestic level, they reiterated their complaints about the lack of a buffer zone and the inherent risk of pollution, the absence of purification equipment over the plant’s chimneys and its impact upon their health and well-being, and the defectiveness of the plant’s technical compliance document.it upheld the appeals of the two already successful claimants and ordered the plant’s operators, the city hall and the ministry of the environment to pay them, jointly, gel 7,000 (eur 2,938)[2] each for the deterioration of their health caused by the noise pollution that persisted after the partial termination of the plant’s activities on 2 february 2001 and affected them individually (see paragraphs 11 and 26 above).it highlighted the fact that the plant in the instant case had been operational since 1939 while the flats had been built at a later date in 1952. it consequently concluded that the applicants had accepted the associated dangers when choosing to settle near the plant and were effectively barred from claiming any damages in that respect within the meaning of the compensation for damage inflicted by dangerous substances act (see paragraph 47 below).
8.  on 8 august 2008 the town court examined the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of 11 june 2008. the court heard the case in the applicant’s absence.in the operative part of the judgment, the court advised the applicant of his right to appeal against the judgment adopted by the town court.9.  according to the applicant, the letter from the town court notifying him of the date and time of the court hearing reached him on 9 august 2008.12.  the subsequent request by the applicant for supervisory review was dismissed by the supreme court of the russian federation on 26 january 2009.13.  on 20 august 2009 the acting head of the novozybkov customs post of the bryansk customs office discontinued the enforcement proceedings in respect of the decision of 11 june 2008. he noted that the applicant was a foreign national and had no assets or known place of residence in the russian federation and that it was impossible to enforce the decision of 11 june 2008 on account of the expiry of the relevant time-limit.14.  on 24 august 2009 the bryansk customs certified that (1) the decision concerning the applicant’s administrative liability had come into force on 15 july 2009; and (2) the applicant had failed to reclaim his car within a month of that date.15.  on an unspecified date the regional agency in charge of the federal property applied to the town court seeking to reclaim the applicant’s car as bona vacantia.according to the documents submitted by the government, the court decided to hear the case in the applicant’s absence given that he had been duly notified of the hearing and chose not to attend.18.  on 19 march 2012 the leaders of the strategy-31 movement notified the mayor of moscow of their intention to organise a rally (from 6 to 8 p.m.) at triumfalnaya square in the centre of moscow and a march (from 8 to 8.30 p.m.) from triumfalnaya square down tverskaya street to manezh square on 31 march 2012 (saturday).the events were organised to promote the right to peaceful assembly as set forth in article 31 of the constitution of the russian federation and the freedom of parliamentary elections in russia.19.  on 20 march 2012 the government of moscow refused to agree on the venues for the rally and the march.according to the authorities, there was archeological and construction work going on in triumfalnaya square and the march, according to the indicated route, would “disrupt the normal functioning of the city’s infrastructure and traffic [and] infringe the rights and interests of people who would not take part [in the rally and the march]”.20.  on 29 march 2012 the leaders of the strategy-31 movement informed the mayor of moscow that the rally would take place at the venue indicated in their notification of 19 march 2012.367 of the tverskoy district of moscow found that the rally held on 31 march 2012 had been organised in contravention of the existing procedure and that the applicant had taken part in it without having verified whether it had been legitimate.the court found the applicant administratively liable for violation of the established procedure for organising a public assembly and fined him rub 500. the applicant appealed.
6.  the applicants are all russian nationals living in different regions of russia.their personal details are set out in the appendix below.7.  on various dates the applicants obtained binding judicial decisions ordering the state authorities to provide them with housing or perform other obligations in kind.8.  according to the latest information available to the court, judgments became final as specified in the table below and either were enforced with a delay or have remained unenforced.the relevant details in respect of the judgments are listed in the appendix.9.  the applicants on several occasions applied to different russian authorities seeking to accelerate the enforcement of the judicial awards in their favour.10.  the applicant in case no.73303/11 challenged lawfulness of his dismissal from military service alleging, in particular, that the judicial award in his favour of 28 may 2007 had not been complied with.by the final judgment of 12 may 2011 the moscow garrison military court rejected his action and established, inter alia, that the judgment of 28 may 2007 had been enforced in full on 25 march 2010.
1.  interim decisions concerning the children’s placement in care and residence arrangements pending the conclusion of the divorce proceedings 20.  on 19 december 2009 the florence district court held that, while the divorce proceedings were ongoing, the four children should be placed in the care of social services, the children should reside with their mother, and the applicant should pay her child maintenance.the main problems which came to light during the monitoring exercise were: the situation of the applicant’s eldest son, who was not receiving therapy for his condition; the behaviour of m.g., who was unpredictable and eccentric and motivated by a paranoid delusion that she was a victim of plotting and persecution by the court and state institutions in general, and who gave the impression that she was suffering mentally; and m.g.’s relationship with the children, in particular, her attempts to involve the children in judicial proceedings and seek “allies” in them against the father, who she represented as cruel, dangerous and violent, all of which was harming the psychological well-being of the children.with reference to section 170(1) of the new york domestic relations law, which provides that an action for divorce may be maintained by a husband or wife to procure a judgment divorcing the parties and dissolving the marriage on the grounds of cruel and inhuman treatment of the plaintiff by the defendant such that the conduct of the defendant so endangers the physical or mental well-being of the plaintiff as renders it unsafe or improper for the plaintiff to cohabit with the defendant.30.  the applicant applied to the st petersburg city court (“the city court”) for recognition and enforcement of the florence district court’s decision of 6 december 2010. he relied on both the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction and the 1979 bilateral convention on legal assistance in civil matters between italy and the soviet union (“the bilateral convention”).however, the judgment [of 18 september 2012] indicates that the [italian court] did not take these circumstances into consideration, thereby violating the children’s fundamental rights under article 12 of the united nations convention on the rights of the child ... the court also takes into account that the enforcement of the florence court judgment might be incompatible with russian law.in particular, enforcement of the foreign court decision in the present case would involve the return of the children to italy, [a country] of which they are not nationals, with them being handed over to [the applicant], who also does not hold italian nationality ... at the same time, under article 61 of the constitution of the russian federation a national of the russian federation may not be expelled from the territory of the russian federation.47.  following the applicant’s application, on 30 october 2012 the dzerzhinskiy district court decided that, pending the resolution of the proceedings, the applicant should be able to have contact with the children at the schools they attended, in the presence of and with the active involvement of a psychologist, for one hour a week with each child: on wednesdays after classes from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. with the elder son; on fridays after classes from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. with the second son; on mondays after classes from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. with the daughter; and on tuesdays after classes from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m. with the younger son.51.  on 19 november 2013 the city court considered it necessary, among other things, to question the three older children who had reached the age of 10 about their attitude towards each of the parents and the prospect of their living with them, and to obtain the opinion of the youngest child with the involvement of a psychologist.in particular, the applicant was allowed to spend time with the children on the second and last weekend of the month from 10 a.m. on a saturday to 8 p.m. on a sunday, for at least four hours on the dates of the children’s birthdays, during half of the public and school holidays, and for at least thirty calendar days during the summer holidays.2.  for this purpose, the child shall in particular be provided the opportunity to be heard in any judicial and administrative proceedings affecting the child, either directly, or through a representative or an appropriate body, in a manner consistent with the procedural rules of national law.” 3.  convention of 25 january 1979 between the union of soviet socialist republics and the italian republic on legal assistance in civil matters 63.  the 1979 bilateral convention on legal assistance in civil matters between italy and the soviet union (still in force) provides that each contracting party recognises final judicial decisions in civil and family matters rendered in the territory of the other contracting party by a court considered to have jurisdiction within the meaning of this convention.66.  courts of the contracting party from which a decision originates shall be considered to have jurisdiction for the purposes of this convention if the defendant had his habitual residence in that contracting party at the time when proceedings were instituted, or, where the object of an action was the determination of financial maintenance payments, the plaintiff had his habitual residence in the contracting party from which the decision originates at the time when the proceedings were instituted (article 24 § 1).67.  recognition of a judicial decision may nevertheless be refused in any of the following circumstances: (1) if the defendant did not participate in the proceedings because he had not been duly notified of the institution of the proceedings and the date of the hearing; (2) if there is a final decision by the courts of the contracting party addressed in the proceedings between the same parties which is based on the same facts and has the same purpose; (3) if proceedings between the same parties, based on the same facts and having the same purpose, are ongoing before the courts of the contracting party addressed, provided that those proceedings were the first to be instituted; or (4) if, in accordance with international treaties ratified by both contracting parties, the courts of the contracting party addressed have exclusive jurisdiction over the case (article 25 § 1).in the event of there being doubts during the examination of the application, the court may seek explanation from the person who lodged the application, and may also question the defendant on the merits of the application and, if necessary, seek explanation from the foreign court which delivered the judgment in question (article 411 §§ 3, 4 and 6).73.  enforcement of a foreign court judgment may be refused in any of the following circumstances: (1) if the judgment is not final or enforceable in accordance with the domestic law of the state in which it was issued; (2) if the defendant was deprived of an opportunity to participate in the proceedings because he was not duly notified of the time and place of the hearing; (3) if russian courts have exclusive jurisdiction over the case; (4) if there is a final judgment by russian courts in the proceedings between the same parties, based on the same facts and having the same purpose, or if the proceedings between the same parties, based on the same facts and having the same purpose, are ongoing before russian courts, provided that the proceedings before the russian courts were the first to be instituted; (5) if enforcement of the judgment may be detrimental to russian sovereignty or national security, or if it is manifestly incompatible with russian public order; (6) the time-limit for applying for enforcement has expired and has not been extended by a russian court at the plaintiff’s request (article 412).78.  by its ruling of 30 november 2012, 29-p the constitutional court of the russian federation interpreted article 333 § 2 of the code of civil procedure, as in force at the material time, as implying that: (a) the participants in the proceedings should be informed about the lodging of a private complaint against the decision of a first-instance court, and they should be provided with an opportunity to acquaint themselves with the contents of the private complaint and – if the private complaint is examined in the absence of an oral hearing – to submit to the appeal court in writing their position as regards the private complaint; (b)  the participants in the proceedings should be informed about the time and place of the examination by the appeal court in an oral hearing of a private complaint against the decision of a first-instance court where the appeal court, taking into account the nature and complexity of the procedural issue under examination and the arguments set out in the private complaint, arrives at the conclusion that it is necessary for the proper administration of justice to provide the participants in the proceedings with an opportunity to make oral submissions as to their position before the appeal court.
6.  the applicant was born in 1975 and lived in novosibirsk before his arrest.7.  on 12 november 2010 the kalininskiy district court of novosibirsk convicted the applicant of aggravated theft and armed robbery and sentenced him to nine years’ imprisonment.8.  on 24 january 2011 an appeal brought by the applicant himself was examined by the novosibirsk regional court in the absence of counsel.9.  the applicant has been serving his sentence in ik-8 in novosibirsk since 10 february 2011.10.  as regards the conditions of the applicant’s detention in the ik-8 facility, the government submitted information which can be summarised as follows:30 may 2011 – february 2013 7 11.  the government also submitted that all the units where the applicant had been detained had had a sufficient number of sleeping places for all the detainees, they had been ventilated through openings in the windows and had had access to cold water in accordance with up to date sanitary standards.all the lavatories had individual cabins with doors that were one and a half metres high, opening to the outside.he further submitted that the units had no access to natural light or had poor artificial lighting, that the ventilation did not work and that the air was damp.the food he was provided was not in accordance with the special diet prescribed for him.there were only three lavatories (in units 17 and 7), they had no doors and the applicant had no privacy when using them.they were clogged up most of the time owing to the number of people using them.the applicant had no access to potable water and only one washbasin out of four had worked.there were only two kettles for boiling water and the electricity was switched off during the day and therefore it was not possible to have boiled water.the applicant further submitted that the buildings where his units were located were in a hazardous condition and that the roof and walls were liable to fall in at any time owing to a lack of repairs.lastly, the applicant adduced written statements from his four co-detainees who confirmed his account of the conditions of detention in ik-8 in novosibirsk.
as stated in a letter from the chief doctor to the applicant of 25 january 2005, the nurse on duty had immediately informed the fastiv town police by telephone about the arrival of a man with injuries.furthermore, none of the nurses questioned in the course of the criminal proceedings against p. (see paragraphs 63-73 below) was able to say what medication the hospital had had at its disposal to administer to patients free of charge.had died of toxic hypoxic encephalopathy (a brain dysfunction caused by oxygen deprivation resulting from toxic exposure) complicated by swelling of the brain on a background of proliferative leptomeningitis (inflammation of the tissues surrounding the brain), pericarditis (inflammation of the sac surrounding the heart), and chronic hepatitis.38.  on 5 september 2003 the chief doctor at fastiv hospital wrote a letter to the fastiv town police informing them that an unidentified man with head injuries had been brought to the hospital on 25 august 2003 and that he had died on 3 september 2003. the hospital’s administration therefore requested that the police identify that person.44.  on 30 october 2003 the applicant took her son’s clothes and shoes from fastiv hospital and handed them over to the prosecution (the exact name of the authority is not legible in the copy of the document concerned).he documented the following injuries: a fracture of the nose, three wounds on the right side of the head, an unspecified number of haematomas in the soft tissues under the scalp and on the face, and three haematomas under the pericranium.at the same time, it was impossible to establish precisely the nature and scope of all the injuries to v.k.’s head given the omissions and deficiencies of the post-mortem examination.53.  on 6 december 2012 an investigator at bila tserkva city prosecutor’s office (it is not known when and in what circumstances the investigation had been handed over to that authority) made an entry in the unified register of pre-trial investigations regarding an investigation into abuse of office by two unidentified police officers on account of v.k.’s ill‑treatment on 22 august 2003. such an entry was a new procedure for initiating a pre-trial investigation under the new code of criminal procedure, which had come into effect on 19 november 2012. the case was transferred to the kyiv regional prosecutor’s office on 10 september 2013.more specifically, the trial court held that the expert had knowingly given false data on the cause of v.k.’s death, had failed both to collect all the requisite tissue samples and to carry out a number of essential analyses.57.  on 18 august 2010 the kyiv regional court of appeal (“the regional court of appeal”) allowed an appeal by g.s., quashed the first‑instance court’s judgment in the part which convicted him of making a knowingly false expert conclusion and discontinued proceedings on that charge, because there were no constituent elements of an offence in his actions.63.  on unspecified dates the prosecution authorities refused to institute criminal proceedings in respect of v.k.’s death against the chief doctor, the head of the traumatology department, the anaesthesiologist and the neuropathologist at fastiv hospital.in the absence of any relevant legal standards, questions concerning the transportation of patients were at the discretion of the doctor treating the patient and the hospital’s administration.had failed to take even the minimum measures in response to v.k.’s coma on 2 and 3 september 2003. the court sentenced him to three years’ imprisonment, but released him from serving the sentence as the limitation period for that type of offence had expired.77.  subsequently, several criminal cases were opened against him on suspicion of abuse of office by a law-enforcement official with grave consequences, the exceeding of authority associated with ill-treatment of the victim, also with grave consequences, and infliction of grievous bodily harm leading to the death of the victim.the report was issued on 21 march 2012 and stated that the injuries sustained by v.k., as documented by the earlier forensic examination reports, could have been inflicted in the manner and in the circumstances described by s.p.
a certain part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of 3,557,737 hungarian forints (huf) (approximately 11,900 euros (eur)).part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of huf 3,675,702 (approximately eur 12,200).7.  the third applicant, a.d. was born in 1968 and lives in budapest.part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of huf 2,824,844 (approximately eur 9,400).part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of huf 2,650,902 (approximately eur 8,800).part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of huf 5,696,384 (approximately eur 19,000).due to subsequent amendments of the relevant legislation, the tax rates applicable to the fifth applicant’s severance payment changed retroactively.accordingly, the national tax authority found that part of the applicant’s severance payment had been subject to a flat-rate public charge of 20% in the amount of huf 746,808 and another part of his severance payment had been subject to a flat-rate public charge of 75%, amounting to huf 1,558,949. therefore, the applicant was reimbursed huf 3,390,627 by the national tax authority.10.  the sixth applicant, j.k. was born in 1956 and lives in budapest.part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of huf 2,099,845 (approximately eur 7,000).part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of huf 3,119,393 (approximately eur 10,400).part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of huf 2,886,807 (approximately eur 9,600).part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of huf 3,972,297 (approximately eur 13,200).part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of huf 2,376,658 (approximately eur 7,900).part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of huf 3,345,040 (eur 11,100).
4.  the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in surgut, khanty‑mansiyskiy region, russia.5.  the applicant was the leader of a trade union in a private company.his co-workers expressed a wish to hold a public assembly on constitution day on 12 december 2009 and the applicant, in his capacity as trade union leader, decided to help them.according to him, such help was “an indirect expression of his own opinion”.the applicant distributed banners and explained that it would be more practicable to stage solo demonstrations.to avoid prosecution for holding a public assembly without notifying the authorities in advance, the applicant suggested that his co-workers position themselves at some distance from each other, for instance on different streets.at the time, there was no federal or regional statutory requirement concerning the minimum distance between simultaneous solo demonstrations (see “relevant domestic law”).6.  the applicant was then arrested and taken to the police station, where he was held for three hours.7.  on 18 december 2009 a justice of the peace found him guilty under article 20.2 § 1 of the code of administrative offences (“the cao”) and fined him 1,500 russian roubles (rub) (35 euros at the time).the court considered that the applicant and his co-workers had met in one place; the applicant had given instructions to the others and had distributed banners; he had taken them to the place of the demonstration.in the court’s view, the above circumstances disclosed the presence of a group event in the form of a static demonstration (a “picket”), and confirmed the applicant’s role as its organiser.thus, it was incumbent on the applicant to lodge a prior notification about this event to the competent authority as required by section 7 of the public events act (“the pea”).8.  the applicant appealed noting that the pea defined a “picket” as a form of public expression of opinion where one or more citizens with placards, banners and other means of visual expression stationed themselves near the target object of the “picket”.however, there had been a separate “target object” for each solo demonstrator; the demonstrators had been positioned at a considerable distance from each other (for instance, thirty metres for two of them); thus, he could not be lawfully considered as an organiser of a group event.9.  on 22 january 2010 the surgut town court upheld the judgment.
5.  the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in budapest.6.  at 4.07 p.m. on 7 october 2009 the applicant notified the police that he planned to organise a demonstration from 2 to 7 p.m. on 10 october 2009 in front of the venyige street prison in budapest, to protest against the “political persecution of national radicalism”.venyige street is a broad cul-de-sac with a service lane.7.  a police officer from the police station that had received the notification repeatedly attempted to contact the applicant by phone, in line with the relevant decree issued by the minister of the interior on police tasks related to securing public order at major events, in order to arrange for a meeting.despite making several attempts and leaving messages, however, he could not reach him.8.  on 9 october 2009 the head of the budapest police department banned the demonstration on the grounds that traffic could not be diverted to alternative routes (section 8(1) of the assembly act).in the decision, he referred to article 21 of the international covenant on civil and political rights, article 11 of the convention and decision no.55/2001.ab of the constitutional court.9.  the applicant sought a judicial review of the decision within the statutory three-day time-limit.10.  on 15 october 2009 the budapest regional court dismissed the applicant’s case.it noted that in assessing whether or not traffic could be diverted to other routes, the authority had reckoned on the participation of some 200 demonstrators, as per the applicant’s notification, and that it had established that lawful parking and traffic circulation in the neighbourhood would become impossible should the event take place.the court agreed with the police’s decision in that although the right to assembly was a constitutional fundamental right, it was not absolute and must not give rise to a violation of the fundamental rights of others, and could therefore be restricted.the court was satisfied that the decision had been lawful as the police had adequately established the facts, complied with the procedural rules and applied clear assessment criteria, and the assessment of the evidence had been logical.
5.  prior to its privatisation, the flat at 4-1-25, 12-ya novokuzminskaya ulitsa, moscow, had been owned by the city of moscow.sold the flat to l.m., the first applicant’s mother.moved to the suburbs, but they let him keep the flat registered as his place of residence so that he could continue to receive social benefits in moscow.9.  on 10 july 2007 the first applicant transferred the title to half of the flat to his sister by way of gift.he had continued to live in the flat and had let the first applicant move into the flat temporarily in view of the problems the latter had been having with his wife.the first applicant had refused claiming to be the owner of the flat.had been able to have access to the flat only with the support of the police or the neighbours.11.  on 5 july 2011 the prosecutor, acting in the interests of v.f., brought a civil action seeking the annulment of the first applicant’s title to the flat and eviction of his family.the court established that, at the time of the privatisation and sale of flat, v.f.suffered from organic personality syndrome and vascular dementia which had developed long before he had applied for privatisation of the flat on 22 august 2002 and sale of the flat on 14 may 2004.[his condition] had prevented him from understanding his actions or controlling them.” the court invalidated all the transactions with the flat and transferred it to the ownership of the city of moscow.13.  on 29 april 2013 the district court issued a supplementary judgment refusing to apply the statute of limitations to the prosecutor’s claims in v.f.’s interest.14.  on 12 november 2013 the moscow city court upheld the judgments of 15 november 2012 and 29 april 2013 on appeal.16.  on 27 november 2013 the district court issued a writ of enforcement in respect of the judgment of 15 november 2012 indicating v.f.and on 20 november 2014 the title to the flat was transferred to v.f.
6.  on 14 april 2003 a certain ž. l. (hereinafter “the first debtor”) and s. s. (hereinafter “the second debtor”) were each sentenced to two years’ imprisonment for attempted murder of the applicant in january 2003.8.  on 23 june 2008 the aforementioned court ruled in favour of the applicant and ordered the debtors to pay him, jointly, 45,000 euros (eur) plus statutory interest on account of the non-pecuniary damage suffered.9.  on 27 july 2009 the applicant lodged with the court of first instance in podgorica a request for enforcement of the judgment dated 23 june 2008. following an order, the applicant amended his request for enforcement on 25 february 2010. the enforcement order itself was then adopted on 31 march 2010.12.  on 19 july 2010 the enforcement court requested information from the ministry of interior as to whether the debtors owned any motor vehicles.between april 2012 and january 2013 the enforcement court dealt with the objections to the inventories raised by the debtors and third parties.15.  on 9 january 2013 a decision to auction the debtors’ specified movable assets was issued, and the applicant was ordered to deposit eur 200 for the auction costs.the sale was scheduled for march 2013. however, on 27 february 2013 the second debtor informed the enforcement court that he had donated his movables to a charity.17.  on an unspecified date in april the second debtor offered to pay the applicant eur 15,000, but the applicant rejected this offer.the second debtor subsequently made a new offer in the amount of eur 25,000, but this offer was also rejected by the applicant.18.  on 6 august 2013 the applicant informed the enforcement court that the second debtor had paid him eur 31,000 and that he considered the enforcement proceedings in respect of this debtor as final.21.  in september 2013 the first debtor’s specified movable assets were estimated at eur 1,285.99 and the enforcement court invited the applicant to take possession of them on 16 september 2013. the applicant failed to do so.23.  in december 2015 the applicant was once again invited to take possession of the movable assets belonging to the first debtor.24.  on an unspecified date in december 2015 the applicant notified the enforcement court that he had entered into an agreement with the first debtor and that the first debtor would honor the judgement debt in instalments.25.  between march 2011 and march 2012 the applicant availed himself of two domestic remedies concerning the length of proceedings, in particular two requests for review of the duration of the proceedings, in order to have them expedited (kontrolni zahtjev) and three actions for fair redress, aimed at obtaining compensation for the excessive duration of the proceedings (tužba za pravično zadovoljenje).the applicant unsuccessfully appealed to the high court, which upheld the first instance court’s decisions.
at the time of the events giving rise to the present application he was the president of the diyarbakır bar association.6.  on 2 june 2005 the daily newspaper hürriyet reported statements by a senior intelligence officer, who claimed that the national intelligence agency of turkey (“mi̇t”) had been intercepting the telephone conversations and email correspondence of a number of people on the basis of approximately ninety court decisions over the previous ten years.the intelligence officer stated that the surveillance had been continuous until march 2005, when the mi̇t had stopped it in order to wait for the entry into force of the new criminal code.however, when a bomb attack had occurred in march in kuşadası, killing a police superintendent, the mi̇t had gone to the sixth division of the diyarbakır assize court (“the diyarbakır assize court”) to seek permission for the interception of communications.4422, the diyarbakır assize court had granted the mi̇t permission to monitor and examine all electronic communications in order to identify and arrest terrorist suspects with international connections as well as to collect evidence and to prevent crime by having early intelligence of it.8.  on 6 june 2005, after reading the article, the applicant filed a criminal complaint with the diyarbakır principal public prosecutor’s office against the judge, s.t., who had delivered the assize court decision in question, the public prosecutor, the mi̇t agents who had sought permission to monitor and examine communications, and the mi̇t agents who had implemented the decision.the impugned decision had been of a very general nature since it had not included the names of any suspects or indicated the date, location or address of people whose communications would be intercepted.the applicant maintained that the decision had violated his rights protected by article 8 of the convention and had also contravened articles 20 and 23 of the constitution, which protected private life and the freedom of communication respectively, since the accused had obtained records of his communications and restricted his freedom of communication without any justification.lastly, the applicant contended that the implementation of the decision, which had been in contravention of section 2 of law no.9.  on 20 june 2005 the diyarbakır principal public prosecutor decided to disjoin the case concerning the mi̇t officials and to register it separately because the prosecution of mi̇t officials required the prime minister’s permission.he decided that the mi̇t officials had merely implemented the court’s decision when intercepting and examining communications and that the implementation of court decisions was required by law and did not constitute a crime.11.  on 25 october 2005 the applicant filed an objection with the siverek assize court against the above decision, alleging that the diyarbakır public prosecutor had failed to carry out an investigation into his complaints concerning an alleged violation of his rights guaranteed by articles 8 and 13 of the convention.12.  on 30 november 2005 the siverek assize court dismissed the applicant’s objection, holding that the principal public prosecutor’s decision against prosecution had complied with the legislation since the mi̇t officials had implemented a court decision and had not committed any offence.the ministry considered that although the impugned interception decision had been in breach of the national and international legal norms, the aim was to locate the terrorists before they acted and to take the necessary security measures against them.for the ministry, the decision did not display ‘ill-will’ towards any individual or institution and the complainants had failed to demonstrate that they had been affected by the impugned decision in any way.
6.  the applicant was placed in retirement on grounds of disability and received a disability pension as of 1 november 2006, the amount of which was 91,363 hungarian forints (huf) (approximately 305 euros (eur)) per month.the entitlement was based on a final decision of the supreme court.at the material time the medical board rated her state of health at 46 per cent.cxci of 2011 on the benefits granted to persons with reduced work capacity was enacted on 29 december 2011 and entered into force as of 1 january 2012. it introduced a new system of allowances and beneficiaries of the old scheme were invited to re-apply under the new rules.pending approval of her new application, she continued to receive a monthly disability allowance in the amount of huf 89,925 (approximately eur 300) on the strength of the fact that on the day the new law entered into force, she had been in receipt of a disability benefit.10.  on 29 june 2012 the national rehabilitation and social authority assessed the applicant’s state of health at 59 per cent.11.  in application of the relevant rules, the applicant’s rehabilitation allowance was established at 45 per cent of the minimum wage, that is, in the amount of huf 41,850 (approximately eur 140), by a decision of the budapest governmental office (directorate of pension insurance) given on 19 september 2012 and effective as of 1 december 2012.13.  a medical assessment carried out in the course of the second-instance administrative proceedings resulted in the finding that the applicant’s state of health was at 58 per cent.since the minor difference in the scores did not alter the calculation of the allowance, the national rehabilitation and social authority upheld the first-instance decision on 17 january 2013.having obtained fresh medical assessments and the opinion of the national forensic body, the court was satisfied that the applicant’s state of health was at 54 per cent (her locomotor, digestive and endocrinological conditions were calculated cumulatively as per the method prescribed in annex 1 to decree no.7/2012 (ii.nefmi).again, the minor difference in the scores had no bearing on the calculation of the allowance.it observed in particular that the lower courts had found that the applicant’s state of health (for the purposes of the application of rules of disability benefits) had improved and that the applicant had challenged that finding.it pointed out that such an improvement did not necessarily correspond to actual healing from a condition, but could also result from a change in, or stricter application of, the relevant rules of medical assessment.
5.  the applicant, who was born in 1992, was detained at the gaziantep prison at the time when the application was lodged.6.  on 26 december 2011 the mersin magistrates’ court decided to restrict access to the file regarding an ongoing investigation against a terrorist organisation.7.  on 29 december 2011 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of being a member of a terrorist organisation and making its propaganda.8.  on the same day the applicant’s police statement was taken at the anti-terror branch of the mersin security directorate, in the presence of his lawyer.the police read out the transcripts of the telephone conversations and asked the applicant to comment on them.9.  on 30 december 2011 the mersin magistrates’ court ordered the applicant’s detention on remand.10.  on 16 march 2012 the applicant’s representative lodged an objection against the decision on the applicant’s detention, and requested his release.she also asked the court to lift the restriction of access to the investigation file.on 19 march 2012 the mersin magistrates’ court dismissed the objection, without holding a hearing.11.  on 26 march 2012 the mersin assize court dismissed the objection on the basis of the case file, without holding a hearing.12.  on 20 april 2012 the mersin magistrates’ court ex officio examined the applicant’s detention on remand on the basis of the case-file and decided to extend it.13.  on 10 september 2012 the adana public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment against the applicant, accusing him mainly of being a member of a terrorist organisation, making propaganda in its favour, illegal possession of explosives, causing damage to property and having participated in an illegal armed demonstration.14.  on 1 october 2012 the adana assize court accepted the indictment.on the same date the restriction on the investigation file was lifted.15.  according to the latest information in the case file, the proceedings against the applicant are still pending before assize court.
it referred to an expert opinion of 25 january 2009 by dr l., who had stated that the applicant’s condition had stabilised and that the danger emanating from him had considerably abated in respect of the closed and protected living environment of the prison.the director of the prison did not recommend releasing the applicant either, as the special therapy he needed in order to be prepared for release was only available in the vienna‑mittersteig prison.17.  the regional court also referred to the expert opinion of dr h. of 31 october 2006 and the forensic expert opinion by the vienna-mittersteig prison of january 2007, as well as the most recent expert opinion by dr b.(the resident psychologist of stein prison, where the applicant was held at that time) of 3 march 2010. the latter had come to the conclusion that the applicant still suffered from a pronounced combined personality disorder with paranoid, schizoid, emotionally unstable and narcissistic elements.dr b. responded to the generally positive tenor of dr l.’s opinion and found that the stabilisation process was rather a reaction to the “enemy” institution, namely the prison, in which the applicant was being held, and was not to be considered real or rendering the applicant capable of surviving the challenges of daily life outside prison.the director of stein prison also recommended the continuation of the applicant’s detention, adding that his institution was not equipped to deal with the preparation of his release, which it considered to be a complex and risk-prone task.18.  the regional court found that owing to the applicant’s negative approach to therapy, it was impossible to prepare him for release, even though his counsel had confirmed the offer of a flat and a job, and the applicant appeared to be stable.in line with the argumentation of the expert opinions of dr b. and dr l., the court held that in the light of the gravity of the underlying criminal offences, there was a danger that an unprepared release would overwhelm the applicant and could have unpredictable consequences.he also requested that a new expert opinion be obtained from dr l. 21.  on 7 december 2010 the regional court, ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention in an institution for mentally ill offenders, referring to the most recent expert opinion by dr b. of 3 march 2010 (see paragraph 17 above).in the light of the gravity of the underlying offence, the statements obtained from the various prison services as well as the recent expert opinions, the regional court concluded that the applicant still presented a danger to society.as the applicant refused to be examined by any expert, the court held another hearing on 23 april 2012. on that occasion, the presiding judge reproached the applicant with the fact that he could not expect to be granted privileges if he did not collaborate with the experts and the authorities.based on the information on file, the latest expert opinion of dr b. of 3 march 2010 and the information from the director of the prison, it concluded that the danger emanating from the applicant still persisted and therefore his application for release had to be dismissed.26.  that decision was upheld by the court of appeal on 30 july 2012. the court summarised the genesis of the case so far and the applicant’s complaints, and reiterated the lower court’s findings.it referred to the “current” expert opinion of dr b. of 2010 (see paragraph 17 above) and statements by the prison administration and the social service of the prison (maßnahmenteam) that the applicant should not be released, as he refused to undergo therapy and still posed a threat.it held that the regional court had had no choice but to take into consideration the expert opinion of 2010, as in the course of the 2011/12 review proceedings the applicant had refused to be examined by an expert.
6.  on 4 september 2007 the yerevan prosecutor’s office decided to institute criminal proceedings on the basis of an application made by r.k., an inmate of the above-mentioned prison, who stated that on 23 august 2007 he had been beaten with rubber truncheons by the applicant and two other prison officers, a.g. and l.h.in substantiating the imposition of a non-custodial preventive measure, the decision stated that the applicant had a permanent residence, was not obstructing the examination of the case and that, if he remained at large, he would not abscond or obstruct the investigation.9.  it appears that, during the investigation of the case, the head of vardashen prison gave a statement confirming that r.k. had sustained bodily injuries, while the head of the prison medical unit stated that he had provided medical treatment to r.k. and made a corresponding entry in the medical register.12.  on the same day the investigator, m., applied to the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan seeking to detain the applicant on remand.he referred to the nature and the gravity of the imputed offence, the punishment for which was imprisonment for a term exceeding one year.13.  on the same day the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan granted the application on the grounds that the imputed offence was a grave one and that if the applicant remained at large, he could abscond, obstruct the examination of the case and influence the witnesses.15.  on 28 february 2008 the court of appeal dismissed the appeal, finding that it was not competent to decide on the question of replacing detention with bail, since that question had not been raised before the district court.in substantiating the application, the investigator referred to the nature and gravity of the imputed offence and said that there were sufficient grounds to assume that, if released, the applicant could abscond or obstruct the examination of the case.17.  on 4 april 2008 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan granted the application and extended the applicant’s detention to 7 july 2008. in doing so, the district court indicated the same reasons as those given in the application.18.  on 9 april 2008 the applicant lodged an appeal against the decision of the district court, seeking to be released on bail.21.  on 30 may 2008 the investigation was officially concluded and the case was sent to the criminal court of yerevan.23.  at a hearing held on 24 november 2008 the applicant applied to the criminal court of yerevan seeking to change the preventive measure.he argued that there were no grounds to assume that he would abscond, obstruct the examination of the case during the court proceedings or fail to appear when summoned by the trial court.in this regard, he referred to the fact that he had not absconded or in any way tried to obstruct the course of justice in the period preceding his arrest and detention, despite the fact that the investigation had already been ongoing for several months before his arrest.24.  on the same date the examining judge decided to dismiss the application, finding that there was sufficient evidence in the case file which did not rule out the applicant’s involvement in the commission of a grave crime.
5.  on 23 july 2011 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of threatening to use violence against the investigator in charge of the criminal case against his ex-wife.7.  on the same date the investigator filed a motion with the armavir regional court seeking to have the applicant detained for a period of two months.8.  on the same date the regional court examined and granted the investigator’s application, ordering the applicant’s detention for a period of two months, namely until 23 september 2011. it found that the motion was substantiated, since the applicant partially admitted his guilt and the case materials provided sufficient grounds for believing that he might abscond and obstruct the investigation, having regard to the nature and degree of dangerousness of the offence in question.9.  on an unspecified date the applicant lodged an appeal seeking to cancel the detention order and claiming that the investigating authority had not obtained any materials or evidence to substantiate the reasons for which it had sought to detain him and that they failed to take into account the applicant’s personality.10.  on 11 august 2011 the court of appeal dismissed the appeal, finding that the applicant’s detention was based on a reasonable suspicion, and found the grounds invoked by the regional court in justification of detention to be sufficient.11.  on 19 august 2011 the applicant lodged a cassation appeal against the decision of 11 august 2011 of the court of appeal.12.  on 9 september 2011 the investigation into the applicant’s case was concluded and the case was transferred to the regional court for trial.by the same decision the trial court decided that the applicant’s detention on remand was “to remain unchanged”.14.  on 17 september 2011 the cassation court returned the applicant’s cassation appeal as it was unsubstantiated and did not met the formal requirements imposed by law.the regional court found that the applicant’s detention was ordered by its decision of 13 september 2011. it also noted that the existing materials of the case were sufficient to conclude that the applicant’s detention was justified.the criminal court of appeal found that there was no possibility under domestic law to appeal against the decision of the district court “to leave the applicant’s detention unchanged”.20.  on 20 march 2012 the court of cassation declared the applicant’s appeal inadmissible for lack of merit.22.  on 4 june 2012 the regional court dismissed the applicant’s motion having regard to the dangerousness and nature of the alleged offence and the fact that the applicant might abscond and obstruct the investigation.24.  on 19 june 2012 the criminal court of appeal left the applicant’s appeal unexamined on the same grounds as indicated in its decision of 28 december 2011.26.  on 17 august 2012 the court of cassation declared the applicant’s appeal inadmissible for lack of merit.
6.  at the material time the first applicant was a member of the youth committee of an opposition party, the popular front party of azerbaijan (azərbaycan xalq cəbhəsi partiyası – “the pfpa”), and the second applicant was a chairman of a youth organisation called azad genclik.11.  it appears that the organisers of the demonstration of 11 march 2011 gave no proper prior notice to the relevant authority, the baku city executive authority (“the bcea”).13.  the bcea refused to authorise the demonstration of 20 october 2012 at the site indicated by the organisers and proposed another location on the outskirts of baku  the grounds of a driving school situated in the 20th habitable area of the sabail district.the report stated that the applicant had committed an administrative offence under article 310.1 of the code of administrative offences (“the cao”) (failure to comply with a lawful order of a police officer).21.  on the day of his arrest the applicant was brought before the nasimi district court, which on the same day adopted a decision on the merits.25.  only the police officers who, according to the official records, had arrested the applicant and the police officer who issued the administrative‑offence report in respect of him were questioned as witnesses.29.  on an unspecified date the applicant lodged an appeal with the baku court of appeal, presenting his version of the events surrounding his arrest, and arguing that he had been arrested in connection with the demonstration scheduled for 11 march 2011. the applicant also complained that the hearing before the first-instance court had not been fair.32.  on 19 march 2011 the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of the first-instance court, stating that the conclusions reached by that court had been correct.34.  as mentioned above, the demonstration of 11 march 2011 was attended by the second applicant, the demonstration of 20 october 2012 by both applicants, and the demonstration of 17 november 2012 by the first applicant.39.  the applicants were brought before the sabail district court on the day of each arrest (specifically, the first applicant on 20 october and 17 november 2012, and the second applicant on 11 march 2011 and 20 october 2012).members of the public were not allowed inside the courtroom, even though the court had not taken a formal decision to close the hearings to the public.44.  none of the material submitted to the court contains any record showing that at the hearings of 20 october and 17 november 2012 respectively the state-funded lawyer for the second applicant (mr k.b.)45.  according to a statement (“ərizə”) signed by the first applicant, he refused the assistance of the state-funded lawyer at the hearing of 20 october 2012 and decided to defend himself in person.in the proceedings related to his participation in the demonstration of 20 october 2012 the second applicant was also convicted under article 298 of the cao.the second applicant was assisted by a lawyer of his own choosing during the appellate-court proceedings related to his participation in the demonstration of 20 october 2012, but he was not represented by a lawyer during the appellate-court proceedings related to his participation in the demonstration of 11 march 2011.
the following day he concluded an agreement with the t. company shortening the notice period for the termination of his employment.9.  on 9 april 2004 the applicant was granted a disability pension with effect from 24 february 2004 on the grounds of his inability to work.10.  on 28 june 2004 the applicant instituted civil proceedings against the t. company in the pula municipal court (općinski sud u puli).he alleged that he would have received more income if he had not sustained the work-related injury in 1992. he claimed damages relating to the difference between his disability pension and the salary he had received until the termination of his employment.12.  the applicant appealed against the first-instance judgment, challenging all the factual and legal aspects of the case.13.  on 12 september 2011 the pula county court (županijski sud u puli), relying on section 373a of the civil procedure act, dismissed the applicant’s appeal as unfounded.it agreed with the outcome of the case but held that the first-instance court had failed to take into account all the facts from the proceedings that had supported the dismissal of the claim.the relevant part of the judgment reads as follows: “... this appellate court finds that although the first-instance court failed to take into account all the facts emerging from the first-instance proceedings which meant [the plaintiff’s] claim had to be dismissed, the decision on dismissing the claim as unfounded is in any event correct, therefore the first-instance judgment is upheld by application of section 373a of the civil procedure act.... this appellate court therefore holds that the plaintiff’s claim was certainly to be dismissed, but for the reasons set out in this appellate decision; that is, that the reasons the first-instance court stated in the reasoning of its decision would not suffice for the claim to be dismissed.therefore the first-instance decision is upheld on the basis of section 373a of the civil procedure act ...” 14.  on 5 december 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law with the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske), challenging the lower courts’ judgments.he stated that the appellate court had relied expressly on section 373a of the civil procedure act, and that therefore he was lodging his appeal on points of law on the basis of section 382(1)(3) of that act.15.  on 14 may 2013 the supreme court declared the applicant’s appeal on points of law inadmissible on the grounds that the appellate court in fact had not applied section 373a of the civil procedure act, and that therefore his appeal on points of law could not be allowed.the relevant part of the decision reads as follows: “the first-instance court and the appellate court found that the plaintiff had not been dismissed because of his inability to work caused by the work-related injury, but that his employment had been terminated by dismissal due to redundancy and that therefore there was no causal link between his dismissal and the granting of the disability pension, so his claim for damages ... was dismissed as unfounded.therefore, in this court’s assessment, the requirements for the application of section 373a of the civil procedure act were not met, given that the appellate court did not establish, in the manner prescribed by section 373a of the civil procedure act, a different set of facts to the one established by the first-instance court, but based its decision on the same facts.” 16.  the applicant subsequently complained to the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) about the supreme court’s decision on his appeal on points of law.he made no allegations of any violation of his rights in respect of the proceedings before the first-instance court or the appellate court.
4.  the applicants’ dates of birth and places of residence are given in the appendix.5.  at the material time the second applicant was a member of an opposition group nida.the third applicant was a member of an opposition group i̇ctimai palata; he was also one of the organisers of several demonstrations held in baku.6.  the first and the second applicants participated in a demonstration organised by the opposition on 20 october 2012. prior to that assembly, on 15 october 2012, the organisers gave notice to the relevant authority, the baku city executive authority (“the bcea”).the bcea refused to authorise the holding of the demonstration at the place indicated by the organisers and proposed a different location on the outskirts of baku – the grounds of a driving school situated in the 20th residential area of the sabail district.nevertheless, the organisers decided to hold the demonstration as planned.7.  the second applicant also participated in demonstrations held on 12 january and 26 january 2013. the third applicant participated in a demonstration held on 30 april 2013. the organisers of those demonstrations gave no proper prior notice to the bcea.information about the demonstrations was disseminated on the internet or in the press.8.  according to the applicants, the demonstrations were intended to be peaceful and were conducted in a peaceful manner.the participants of the demonstration of 20 october 2012 were demanding democratic reforms in the country and free and fair elections, and protesting against impediments on freedom of assembly.the demonstration of 12 january was aimed at protesting about the deaths of soldiers in the army, while the demonstration of 26 january 2013 condemned the use of force by the police against the participants of previous demonstrations.the participants of the demonstration of 30 april 2013 were commemorating the victims of a terrorist attack which had been committed in 2009 at the azerbaijan state oil academy.9.  the police began to disperse the demonstrations of 20 october 2012, 12 january, 26 january and 30 april 2013 as soon as the protesters began to gather.10.  the circumstances related to the dispersal of the demonstration of 20 october 2012, the first and second applicants’ arrests and custody, and subsequent administrative proceedings against them are similar to those in gafgaz mammadov v. azerbaijan (no.11.  the circumstances related to the dispersal of the demonstrations of 12 january, 26 january and 30 april 2013, the second and third applicants’ arrests and custody, and the subsequent administrative proceedings against them are similar to those in bayramov v. azerbaijan ([committee] nos.
4.  the applicant was born in 1966 and lived before his arrest in the arkhangelsk region.he is currently detained in the town of severodvinsk.5.  on an unspecified date the applicant, while being on the wanted list after having breached his undertaking not to leave the place of his residence, was arrested on the charges of violent acts against a public official (article 318 § 1 of the criminal code of the russian federation).on 18 may 2010 the severodvinsk town court of the arkhangelsk region authorised his detention.6.  on 2 september 2010 the applicant asked the town court to apply a non-custodial restraint measure to him.the applicant and his lawyer attended the hearing and made oral submissions.the town court dismissed the motion for release, having referred, in particular, to the applicant’s criminal record, which included two convictions for having mounted threats of violence against a judge, an offence under article 296 of the criminal code, and for contempt of court, punishable under article 297 of the criminal code.the applicant appealed.7.  in the meantime, on 20 september 2010 the applicant was convicted as charged.8.  on 12 october 2010 the arkhangelsk regional court upheld the decision of the town court of 2 september 2010. with reference to its discretional powers under article 379 of the code of criminal procedure of the russian federation the appeal court rejected the applicant’s leave to appear, and held the hearing in his absence.
8.  on 8 march 2015 a court ordered his pre-trial detention, which was further extended on several occasions, in particular on 24 august and 25 november 2015. the applicant appealed against the extension orders on 26 august and 26 november 2015 respectively.in iz-77/6 the applicant has around 3 square metres (sq.m) of personal space, the cell is extremely hot in the summer and extremely damp in the winter, it lacks natural light and fresh air, while access to potable water and hot water is restricted.10.  on 25 november 2015 the applicant was transported between iz‑77/6 and the basmanny district court of moscow in a prison van.personal space in the van was limited and there was not enough fresh air; the applicant had no access to a toilet and no food or drinking water was provided.upon his arrival to the court building and before returning to the remand prison he was detained for about 15 hours in a convoy cell where he disposed of around 0.5 sq.12.  on 8 march 2015 a court ordered their pre-trial detention, which was further extended on several occasions, in particular on 19 february, 1 march and 12 may 2016. appeals filed by the applicants were dismissed on 8 april, 21 april and 28 june 2016 respectively.the conditions of the applicants’ transfer to and from the court building were identical to those described by the applicant in case no.18496/16 out of its list and enclosed the text of a unilateral declaration with a view to resolving the issues it raised.15.  on 13 december 2016 the applicant’s lawyer disclosed the terms of the government’s declaration to the media stating that the russian government and the court had “entered into an agreement under which russia [would] pay a compensation” of six thousand euro to the applicant, that “russia ha[d] acknowledged” the violations and that the applicant was “thinking over the offer but [would] most likely accept it”.the lawyer’s statements were published, in particular, on the websites of the vedomosti and kommersant newspapers and on the website of the ria novosti news agency.61249/16 and 61253/16 were informed of the court’s decision to communicate their applications to the government.the information note in the russian language attached to the letters included, inter alia, information on the strictly confidential nature of all friendly-settlement negotiations.the court also provided the parties with declarations prepared by the registry, aimed at securing a friendly settlement of the cases.18.  on 30 january 2017 the applicants’ lawyer informed several media outlets that the court “had found for the applicants and awarded 6,500 euros to each [applicant]”.that information was published, in particular, on the websites of the kommersant, vedomosti and izvestiya newspapers.
the regional court remitted the case to the investigating judge for the hearing of the witnesses authorised to be heard, in so far as they had not already been heard, and requested the prosecutor to add documents to the file including a description – to be prepared by the aivd – of the documents found in the applicant’s desk.33.  the appeal hearing opened on 28 september 2006. among other things, the applicant’s counsel objected to the refusal, in the proceedings at first instance, to allow the defence an unconditional exemption that would allow the applicant and his counsel to communicate unimpeded; to the hearing of unnamed witnesses under heavy disguise, in a closed box that partially hid them from view and with the use of voice distortion, even though they were the applicant’s former direct colleagues; to the withholding of evidence by the witnesses, based on their duty of secrecy as aivd staff members; and to the withholding of documentary evidence requested by the defence.the conditions accompanying that release, all of which concern interests of state security in relation to interests of the defence in the present criminal proceedings, appear to the court of appeal neither unreasonable within the framework of the interests of state security nor unworkable within the framework of the interests of the defence.... finally, it is the case that if the suspect and the defence, if they consider that the space left to them by the said release is not sufficient to conduct a defence meeting the requirements of the convention and they consider, in their assessment, that he/they have to transgress his/their duty of secrecy further than the conditions governing the release allow, they can plead justification (rechtvaardigingsgrond), namely the interest of a proper defence within the meaning of article 6 of the convention.the advocate general gave the assurance at the hearing of 28 september 2006 that no prosecution would be brought if a violation of the duty of secrecy by the suspect – and as the court of appeal presumes, his counsel as well – was justified by invoking article 6 of the convention.” and “the court of appeal assumes that the defence request [for access to the internal aivd investigation materials] comprises all investigations undertaken by the aivd after it had become known that a third party, i.e. s., possessed [a copy of a classified aivd document].it must be noted in the first place that the defence request does not concern documents in the possession of the public prosecution service within the meaning of article 30 of the code of criminal procedure; none of the participants in the proceedings is aware of the content of the internal investigations, save for what has been stated by witnesses in this respect, and what is set out in the said criminal complaints.the court of appeal takes the provisional view – without wishing to prejudge its final decision [on the question whether the trial was fair] – that the said materials can be assessed based on the statements of the witnesses questioned, albeit, as far as aivd members are concerned, subject to some restrictions owing to their duty of secrecy.” it noted the “particular tension between fundamentally opposed interests”, namely the applicant’s interest as a defendant in a criminal trial and the state interest in maintaining the secrecy of aivd information, but rejected the protests put forward on the applicant’s behalf.the legislature has thus placed the choice in the ‘conflict ... between the interests of state security, which may imperatively require certain sources or information to be kept secret, and the interest of establishing the material truth in, among other things, ... criminal procedure’ [reference to the statutory drafting history of an earlier act, repealed by the 2002 intelligence and security services act, omitted] in the hands of the said ministers.things are different where it concerns the question whether the right of the defence to question witnesses is materially impaired, it being relevant, in the opinion of the court of appeal, whether the statement of that particular witness is used in evidence.” and “the interests of state security, which the 2002 intelligence and security services act and articles 98 and following of the criminal code are intended to protect, stand in the way of granting a complete exemption from the duty of secrecy as desired by the defence.this means that the situation in which the suspect finds himself in the present criminal case leaves only the avenue left by section 86(1) of the said act.” and “the advocate general has given the undertaking, at the court of appeal’s hearing of 2 september 2006, that [the applicant] shall not be prosecuted if a violation of the duty of secrecy by [the applicant] is justified by reliance on article 6 of the convention, with due regard to the demands of proportionality and subsidiarity inherent pertaining to a legal defence (strafuitsluitingsgrond).the conditions attached to the exemption aforementioned, all of which concern the interest of state security in relation to the interests of the defence in the present criminal proceedings, do not appear unreasonable to the court of appeal within the framework of the interests of state security and in the court of appeal’s opinion have done no relevant harm to the interests of the defence.” and “the court of appeal can only answer the question whether the information in issue is to be considered ‘state secret’ or as information relating to state security by referring to the texts, as contained in the file, of [the documents concerned], to the extent that these documents have been added to the file in censored form as appendices to the aivd’s official record of 15 march 2005, [an uncensored e-mail relevant to one of the charges] and the explanations to these documents given by the aivd, especially as contained in the said official record of the head of the aivd of 10 february 2005 and the official record of the acting head of the aivd of 28 december 2006, which latter report has been verified by the national public prosecutor for counter-terrorism (landelijke officier van justitie terrorismebestrijding) as appears from the latter’s official report of 29 december 2006. the court of appeal considers itself sufficiently able to determine the nature and character of this information on the basis of these documents, considered in context.although the aivd, in submitting its official record of 28 december 2006 (verified by the national public prosecutor for counter-terrorism), has not entirely kept to the letter of the court of appeal’s order, the court of appeal has, based on the texts before it, considered in context with the aivd’s explanations in its official records of 10 february 2005 and 28 december 2006, sufficiently gained the understanding referred to.” 42.  the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law (cassatie) with the supreme court (hoge raad).if, however, the trial judge takes the view, whether or not it be in response to a request or a legal argument (verweer) put forward by the defence, that the interest of the defence requires that information falling under the duty of secrecy is disclosed by the suspect, the court will have to weigh the conflicting interests in the case.if the trial court reaches the finding that it is necessary, from the point of view of that convention guarantee, to take cognisance of that secret information and the handicap for the defence [resulting from not being able to disclose it][2] is not sufficiently compensated by the procedure followed, it will have to determine – for example, by hearing the appropriate aivd official or officials on this point – whether the duty of secrecy is to be maintained intact in relation to that information....” the supreme court went on to find that the compensatory measures had been sufficient in the circumstances: the possibility had been offered to hear aivd officials as witnesses without disclosing their identities, and the court of appeal had been sufficiently informed by the information contained in the case file – the uncensored parts of documents, the official explanatory documents submitted by the aivd, and the checking of the aivd position by the national public prosecutor for counter-terrorism – to make a proper assessment as to whether the documents in issue were properly classified state secret.
6.  in december 1993 the applicant became a patient of the gynaecology department of the alfredo da costa maternity hospital (since renamed the central lisbon hospital – centro hospitalar de lisboa central, hereinafter “the chlc”).12.  on 26 april 2000 the applicant brought a civil action in the lisbon administrative court (tribunal administrativo do círculo de lisboa) against the chlc under the state liability act (ação de responsabilidade civil extracontratual por facto ilícito), seeking damages of 70,579,779 escudos (pte), equivalent to 325,050,020 euros (eur), of which pte 50,000,000 (eur 249,399) was in respect of non-pecuniary damage owing to the physical disability caused by the operation.it established, inter alia, the following facts: (i)  that the applicant had suffered since 1995 from a physical deficiency which had given her an overall permanent degree of disability of 73% and that the disability had resulted from the left pudendal nerve being cut; (ii)  after being discharged from hospital, the applicant had complained of pain associated with insensitivity in the part of the body which had been operated on and which had become swollen; (iii)  the left pudendal nerve had been injured during the operation, which had caused the pain from which the applicant was suffering, the loss of sensitivity and the swelling in the vaginal area; (iv)  the applicant had suffered from a decrease in vaginal sensitivity due to the partial lesion to the left pudendal nerve.14.  on the merits, the lisbon administrative court found that the surgeon had acted recklessly by not fulfilling his objective duty of care, in breach of leges artis, and established that there was a causal link between his conduct and the injury to the applicant’s left pudendal nerve.in respect of pecuniary damage, the lisbon administrative court awarded her eur 92,000, of which eur 16,000 was for the services of a maid the applicant had had to hire to help her with household tasks.16.  on 9 october 2014 the supreme administrative court upheld the first-instance judgment on the merits but reduced, inter alia, the amount that had been awarded for the services of the maid from eur 16,000 to eur 6,000 and the compensation for non-pecuniary damage from eur 80,000 to eur 50,000. the relevant part of the judgment on those points reads as follows: “... with respect to damages related to the charges for the maid ... [the plaintiff] could not show the amount paid under that head.indeed, (1) it has not been established that the plaintiff had lost her capacity to take care of domestic tasks, (2) professional activity outside the home is one thing while domestic work is another, and (3) considering the age of her children, she [the plaintiff] probably only needed to take care of her husband; this leads us to the conclusion that she did not need to hire a full-time maid ... lastly, as regards non-pecuniary damage, it is important to set an amount which compensates the plaintiff for her pain and loss of sensation and swelling in the vaginal area, and for the difficulty sitting and walking, which causes her distress and prevents her from going about her everyday life, forcing her to use sanitary towels on a daily basis to conceal urinary and faecal incontinence and which has limited her sexual activity, making her feel diminished as a woman.all this has caused her severe depression, expressing itself in anxiety and somatic symptoms manifested in the difficulty she has sleeping, deep disgust and frustration with the situation in which she finds herself, which has turned her into a very unhappy person and which inhibits her from establishing relationships with others and has caused her to stop visiting family and friends, from going to the beach and theatre and which has given her suicidal thoughts.it should be noted, however, that the plaintiff has been suffering from the gynaecological condition for a long time (at least since 1993) and that she had already undergone various kinds of treatment without any acceptable result and that it was that lack of results and the impossibility of curing the condition otherwise that was the motivation for surgery.thus, having regard to all those aspects, we believe that the compensation awarded at first instance exceeded what could be considered reasonable and, as such, the plaintiff should be awarded eur 50,000 in compensation [in respect of non-pecuniary damage].” 17.  on 29 october 2014 the attorney general’s office attached to the supreme administrative court applied to the supreme administrative court to have the judgment of 9 october 2014 declared null and void (nulidade do acórdão) in the part concerning the amount awarded for non-pecuniary damage.it argued that the reasoning in the judgment and the decision on the amount of compensation were contradictory.iv- in view of the factual basis of the judgment and having regard to the fact that ‘in the absence of unlikely and unexpected occurrences doctors would have cured the plaintiff’s illness and she could have returned to her normal life’, the decision setting the amount of compensation for non-pecuniary damage should not have taken account of the plaintiff’s pain and symptoms of depression prior to the surgical intervention as if they had worsened.that would be to set compensation for non-pecuniary damage on the basis of the fact that the plaintiff would have been cured if the pudendal nerve had not been injured.” 18.  on 4 november 2014 the applicant applied to the supreme administrative court to join the attorney general’s appeal of 29 october 2014, arguing that the judgment of 9 october 2014 should be declared null and void in the part concerning the amount of non-pecuniary damage she had been awarded.19.  on 29 january 2015 the supreme administrative court dismissed the appeals by the attorney general’s office and the applicant and upheld its judgment of 9 october 2014. it considered that the causal link between the injury to the pudendal nerve and the alleged damage had been established.in the opinion of the judges of the supreme administrative court, the applicant’s health problems prior to the operation, and her gynaecological and psychological symptoms in particular, could not be ignored and had been aggravated by the procedure.
the charge was based on the suspicion that he had made home-made explosive devices; that he had sent some of them, together with written threats, to veterinarians and the head office of a supermarket chain; and that he had planted one of the devices next to a fast food outlet and had allowed it to explode with a view to promoting animal rights.11.  on 11 june 2012 the district court prolonged the applicant’s detention by five months (until 1 january 2013) on the grounds that the investigation was not finished, that further charges had been brought against him since may 2012, and that the criminal charges had been reclassified as a crime of terrorism and the acquisition and possession of firearms.the domestic courts concluded that his criminal case was complex owing to the extent and nature of his criminal activity and repeated the grounds for his detention, namely the possibility of his reoffending and absconding.12.  at the pre-trial stage the applicant was committed to the hospital for charged and convicted persons in trenčín on two occasions, namely between january and february 2012 and march and june 2012 because, inter alia, he had demonstrated signs of anxiety, made threats of suicide and needed to have his mental state examined.16.  the regional court observed that in the course of the appellate proceedings, on 24 october 2013, the applicant had submitted a report by two certified experts concluding that he had long been suffering from a mental schizotypal disorder preventing him from understanding the illegal nature of his behaviour and from controlling it (“the second expert report”).19. after the verdict was quashed on appeal and remitted to the district court for re-examination, the applicant, assisted by his lawyer, applied for release on 23 december 2013. he referred to his mental disorder as established in the second expert report of 24 october 2013. he added that he had been seeing a psychiatrist since the age of 14 and needed medicine on a daily basis to prevent suicidal thoughts.according to the transcript of the hearing, the applicant and his counsel reiterated and further developed their arguments made in the application and submitted that his mental condition meant that his absconding was not realistic.22.  the government’s observations show that on the same date the district court sent a letter to the director of the detention centre in košice where the applicant was being held, asking for information about the applicant’s state of health.23.  on 13 january 2014 the district court dismissed the applicant’s application to be released and his supplementary requests, a decision that was upheld by the regional court on 29 january 2014 after an interlocutory appeal by the applicant.regarding the nature, scope and seriousness of the alleged offences and the applicant’s character, the courts concluded that the conditions for a restriction of liberty still existed.he added that the courts had failed to take into account the specific nature of his situation, consisting of his mental disorder; that the length of his detention had been excessive and based on irrelevant and insufficient reasons; and that the only matter open to debate was whether he was legally insane, which impacted on his criminal liability.27.  following remittal of the case by the regional court, the district court asked the expert institute on 9 december 2013 to produce a report on the applicant’s mental condition.29.  nevertheless, the applicant appealed on points of law and the supreme court quashed the district and regional court judgments owing to breaches of the law to the applicant’s disadvantage.the supreme court provided an extensive interpretation of the criminal offence of terrorism and concluded that the lower courts’ legal interpretation of the case had been wrong as the applicant’s motive had not included elements of the crime of terrorism.31.  taking into account the supreme court’s judgment and its legal interpretation of the crime in question, the district court once again found the applicant guilty of, inter alia, the criminal offence of endangering public safety, the illegal acquisition, possession and trafficking of firearms, the making of serious threats, extortion, and attempted bodily harm and sentenced him to twenty-three years and six months in prison on 29 september 2016. it also ordered protective supervision lasting thirty-six months.
5.  the applicant took part in the cleaning up operation at the chernobyl nuclear disaster site.6.  on 5 july 2002 the staryy oskol town court of the belgorod region granted the applicant’s action against the belgorod regional administration and awarded him and his family, comprising two members, a flat in the town of staryy oskol and 3,000 russian roubles (approximately 100 euros) in compensation for non-pecuniary damage.the representative of the regional administration did not attend the hearing: in writing he had requested the town court to adjudicate the case in his absence.9.  on 9 october 2002 the belgorod regional administration lodged a statement of appeal against the judgment of 5 july 2002. the administration also asked the town court to restore the ten-day time-limit for lodging the appeal.the administration claimed that it had received a copy of the judgment of 5 july 2002 by fax on 8 october 2002. the administration asked to stop the enforcement proceedings.he noted that a copy of the judgment had been forwarded to the regional administration at the end of july 2002.11.  on 14 october 2002 the staryy oskol town court restored the time-limit for lodging the appeal, accepted the administration’s statement of appeal and stopped the enforcement proceedings.12.  on 19 november 2002 the belgorod regional court examined the administration’s appeal, quashed the judgment of 5 july 2002 and remitted the case for a fresh examination to the town court.13.  on 20 january 2003 the staryy oskol town court, in the new examination of the case, accepted the applicant’s action in part.the relevant part of the judgment read as follows: “order that the belgorod regional administration should provide ... mr babynin g.a.and his family with housing premises, which satisfy sanitary and technical requirements, in their turn according to the housing waiting list of families having persons with disabilities and individuals who had taken part in the cleaning operation at the site of the chernobyl nuclear plant.dismiss [the claim] for compensation for non-pecuniary damage.” 14.  the judgment was not appealed against and became final on 31 january 2003.16.  according to the applicant, from 5 to 12 march 2004 a group of five people, including the applicant, began a hunger strike to protest against the poor level of welfare protection provided for the chernobyl victims.17.  on 16 april 2004 the mayor of staryy oskol decided to provide the applicant with a flat measuring 55,05 m².18.  on 21 april 2004 the applicant received from the mayor an occupancy voucher in respect of the flat assigned to him.
the initial refusal to institute criminal proceedings referred to the following evidence: -  the statements of the applicant’s mother, who submitted that the applicant had had no injuries when he had left home on 28 august 2007 and that she had found him at the police station later that day with a swollen face, bruises on his back and with his clothes covered in blood; -  a statement by the applicant’s mother that on 26 august 2007 she had witnessed a quarrel between her son and a certain kar., that she had called the police and that the police had helped her take the applicant home; -  statements by a witness, b., who had seen the applicant on 28 august 2007, shortly before his arrest, drunk, but without any visible injuries; b. later saw police officers escorting the applicant to a police car, with the applicant showing no resistance.the applicant had started bleeding and the officers had threatened him, warning him not to tell anyone about the beatings; -  information on the applicant’s health and his disability, as well as his previous criminal and administrative offence records; -  documents on the applicant’s arrest; -  documents on the ambulance doctors’ examination of the applicant on 28 august 2007 in connection with complaints of a bleeding nose and chest pain; -  the forensic medical report of 19 september 2007 (see paragraph 21 above); -  statements by officers s. and k. on the circumstances of the applicant’s arrest.they submitted that they had not witnessed any clashes between the applicant and the police and had not seen the police use physical force against him; -  statements by the investigator, n., who had questioned the applicant on 28 august 2007 and to whom he had explained that his injuries (a scratch on the face and a swollen nose) had been sustained while he was drunk, either by falling down or in some other way, the applicant had not remembered exactly.he had stated that he had been drinking in the courtyard of his house on 26 august 2007 and had picked a fight with a certain kar., with whom he had drunk before; -  information from the temporary detention facility on the applicant’s injuries at the time of his admission (a closed fracture of the nasal bones and an abrasion on the left cheek) and a handwritten note from the applicant to the effect that he had received the injuries after falling down while in an inebriated state and that he had no complaints about the law-enforcement bodies; -  statements by a certain r., who submitted that on 26 august 2007 the applicant and her husband kar.he could not remember whether the applicant had had any injuries on 25 and 26 august 2007; -  an additional forensic medical report of 18 december 2007 which showed that the injury could have been caused on 26 august 2007 but that it could not have been caused by the applicant’s falling down; -  statements by the doctors who examined the applicant on 28 and 29 august 2007 and performed the x-ray examination and by the expert who conducted the initial forensic medical examination.the conclusions of the examinations showed that the closed fracture of the nose and swelling of the soft tissues in the nasal area could have been caused between 26 august and 28 august 2007. it was not possible to completely exclude the possibility that the above injury had originated as the result of the impact of a slightly protruding object.he noted that the case file contained information that police officers at the industrialniy rovd had allegedly inflicted the applicant’s injuries and transferred the criminal case from the investigations department of the industrialniy rovd to the barnaul investigations department of the investigation committee of the altay regional prosecutor’s office.he also wanted to give the applicant’s mother the status of the applicant’s legal representative and question her, to carry out a comprehensive psychological and psychiatric examination of the applicant, to question a number of witnesses on the circumstances of the alleged ill-treatment (among them officer s.), and to join references from work on officers k., s. and ch.he relied on the results of the applicant’s forensic psychiatric examination of 28 october 2008 and therefore the impossibility for the investigation to rely on his statements, as well as the absence of eyewitnesses of the circumstances in which the applicant had received his injuries.according to the forensic medical examination of 14 february 2008, the applicant had had a closed fracture of bones in the nose and swelling of the soft tissues in the nasal area, which had been caused by the impact of a hard, blunt object and could have occurred between 26 august and 28 august 2007. the investigation had not confirmed any fact of ill-treatment of the applicant by s., k. and ch.the decision referred to the applicant’s arrest on 28 august 2007, his statement as to the alleged ill-treatment by the police officers s., k. and ch., the results of the forensic medical examination of 14 february 2008 with a description of his injuries and the time they were inflicted, and the police officers’ denial of the alleged ill-treatment.and z., the applicant and the investigator n., the applicant’s mother and n., the applicant and the police officer who had taken him from the industrialniy rovd to the temporary detention facility and had allegedly threatened him on their way there by warning him not to tell anyone about the beatings, and the applicant and officer k. 50.  on 19 july 2010 the proceedings were suspended for the eleventh time.52.  the proceedings were again suspended on 26 october 2010, 14 january, 10 february and 17 february 2011, and resumed respectively on 12 january, 8 february, 15 february and 7 april 2012. in addition to the previously collected evidence, the decisions on suspension relied on: -  statements by the investigator n.; -  statements by ts., d. and yer., detained at the police station at the same time as the applicant; -  a radiology laboratory assistant k. and the radiologist r.; -  an expert, kl., on the nature of the applicant’s injuries; -  statements by kar.; -  a statement by the witness, s., who submitted that she had seen a fight between the applicant and the witness i., but that she had not seen any injuries on the applicant’s body at that time; -  kr., who submitted that she had seen no injuries on the applicant on 26 august 2007 and that when she had seen him on 1 september 2007 he had had a swollen nose.he had had no other visible injuries; -  a statement by the officer on duty at the temporary detention facility, p., who called an ambulance for the applicant on 29 august 2007; -  the ambulance medics who examined the applicant on 28 august and 29 august 2007, but who could not remember any circumstances of value to the investigation given the length of time since the events in question; -  the neurosurgeon r., who examined the applicant on 29 august 2007 at the hospital and submitted that he could have received his injuries several days prior to the examination; -  the lawyer m., present at the applicant’s questioning at the police station on 28 august 2007. owing to the passage of time, he could not remember whether the applicant had any visible injuries or if he had told him anything about the circumstances of the alleged beatings.
5.  the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in pyatigorsk.6.  the applicant took part in the cleaning-up operation at the chernobyl nuclear disaster site.he was subsequently registered disabled by ukrainian authorities, becoming entitled to various social benefits.7.  in september 1999 the applicant settled in russia.the welfare authorities rejected re-establishing the applicant’s disability status.the applicant challenged the rejection before the courts.8.  on 30 august 2005 the pyatigorsk town court granted the applicant’s claim and ordered the administration of labour and social security of the population of pyatigorsk to issue a certificate of benefits.9.  on 20 september 2009 the judgment became final.10.  on 18 october 2005 the applicant was issued with the certificate of benefits.11.  on 1 november 2006 the presidium of stavropol regional court allowed the defendant authority’s application for supervisory review and quashed the judgment of 30 august 2005, considering that the lower courts misapplied the material law.the case was remitted for fresh consideration.12.  on 13 december 2006 the the pyatigorsk town court discontinued the proceedings since the parties failed to appear.
they relied on the seriousness of the charges, the applicant’s de facto residence not being at his registered address, and the potential risk of intimidation of witnesses or victims, and the risk of obstruction of justice and reoffending.10.  on 12 august 2010 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 30 august 2010 citing the seriousness of the charges and the fact that the investigation had not yet been completed.12.  on 27 august 2010 the district court ruled that the applicant should remain in detention until 30 november 2010. the court endorsed the reasoning of the decision of 12 august 2010 and noted that there were still certain investigative actions to be taken.15.  the district court dismissed that application, having found that the hearing on 12 august 2010 and the ensuing decision had not concerned the determination of the applicant’s guilt and that there was no evidence of the judge’s partiality.18.  the next day the applicant’s lawyer was informed that the appeal hearing had been listed for 23 december 2010. citing his busy schedule, the lawyer asked the court to adjourn the hearing.19.  on 20 january 2011 the city court discovered that a copy of the decision of 29 november 2010 dismissing the application for a change in the composition of the district court had not been served on the defence, which therefore had had no opportunity to challenge it.a written statement from the investigator said that the applicant’s counsel had been informed of the hearing by telephone on 1 april 2010. noting the counsel’s absence, the city court appointed a new lawyer for the defence.28.  the city court extended the applicant’s detention until 30 may 2011. in addition to the usual reference to the seriousness of the charges, it noted the complexity of the case and the need for the investigating authorities to look into recently obtained evidence suggesting that two more people had been involved in the criminal offences.the court also found that the applicant could not be released on medical grounds given the absence of a medical report assessing the compatibility of the applicant’s health with prolonged detention.on 21 april and 5 may 2011 a supplement to the appeal was submitted by the applicant’s lawyer, who, referring to the call records on her mobile telephone, argued that the investigator had not informed her of the hearing on 5 april 2011.30.  on 25 may 2011 the supreme court held the appeal hearing in the absence of the applicant – who was still receiving inpatient treatment – and his counsel, who asked the court to examine the issue in his absence.as it was satisfied with the investigator’s statements about the telephone conversation with the applicant’s lawyer, the court dismissed the argument that the lawyer had not been notified of the hearing on 5 april 2011.35.  a number of additional orders followed, extending the detention until 30 november 2011. the extensions were authorised in view of the seriousness of the charges and the necessity for the applicant to study the case file.41.  at the investigator’s request, on 15 july 2010 a medical panel issued a report concluding that the applicant was fit to stay in the remand prison if he received specific medical care comprising: monitoring of blood sugar levels throughout the day; administration of the requisite medicines and adherence to a specific diet; insulin injections; and “active supervision by an endocrinologist” in order to ensure the correct insulin therapy.dynamic medical supervision by an endocrinologist involves regular medical tests and contact with a doctor ... in a case of stable diabetes with no changes in the insulin level, a medical examination by an endocrinologist must be performed once a month ... [however,] if important changes are being introduced into a patient’s insulin regimen, he or she must have a daily consultation by an endocrinologist ... until the target glucose level is achieved and there is no risk of hypoglycaemia... irregular examinations of [the applicant] did not constitute ‘dynamic supervision’, as their frequency was clearly insufficient for the assessment of the patient’s well‑being in its dynamic ... or for the adjustment of his treatment.
the first applicant was born in 1959 and the second applicant was born in 1981. both live in dorset, the united kingdom.on the same day the court was informed of the death of mr g. and the proceedings were consequently suspended.10.  after having realised that the applicants had not communicated their submissions in reply to the claimants, on 26 october 2007 the court ordered the applicants to do so.11.  later, the court realised that the claimants had not complied with the legal requirement to register the proceedings with the land registry office (conservatória do registo predial).on 18 december 2007 the proceedings were suspended until an unknown date on which the claimants complied with that requirement.12.  on 24 april 2008 the court realised that the applicants had also not complied with the legal requirement to register the counterclaim with the land registry office.13.  on an unknown date the applicants lodged an application for evidence to be immediately obtained from a witness who was residing in the united kingdom.considering that the applicants had not supplemented the application by complying with the necessary legal requirements for such a procedural act, the court dismissed the application on 26 january 2009.14.  on 8 may 2009 the court gave a preliminary decision (despacho saneador) setting out the facts that had already been established and those that had yet to be decided.17.  on the scheduled day the hearing was adjourned due to the absence of the claimants.on an unknown date the applicants appealed against that decision to the guimarães court of appeal.20.  on 20 november 2012 the guimarães court of appeal dismissed the appeal and upheld the first-instance decision.on 5 december 2012 the applicants appealed against that judgment to the supreme court of justice.21.  on 24 april 2013 the supreme court of justice dismissed the appeal and upheld the previous judgment.the applicants’ lawyer was notified of the supreme court of justice judgment on 7 may 2013.
4.  the applicant was born in 1961.5.  on 10 october 2003 a deputy prosecutor in tashkent, uzbekistan, added the applicant’s name to the list of fugitives from justice and issued an arrest warrant on suspicion of human trafficking with the purpose of sexual exploitation.6.  on 26 february 2009 the applicant was arrested in russia.7.  on 28 february 2009 the pechorskiy district court in the pskov region ordered the applicant’s detention pending extradition, referring to articles 108 and 466 of the code of criminal procedure but without setting a time-limit.8.  on 16 march 2009 the russian prosecutor general’s office received a request for the applicant’s extradition from his counterpart in uzbekistan.9.  on 15 may 2009 the deputy russian prosecutor general ordered the applicant’s extradition to uzbekistan.10.  the applicant challenged the extradition order before the pskov regional court.on 26 june 2009 the regional court found that the extradition order was lawful.on 17 august 2009 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the decision on appeal.11.  on 17 october 2009 the applicant was extradited to uzbekistan.
10.  on 23 october 2002 k. applied to moszhilservice (the moscow state commercial agency) for authorisation to exchange his flat in moscow, occupied under a social tenancy agreement, for the flat in kaluga region belonging to the first applicant.the court established that b. had falsified a court judgment authorising the assignment of the flat at 32‑70-69, prospekt vernadskogo, moscow to k. under the social tenancy agreement and then fraudulently arranged for the exchange of flats between k. and the first applicant against the payment by the latter of 1,177,773.40 russian roubles (rub).as a result of b.’s criminal actions, the property rights of the city of moscow to the flat in question had been unlawfully transferred to the first applicant.15.  on 6 march 2006 the moscow city court (“the city court”) amended the judgment of 12 december 2005. in particular, the city court held that as a result of b.’s actions the first applicant had been registered as occupying the flat in question and had acquired the right to become its owner by way of privatisation.however, the first applicant had not had sufficient time to acquire property rights to the flat by way of privatisation and the flat had not been taken from the ownership of the city of moscow.16.  in october 2008 the housing department of the city of moscow brought court proceedings against the first applicant and k. the housing department claimed, with reference to the judgment of 12 december 2005, that all transactions involving the flat at 32-70-69, prospekt vernadskogo, moscow had been unlawful and therefore had to be declared null and void, and the applicants had to be evicted from that flat.she submitted that she could not have known that k. had secured the social tenancy agreement on the basis of forged documents; the exchange of flats between her and k. had been verified and approved by all competent state authorities, and therefore she had to be considered as a bona fide user of the flat.18.  on 6 october 2009 the district court invalidated the social tenancy agreement concluded with k., the exchange of the flats between k. and the first applicant and the exchange voucher of 6 november 2002, and ordered the applicants’ eviction.the district court held as follows: “...taking into account that [k.] had not acquired the right to use the dwelling in question, he therefore could not exchange it, and [the first applicant] could not receive the exchange voucher and move into the dwelling in question.the court declares the transactions null and void in accordance with article 168 of the [civil code] since they are incompatible with the requirements of articles 50, 51, 53, 54, 67-74 of the housing code.3-1-a in the village of novoslobodsk, duminichskiy district, kaluga region, cannot be returned to [the applicant] since it has been subject to several transactions and its value amounts to rub 732,000, the court orders [k.] to pay rub 732,000 in favour of shvidkaya natalya yevgenyevna [the first applicant] ...” 19.  the first applicant appealed.in her appeal she submitted that the city of moscow had not lost its property rights to the flat and, having regard to her status as a bona fide user, the district court had found no grounds for granting the eviction claims.lastly, she pointed out that the district court had not invited the custody agency to give its opinion as regards the eviction of her minor daughter from the flat.22.  on 9 february 2015 the applicants applied to the nikulinskiy district court of moscow, requesting that a duplicate of the writ of execution in respect of the judgment of 6 october 2009 be issued.24.  on 26 june 2015 the bailiff’s office instituted enforcement proceedings in order to recover from k. the amounts awarded in the judgment of 6 october 2009 in favour of the first applicant.
7.  on 30 april 2013 the alchevsk court of the luhansk region convicted the applicant and his four co-defendants of armed robbery committed in an organised group, banditry and illegal possession of firearms in connection with a series of armed attacks committed in the perevalsk district of the luhansk region.the parts of the luhansk region not under the government’s control include the perevalsk district, where the offences for which the applicant was convicted were committed, alchevsk, where the applicant was tried and convicted, and luhansk, where the court of appeal was located.13.  at the time the events of spring and summer 2014 were unfolding, the applicant was detained in starobilsk remand prison, located in the part of the luhansk region that has remained under the control of the ukrainian government.15.  on 2 september 2014 the president of the high civil and criminal court, acting under the law of 12 august 2014 (see paragraph 44 below), reassigned jurisdiction over cases which would normally have fallen within the jurisdiction of the alchevsk court to the lysychansk court of the luhansk region (“the lysychansk court”), located in the government‑controlled area.20.  on 30 march 2015 the parliamentary commissioner’s office responded that there was no way to obtain case files from the territory that was not under the government’s control, but that the commissioner was working with the courts, the prosecutor’s office and other authorities to find a way to resolve the problem.21.  in response to another complaint from the applicant, on 19 may 2015 the court of appeal informed him that it was unable to apprise him of the state of proceedings in his case because his criminal case file was in the court archives in luhansk, to which there was no access.derogation from obligations ... 2. in view of the armed aggression of the russian federation against ukraine involving both the regular armed forces of the russian federation and illegal armed groups guided, controlled and financed by the russian federation, since april 2014 an anti-terrorist operation has been conducted by the units of the security service of ukraine, the ministry of internal affairs of ukraine and the armed forces of ukraine in certain areas of the donetsk and luhansk regions (oblasts) of ukraine.3. the russian federation’s ongoing armed aggression against ukraine, together with war crimes and crimes against humanity committed both by the regular armed forces of the russian federation and by illegal armed groups guided, controlled and financed by the russian federation, constitutes ‘a public emergency threatening the life of the nation’ in the sense of ... article 15 § 1 of the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.4. in order to safeguard the vital interests of society and the state in response to the armed aggression of the russian federation, the parliament of ukraine, the cabinet of ministers of ukraine and other authorities have to adopt decisions which constitute a derogation from certain obligations on the part of ukraine under the international covenant on civil and political rights and the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.the law changed, for the duration of the anti-terrorist operation, the territorial jurisdiction over cases amenable to the courts located in the anti-terrorist operation area and, concerning the situations where it is impossible to conduct a pre-trial investigation in that area, investigative jurisdiction over criminal offences perpetrated there.however, the courts and pre-trial investigation bodies are not currently functioning in certain areas of the donetsk and luhansk regions because of the armed aggression of the russian federation and the actions of terrorist groups backed by the russian federation....” 23.  on 5 june 2015 the permanent representation of ukraine to the council of europe transmitted to the secretary general of the council of europe a note verbale containing the text of the above declaration and its translation.the prosecutor stated that the case file in question was not in the area of the luhansk region controlled by the ukrainian government and that it was therefore not possible to furnish the court with any of the material therein.33.  following communication of the case to the respondent government, on 11 august 2016 the regional prosecutor’s office informed the office of the government agent that, apart from the applicant, there were seven other individuals still held in the region’s remand prisons against whom criminal proceedings were still pending but whose case files were in the non-government-controlled areas.assistance had also been requested from the international committee of the red cross, which operated in both the government-controlled and the non-government-controlled areas, in facilitating the transfer of files from the court of appeal’s building in luhansk.
7.  on 21 december 2006 the district court held a hearing on extension of the applicant’s detention.the applicant asked to postpone the hearings for five days because his counsel was sick and could not attend.the district court dismissed the request, assigned lawyer n. to represent the applicant, proceeded with the hearing and extended the applicant’s detention.the applicant’s objection to the participation of n. on account of their different defence strategies and n.’s limited knowledge of the case-file was also dismissed.8.  the applicant and his counsel appealed, complaining, in particular, about a breach of the applicant’s right to defend himself through legal assistance of his own choosing.on 18 january 2007 the perm regional court upheld the detention order of 21 december 2006, having also noted that the legal aid lawyer n. had been appointed because the detention matter “had to be examined immediately”.9.  on 19 january 2007 the district court once again extended the applicant’s detention.on 8 february 2007 the regional court held the appeal hearing without informing the applicant in advance about the hearing date.the applicant’s counsel attended the appeal hearing and made oral submissions.the regional court dismissed the appeal and upheld the detention order of 19 january 2007.11.  on 21 march 2007 the applicant was committed to stand trial before the regional court.five days later, on 26 march 2007, the trial court scheduled a preliminary hearing for 3 april 2007 and ruled that, in the meantime, the measure of restraint in respect of the applicant should remain unchanged until the preliminary hearing.12.  the applicant appealed, complaining, among other matters, that that decision in the part relating to his detention was unlawful and that it had been delivered in his and his lawyer’s absence.on 14 may 2007 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the decision, having found, in particular, that the trial judge’s decision was no more than a restatement of the detention order of 16 march 2007 extending the applicant’s detention until 4 april 2007 (see paragraph 10 above).13.  at the preliminary hearing on 3 april 2007 the trial court extended the applicant’s detention until 21 september 2007.
5.  on 22 december 1998 the first applicant lodged a compensation claim with the sarajevo municipal court, seeking damages against the federation of bosnia and herzegovina (“the federation”) for goods seized during the 1992-95 war.6.  on 10 may 2007 the sarajevo municipal court ordered the federation to pay the first applicant 521,556.20 convertible marks (bam – approximately 266,370 euros (eur)) in respect of pecuniary damage, together with default interest at the statutory rate from april 1992, and legal costs, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the civil obligations act of 1978.8.  on an unspecified date the federation lodged an appeal on points of law with the supreme court of the federation of bosnia and herzegovina (“the supreme court”) against the judgment of 23 january 2009. on 10 june 2010 the supreme court dismissed the appeal.15.  on 17 august 2010 the first applicant lodged an appeal with the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina (“the constitutional court”), complaining about the non-enforcement of the final judgment of 10 may 2007.moreover, they were not suspended for any of the reasons prescribed by the enforcement procedure act of 2003 ... under the enforcement procedure act of 2003, the enforcement court’s duty does not end once an enforcement order has been issued and delivered to the competent authority for enforcement.40.  therefore, the failure of the municipal court to ... terminate the enforcement proceedings in one of the ways prescribed by [the enforcement procedure act of 2003] ... without any justification based on the relevant law has led to an unlawful interference with the appellant’s right to the peaceful enjoyment of his possessions under article ii/3.k) of the constitution of bosnia and herzegovina and article 1 of protocol no.1 to the european convention.” 19.  neither the judgment of 10 may 2007 (the amount due in respect of default interest) nor the constitutional court’s decision of 12 june 2013 has been fully enforced until the present day according to the last available information.22.  on 28 may 2007 the orašje municipal court ordered the federation to pay the second applicant bam 70,000 (approximately eur 35,260) in respect of pecuniary damage, together with default interest at the statutory rate from april 2003 and legal costs, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the civil obligations act of 1978.29.  on 10 december 2010 the bank informed the orašje municipal court that it could not make any payments from the debtor’s account without the approval of the federal ministry of finance.30.  on 4 november 2011 the federal ministry of finance informed the second applicant that, in accordance with the amendments to the domestic debt act of 2004 (see paragraph 42 below), he would receive payment in cash for the nominal value of those of his government bonds with which he had not traded on the stock exchange market, reduced by the amount paid in respect of the interest earned on bonds.33.  on 12 june 2012 the ministry of finance informed the orašje municipal court that the judgment of 28 may 2007 had been fully enforced as regards the principal debt and legal costs, and that there was no legal basis for the payment of default interest.34.  on 5 april 2013 the orašje municipal court instructed the second applicant to bring a civil action for damages against the bank under the ordinary rules of tort law for failure to comply with the execution order of 14 december 2007 and to fully enforce the judgment of 28 may 2007.35.  on 2 april 2014 the orašje municipal court amended the execution order of 14 december 2007 in respect of the means of enforcement in that it ordered that the enforcement be executed with funds in accounts held by the debtor in two different banks.1 to the convention in the case of the second applicant and in three other cases on account of the excessive delay in the enforcement in respect of each case.it also held that the enforcement schedule under the domestic debt act of 2004, which at the time stipulated that final judgments should be enforced by the payment of war damages in governments bonds in lieu of cash, had placed a disproportionate burden on the appellants.
8.  according to the applicants, on an unspecified date and in a specified manner, the entrepreneurs notified the town administration of their intention to “constantly do night shifts at the market until the matters relating to the legality of the land’s transfer and the demolition of the market [were] settled”.the court held as follows: “[the defendant] violated the procedure for organising and managing a gathering (собрание); he disobeyed a lawful order issued by police officers in relation to their duties to ensure public order and safety, he also obstructed their exercise of the above duties ... [the defendant’s] guilt is confirmed by the following documents: the record of the administrative offence, a complaint and written statements issued by the market director, written reports by police officers, and statements from witnesses ...” 13.  on the same day mr khripunov was sentenced to five days’ detention.the court held as follows: “[the defendant] violated the procedure for organising and managing a gathering; he disobeyed a lawful order issued by police officers in relation to their duties to ensure public order and safety, he also obstructed their exercise of the above duties ... n., a witness, made the following statement before this court, ‘on 7 august 2009 a group of entrepreneurs were doing night shifts to prevent the demolition of the market building.[the defendant] was also grabbed by the police; he did not show any resistance during this procedure ...’ the court adopts a critical stance in relation to the testimony of this witness, who is the [defendant’s] acquaintance and colleague, because this testimony is refuted by the bulk of the other evidence, namely the officers’ written reports made in their official capacity ...” 14.  a judgment, apparently in similar terms, was issued in respect of mr khavantsev, who was sentenced to ten days’ detention.as the material in the file and testimonies indicate, the police acted lawfully with the aim of ensuring public order and public safety, because the entrepreneurs were blocking access to the market for employees and had not reacted to lawful orders from the police to stop these actions ... the court adopts a critical attitude in respect of the testimony of d., who tried to help her colleague avoid responsibility for the offence, because this testimony is refuted by the other evidence ...” 23.  by a decision of 13 august 2009, in respect of mr khripunov, the district court held: “p., a witness, stated before the appeal court ‘on 7 august 2009 ... people in plain clothes and the police arrived at the market and, following orders from the chief officer of the sovetskiy police station, started to arrest entrepreneurs without explaining the reasons for such arrests.[the defendant] was also arrested, while showing no resistance or disobedience to any specific orders ...’ the fact that [the defendant] committed the offence is confirmed by: – the record of the administrative offence stating ‘after his violation of the procedure for organising and managing public events, while being arrested, he disobeyed the lawful order of a police officer, grabbed his uniform and tried to escape ...’; – written statements from [three passers-by] who, while passing through the market area, saw some fifty people chanting slogans and calling for the dismissal of the mayor and the governor and for violations of the public order.the court dismisses the defence’s argument that [the defendant] lawfully participated in a gathering requiring no prior authorisation, because the police’s actions were lawful and aimed to secure public order and public safety, since the entrepreneurs were blocking the market employees’ access to the building ... the court adopts a critical attitude in respect of the testimony of p., who is the defendant’s colleague and wants to help him, because this testimony is refuted by the bulk of the other evidence.” 24.  an appeal decision in similar terms was issued in respect of mr khavantsev.in respect of each defendant, the reviewing judge stated as follows: “i dismiss the defence’s argument that the lower courts’ judges omitted to specify the type of public event in which the defendant had participated, the relevant regulations on such public events, and the specific details concerning the police’s orders to the defendant.moreover, the judgment does not indicate that the defendant did disobey a lawful order issued by a police officer.” in respect of ms guseva, the appeal court held as follows: “it is indicated in the record of the administrative offence that the defendant violated the procedure relating to the organisation and management of demonstrations, meetings and gatherings, and that during her arrest she disobeyed the lawful order of a police officer in relation to his work to ensure public order.the record does not specify what type of public event was being held, which above-mentioned procedure was violated, or what orders relating to maintaining public order during a public event were not complied with by the defendant.” in respect of ms suprunova, the appeal court held as follows: “the record of the administrative offence indicates that on 7 august 2009 the defendant violated the procedure relating to the organisation and management of demonstrations, meetings and gatherings, [and that] during her arrest she resisted the lawful order of a police officer and grabbed his uniform and tried to escape ... the record does not indicate what type of public event was being held, which applicable procedure the defendant allegedly violated, what orders relating to maintaining public order during such an event were issued to the defendant by the police, or which of those orders was not complied with.” in respect of ms zakharova, the appeal court held as follows: “neither the record of the administrative offence nor the first-instance judgment refers to specific facts and actions forming part of the offence imputed to the defendant, namely disobeying the lawful order of a police officer ... or the specific order given to her which she failed to comply with.the record does not specify what the defendant’s violation of the procedure concerning the organisation and management of demonstrations, meetings and gatherings was, or what type of event was being held.” 28.  the appeal court ordered the return of the case files to the relevant justice of the peace.the justice of the peace found as follows: “[the defendant] disobeyed the police officers and did not comply with lawful orders to stop violating public order ... the defendant’s guilt is confirmed by: the administrative-offence record, the police officers’ reports and the written testimonies of witnesses ...” 33.  according to the government, mr buzov did not serve his sentence, as he was taken to the cardiology unit of a local hospital on the evening of 10 august 2009.the deficiencies of the record make it impossible to establish the defendant’s liability for an administrative offence, and the record must be returned to the [police].” in respect of ms khavantseva and ms garkavets, the appeal court held as follows: “neither the record of the administrative offence nor the justice of the peace’s judgment specifies how the defendant violated public order, or which specific order was given by the police in this connection but not complied with by her.” 40.  it appears that the files were then returned to the police for the documents to be amended.having summarised the above testimonies, he concluded as follows: “no sufficient and objective data could be gathered during the inquiry to show that any police officers had committed any criminal offence ... the grievances presented in the complaints are refuted by the testimonies from the officers ... injuries could have been sustained during the arrest procedure owing to the resistance displayed to the police officers (such resistance later being confirmed by the prosecution for the administrative offences).he indicated that it was necessary to: assess the available court decisions regarding administrative offences concerning the events on 7 august 2009; identify and interview people who had been kept with the arrested people at the police station; identify and interview all police officers who had been present at the station and had compiled administrative-offence files against the arrested entrepreneurs; and identify and interview all the officers who had been on duty on that date and had been present at the market.
5.  on 28 february 2011 the applicant was sued by his son in proceedings on child maintenance before the čadca district court (file no.10 c 38/2011).6.  during those proceedings he made an incomplete submission on 21 april 2011, which he supplemented the month after alleging that he had been waiting for a response from the centre for legal aid in respect of his request for a legal aid lawyer.he also lodged two complaints with the president of the district court about the excessive length of proceedings, namely on 9 february 2012 and 29 february 2012, which were unsuccessful.having been dissatisfied with their outcome, he turned to the appellate court for review of his complaints to no avail.7.  the district court, on the other hand, took the following steps.it asked several public authorities, such as for example social security authority and the job centre, to provide it with information relevant to the case.between may 2012 and april 2014, it was dealing with an appointment of a guardian to the applicant, who at the material time was undergoing an ambulatory psychiatric treatment.such an appointment was eventually revoked in september 2014 on the grounds that the centre for legal aid had appointed a lawyer for the applicant in june 2014. the district court also joined the present case file to another set of proceedings for several months.in january 2014, the district court judge responsible for hearing the applicant’s case changed.8.  on 13 may 2015 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s complaint about a violation of his right to a hearing within a reasonable time in the proceedings held before the district court as manifestly ill-founded.it concluded that the district court proceeded with the matter actively and properly, apart from a few minor exceptions, such as the joining of a case file to another set of proceedings, changing of the judge and a procedural error made during one of the hearings.in particular, the constitutional court took into account the fact that the applicant had complained of excessive delays with the president of the district court and challenged them further on appeal on each occasion.it also scheduled a hearing for 12 august 2015, which was adjourned to 31 august 2015. it then postponed the latter hearing to an unspecified date, since it had to deal with a procedural request from the plaintiff, which was also challenged on appeal.in the absence of any further information from the parties, it appears that the proceedings are still pending and no judgment on the merits has been delivered by the district court.
according to the applicant, the unit did not employ the necessary medical specialists and did not have the equipment needed to treat his condition.9.  since there were no positive developments in the applicant’s health and the pain persisted, on 13 march 2007 he was taken to the regional prison hospital in novosibirsk.13.  in the meantime, the applicant was sent back and forth between the medical unit and the prison hospital, mainly receiving medication for his symptoms.14.  on 1 december 2008 a special medical board confirmed the applicant’s disability and ordered a magnetic resonance imaging examination (“mri”), however, the detention facility had no funds to pay for it.16.  in july 2010 the detention authorities applied for his admission to the spinal surgical unit of the gaaza hospital.17.  on 6 december 2010 the applicant complained to the prosecutor of novosibirsk region about the failure of the medical authorities to duly apply for his transfer to the prison hospital.by a letter of 28 december 2010 the prosecutor supported the applicant’s allegations, noting that a prison official had already been disciplined for the failure to submit the applicant’s complete medical file to gaaza prison hospital.the prosecutor ordered the detention authorities to apply for the applicant’s admission to the prison hospital.18.  on 24 february 2011 the applicant was seen by the chief traumatology specialist of novosibirsk region, who prescribed spine surgery, an operation which was accessible through the quota system (for the applicable quota regulation see paragraph 28 below).on 1 march 2011 the hospital’s medical board asked the regional authorities to allocate a surgery quota to the applicant.20.  in the meantime, the applicant brought a tort action with the toguchinskiy district court of novosibirsk region, complaining about the authorities’ failure to provide him with effective medical assistance, in particular, the required spine surgery.21.  on 23 november 2011 the district court dismissed the applicant’s claim, finding that he had been provided with the required medical assistance.as regards the subject of the claim, the alleged failure to perform spine surgery, the court noted that the authorities had already asked for a surgery quota to be allocated to the applicant.23.  on 5 july 2012 the novosibirsk regional court refused to reopen the case by way of a cassation appeal, affirming the lower courts’ decisions.24.  on 7 november 2012 a special medical board at the novosibirsk research institute of traumatology and orthopaedics, the regional medical authority in charge of quota distribution, refused to allocate one to the applicant.
5.  the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in kyiv.6.  on 7 may 2015 the applicant stood trial before the kyiv obolonsky district court, charged with unlawful purchase and possession of large quantities of narcotic drugs, an offence under article 309 § 2 of the criminal code.the applicant was unrepresented.7.  it appears from the trial court judgment that when questioned in the course of the trial, the applicant stated that he had been feeling unwell so had been taking tramadol to relieve the pain.he admitted that on 22 january 2015 he had bought ten blisters of tramadol, a narcotic-like pain reliever, from a stranger in the street for the equivalent of about eur 53 and had been arrested shortly afterwards.in view of those admissions the trial court, relying on article 349 § 3 of the code of criminal procedure (“ccp”) (see paragraph 13 below), ruled it unnecessary to examine the evidence related to the “circumstances”, which were “not contested by any party”.on the same day the trial court convicted the applicant of illegal purchase and possession of drugs, an offence under article 309 § 2 of the criminal code, and sentenced him to two years and six months’ imprisonment.8.  the applicant appealed, arguing that his admissions before the trial court had related only to the facts and not to the legal classification of the offence, which he maintained was erroneous.he argued that mere possession of tramadol was not unlawful as such, except where it was in breach of the applicable regulations.for this reason, his acts should have been classified not under article 309 of the criminal code as drug possession but rather under article 320 of the criminal code, namely breach of the rules related to the purchase and circulation of drugs and analogous products.9.  on 1 july 2015 the kyiv city court of appeal, sitting as a single‑judge formation, denied the applicant leave to appeal.the court stated that the applicant had admitted the circumstances of the offence and the trial court had then proceeded under article 349 § 3 of the ccp.however, in his appeal the applicant was contesting his conviction under article 309 of the criminal code and the legal classification of his actions.the court held that, because of the applicant’s admission and the procedure used at the trial under article 394 § 2 of the ccp (see paragraph 14 below), the decision was not amenable to appeal on the grounds invoked by the applicant.10.  on 3 august 2015 the higher specialised civil and criminal court dismissed an appeal on points of law lodged by the applicant, holding that the court of appeal’s decision had complied with the rules of criminal procedure.
5.  on 16 february 2004 eviction proceedings were instituted against the applicant’s husband, a.s., before the court of torres novas (domestic proceedings no.8.  on 7 november 2006 the court suspended the proceedings and on 9 november 2007 it declared the proceedings’ interruption as the claimant had not taken the initiative of continuing the proceedings against the defendant’s heirs.9.  on 18 december 2007 the claimant applied for leave to continue the proceedings against the defendant’s heirs (incidente de habilitação de herdeiros).10.  after having faced some difficulties in summoning the heirs, the court managed to summon all of them and on 13 june 2009 the defendant’s heirs, including the applicant, were admitted as parties to the proceedings.11.  on 26 june 2009 the court was informed of the claimant’s death.12.  on an unknown date one of the claimant’s heirs, a.o., applied for leave to continue the proceedings with her and the other claimant’s heir as parties.13.  on 22 june 2012 the court admitted the claimant’s heirs as parties to the proceedings.14.  on 22 january 2010 the court was informed of the death of one of the defendant’s heirs.applied for leave to continue the proceedings against the heirs of the deceased party.17.  on 14 december 2012 the court gave a preparatory decision setting out the facts that had already been established and those that remained outstanding (despacho saneador).18.  on 14 january 2013 the claimant’s heirs requested an inspection to the house, which took place on 3 april 2013.19.  on 29 may 2013 the hearing that had been scheduled for that day was postponed as the parties’ lawyers were not present.21.  on 14 january 2014 the court adopted a decision with regard to the factual basis (resposta à matéria de facto) and on 13 march 2014 it delivered its decision in which it ordered the applicant to vacate the house and to pay rent arrears.23.  as the applicant had not complied with the 13 march 2014 decision (see paragraph 21 above), on 19 january 2015 the claimant instituted enforcement proceedings against her before the santarém court.24.  according to the latest information received by the court on 23 november 2015, on that date the enforcement proceedings were still pending at first instance.
4.  on 18 january 2007 the moscow city authorities, the ministry of the defence of the russian federation and a private construction company signed an investment contract for the construction of a number of residential buildings in moscow.pursuant to the contract, a title to 3,823 flats was to be transferred to the ministry of the defence.the rest of the flats were to remain the city’s property.it appears that a number of flats in those buildings were transferred to the ministry of the defence.subsequently those people successfully applied to the zyuzinskiy district court of moscow seeking recognition of their title to the flats by way of privatisation.once the court’s judgments became final, they had their ownership in respect of the flats registered in the state register and then sold the flats to other persons, including the applicants.the relevant transactions and transfer of the title to the property were duly registered by the authorities.8.  according to the government, in 2012 and 2013 the police opened criminal investigation in respect of the fraudulent transactions with the flats.9.  on an unspecified date city authorities asked the district court to re‑open the cases concerning the flats privatised by the tenants who sold them to the applicants in 2011. the authorities claimed that the flats owned by the applicants were the city’s property.the district court granted the request, quashed the earlier judgments allowing the privatisation of the flats and re-examined the cases.the court established, inter alia, that the ministry of the defence had never owned the flats and, accordingly, had not had a right to assign them to private individuals.it granted the city’s claims in full invalidating the decisions of the ministry of the defence in respect of the flats and ordering the applicants’ eviction.the court also found that the applicants had acquired the flats in good faith.however, it ruled that the cases fell under one of the two exceptions to the protection of a bona fide purchaser’s title, which required that precedence be given to the city of moscow given that the flats had left the city’s possession against the latter’s will.the moscow city court and the supreme court of the russian federation rejected them as unsubstantiated.
6.  the applicants each owned a share in respective plots of land in the area of firuzköy, in the district of avcılar, istanbul.7.  on 24 december 1987, a new zoning plan was put into force in the area of firuzköy, which encompassed the applicants’ plots of land.subsequently, in 1988, 1989, 1990 and 1991, annotations (şerhler) were made in the land registry records indicating that the applicants’ land would be expropriated by istanbul university (hereinafter “the university”).8. on 26 march 1998 the applicants both asked the university to either expropriate the disputed land or to remove the annotations from the land registry records.the university informed the applicants, on 27 april 1998 and 28 april 1998 respectively, that the expropriation proceedings would commence when the necessary funding was provided.10.  on 12 december 2003, relying on expert reports which had indicated that the applicants’ land had been fenced off by the university, the küçükçekmece civil court of first instance awarded the first applicant 97,125,000,000 turkish liras (trl) and the second applicant 37,837,500,000 trl by way of compensation for de facto expropriation.in its respective judgments, the first-instance court held in particular that the land at issue had been under the effective control of the university and that access to the land was restricted due to the fences that had been built around the land.11.  on 22 june 2004 the fifth civil division of the court of cassation quashed the judgments of the küçükçekmece civil court of first instance, holding that the land in question had not been controlled or used effectively by the university.12.  on 24 september 2004 both applicants requested the rectification of the respective decisions dated 22 june 2004. in their petitions, they drew the attention of the fifth civil division of the court of cassation to its previous decisions, dated 28 september 1999 and 31 march 2003, in which it had held that neighbouring plots of land in the same area had been de facto expropriated by the university because the latter had built fences around the land and because of the annotations made in the land registry records.13.  on 12 april 2005 the fifth civil division of the court of cassation rejected the applicants’ requests for rectification of the decisions of 22 june 2004. however, it did not express any reason as to why it had reached a different conclusion from its previous decisions dated 28 september 1999 and 31 march 2003.14.  on 6 october 2005 the küçükçekmece civil court of first instance complied with the decisions of the court of cassation and dismissed the cases.15.  on 28 november 2005 both applicants filed an appeal, reiterating their argument concerning the contradictory decisions (see paragraph 12 above) delivered by the fifth civil division of the court of cassation.16.  on 27 march 2006 and 4 april 2006 respectively, the fifth civil division of the court of cassation dismissed the appeals.in its decisions, it gave no reply to the applicants’ arguments regarding the fact that it had given contradictory judgments in respect of similar cases.17.  the applicants’ requests for the rectification of the decisions were furthermore rejected and the judgments became final on 28 september 2006 and 3 october 2006 respectively.
12.  the employer’s internal regulations prohibited the use of company resources by employees in the following terms: article 50 “any disturbance of order and discipline on company premises shall be strictly forbidden, in particular: ... – ... personal use of computers, photocopiers, telephones or telex or fax machines.” 13.  the regulations did not contain any reference to the possibility for the employer to monitor employees’ communications.20.  at 5.20 p.m. the employer again summoned him to give an explanation in a notice worded as follows: “please explain why the entire correspondence you exchanged between 5 to 12 july 2007 using the s. bucharest [internet] site id had a private purpose, as shown by the attached forty-five pages.” 21.  the forty-five pages mentioned in the notice consisted of a transcript of the messages which the applicant had exchanged with his brother and his fiancée during the period when he had been monitored; the messages related to personal matters and some were of an intimate nature.he asked the court, firstly, to set aside the dismissal; secondly, to order his employer to pay him the amounts he was owed in respect of wages and any other entitlements and to reinstate him in his post; and thirdly, to order the employer to pay him 100,000 romanian lei (approximately 30,000 euros) in damages for the harm resulting from the manner of his dismissal, and to reimburse his costs and expenses.26.  with regard specifically to the harm he claimed to have suffered, the applicant noted the manner of his dismissal and alleged that he had been subjected to harassment by his employer through the monitoring of his communications and the disclosure of their contents “to colleagues who were involved in one way or another in the dismissal procedure”.in the instant case it has been shown, through the written documents included in the file, that the employer conducted the disciplinary investigation in respect of the applicant by twice summoning him in writing to explain himself [and] specifying the subject, date, time and place of the interview, and that the applicant had the opportunity to submit arguments in his defence regarding his alleged acts, as is clear from the two explanatory notices included in the file (see copies on sheets 89 and 91).the court takes the view that the monitoring of the internet conversations in which the employee took part using the yahoo messenger software on the company’s computer during working hours – regardless of whether or not the employer’s actions were illegal in terms of criminal law – cannot undermine the validity of the disciplinary proceedings in the instant case.the fact that the provisions containing the requirement to interview the suspect (învinuitul) in a case of alleged misconduct and to examine the arguments submitted in that person’s defence prior to the decision on a sanction are couched in imperative terms highlights the legislature’s intention to make respect for the rights of the defence a prerequisite for the validity of the decision on the sanction.in the present case, since the employee maintained during the disciplinary investigation that he had not used yahoo messenger for personal purposes but in order to advise customers on the products being sold by his employer, the court takes the view that an inspection of the content of the [applicant’s] conversations was the only way in which the employer could ascertain the validity of his arguments.given that it has been shown that the employees’ attention had been drawn to the fact that, shortly before the applicant’s disciplinary sanction, another employee had been dismissed for using the internet, the telephone and the photocopier for personal purposes, and that the employees had been warned that their activities were being monitored (see notice no.the court considers that the acts committed by the applicant constitute a disciplinary offence within the meaning of article 263 § 2 of the labour code since they amount to a culpable breach of the provisions of article 50 of s.’s internal regulations ..., which prohibit the use of computers for personal purposes.having regard to the factual and legal arguments set out above, the court considers that the decision complained of is well-founded and lawful, and dismisses the application as unfounded.” 29.  the applicant appealed to the bucharest court of appeal (“the court of appeal”).30.  the court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal in a judgment of 17 june 2008, the relevant parts of which read: “the first-instance court has rightly concluded that the internet is a tool made available to employees by the employer for professional use, and that the employer is entitled to set rules for the use of this tool, by laying down prohibitions and provisions which employees must observe when using the internet in the workplace; it is clear that personal use may be refused, and the employees in the present case were duly informed of this in a notice issued on 26 june 2007 in accordance with the provisions of the internal regulations, in which they were instructed to observe working hours, to be present at the workplace [during those hours and] to make effective use of working time.in view of the fact that the employer has the right and the duty to ensure the smooth running of the company and, to that end, [is entitled] to supervise how its employees perform their professional tasks, and the fact [that it] enjoys disciplinary powers which it may legitimately use and which [authorised it in the present case] to monitor and transcribe the communications on yahoo messenger which the employee denied having exchanged for personal purposes, after he and his colleagues had been warned that company resources should not be used for such purposes, it cannot be maintained that this legitimate aim could have been achieved by any other means than by breaching the secrecy of his correspondence, or that a fair balance was not struck between the need to protect [the employee’s] privacy and the employer’s right to supervise the operation of its business.... accordingly, having regard to the considerations set out above, the court finds that the decision of the first-instance court is lawful and well-founded and that the appeal is unfounded; it must therefore be dismissed, in accordance with the provisions of article 312 § 1 of the c[ode of] civ[il] pr[ocedure].” 31.  in the meantime, on 18 september 2007 the applicant had lodged a criminal complaint against the statutory representatives of s., alleging a breach of the secrecy of correspondence.on 9 may 2012 the directorate for investigating organised crime and terrorism (diicot) of the prosecutor’s office attached to the supreme court of cassation and justice ruled that there was no case to answer, on the grounds that the company was the owner of the computer system and the internet connection and could therefore monitor its employees’ internet activity and use the information stored on the server, and in view of the prohibition on personal use of the it systems, as a result of which the monitoring had been foreseeable.
1 on the fiduciary transfer of the latter’s property to the applicant (anex br.7.  on 31 october 2003 the fiduciary transfer of beranka ad’s property to the applicant was registered by the real estate office in berane (direkcija za nekretnine, područna jedinica berane).11.  following the decision of 17 september 2004, on 11 october 2004 the insolvency administrator for beranka ad (stečajni upravnik) lodged a request with the real estate office in berane seeking that the registration of the fiduciary transfer of property to the applicant be erased.on 6 february 2007 the administrative court quashed the decision of the real estate department in podgorica and remitted case to the real estate department in berane.17.  on 11 april 2007 the administrative court issued an enforcement decision ordering the registration of the applicant’s fiduciary rights in respect of all properties.the hearings concerning the objection were held on 11 august 2004, 31 may 2005 and 17 april 2006. on 24 august 2006 the commercial court dismissed the applicant’s objection.19.  on 17 january 2007 the real estate department in berane again erased the fiduciary transfer of beranka ad’s property from the public register.20.  on 3 september 2007 the ministry of finance upheld the decision of the real estate department to erase the applicant’s fiduciary rights.21.  on 8 july 2008, upon an appeal by the applicant, the administrative court quashed the decision of the ministry and remitted the case to the real estate department in berane for reconsideration.22.  on 2 october 2008 the real estate department in berane ordered the removal of the applicant’s rights on beranka ad’s property from the public register.23.  on 9 april 2009 the ministry of finance quashed the decision of 2 october 2008 and remitted case to the first instance.24.  on 8 april 2010 the real estate department in berane stayed the proceedings, because it needed some documents which were in the file of a case pending before the commercial court.this decision was quashed by decision of the ministry of finance and the matter was remitted to the first instance.25.  on 26 october 2011 the real estate department adopted a decision allowing the deletion of the applicant’s rights from the public register.on 30 november 2012 the administrative court rendered a decision in the applicant’s favour and ordered the ministry of finance to reconsider on the applicant’s prior objection.
the following special security measures were ordered: placement in an individual cell, individual access to the prison yard, receiving visits in a booth rather than in the collective visiting area, use of plastic knives and forks, opening of the cell only by heads of section accompanied by two prison officers, accompaniment by a member of staff during the detainee’s movements and implementation of special surveillance involving checks on the cell by a prison officer every fifteen minutes to ensure that nothing abnormal was happening.18.  r. explained that owing to the exiguity of the cell, he was unable to maintain his grip on the back of the detainee’s neck and he decided to resort to a different stranglehold technique, which involved an “armlock” around the detainee’s neck, while forcing him down to the ground.21.  on arrival at the door to the isolation cell, the officers placed michael tekin face down on the floor owing to the narrowness of the door, and dragged him inside.23.  when the nurse and the duty doctor arrived at the inner security gate of the prison, an officer, who had been a witness to the events, informed them that the “service 100” (the medical emergency service) and the smur (emergency ambulance service) had been called at about 11.54 a.m. a transcription of the call is included in the case file.the forensic pathologist instructed by the public prosecutor travelled to the scene of the events at 2.20 p.m. on the same day and noted very extensive cyanosis of the face and the neck region, and the presence of food products in the region of the nostrils and mouth.they hadn’t managed to resuscitate him.” 31.  later on the same day r. was questioned again, and he added the following statement: “i would point out that during my explanation of the reasons for the [special security] measures i noticed the expression in michael tekin’s eyes changing and becoming more threatening, such that i was already on my guard when he got up.... i think he was still alive because several times i felt resistance in his arm.” 33.  dr b. carried out the autopsy the next day, on 9 august 2009. the autopsy report of 14 august 2009 concluded that the manoeuvres on his neck had caused injuries deep enough to fracture the right upper horn of the thyroid cartilage and that those injuries had been prolonged, because symptoms of asphyxiation had been observed.35.  the reconstruction of the events led dr b., who had carried out the autopsy, to the conclusion that the cervical manoeuvres had been caused by the armlock applied by r., while the weight applied by l. on michael tekin’s thorax had had a negative effect on the latter’s respiratory mechanism and been conducive to asphyxia, his respiration being further hindered by the manner in which he had been transported to the isolation cell.37.  at the 24 october 2012 hearing before the charleroi criminal court, dr b. submitted that it was not impossible that the detainee’s fall to the ground had produced the force leading to the fracture of the right upper horn of the thyroid cartilage and that it had been quite possible that the armlock had on its own been sufficient to bring about the fatal outcome.furthermore, dr b. took the view that the compression of the thorax and the fact that tekin had been carried to the isolation cell were not, in themselves, sufficient to have caused his death.there was no indication that r. had known, or should have known, about the risk of fracture of the thyroid cartilage since that risk was not mentioned in the training programmes included in the case file; nor could he have been aware that in maintaining the hold he had been exacerbating the decrease in the oxygenation of michael tekin’s blood, particularly since r. had not known what his colleagues were doing.the appeal has been pending before the mons court of appeal since december 2012. the government submitted that the applicants had not requested notification of the hearing such as to facilitate adjudication of the civil-law interests.on 9 may 2016 the charleroi court of first instance, sitting in private session, declared inadmissible the application to join the proceedings as civil parties to the extent that it concerned the three prison officers acquitted by judgment of the criminal court on 28 november 2012 on the grounds that the facts were identical to those of the first set of criminal proceedings, and gave a discontinuance decision in respect of the other three accused on the grounds that the investigation had not uncovered sufficient evidence against them.41.  on 1 august 2014 the applicants further filed an action for damages before the brussels court of first instance seeking a finding that the belgian state had been responsible for michael tekin’s death and for the suffering which he had sustained owing to his placement in an ordinary cell instead of in the psychiatric wing of the jamioulx prison.42.  furthermore, the government submitted that the applicants had complained about the same facts in turkey, michael tekin’s country of origin, and that that complaint had given rise to letters rogatory addressed to the belgian public prosecutor’s office by the turkish public prosecutor of the town of sivas.
4.  on 25 april 2008 the applicant arrived in turkey legally on a visa valid for one month.5.  on 24 april 2010 the applicant, who had been living in turkey since april 2008, was taken into police custody while he was at istanbul atatürk airport.he made a statement to the airport police on the same day.according to the document containing his statement, the applicant was informed that he was suspected of lacking a valid identity document and of illegal entry into turkey.he was kept in detention at the airport police station for the following three days.6.  on 27 april 2010 the applicant was sent to istanbul kumkapı removal centre.according to the applicant’s account, the centre was severely overcrowded at the time of his detention, which resulted in hygiene problems.the building was infested with insects and the quality and quantity of the food was also fairly poor.7.  on 2 june 2010 the applicant applied for release to the istanbul magistrates’ court.the court decided on the same day that it did not have jurisdiction as the applicant had not been detained within the scope of a criminal investigation.the court therefore ruled that any request had to be brought before the administrative courts.8.  on an unspecified date the applicant made an asylum claim to the ministry of the interior and lodged an application for refugee status with the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr).9.  on 25 june 2010 the applicant was granted a temporary residence permit in the province of bilecik as an asylum-seeker and was released from kumkapı removal centre on the same day.10.  according to information provided by his representative on 4 january 2017, a deportation order was issued in respect of the applicant on an unspecified date in 2016. he has been detained at i̇zmir işıkkent removal centre since 20 september 2016 with a view to his expulsion.the domestic proceedings brought by the applicant against the deportation order and the applicant’s application to the unhcr for refugee status are still ongoing.
6.  on an unspecified date the applicant went to the mersin security directorate headquarters to complete certain procedures regarding the sale of his car and found out that a warrant for his arrest had been issued by the antalya security directorate.according to a report drawn up by the police and signed by the applicant, the applicant turned himself in and confessed to his involvement in the shooting of k.g., which had taken place in 1992, and identified s.k., m.n.a.according to the record drafted by police officers and signed by the applicant, the latter described in detail what steps he had taken before the shooting, how he had shot k.g.10.  the applicant was accordingly questioned at the anti-terrorism department of the antalya security directorate about his involvement in the pkk (the workers’ party of kurdistan, an illegal organisation) and the wounding of a certain k.g.13.  on 10 march 2004 the public prosecutor at the izmir state security court filed an indictment with that court and accused the applicant of carrying out activities for the purposes of bringing about the secession of part of the national territory, an offence under article 125 of the criminal code.it ordered that photographs be taken of the applicant and a.y., one from the side and the other from the front, and sent with the reports concerning the case, in the event that m.n.a., s.k.16.  the trial court also ordered that the address of the victim, k.g., be ascertained with a view to bringing him before the court, so that evidence could be taken from him in person.to clarify the inconsistency between the statements he had given to the police and the public prosecutor in 1995 and those he had just given to the court.the court reminded him that in his statement of 29 november 1995 before the public prosecutor he had said that he had not known the accused, and asked him to clarify that point.25.  on 4 october 2005 the izmir assize court found the applicant guilty as charged and convicted him on the basis of the case file as a whole, including the record of the reconstruction of the events and the report of the photo identification.26.  the court accordingly sentenced the applicant to life imprisonment, under article 125 of the former criminal code, for carrying out activities with the aim of bringing about the secession of part of the national territory.27.  on 14 february 2006 the court of cassation quashed the judgment and remitted the case to the first-instance court in order to determine whether the terms of the new criminal code, which had entered into force on 1 june 2005 (no.28.  on 13 june 2006 the applicant’s lawyer requested that the trial court bring m.n.a before the court in order to cross-examine him directly and arrange a physical confrontation between him and the applicant.29.  on the same date the izmir assize court, relying on the same pieces of evidence, once again found the applicant guilty as charged under article 125 of the criminal code and sentenced him to life imprisonment.he further submitted that the applicant had been deceived by the police and asked the court of cassation to declare his statements inadmissible and in contravention of article 6 of the convention.
6.  the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in diyarbakır.7.  on 17 january 2003 the applicant was arrested and taken into police custody on suspicion of membership of an illegal organisation.8.  on 18 january 2003 his statements were taken by the police in the absence of a lawyer.the applicant confessed to being a member of an illegal organisation.he gave a detailed account of its structure and his acts within the illegal organisation.on the same day the applicant was heard by a public prosecutor and an investigating judge respectively.in these statements to the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, he denied his police statements and argued that they had been taken under duress.following his questioning, the investigating judge ordered that the applicant be held on remand.9.  on 28 january 2003 a public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court filed an indictment with that court, charging the applicant under article 146 of the former criminal code.10.  state security courts were later abolished by law no.5190 of 16 june 2004, and the case was transferred to the istanbul assize court.11.  on 10 june 2008 the istanbul assize court found that, inter alia, on the basis of the applicant’s statements to the police, the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, the applicant had committed the offence under article 314 of the criminal code and sentenced him to two years and one month’s imprisonment.12.  on 27 may 2009 the applicant’s lawyer appealed against the judgment, arguing that the applicant had been convicted on the basis of statements taken under duress.13.  on 3 march 2010 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the first-instance court.
following the breakup of the socialist federal republic of yugoslavia, on 15 october 1991 the applicant’s employer closed its office in podgorica.in line with the domestic law at the relevant time, the applicant was entitled to compensation in the amount of 24 monthly salaries.on 3 october 1997 the applicant received this certificate from the ministry of commerce of the republic of montenegro.8.  on 29 december 1998 the applicant lodged a civil claim with the court of first instance in podgorica seeking compensation for the pecuniary loss suffered while he was awaiting the certificate.9.  on 10 march 1999 the court of first instance ruled that it lacked competence to deal with the case and rejected the claim.this decision was quashed by the high court on 17 september 1999 and was remitted to the court of first instance.10.  on 30 april 2004 the court of first instance ruled partly in favour of the applicant.11.  on unspecified date in 2008 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law with the supreme court.the latter quashed the judgement of the high court on 7 may 2008 and remitted the case.14.  on 23 april 2002 the applicant lodged a claim seeking payment of the 24 monthly salaries (see paragraph 6 above) against the municipality of podgorica and the republic of montenegro.15.  on 5 february 2004 the court of first instance in podgorica rejected the applicant’s claim.16.  on 9 november 2004 the high court in podgorica quashed this decision and remitted the case to the court of first instance for reconsideration.19.  the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law in respect of the part of the judgment of 16 may 2006 upheld by the high court.20.  on 16 january 2010 the court of first instance rejected the applicant’s claim in respect of the remitted part of the judgment of 16 may 2006. this decision was upheld by the high court on 4 june 2010.21.  on 18 january 2011 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s appeal on points of law.
according to the record drafted by police officers and signed by the applicant, the latter described in detail what steps he had taken before the attack on a prison vehicle in adana and indicated how he had opened fire on that vehicle.the applicant’s statements to the police were transcribed on pre-printed forms, the relevant part of which was filled in to indicate, inter alia, that the applicant was suspected of membership of an illegal organisation and of carrying out armed activities on behalf of that organisation.on the first page of the forms there was a pre-printed message stating, inter alia, that the person being questioned had the right to remain silent and the right to choose a lawyer.it appears from the form that the applicant had refused legal assistance since the first page of the record includes a pre-printed phrase stating “no lawyer sought” with the applicant’s signature underneath.9.  on 23 november 2003 he was brought before the dörtyol public prosecutor, where he partly confirmed and partly denied the content of his statements to the police made in the absence of a lawyer.during the interview, the applicant stated that his statements made to the police and the public prosecutor had been correct.13.  on 23 december 2003 the adana public prosecutor lodged an indictment, charging the applicant with the offence of breaking up the unity of the state and seeking to remove part of the national territory from the state’s control, under article 125 of the former criminal code.14.  on 16 march 2004, at the first hearing in the case, the applicant retracted his statements made to the police, the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, alleging that they had been obtained through coercion and death threats by the police.the court dismissed the application concerning the attendance of a witness, on the grounds that the witness would not remember the incidents given the long time which had elapsed and that he would not tell the truth owing to the nature of the incident.17.  on 11 december 2005 the applicant sent a letter to the trial court in which he explained the threats and coercion he had been subjected to in detail and asked the court not to take his co-accused’s statements into consideration.19.  on 28 december 2005 the applicant’s lawyer appealed against that judgment and alleged, inter alia, that the applicant’s statements had been taken without notifying him of his rights and as a result of coercion and death threats by the police.the applicant’s lawyer gave detailed accounts of such treatment and asked the court of cassation not to rely on these statements which had been obtained by impairing the applicant’s will.21.  at a hearing on 22 june 2007, the applicant’s lawyer once again maintained that the applicant’s confessions had taken by coercion and that the applicant had been forced by the police to sign his statements.22.  on the same day, the applicant’s lawyer appealed against that judgment and alleged, inter alia, that the applicant’s statements had been taken without notifying him of his rights and as a result of coercion and death threats by the police.the applicant’s lawyer gave detailed accounts of such treatment and asked the court of cassation not to rely on these statements which had been obtained by impairing the applicant’s will.
the court found that the applicant had stalked his former girlfriend, terrorised her and her family with telephone calls, sudden appearances and threats against their life and limb, had finally waylaid his former girlfriend in front of her workplace and had stabbed her twice in the neck with a pair of scissors with the intention of killing her.endorsing the findings psychiatric expert a. had set out in his report, the court was of the view that the applicant had acted with diminished criminal responsibility as he had been in a state of affective excitement and suffered from a neurasthenic syndrome at the time of the offence.the court found that the applicant, who had previously been convicted in 1975, 1977, 1981, 1983 and 1988 of comparable offences including dangerous and sexual assault and rape, committed mostly against former girlfriends at the end of their relationship with him, had a propensity to commit serious violent offences and was dangerous to the public.8.  the applicant was not released at the end of his prison sentence but remained in factual preventive detention without a formal decision of the competent courts for the execution of the preventive detention order under article 67c of the criminal code (see paragraph 36 below), because the proceedings were delayed.10.  on 9 july 2007 the berlin regional court ordered the execution of the applicant’s preventive detention in accordance with article 67c § 1 of the criminal code as it was not reasonable to expect that the applicant would commit no further unlawful acts if released.it took note, in this context, of the view expressed by psychotherapy expert b., who had considered that the applicant’s impulsive and offensive behaviour in the hearings in june 2007 had confirmed the finding in his report dated 15 september 2005 that the applicant was still dangerous to the public.just like the regional court, it based its decision on a medical expert opinion drawn up previously by psychotherapy expert b. and psychologist s. expert b. had examined the applicant on four occasions between february and september 2005. s. had performed psychological tests with the applicant in march 2005. both experts had issued their common written medical report on 15 september 2005 and had supplemented it with a further medical statement answering the questions of counsel representing the applicant on 20 april 2006. the original report was moreover based on the examination of the applicant’s prison files and a large number of investigation files, as well as on an interview with one of his fellow prison inmates.17.  on 2 september 2008 the federal constitutional court declined to consider the constitutional complaint lodged by the applicant against the regional court’s and the court of appeal’s decision on the execution of the preventive detention order (file no.it found that article 454 § 2, read in conjunction with article 463 § 3 of the code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 37 below), only required a new psychiatric expert report as a basis for a periodic review decision if the court was considering releasing a detainee from preventive detention on probation, in order to ensure that he was no longer a danger to the public.26.  moreover the court found that, although the prison authorities had, without giving proper reasons, refused to grant the applicant escorted short‑term leave from prison, especially short-term leave for the purpose of meeting his external therapist so., such deficiencies in the execution of the preventive detention did not justify the applicant’s release.however, the court was of the view that, even if the applicant had been granted the necessary leave since his readmission into preventive detention, the period passed since then would have been too short to prove that he was no longer dangerous.28.  on 16 june 2010 the federal constitutional court declined to consider the applicant’s constitutional complaint against the decisions of the berlin regional court and the berlin court of appeal, in which the applicant had alleged breaches of his constitutional rights to liberty and to a fair trial (file no.1.  the proceedings concerning the applicant’s request to be granted escorted short-term leave for external psychological treatment 29.  on 24 march 2010, upon the applicant’s appeal, the berlin court of appeal, in a separate decision, quashed the prison authorities’ and the regional court’s decision refusing the applicant short-term leave to continue his psychotherapy treatment with so.33.  the court, endorsing the findings in a new external psychiatric expert opinion issued by p., held that although the probability that the applicant would reoffend at liberty was still high, it would be possible to release the applicant on probation after a preliminary period of about one year if the pre-operational phase was mastered by the applicant without further problems.as the prison authorities had ignored and boycotted the court’s orders to grant the applicant access to external psychological treatment for years in a way the court had never seen before and which it found to be unconstitutional, the applicant’s interest in being at liberty now outweighed the public interest.
concerning the question of where he should be placed, the authorities essentially stated that the applicant’s mother and stepfather had previously been approved as foster parents for the applicant’s older son (see paragraph 5 above).moreover, the applicant’s mother and stepfather were considered to be relatively old (having been born in 1962 and 1955, respectively) to serve as foster parents to a small child, and the applicant’s mother had recently been ill. furthermore, the applicant’s mother had not made visiting the applicant’s younger son her priority.10.  in its reasoning regarding the issue of the choice of foster home, the board firstly noted that it was accepted that the applicant’s mother and stepfather had been generally approved as foster parents in connection with the care order in respect of the older son in 2010, but that this issue had to be assessed in view of the current situation, taking into account the best interest of the younger son x. on the specific question as to whether it would be in his best interest to be placed with them, the board stated the following: “the board sees that there are many positive sides to a placement within the family network, which justifies that such a placement be considered.on the basis of the statements of the child welfare service and the [younger son’s] health visitor, the board finds that there have been challenges as regards their cooperation with the grandmother.the grandmother has seen that [the applicant] has not been capable of caring for [the older son], and she has also been concerned about [the applicant]’s ability to look after [x].the board further remarks that the grandmother had not arranged with the child welfare service in [the municipality] that [the applicant] and [x] were to move in with her and [the applicant’s older son].the reason is the uncertainty relating to the boy’s vulnerability and the strain that another foster child would entail, regardless of whether or not this child has special needs, the grandmother’s and her husband’s age and certain difficulties regarding cooperation.” 11.  on the basis of the above, the board arrived at the conclusion that x should not be placed with his grandmother and her husband.14.  with respect to the applicant’s caring skills and x’s care needs, the city court reiterated the findings of the county social welfare board and the court-appointed expert.15.   turning next to the question of whether he could be placed with the applicant’s mother and stepfather, the city court observed that they had been approved as foster parents when the applicant’s older son had been placed with them in 2010. it further noted that there were advantages to a child moving to a foster home comprising family members.that is how the challenges are described by both the representative of the child welfare service in [the municipality] and the grandmother herself.what has been important to the undersigned’s assessment of this question, however, is, first of all, that [the applicant] has very different emotional ties to her two sons ..., in the sense that she seems to have renounced her role as mother of the [older son], while she must still be expected to make an effort to have as much contact as possible with [x].furthermore, there is good reason to believe that, if [x] is placed in foster care with [the applicant]’s parents, this situation will ... represent an opportunity for the contact between mother and child to constantly increase in scope, and thus be a hindrance to [x] in his development of a good attachment to his foster home.for the undersigned, this concern is based, not least, on the fact that [x]’s grandmother has clearly expressed to the undersigned that she primarily wants to be a mother to [the applicant].in addition, there was the issue of the applicant’s very different respective emotional relationships with the two boys, which also entailed special challenges, particularly if x were to be placed in foster care in the same home as that of his older brother.overall, the city court agreed with the county social welfare board and the court-appointed expert that the applicant’s mother and stepfather should not be the foster parents of the applicant’s younger son.
the revision carried out by the commission led subsequently to the opening of criminal proceedings against the applicant, as it was alleged that he had exerted pressure on one of his subordinates in relation to the outcome of a case.it is a public secret that one of the prosecutors i mentioned is known among barristers and “clients” of the prosecution not so much with his own name, but with another one.” the applicant then explained that the prosecutor at issue was known as “prosecutor rushvetchiyski” (прокурора рушветчийски), meaning someone who takes bribes, derived from the colloquial word for bribe, rushvet (рушвет).and because i respect his efforts to defeat these patterns, i will give him a well-meant advice: he should check the properties owned by the people accusing me of having committed an offence while doing my work.” 11.  questioned about a finding by the commission that a “bad psychological atmosphere” existed at the sofia district public prosecutor’s office while it was headed by him, the applicant stated further: “the inspection might be right, if by ‘bad psychological atmosphere’ they mean my intolerance towards those prosecutors ..., who performed their duties in a sloppy manner, or attended meetings with the lawyers of criminals to decide on the outcome of cases.and have the case files of the checkers also been checked?” 12.  asked then about the working methods he had introduced, the applicant stated: “instead of commenting on whether the working methods introduced by me have been effective, i will give you simple statistics....” concerning the working methods at issue, the applicants said further: “the aim was to make the police officer and the prosecutor work side by side, exactly as european experts are recommending.you understand why.” 13.  in response to a question by the journalist as to why he had not discussed the matter with the chief prosecutor, the applicant said: “i don’t know if there is any point.in fact, what [he] is doing now in [his office] is what i tried to do at the time at the [sofia district prosecutor’s office] – to sweep all the trash out of the house.they found the following statements particularly offensive: “i have tried to defeat the mafia present in the prosecution services”; “the unhealthiest elements in the prosecution service”; “many pieces of trash came to the surface ...crushing me now”; as well as his allegedly calling one of them “prosecutor rushvetchiyski”.17.  the first-instance court, the plovdiv district court, heard a number of witnesses, who described the conflict between the applicant and b.k.it also heard the applicant, who stated that when making the above statements he had not referred to either of the two complainants and pointed out that in the interview he had mentioned the names of two other prosecutors, in particular n.n.in a final judgment of 22 may 2008 the plovdiv regional court reversed the lower court’s ruling and convicted the applicant, finding that he was guilty of insult in an aggravated form.furthermore, it ordered him to pay each of the complainants bgn 5,000 (the equivalent of eur 2,551) in damages, plus interest, and bgn 412 (the equivalent of eur 210) for the costs and expenses incurred by the complainants.20.  the regional court reasoned as follows: “it is a fact that the accused uttered the expressions indicated in the private criminal prosecution – “mafia in the prosecution services”, “rushvetchiyski”, “the unhealthiest elements in the prosecution service” and “many pieces of trash came to the surface ...crushing me now”.it is also a fact that the expressions were uttered in an interview, which was published and disseminated through the mass media – the trud newspaper ..., in its issue of 12 october 2006. it is a fact that the complainants ... were named in their capacity as public officials – being prosecutors at the sofia district public prosecutor’s office – and in relation to their official duties.” ... “it has been established that the complainants were aware of those statements, on the basis of the testimony [of the witnesses], as well as on the basis of the article in trud published on 16 october 2006, and presented in the case, which contained ... their response to the interview of 12 october 2006 ....” “it can be seen from the testimony [of the witnesses] that after reading the interview given by the accused ...the complainants felt that their honour and dignity had been harmed, which caused a feeling of humiliation ...” “the accused’s explanations show that he was aware that the incriminatory expressions were offensive and humiliating to those to whom they were addressed [and] the manner in which he disseminated them [shows] that he aimed to make them public and that they reach the complainants ...” “the accused’s claim in his defence, endorsed by the district court, that the incriminatory expressions were not directed specifically at the complainants ..., cannot be accepted by the appeal court.the fact that [the statements] may have been directed against two other [prosecutors whose names were mentioned in the interview], and that those people may have decided not to prosecute the accused for harming their honour and dignity, does not alter the fact that the accused’s criminal liability in respect of the two complainants must be engaged.” 21.  the applicant paid in the amounts indicated in paragraph 19 above on 7 august 2008. the total amount paid, including interest and the fees charged by the enforcement official, was bgn 14,826 (the equivalent of about eur 7,565).
8.  the following day, the aachen district court issued a warrant for the arrest of the applicant on the ground that he was strongly suspected (dringend verdächtig) of commercial trafficking of a substantial amount of drugs and that there was a risk of his absconding.9.  at a detention review hearing on 5 may 2010, the applicant’s counsel applied for the applicant’s release on bail, stating that the applicant’s family were able and willing to furnish the amount of bail to be determined by the court.15.  on 1 october 2010 the aachen district court decided not to grant the applicant’s appeal against the continued detention order and to refer the matter to the aachen regional court.it limited the basis of the detention order to the count on which he had been convicted and annulled it for the two counts on which he had been acquitted by the district court.yet, referring to the reasoning of the district court and underlining that the applicant had no legal employment whereas he had family ties to turkey, it considered that there continued to be a risk of the applicant’s absconding.18.  after the regional court decided not to grant the applicant’s further appeal and to refer the matter to the cologne court of appeal, that court informed the applicant’s counsel, in a letter dated 22 november 2010, that it was considering staying the execution of the detention order.it asked the applicant to clarify the offer made and requested that the necessary means be given to him by his family in a manner that allowed him to dispose freely of those means and to furnish the security himself.19.  the following day, the applicant’s counsel informed the court of appeal that the applicant’s family was able and willing to furnish security of eur 10,000 to the court and to demonstrate credibly the lawful origin of those means.the family was, however, unwilling to put the money at the applicant’s disposal as they were unwilling to run the risk of having the repayment claim attached for payment against future claims the authorities might have against the applicant.he added that, if the applicant had to assume that the security would be forfeited in any event, that is to say, even if he did not abscond, because the repayment claim would be attached for payment against other claims, the security could not effectively remedy a risk of his absconding.it endorsed the assessments of the district court and the regional court as to the risk of the applicant’s absconding and noted that the sentence the applicant risked incurring was not limited to two years and six months’ imprisonment, for the public prosecutor had appealed against the district court’s judgment, seeking the applicant’s conviction on the two counts on which he had been acquitted.as long as the applicant’s family was not willing to put the necessary means at his own disposal it was, however, not ready to do so, arguing that this unwillingness indicated that his family lacked confidence in him and concluding that the family ties appeared not to be strong enough to prevent him from risking forfeiture of the security by absconding.21.  on 3 january 2011 the district court’s judgment of 29 september 2010 became final, following the regional court’s decision to discontinue the proceedings in relation to one of the charges and the withdrawal of appeals by both the applicant and the public prosecutor.22.  that same day, the aachen district court stayed the execution of the detention order against the applicant on a number of conditions, including that either he or another person furnish security of eur 5,000. upon the furnishing of that amount by another person that same day, the applicant was released from detention.23.  on 14 april 2011 the federal constitutional court declined to accept the applicant’s constitutional complaint against the court of appeal’s decision not to stay the execution of the detention order against him, lodged on 10 january 2011, for adjudication, without providing reasons (file no.
20 cg 79/02y) with the klagenfurt regional court (hereinafter “the regional court”) against the republic of austria, represented by the financial procurator’s office (finanzprokuratur).in both claims the applicant sued the republic of austria for pecuniary compensation for allegedly unlawful acts and shortcomings of the regional court in the course of the insolvency proceedings, which had resulted in pecuniary losses.in addition to that, the applicant and the company requested a declaratory judgment (feststellungsurteil) concerning the future liability of the republic of austria for any further damages arising from the insolvency proceedings.7.  on 13 november 2002 the regional court rejected the applicant’s claim filed in the name of the company, holding that the applicant had no locus standi because he could not dispose of the company’s assets as long as the insolvency proceedings were still pending.8.  on 28 january 2003 the graz court of appeal (oberlandesgericht) granted the applicant’s appeal and referred the case back to the regional court.9.  on 17 september 2003 the regional court held a new hearing regarding the company’s claim, in which the parties agreed to suspend the proceedings, pending the outcome of other proceedings, apparently including the claim lodged in the applicant’s name.10.  on 20 january 2004 the applicant asked for the proceedings lodged in the company’s name to be resumed and submitted a list of witnesses to be questioned by the regional court.the proceedings filed in the applicant’s name remained suspended, awaiting the outcome of the resumed proceedings.11.  on 2 march and 19 july 2005 the applicant filed requests to accelerate the proceedings (fristsetzungsantrag) under section 91 of the court act (gerichtsorganisationsgesetz).in the latter request the applicant asked the court of appeal to set a time-limit for the delivery of the expert reports by the end of july 2005 and for the regional court to hold a hearing for the purpose of questioning further witnesses and discussing the expert reports by 12 october 2005.12.  on 11 august 2005 the court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s request under section 91, finding that the regional court had not been dilatory; it also stated that the requested time-limits were unrealistic and that the applicant’s request itself had caused further delays.14.  on 29 june 2006 the regional court held another hearing to discuss the expert reports; eventually the court decided to submit the file to the public prosecutor to examine whether criminal investigations should be instituted against unknown offenders ex-officio and the proceedings stayed until such proceedings were terminated.15.  on 21 february 2007 the applicant requested that the proceedings be resumed after the graz public prosecutor’s office (staatsanwaltschaft graz) had discontinued the criminal investigations.17.  on 14 april 2008 the court of appeal quashed parts of the judgment upon both parties’ appeals and, to this extent, remitted the case back to the regional court.19.  on 15 february 2011 the court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and on 28 april 2011 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s extraordinary appeal on points of law.
7.  on 2 august 1991 the applicant lodged a claim for spousal maintenance with the döbling district court (hereinafter “the district court”) and requested an interim order (einstweilige verfügung) for provisional maintenance pending the conclusion of the main proceedings.13.  the district court held further hearings on 23 february and 27 april 1998. on the latter date it appointed a second expert to supplement the first expert’s report.15.  on 7 may 1999 the applicant requested a fresh interim order for provisional maintenance and an interim order to prohibit the pay-out of money from t.g.’s pension fund and the redundancy money (abfertigung) he had received after retiring in april 1999. t.g.on 13 february 2002 the district court asked the expert to supplement his report concerning t.g.’s income for the years 1999, 2000 and 2001. the expert submitted his report on 1 april 2003.were opened by the salzburg regional court (see paragraph 33 below) and the liquidator requested the lifting of the interim order of 9 june 1999 concerning the maintenance payments (see paragraph 16 above).20.  on 14 october 2003 the district court lifted the ban on the pay-out of money from t.g.’s pension fund and his redundancy money, but dismissed the liquidator’s request to lift the order of provisional maintenance payments.on 21 june 2005 the district court dismissed t.g.’s request, and on 13 september 2005 the regional court confirmed the decision.24.  on 20 september 2005 the applicant filed a request for the acceleration of the main maintenance proceedings (fristsetzungsantrag) under section 91 of the court act (gerichtsorganisationsgesetz).on 7 november 2005 the regional court partly granted the request and ordered the district court to hold a hearing within four weeks.her representative informed the court that she would be fit for questioning as of march 2006. on 24 april 2006 a hearing was held and the proceedings subsequently adjourned in order to obtain the statement of witnesses by means of letters of request from the zürich district court.28.  on 11 may 2009 the applicant asked the district court to suspend the proceedings concerning maintenance payments as from the date when the insolvency proceedings were opened (see paragraph 19 above).29.  on 30 march 2010 the district court partly dismissed and partly refused the applicant’s claim regarding maintenance until the opening of the insolvency proceedings on 10 july 2003 by partial judgment (teilurteil).on 29 june 2011 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s extraordinary appeal on points of law (außerordentlicher revisionsrekurs), thus the partial judgment entered into force.31.  on 27 october 2011 the applicant requested the continuation of the maintenance payments proceedings concerning the period starting from 10 july 2003 (see paragraph 28 above).35.  on 28 december 2011 the applicant filed a fresh maintenance claim with the salzburg district court (bezirksgericht) against the liquidator as he had refused to acknowledge the applicant’s claim in the insolvency proceedings.
5.  the applicant, mr piotr budnik, is a polish national who was born in 1980 and lives in leszno.the circumstances of the case 6.  the facts of the case were not in dispute and may be summarised as follows.7.  the applicant was detained in łowicz prison from 27 january 2007 to 19 april 2009 (2 years, 2 months and 22 days).8.  the applicant submitted that throughout his detention in łowicz prison he had been held in overcrowded cells in which the space per person had been below the polish statutory minimum standard of 3 sq.m. 9.  the domestic courts established, without giving any further details, that the applicant had been detained in overcrowded cells during various unspecified periods from 27 january 2007 to 19 april 2009. the overcrowding led to many quarrels between the prisoners as the tables did not have enough space for everybody.10.  the applicant was placed in a solitary confinement cell for fourteen days as part of a disciplinary measure, where the toilet was not separated from the living space.11.  in reply, the government submitted that the applicant had been held in solitary confinement owing to a need to monitor his behaviour.the number of stools and beds in all cells matched the number of inmates.all the cells were equipped with ventilation and heating systems.the applicant was entitled to one hot shower per week and one hour of outdoor exercise per day.12.  on 12 may 2009 the applicant, represented by a legal aid lawyer, brought a civil action over an infringement of his personal rights on account of the inadequate living conditions in łowicz prison from 27 january 2007 to 19 april 2009. the applicant argued that he had been detained in overcrowded cells with space that was below the statutory minimum.he claimed 100,000 polish zlotys (pln) (approximately 25,000 euros (eur)) in compensation.13.  on 20 july 2012 the łódź regional court (sąd okregowy) granted the applicant pln 3,000 (eur 750) in compensation and dismissed the remainder of his claim.the domestic court found that the applicant had been detained in overcrowded cells from 27 january 2007 to 19 april 2009. moreover, he had been detained in a solitary confinement cell as a disciplinary punishment for fourteen days.14.  on 1 march 2013 the łódź court of appeal (sąd apelacyjny) amended the above judgment, increased the compensation to pln 7,000 (approximately eur 1,750) and dismissed the remainder of the action.
the arrest warrant was based on the risk of him absconding as he could expect a considerable sentence for the offences in question, had no social ties, being unemployed and a drug addict, and had an unstable character.7.  between 30 august 2010 and 11 november 2010 the lawfulness of the applicant’s detention on remand was examined eight times by the district court or regional court.8.  in a judgment of 6 december 2010 the district court convicted the applicant of three counts of large-scale drug trafficking – two counts of smuggling drugs into germany and trafficking (dealt with as a single offence instead of two separate offences) and a third count of trafficking only and sentenced him to two years and six months’ imprisonment.on the same day, in a separate decision, the district court ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention.10.  the district court did not allow the appeal of 8 december 2010 relating to the applicant’s detention and referred it to the regional court, which dismissed it on 15 december 2010, finding that there continued to be a risk of the applicant absconding.he explicitly asked that the observations of the chief public prosecutor’s office be sent to him so as to be able to comment on them.12.  on 28 january 2011 the düsseldorf chief public prosecutor’s office (generalstaatsanwaltschaft – “the prosecution authorities”) submitted written observations to the court of appeal, requesting the dismissal of the applicant’s appeal of 5 january 2011.13.  the applicant’s counsel received the observations from the prosecution authorities on 3 february 2011 and submitted a reply to the court of appeal on 10 february 2011.14.  following a telephone enquiry to the court of appeal, the applicant’s counsel learned on 10 february 2011 that on 3 february 2011 it had already decided the applicant’s appeal of 5 january 2011 and dismissed it.the applicant had therefore not been able to reply to the observations of the prosecution authorities of 28 january 2011 prior to the court taking its decision.16.  on 14 february 2011 the court of appeal’s decision of 3 february 2011 was served on the applicant.18.  on 25 february 2011 the court of appeal dismissed the request for a subsequent hearing as inadmissible, finding that the applicant’s right to be heard had not been violated, that the prosecution authorities’ observations of 28 january 2011 had not contained any facts unknown to him and there had therefore been no need to serve them on him.in so far as his submission of 10 february 2011 was to be classified as an objection (gegenvorstellung), the court rejected it because its decision of 3 february 2011 had not been based on incorrect factual or procedural considerations.prior to the decision of 25 february 2011, the observations of the prosecution authorities relating to the request for a subsequent hearing had not been served on the applicant, who had thus had no opportunity to reply to them.he alleged, in particular, that his right to be heard, as guaranteed by article 103 § 1 of the basic law (grundgesetz), had been violated, because the court of appeal had taken its decisions of 3 and 25 february 2011 without giving him the opportunity to reply to the observations of the prosecution authorities.
7.  during and after the construction of the residential buildings, the claimant instituted several sets of land register correction proceedings with regard to the land at issue in order to harmonise the record in the land register with the new situation.in one of the land register correction proceedings the novigrad municipality objected to the claimant’s application for a correction and therefore on 2 october 2000 the land registry department of the buje municipal court instructed the parties to initiate civil proceedings.8.  on 6 october 2000 the claimant brought a civil action before the buje municipal court (općinski sud u bujama) against the novigrad municipality (hereinafter “the defendant”), seeking that the data concerning the size of certain plots of land be corrected in the land register of that court.specifically, it complained that during the delineation – that is to say the process of subdividing the larger parcels into smaller ones – one part of the plots of land at issue had been registered as a public good (javno dobro).9.  meanwhile, on 27 december 1999, the applicant and the claimant had concluded a purchase agreement in respect of the plots of land that surrounded the residential buildings the claimant had built and that were the subject of the proceedings instituted on 6 october 2000.10.  on 23 october 2000 the applicant asked to join the claimant in the proceedings as an intervener since she had bought some of the plots of land at issue.11.  at the hearing held on 14 june 2001 the buje municipal court established that the claimant had raised the value of the claim to hrk 105,000 in its submissions of 4 june 2001. the defendant did not object to that valuation.in its reasoning it stated, inter alia, that at the moment of the delineation of the disputed parcels the claimant had not had any right to the property at issue and therefore by its correction the claimant would have become an owner of the property which he had never been given for permanent use.further to this, the court had assessed the costs of the proceedings according to the value of the claim set at hrk 105,000 at the hearing on 14 june 2001. it ordered the claimant to bear these costs.at the bottom of the last page of that judgment was a note stating that the case had been conducted and the judgment had been drafted by j.g., the court administrator (sudski savjetnik).she was of the opinion that the value of the claim was the one indicated in the civil action, namely hrk 5,000, which should have been taken into account by the first-instance court when calculating the costs.it held, inter alia, that the value of the claim was the one established at the hearing on 14 june 2001, namely hrk 105,000, because the claimant had increased the value before the defendant had begun litigation on the merits.furthermore, the second-instance court in its reasoning had stated that the case file had shown that the proceedings had been conducted by a trial judge in the presence of a court administrator.she stated that the judge had not been present at the hearings and that the judge had signed the records of the hearings afterwards.18.  on 14 october 2011 the supreme court declared the applicant’s appeal on points of law inadmissible ratione valoris, considering that the value of the claim did not reach the statutory threshold of hrk 100,000. it held, contrary to the lower courts’ findings, that the value of the claim was the one indicated in the civil action because the claimant would have been allowed to alter that value only if it had also amended its claim at the same time.
by a judgment of 24 july 2007, it amended the judgment of 18 october 2006 in the part concerning the classification of the offences, but upheld the applicant’s conviction and prison sentence.on 24 august 2005 the head of the surgical unit wrote to the prison hospital’s acting head doctor, informing her that the applicant needed to be examined by a urological oncologist at the national centre for oncology (“the nco”).15.  after several prison transfers and given that his health was still unsatisfactory, the applicant returned to the prison hospital on 25 february 2006. on 7 march 2006 an oncologist concluded after examining the applicant that the cancer had returned and that he also had pain in his left testicle.5. the authorities refused a request for his return to the prison hospital sent by his lawyer to the director of the prisons department of the ministry of justice, the prison governor and other authorities.at the same time, in view of the further progress of the disease, he recommended that the applicant be placed under permanent medical supervision in the prison hospital.the lawyer asked the court of appeal to order an expert report to reassess his client’s state of health, determine whether the prison hospital was able to provide him with the necessary treatment and whether the conditions of his detention could have a negative impact on his health.23.  in the meantime, in the context of the criminal proceedings conducted against the applicant, the court of appeal ordered that he be examined at the nco.the applicant also submitted a certificate which stated that in the framework of a state-funded programme to combat cancer he had benefitted from a 30% reduction in the cost of treatment and a 70% reduction in the cost of diagnostic tests.29.  on 28 march 2008 the court, acting under rule 39 of the rules of court, indicated to the government that the applicant should be placed in the prison hospital, where he could be provided with adequate medical treatment for his cancer and chronic hcv.in that connection, the applicant argued that the conditions at the prison hospital were not appropriate for chemotherapy and that the relevant specialists were not present on a permanent basis to monitor his condition.in reply to his request, by a letter of 8 may 2008, the head of social services at the prisons department asked the applicant to substantiate his request and explain the reasons for his dissatisfaction with the prison hospital.33.  in a letter of 4 june 2008 the head of social services stated that the prison hospital was adequately equipped to provide the applicant with chemotherapy under the supervision of relevant specialists.36.  on 10 july 2008 the court, acting under rule 39 of the rules of court, requested that the government transfer the applicant to the nco for more chemotherapy.38.  over the following months the applicant was kept mainly in the prison hospital, except for short periods in december 2008, and january, march and july 2009, when he was transferred to the nco and other civilian hospitals for check-ups.they submitted that they had taken all the necessary measures for the protection of the applicant’s health in prison and asked the court to lift the interim measure indicated on 28 march 2008.
the first applicant is the wife, the second and third applicants are the children, the fourth and fifth applicants are the parents and the sixth to ninth applicants are siblings of mr bülent karataş, who was killed on 27 september 2007. the tenth applicant was injured in the same incident.the gendarmes returned to the scene of the incident at 12.50 a.m. on 28 september 2007 and awaited the hozat public prosecutor and the crime‑scene investigators, who arrived in a helicopter at 8.45 a.m. 9.  the hozat public prosecutor prepared his report on his visit to the area on 28 september 2007. the gendarmes who were guarding the area showed the prosecutor the exact place where the soldiers from the 51st motorised infantry brigade had taken cover the previous day and told the prosecutor what they had been told by the soldiers.while walking down the hill which the “two terrorists” had run down the previous day towards the river bed, the prosecutor noticed that it was very steep and densely covered with trees; from a distance of 35 metres it was impossible to see the top of the hill where the soldiers had been standing the previous day.29.  the single sports shoe and the pair of blood-stained jeans found in the bag during bülent karataş’s post mortem examination, as well as a pair of shoes and a track-suit bottom which apparently belonged to the tenth applicant, were analysed at the forensic medicine institute on 31 january 2008. it was established that the blood samples taken from near the river bed by the prosecutor on 28 september 2007 (see paragraph 10 above) belonged to the tenth applicant, bülent karataş and a third person.in the indictment the prosecutor also alleged that statements taken from two of the applicants, namely güler karataş and bıra karataş, as well as statements taken from two other persons, namely özgür bozkaya (the son of the applicant’s’ deceased relative bülent karataş) and zeynep çiçek (the tenth applicant’s mother), indicated that the tenth applicant had committed the offence in question.31.  the malatya assize court declined to institute criminal proceedings against the tenth applicant and returned the indictment to the malatya public prosecutor on 11 april 2008. the assize court noted that the statements taken from güler karataş, bıra karataş, özgür bozkaya and zeynep çiçek were in fact statements of complaint against the soldiers and therefore not statements in support of the prosecutor’s allegations.it referred to the report drawn up by the hozat public prosecutor on 28 september 2007 in which it was stated that the food supplies and other materials referred to in the malatya public prosecutor’s indictment had indeed been found in the two pits, but noted that there was no evidence in the prosecutor’s indictment showing that the tenth applicant had had anything to do with those items.in this connection they pointed out, in particular, that the prosecutor’s examination of the scene of the incident (see paragraphs 9-11 above) had not been conducted in an impartial manner because the prosecutor had been accompanied by a number of soldiers and that the family’s requests to visit and examine the place with the attendance of all the parties had been unreasonably rejected.they also stated that the food supplies and other materials allegedly found at the scene of the incident had been destroyed on the orders of the prosecutor, and yet the prosecutor had gone on to rely on those items as evidence against the two men.i have also heard that the persons in question were working both for the state and for the pkk and that one of them was a militiaman.” 40.  on 26 december 2008 the elazığ military prosecutor decided to close the investigation and not to bring criminal proceedings against the soldiers for the killing of the applicants’ relative bülent karataş or for the injury caused to the tenth applicant.42.  the military prosecutor’s decision recorded that another statement had apparently been taken from the tenth applicant in his capacity as a “suspect”, by the prosecutor on 9 november 2007 before he was brought before the hozat magistrates’ court (see paragraphs 26-27 above) in which he had apparently told the prosecutor that he and bülent karataş had gone to the area on the evening of 26 september 2007 and not on the morning of 27 september 2007. he had also stated that when the soldiers opened fire, he and bülent karataş had been on the road and the soldiers had been below the road down by the river bed.the sergeant did not know what happened to the vests but thought that they might have been cut off the bodies to be used as tourniquets to stop their bleeding, or might have fallen off the stretchers while the two men were being transported to the helicopter, or might have been left behind in the trailer of the tractor or in the helicopter.they also complained that the military prosecutor had failed to conduct a visit to the scene with them in attendance, had not given the tenth applicant the opportunity to identify the soldiers in person, and their effective participation in the investigation had not been ensured as a result of the previous investigating prosecutor’s decision to have the file classified as confidential (see paragraph 26 above).54.  the objection was rejected by the malatya military court on 23 march 2009. in the opinion of the military court, the decision to classify the investigation file as confidential two days after the incident was a justifiable action and in accordance with the applicable procedure because there had been ongoing military operations against terrorist organisations in the area at the time and allowing access to the investigation file could have facilitated the terrorists’ escape and led to destruction of the evidence.55.  the military court stated in its decision that a jumper and a cardigan belonging to the tenth applicant and bülent karataş had been placed in the sidecar of the motorbike and at the time of the events they had been wearing only their vests, which despite all efforts had never been found.
an additional ct scan of o.’s neck, lungs, abdomen and pelvic area was performed on 29 september 2009. the mri scan and the ct scan of 29 september 2009, taken together, indicated a leptomeningeal pathological process involving the cranial nerves, a probable meningeal metastatic process and probable multiple metastases in the liver and other organs of the abdominal cavity.the applicant was advised to contact the expert committee on the quality of health care services (tervishoiuteenuse kvaliteedi ekspertkomisjon; hereinafter “the expert committee”).the medical death certificate (arstlik surmateatis) indicated cerebral oedema as the immediate cause of death, and melanoma with multiple metastases as the medical condition that had brought about the immediate cause of death.18.  on 2 november 2009 the applicant complained to the health board (terviseamet) of o.’s inhuman treatment and about the circumstances of his death.19.  on 8 march 2010 the health board informed the applicant that the case had been transmitted to the expert committee.the expert committee examined o.’s medical records, obtained written explanations from several members of the medical staff who had treated o., and ordered two expert opinions, one to be prepared by one of its members and the other by another doctor, both professors emeriti.according to the report of the expert committee’s meeting of 25 march 2010 at which the applicant was also present, the expert committee gave oral answers to the applicant’s questions regarding the possible radiation of o. during his previous treatment; the decision not to offer chemotherapy to o.; and the alleged late detection of pneumonia.in addition, the expert committee’s decision contained written answers to the applicant, stating that o. had not suffered from a stroke; that the deterioration in his health had not been caused by the administration of specific medication or the withdrawal thereof, but rather by the metastatic developments in his brain; and that based on the medical records, o. had not been starved, nor had his mechanical ventilation been stopped before his death.the applicant was also notified of the possibility to request an alternative medical expert opinion and was informed that tissue samples gathered while the patient was alive as well as after his death, would be maintained for thirty years at the nemc pathology centre and were available on demand.the applicant considered that the expert committee had not been impartial, that it had lacked a quorum at its meeting of 25 march 2010 and that the decision it had adopted contained false statements.an action lodged by the applicant to have the expert committee’s report declared unlawful and claiming damages for it was dismissed by a final judgment of the supreme court on 2 december 2015.21.  in the course of the criminal investigation, several individuals (doctors, nurses, the applicant, and o.’s friends who had visited him in the hospital) were interviewed.the prosecutor posed ten questions to the forensic medical experts addressing, inter alia, o.’s diagnoses; the adequacy of the treatment with respect to his state of health (including the tracheotomy); the restraining of o. to the bed; the administration of medicine on 12 october 2009 and whether this could have caused o.’s breathing to stop; the decision to cease the administration of medicine and food on 13 october 2009; the assertion that o. was brain-dead; and the decision to stop mechanical ventilation.an appeal lodged by the applicant with the office of the prosecutor general was dismissed on 10 december 2012. on 28 january 2013 the tallinn court of appeal dismissed a further appeal lodged by the applicant.24.  following the termination of the criminal proceedings, the office of the prosecutor general dismissed complaints lodged by the applicant regarding the refusal to initiate additional criminal proceedings against the chief inspector of the health board’s supervisory department, against the experts of the estonian forensic science institute who had drawn up the forensic medical report during the original criminal proceedings (this refusal was later upheld by the court of appeal), against two prosecutors and the judge of the court of appeal.
5.  the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in torre del greco.6.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, can be summarised as follows.7.  in january 1990, a few years after she had applied to the interior ministry for a disability pension, ms t.g., the applicant’s mother, was granted an entitlement to the monthly payment of the pension together with a special allowance on account of her partial blindness.filed an application with torre annunziata district court (pretore), sitting as an employment tribunal, to obtain acknowledgment of a re-evaluation of her pension and interest on the arrears.9.  on 27 march 1998, after the hearing had been adjourned three times, the district court dismissed the application as out of time.died.10.  on 10 march 1999, the applicant, lodged an appeal against that decision, on her own behalf and in her capacity as heir, in naples district court.11.  on 10 december 2002 that court acknowledged the applicant’s right to the recalculated sum and interest for a total of eur 12,240.26. the decision became final on 25 january 2004.12.  as the decision was not enforced by the relevant authorities, on 14 june 2004 the applicant served a payment order (atto di precetto) on the national social security agency (istituto nazionale della previdenza sociale – inps) for eur 30,364.38, representing the sum claimed, with interest and taking account of the re-evaluation.13.  on 25 january 2005 she obtained a garnishee order (pignoramento presso terzi) from the naples enforcement judge in respect of her whole claim.14.  on 25 may 2005 the applicant lodged an appeal with the “pinto” division of the rome court of appeal, complaining about the excessive length of the proceedings.with regard to the admissibility of her appeal, she argued that, under section 4 of law no.89/2001 (the “pinto act”), the “final domestic decision” to be taken into account was that of the enforcement judge of 25 january 2005. in consequence, she argued, the six-month deadline for lodging the claim for just satisfaction ought to run from that date.15.  on 18 may 2006 the court of appeal declared the appeal inadmissible as out of time, taking the view that the final domestic decision to be taken into consideration was that delivered by the naples district court in the proceedings on the merits, a decision which had become final on 25 january 2004.16.  the court of cassation upheld that decision on 25 september 2008 and dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law.
it appears that during questioning on 7 may 2006, r.h. confessed that he and the applicant had murdered a.h. 10.  on an unspecified date the head of the disciplinary isolation facility of the military police department addressed the following letter to investigator a.k.drew up a record of the applicant’s arrest, which stated that the applicant had been arrested on that day in the military police department on suspicion of beating up and murdering a.h. on the same day he asked the public defender’s office to grant the applicant a defence lawyer, who was assigned the next day.14.  the applicant contested the facts as reflected in the materials of the case file, and alleged that in reality he was taken to the kapan military police department on 1 may 2006 and was held there until 3 may 2006. thereafter, he was taken to the disciplinary isolation facility of the military police department, where he was held until 20 may 2006. throughout the whole period he was subjected to severe beatings and torture by military police officers and investigators, who hit him in the soft parts of the body, as well as the “invisible” parts, including the soles of the feet, forcing him to confess to the murder.on 15 june the investigator, together with my defence lawyer, visited me at the [nubarashen detention facility] and produced a forensic expert opinion according to which the grains of sand discovered on the soles of my military shoes corresponded to those taken from the site of the crime.i told them that i did not agree with the results of the expert opinion and the investigator threatened to tell the defence lawyer to go out [of the cell] for ten minutes and to [beat me] ... .i am asking and requesting again that the investigative authorities conduct an impartial and thorough investigation by observing the ... requirements of the criminal process, to find the real murderers and to release me and other innocent persons involved in the investigation from this inhuman nightmare.” 16.  on 21 september investigator a.k., to whom the applicant’s complaint had been forwarded, questioned m.gh., a.mar.of the military prosecutor’s office... having examined the materials of criminal case ... assigned to me ... during the investigation of the criminal case [concerning the death of a.h.] the accused [applicant] lodged a complaint with ... the general prosecutor of armenia, which [was] received by the military prosecutor’s office.therefore, the fact is that during the period in which ... [the applicant] and [r.h.] stayed in the military police department, no violence against them by the officers of the above department has been substantiated during the investigation of the criminal case [concerning the death of a.h. hence], there is no evidence of a crime.based on the above ... i decide not to institute criminal proceedings ... due to the absence of evidence of a crime.” 18.  according to the applicant, that decision was not served on him and he learned about it only after the closure of the investigation, when consulting the criminal case file.31.  on an unspecified date the military prosecutor’s office lodged an appeal on points of law against the judgment of the court of appeal, seeking to have the part relating to the evaluation of the offences quashed and a harsher penalty imposed.34.  on an unspecified date the applicant’s defence lawyer lodged an appeal on points of law against the judgment of the court of appeal of 12 november 2008. he claimed, inter alia, that the applicant had been beaten and tortured by military police officers and that when he and r.h. had been taken into custody and questioned as witnesses, r.h. had been forced to make confession statements.38.  on an unspecified date thereafter the applicant lodged an application with the constitutional court, claiming that the court of cassation’s refusal in its decision of 25 february 2009 to examine all the arguments indicated in his appeal on points of law was incompatible with the provisions of the constitution.39.  on 22 december 2009 the constitutional court held that if the court of appeal quashed a judgment of the first-instance court and adopted a new legal act, an appeal on points of law should be available to the parties to the proceedings in question.40.  following the ruling of the constitutional court, on 20 january 2010 the applicant lodged a new appeal on points of law against the judgment of 12 november 2008, claiming, inter alia, that neither the investigative authorities nor the courts had taken into account the fact that he and r.h. had been beaten and tortured by the military police.the relevant parts of its decision read as follows: “in the present case the court of cassation will firstly address the following questions put before it: whether the arguments ... that [the applicant] was subjected to ill-treatment by police officers are substantiated, whether [r.h.’s] confession had been extorted as a result of beating and whether the charges had been based on evidence obtained by beating and torture.
the secretary of state for the home department refused the asylum claim on 15 april 1998. following a reconsideration of the case in august 1999, the secretary of state again refused the asylum claim but granted the family four years’ exceptional leave to remain in the united kingdom.the sentencing judge addressed him in the following terms: “this case has been a copy-book example of how people in your position are able to continue to operate outside the law by the use of interchangeable street names, preying upon the most vulnerable addicts and by the indiscriminate use of fear and violence to ensure that no-one informs the police of your criminal activities ... your evidence to the jury was that you were the main man for drugs in swindon ... your nickname of ‘bruiser’ ensured that when the ‘workers’ as you called those who sold drugs on your behalf, ‘messed up’ it was your policy, to use your own words, of ‘roughing them up a little bit’.you told the jury, with some satisfaction, that this policy was successful ... i regard you as close to the source of supply and wholesaling to retailers in swindon on a persistent and regular basis.” 18.  the applicant’s appeal against conviction and sentence was dismissed on 19 june 2009. however, on 9 february 2010 the court of appeal substituted the applicant’s sentence of seven years’ imprisonment with one of seven years’ detention in a young offenders’ institution.20.  pursuant to section 32(5) of the united kingdom borders act 2007 (“the 2007 act”), the secretary of state was required to make a deportation order in respect of foreign criminals sentenced, inter alia, to a period of imprisonment of at least twelve months, unless one of the exceptions in section 33 – namely that removal would breach their rights under either the refugee convention or the european convention on human rights – applied (see paragraphs 52 and 53 below).finally, she had regard to the seriousness of his criminal record, the sixteen adjudications he had received while in detention, and the fact that he had been warned about the risk of reoffending in 2006. she therefore concluded that his deportation would not be in breach of article 8 of the convention.in addition, it found that he had also established a private life in the united kingdom; that he had no experience of living in nigeria, save for a short period as a baby and a two week holiday in 2004; that he had no close relatives in, and no ties to, nigeria; that he had indicated his remorse and given assurances that he would not offend again; and that his working and studying whilst in detention supported those assurances.it noted that he had a long history of offending, beginning at the age of twelve; that he had received fair warning from the secretary of state in 2006 that any further offending would not be tolerated; that notwithstanding that warning and the subsequent assurances given to the secretary of state that he was turning his life around, he was already engaged in drug dealing; that his criminal behaviour had not only continued but had also escalated; that whilst serving his most recent sentence, he had received sixteen adjudications, the majority of them for violence and disobedience; that his problems with dyslexia could not be used as an excuse to justify his poor behaviour and repeat offending; and that whilst the majority of his offending had occurred when he was a child, his most recent and most serious had occurred after he had attained his majority.34.  on 9 november 2012 and 14 november 2012 the applicant submitted further representations to the secretary of state based on his fourteen-month relationship with a british national, who had no connection to nigeria, and the birth of their son on 1 october 2012. the secretary of state treated those representations as an application to revoke the deportation order and refused it on 3 january 2013. she also certified the applicant’s claim, which meant that he was not afforded an automatic in‑country right of appeal.in particular, she noted that the applicant had entered into a relationship in the full knowledge of the intention to deport him; that both the applicant and his partner should have been fully aware of the implications of conceiving a child in those circumstances; that no valid reason had been given to explain the applicant’s failure to make submissions regarding his relationship at either the upper tribunal hearing in april 2012 or the court of appeal hearing on 30 october 2012; that if the applicant’s partner wished to continue the family unit in nigeria, suitable medication would be available in that country to treat their son’s bronchiolitis condition; that there was no evidence of any exceptional, compelling or compassionate factors; and that deportation remained a proportionate response to the applicant’s serious criminal offending.he submitted a number of documents in support of his case, including a further psychiatric report by dr b. dated 17 july 2013. the report indicated that he had continued to make progress in adopting a “pro-social lifestyle”, that he had addressed his tendency to violence, that he no longer had any criminal associates, that he had demonstrated a commitment to his partner and their son, that he had secured employment, and that the risk of re-offending and of harm to the public was very low.41.  in this regard, the tribunal recalled that the applicant’s family and personal circumstances had been examined with the most careful and thorough consideration by the upper tribunal in 2012. it had considered them in the context of the exceptionality requirements set out in maslov (the requirement of “very serious reasons” to justify the expulsion of a settled migrant: see maslov, cited above, § 75) and concluded that his deportation was justified.43.  in respect of the applicant’s relationship with his partner and their child, it observed that he had failed to disclose his immigration status to his partner until after she had fallen pregnant; that he and his partner had never lived together; that his partner and child had the full support of her family in the united kingdom, with whom they lived, and that support would continue following the applicant’s deportation; and that his child could visit him in nigeria and maintain such a relationship as deemed appropriate.therefore, having carefully considered the issue of proportionality, including “section 55 [of the borders, citizenship and immigration act 2009 – see paragraph 60 below] and the best interests of the appellant’s child”, the tribunal concluded that the secretary of state had a legitimate interest in maintaining appropriate immigration control and social order within the united kingdom, and that the interests in effecting the applicant’s deportation were not outweighed by his article 8 rights.following the supreme court judgment in r (on the application of cart) v. the upper tribunal; r (on the application of mr (pakistan)) v. the upper tribunal (immigration & asylum chamber) and secretary of state for the home department [2011] uksc 28, the administrative court could only review decisions of the upper tribunal if the “second appeal” test was satisfied; that is, if the appeal raised an important point of principle, or there was another compelling reason to allow it to succeed.in refusing permission the judge expressly stated that while it was “apparent that different views might reasonably be taken about whether the claimant should be permitted to remain in the uk in the light of his family ties and length of residence”, that was “not the test for the grant of permission”.
10.  by 21 october 1999 the investigating judge had (a) questioned two suspects who were available to the authorities at the time, as well as thirty other individuals in relation to the incident, including the eleventh applicant; (b) requested that some other witnesses be questioned by the relevant authorities in serbia; and (c) asked for the autopsy reports, an expert opinion on the capacity of the boat and a report on the weather conditions on the night of the incident.during the hearings that did take place, the court read out the indictment again, questioned four defendants and sixteen witnesses, including the eleventh applicant, and read out the earlier statements made by the witnesses; the fifth defendant chose to remain silent.16.  on 14 april 2004 the supreme state prosecutor (vrhovni državni tužilac) in podgorica instructed the state prosecutor in bar to specify the indictment in terms of the facts and legal classification of the criminal offences, after which the court in bar would declare that it lacked competence to deal with the case and would transfer it to the high court in podgorica (hereinafter “the high court”), as the competent court to deal with it.24.  on 15 january 2007 the president of the chamber informed the president of the high court that a trial hearing could not be scheduled yet as the indictment had not yet been served on all the defendants.25.  by 15 february 2008 the high court had issued a national arrest warrant (potjernica) against one of the defendants, and had attempted to serve one on the other three, one of whom was in detention in podgorica at the time.in the course of 2011 eight hearings were scheduled, seven of which were adjourned: (a) three because there was no permanent court interpreter for romani; (b) two because the defence lawyers and witnesses did not attend court; (c) one because one defendant and several defence lawyers did not attend court and an interpreter had not yet been appointed; and (d) one because of changes to the criminal procedure code, which made the relevant court panel incomplete.31.  in the course of 2012 seven hearings were scheduled, two of which were adjourned because one defendant, a defence lawyer, some of the witnesses, including the seventh applicant, and/or the interpreter did not attend court.during that hearing and the subsequent two hearings four defendants and several witnesses were heard again, and a number of written documents were read out, including the indictment, the defendants’ earlier statements and witness statements from 1999, 2003 and 2012, reports by the kotor and budva police directorates (odjeljenja bezbjednosti), as well as information provided by the radio and television of montenegro and the bar public information centre.by 18 december 2013 three hearings had been held, during which one expert witness was heard, and a number of other pieces of documentary evidence were read out, such as an earlier statement of another expert witness, earlier statements of other witnesses from 1999, 2003 and 2004, including the statements of the eleventh applicant, autopsy reports and reports from the port of bar of 1995 and 1998 relating to the boat.33.  in the course of 2014 five hearings were scheduled, two of which were adjourned because the interpreter and one of the expert witnesses did not attend court and because one defendant was justifiably absent.at that and the subsequent hearing held in 2014 the court read out the indictment, the defendants’ earlier statements and some witness statements, including the eleventh applicant’s, as well as other written evidence.35.  on an unspecified date prior to 7 december 2009 the roma centre complained to the ombudsman, asking for the criminal proceedings to be expedited and the responsible persons punished, as well as for a dna analysis of the bodies which had been buried.38.  on 19 august 1999 the only surviving passenger was found guilty of boarding the boat on 16 august 1999 with the intention of illegally crossing the border to italy and was fined by the misdemeanour court (sud za prekršaje) in kotor.40.  on 15 june 2011 the president of the high court requested the ministry of justice to appoint a permanent court interpreter for romani as soon as possible, stressing that one of the reasons for the criminal proceedings in question having “lasted too long” had been the absence of an adequate interpreter for romani.41.  it would appear that on several occasions the roma centre requested the high court to expedite the proceedings, and that on 16 august 2010 it issued a statement that the investigation had not been effective.
10.  on the basis of a contract signed on 2 november 2004 and governed by the provisions of the labour code, the applicant became an employee of the ministry of defence.11.  on 27 december 2004, the ministry’s authorised representative requested the national security authority (národní bezpečnostní úřad – “the authority”) to issue the applicant with security clearance (osvědčení) giving him access to state classified information in the “secret” category (tajné) in accordance with the duties to be carried out by him.14.  during the year 2006 the applicant was appointed deputy to the first vice-minister of defence (zástupce prvního náměstka ministra obrany), while continuing to carry out his duties as director of the department of administration of the ministry’s property.in the course of that investigation the intelligence service provided the authority with other information, dated 21 march 2006, classified “restricted” and annexed to the security file (bezpečnostní spis) under number 77. on the basis of that information the authority revoked the security clearance on 5 september 2006. there were two unrelated reasons for that decision: firstly, the applicant had failed to indicate, as he should have done when applying for security clearance, that he held directorships in a number of companies and accounts in foreign banks; and secondly, the applicant was considered to pose a national security risk, within the meaning of section 14(3)(d) of law no.the decision indicated that the facts established in respect of his conduct, as documented in the information received by the authority on 7 october 2005, cast doubt on his suitability for security clearance and his ability not to be influenced and to keep sensitive information secret, and thus indicated that he was no longer trustworthy.17.  in the meantime, on 4 october 2006, the applicant had asked to be discharged, for health reasons, from his duties as deputy to the first vice-minister of defence, and from those of director of the department of administration of the ministry’s property.it found that the approach taken by the authority, which had not disclosed to the applicant the contents of the information on the basis of which the security clearance had been revoked, had not been illegal as disclosure of such information was prohibited by law.the supreme administrative court added that disclosure of the classified information could have entailed the disclosure of the intelligence service’s working methods, the revelation of its information sources or the risk of influencing possible witnesses.it explained that there was a statutory prohibition on indicating where exactly the security risk lay and on specifying the considerations underlying the conclusion that such a risk existed, the reasons and considerations underlying the authority’s decision being based exclusively on classified information.accordingly, the reasons for the decision had to be limited to a reference to the documents on which it was based and the level of confidentiality of the information used.it went on to observe that, owing to the special nature of proceedings where classified information was concerned, not all the applicant’s procedural rights could be guaranteed but that the non-disclosure of the exact reasons underlying the decision to revoke security clearance was counterbalanced by the guarantee that the administrative courts had unlimited access to the classified documents.the supreme administrative court pointed out that the report on the result of the investigations carried out by the intelligence service, included in the file under no.77, contained specific, comprehensive and detailed information concerning the conduct and lifestyle of the applicant on the basis of which the court was satisfied in the present case as to its relevance for determining whether the applicant posed a national security risk.it considered that in the present case the courts’ conduct had been duly justified and the reasoning in their decisions comprehensible and in conformity with the constitution; that they had not departed from procedural standards and constitutional rules to an inordinate degree; and that the constitutional court was not therefore required to intervene in their decision-making procedure.22.  on 16 march 2011 the prosecution service lodged a bill of indictment against the applicant and 51 other persons on charges of influencing the award of public contracts at the ministry of defence from 2005 to 2007. the applicant was indicted for participation in organised crime (účast na zločinném spolčení); aiding and abetting abuse of public power (pomoc k trestnému činu zneužívání pravomoci veřejného činitele); complicity in illegally influencing public tendering and public procurement procedures (pomoc k trestnému činu pletich při veřejné soutěži a veřejné dražbě); and aiding and abetting breaches of binding rules governing economic relations (pomoc k trestnému činu porušování závazných pravidel hospodářského styku).
the public prosecutor’s office charged him with killing his parents, dismembering their bodies, burning some of the parts, flushing others down the toilet and disposing of the rest by putting them in barrels.9.  prior to the start of the hearing, the presiding judge informed the photojournalists orally that the defendant’s face would have to be made unidentifiable “in the usual manner” before any images of him were published.10.  according to the applicant companies, the presiding judge had indicated at the beginning of the hearing on 11 january 2011 that anyone who failed to comply with this order no longer needed to show himself at the regional court of potsdam and apply for permission to take photos of future proceedings.the applicant companies submitted a copy of an email of a journalist who attended the hearing confirming the alleged statement of the presiding judge.11.  the government contested the applicant companies’ assertions that the presiding judge had threatened not only to bar journalists from taking photographs during the proceedings against the defendant, but also from future proceedings before the potsdam regional court.13.  by a letter of 12 january 2011 the second applicant company asked the president of the regional court to change the presiding judge’s oral order.by a letter of the same date the president replied that he had forwarded the letter to the presiding judge for lack of competence.the only media representatives who were permitted to take photographs and make video-recordings of s. were those who had previously registered with the court and given an assurance that prior to the publication or forwarding of the material, the face of s. would be disguised by a technical process, for example by pixelisation, so that it would only be possible to use the images in such a form.15.  the presiding judge stated in his reasons that he had to balance the public interest in being informed and the personality rights of s. he acknowledged that the crime at issue was very different from “usual crimes” and that permitting only pictures that disguised s. impaired the public’s ability to be informed.however, he held that the order was justified in view of the need to protect the personality rights of s. he reasoned that it was unlikely that the case had caused a sensation throughout germany.consequently, according to the presiding judge the personality rights of s., who had never been in the public eye or sought to contact the media and who had expressly requested that his identity be concealed, outweighed the public interest in being informed.furthermore, the order had already proved to be necessary as there had been individual violations of the judge’s instructions following the first day of the hearing.17.  on 31 january 2011 the applicant companies filed an objection (gegenvorstellung), requesting the suspension of the judicial order banning the publication of images enabling identification “during the proceedings against (...) s.” (”für die dauer des prozesses gegen (...) s.”).the applicant companies stressed the fact that s. had confessed to the crime on the first day of the hearing.he held that the implications of the confession and its credibility could only be assessed at the end of the hearing.
443/sq produced by the ministry of the interior (“the second mi report”) found particles of grey cotton fibre on the applicant’s jacket that by their colour, structure, and type were similar to the grey cotton fibre contained in the textile of the victim’s jacket.the second report specified that six wounds had perforated t.t.’s lungs and re-confirmed that “all the wounds had been inflicted with some sharp object/objects and, taken together, were life-threatening.” concerning the question of whether the injuries were inflicted on the victim with one or several weapons, the nfb expert stated: “in order to answer that question it is necessary to convene a panel of forensic‑medical experts, and additionally to have the clothes as well as the object/objects possibly used to inflict the injuries presented, if available.” 13.  the expert testified during the proceedings before the first-instance court that the discrepancy between the first and the second nfb reports concerning the number of wounds inflicted on the victim had been caused by the poor quality of the photocopied material relied on during the first nfb expert examination.dismissing altogether the applicant’s version of the events and relying on t.t.’s statements, the first and second nfb reports, the first and the second mi reports and other evidence in the case, the court found that the applicant had stabbed t.t.during the trial at the tbilisi court of appeal, in accordance with article 364 § 1 of the code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 40 below), the defence adduced in evidence two alternative forensic reports, both issued on 2 november 2007, and argued that their results supported the applicant’s version of the events, including the use of two knives, and conclusively excluded the applicant’s guilt.3. in view of the [victim’s] statements and considering the mechanism used to inflict the injuries described in the [forensic reports], how plausible is it that g. kuparadze inflicted them on the [victim] by holding his shoulder with one hand while the latter was initially kneeling and then crawling on the ground face-down?4. in view of the convicted g. kuparadze’s statement, how possible is it that the [victim’s] injuries described in the [forensic reports], given the mechanism used to inflict them, were inflicted by two different persons if one of them had been holding [the victim]?” 18.  the part of the report entitled “circumstances of the case” contained excerpts from the applicant’s criminal case file with the following concluding paragraph: “given that the [first-instance] court accepted the [victim’s] statements and dismissed the statements given by the convicted g. kuparadze and [the witness], that the statements given by the [victim] and the convicted g. kuparadze essentially contradict each other, that there is no eyewitness in the case except for [the witness], as well as the fact that the weapon of the crime is missing, the lawyer commissioned the alternative expert examination to determine the truth regarding the case and in order to receive answers to his questions.” this was followed by a more detailed account and an assessment of the matter.2-e-116, which reflected results of an examination carried out between 19 october 2007 and 2 november 2007 (“the second alternative forensic report”), was based on the following material: the statements of t.t., the statements of the applicant, the first mi report, the second nfb report, t.t.’s medical file and the first-instance court judgment.2. g. kuparadze could not have inflicted the wounds as described in t.t.’s statement, by holding his shoulder with one hand while he was initially kneeling and then crawling on the ground face-down, in view of the mechanism used to inflict the wounds [described in the forensic and forensic medical reports] and bearing in mind the limited access to the areas of impact.concerning the applicant’s argument that the witness statement confirmed her version of the events, the court reasoned that although the witness had stated that she had seen two men climb in and out of the school playground, she had also said that that was a common sight at that school.in particular, information as to which specific materials were presented [to the experts] and relied on when reaching the conclusions is missing; the research part of the forensic report contains a legal assessment of the [first-instance court] judgment and of a number of pieces of evidence, whereas under article 96 of the code of criminal procedure an expert examination is not to be carried out to determine legal matters.furthermore, the concluding part of the expert examination [report] is presumptive, speculative and based on probability which, in the first place, is beyond the expert’s competence as provided for in articles 365 [and] 374 of the code of criminal procedure, [and] no evidentiary value may be attributed to speculative findings, in accordance with article 371 (6) [of the code].” 25.  as regards the second alternative forensic report, the court noted the following: “the court cannot accept the findings of the [second alternative forensic report] as they are also speculative.furthermore, the report relies on the conclusions of the medical and forensic expert examinations [medical documentation, the mi report and the second nfb report] which themselves do not categorically determine the nature of the object used to inflict the injuries on the victim, and even more so the number [of such injuries].without referring to a concrete scientific study, the [report] analyses and rejects the victim’s statement and relies on the statement of the accused.” 26.  the appellate court also reasoned that the applicant’s argument that two unidentified men had beaten the victim while stabbing him was not confirmed in view of the absence of any physical signs of beating in the relevant forensic medical report.in the subsequent part of the judgment the court of appeal referred to the first and the second mi reports and the second nfb report, among other evidence, while upholding the judgment of the first-instance court.without responding to the applicant’s arguments that the lower courts’ dismissal of the alternative forensic reports had been erroneous and arbitrary, and that the main argument of the defence had been left without an appropriate answer, the court reproduced the relevant provision of the criminal procedure code, holding that “the case [was] not important for the development of the law and coherent judicial practice, the [contested] decision [did] not differ from the supreme court’s existing practice in such matters, and the appellate court [had] not committed any major procedural flaws during its examination which could have significantly affected its outcome.” 28.  on 16 november 2006 the applicant, aged fourteen at the time, was remanded in custody and placed in a cell together with adult female inmates in tbilisi prison no.
contrary to the outcome of the main proceedings under the brussels iia regulation and the hague convention, the regional court therefore considered the obligation under article 11 (4) of the brussels iia regulation to be applicable in that the district court would have to ask the french authorities to use safeguards to ensure that the return of the children was in their best interests, such as not to return them to the applicant in person while the suspicion of abuse against him remained.was no longer adversely affected by the impugned decision (see paragraph 39 above), but held that it was for the court of first instance to examine whether the circumstances had changed in the meantime in such a way that the enforcement of the return order would now entail a grave risk for the children.against the regional court’s decision of 21 september 2010. it noted that the district court had already contacted the french central authority by letter in accordance with article 11 (4) of the brussels iia regulation, and that the enforcement of a return order under the hague convention could only be stopped if it was established that there were no adequate safeguards to protect the children’s best interests upon their return to france.regarding the statement on the applicant’s mental health in the psychiatric opinion forwarded by the french central authority (see paragraph 72 below), the district court considered that the report had not been drawn up in accordance with the austrian standards for examining a person’s educational skills as it had only been based on the applicant’s interview with the expert and no psychological tests had been carried out.it further held that it was for the applicant to apply to the competent authorities in france for temporary care for his children in a child protection institution, and that it was not for the austrian courts to establish contact between him and the children under article 11 (4) of the brussels iia regulation since the establishment of contact for the purposes of the enforcement of a return order fell within the competence of the authorities of the state from which the children had been abducted.the regional court also considered that the applicant’s conduct was not in the children’s best interests either, since the enforcement of the decision of 7 january 2009 and c.b.’s criminal conviction appeared to be more important to him than their well-being, and he did not even realise the seriousness of the burden to which he would expose his children if they were forced to return to him after not having seen him for more than six years.the aca informed its french counterpart of the respective state of the proceedings, referred to the parties’ requests and appeals as obstacles to the continuation of the enforcement of the return order and considered the actual address of c.b.regarding the aca’s requests for safeguards to secure the protection of the children, the fca pointed out at the beginning of the enforcement proceedings that there were no obstacles impeding the children’s return to their father as the competent french judge had already determined that their main residence was at his home; thus, the french youth welfare office would not be notified of the children’s return to france.69.  in may and august 2010 the competent judge at the district court twice requested that the fca help her establish contact with the judge competent in childcare matters (juge des enfants – hereinafter “the children’s judge”) in france because she had doubts as to whether the immediate return of the children to their father would expose them to grave harm and therefore preferred temporary social care for them.71.  on 7 february 2011 the children’s judge at the la rochelle tribunal de grande instance appointed an expert psychiatrist and ordered him to deliver a report on whether the applicant was suffering from any form of mental illness; on the same day he ordered the stemoi (service territorial éducatif de milieu ouvert et d’insertion, a youth welfare service) in la rochelle to examine the living conditions at the applicant’s home and his educational and emotional skills.74.  in a letter of 8 july 2011 the fca confirmed, in reply to the austrian authorities’ concerns about an immediate return of the children to the applicant and their proposal of temporary social care, that the children would not be entrusted to their father right after their return, and that the children’s judge would monitor their best interests and, if need be, take measures of educational support.76.  following the supreme court’s decision of 28 august 2013 (see paragraph 58 above), on 23 december 2013 the fca informed its austrian counterpart that it had forwarded the district court’s request of 15 november 2013 (see paragraph 60 above) to the public prosecutor at the poitiers court of appeal, suggesting that the case again be brought before the children’s judge at the la rochelle tribunal de grande instance.however, in the event of her return to france together with her children, the public prosecutor would be prepared to withdraw her from the fpr on the grounds that the children’s return would make it possible for the applicant to see his children, so that the objective of the arrest warrant would then also be achieved.78.  in their letter of 14 march 2014, the fca complemented the public prosecutor’s report by explaining that the children’s judge could order that the children be placed either with their mother, another member of the family or a trusted third party, or eventually in an institution, possibly in the vicinity of the applicant’s home.if the exact return date was not communicated by the austrian authorities in advance and an interim measure had to be adopted quickly due to c.b.’s detention, the public prosecutor would have to order temporary foster care for the children and would have eight days to bring the case before the children’s judge, who would then have to take the necessary steps.
6.  on 26 march 1996 m.’s husband sold the flat to a. the transaction and a.’s title to the flat were duly registered by the state authorities.on 21 april 1998 they applied for the compensation for the loss of the flat resulting from the military conflict in chechnya.8.  on 14 november 2008 the police refused to institute criminal proceedings against m.’s husband on the charges of fraud in respect of the flat as time-barred.the transaction and the second applicant’s title to the flat were duly registered by the state authorities.10.  on an unspecified date the housing department of grozny lodged a civil action against a. and the first applicant seeking the invalidation of the purchase of the flat by a. and claiming the title to the flat.11.  on 7 december 2010 the district court applied the statute of limitations to the claims lodged by the housing department and rejected them.12.  on 1 february 2011 the supreme court of the chechen republic upheld the judgment of 7 december 2010 on appeal.13.  on 18 june 2010 the leninskiy district court of grozniy granted the second applicant’s claim and removed the flat from the data base listing the flats in respect of which the former owners received compensation from the state.14.  on 30 april 2013 the district court re-opened the case in view of newly discovered circumstances concerning a third party’s right to the reside in the flat.17.  according to the government, on 15 november the supreme court of the chechen republic quashed the judgment of 28 june 2011 on appeal and remitted the matter for fresh consideration.18.  on 26 may 2014 the district court considered the claims lodged by the second applicant and mur.had failed to present any original document confirming the assignment of the flat to her under the social housing agreement.the court also invalidated the flat purchase agreements between (1) m.’s husband and a. and (2) the second applicant and a., recognised that the flat was the property of the town of grozniy and ordered the applicants’ eviction.19.  on 11 november 2014 the supreme court of the chechen republic upheld the judgment of 26 may 2014 on appeal.20.  according to the government, the applicants were not evicted and continue to reside in the flat.
4.  the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in ufa.5.  on 26 december 2006 a new block of flats was commissioned by the ufa town administration.6.  on 30 september 2010 the ordzhonikidzevskiy district court of ufa recognised t.’s title to the flat at 66/2-54, ulitsa kommunarov, ufa.7.  on 28 october 2010 t. sold the flat to m. the transaction and m.’s title to the flat were registered by the state registration authorities.8.  on 13 january 2011 m. sold the flat to the applicant.the transaction and the applicant’s title to the flat were registered by the state registration authorities.9.  on an unspecified date the housing foundation of the republic of bashkortostan brought a civil claim seeking, inter alia, the invalidation of the applicant’s title to the flat and eviction.10.  on 23 july 2013 the district court granted the claims in full.the court established that the judgment of 30 september 2010 had been forged and that t. had died in 2008 and could not have been a party to the relevant proceedings.the court refused to recognise that the applicant had purchased the flat in good faith for her failure to check the authenticity of the judgment of 30 september 2010. it further took into account that m. had sold the flat to the applicant for 180,000 russian roubles (rub) while she had bought it for rub 190,000.11.  on 17 november 2013 the supreme court of the republic of bashkortostan upheld the judgment of 23 july 2013 on appeal.12.  on 4 april 2014 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s cassation appeal.13.  on 9 july 2014 the supreme court of the russian federation rejected the applicant’s second cassation appeal.14.  according to the government, the eviction order was not enforced and the applicant continues to reside in the flat.
4.  the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in beloljin, republic of serbia.5.  in 1997 the maribor unit of the surveying and mapping authority (hereinafter the “maribor unit”) issued several decisions concerning the delimitation of real estate belonging to the applicant and to company d., and ordering changes in respect of the use of land.the applicant appealed against some of those decisions.6.  on 28 september 2000 the ministry for the environment and spatial planning (hereinafter the “ministry”) granted the applicant’s appeal in part and annulled a decision issued on 12 february 1997 while it dismissed the appeal concerning two decisions issued on 31 january 1997.7.  on 23 november 2000 the applicant challenged the aforementioned decision of the ministry in the part dismissing his appeal by instituting proceedings before the administrative court.8.  on 6 november 2003 the administrative court granted the applicant’s appeal, annulled the challenged part of the decision of 28 september 2000 (see paragraph 6 above) and referred the case back to the ministry who, in turn, referred it to the maribor unit.9.  on 24 may 2006 the supreme court dismissed the appeal and upheld the administrative court’s judgment.this decision was served on the applicant on 4 july 2006. the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint.10.  on 19 december 2007 the constitutional court dismissed the constitutional complaint.the decision was served on the applicant on 10 january 2008.11.  on 10 july 2015, referring to section 25 of the 2006 act, which regulates the domestic settlement proceedings in cases where an application to an international court had been lodged before the 2006 act entered into force (see paragraph 14 below), the state attorney’s office sent the applicant a settlement offer.in the offer they emphasised that the proceedings before the constitutional court could not have given rise to a violation of the “reasonable time” requirement.in respect of redress they offered to provide the applicant with a written statement in which they would acknowledge that his right to a trial within a reasonable time had been violated in the proceedings before the administrative court and the supreme court.the offer was served on the applicant on 24 july 2015.12.  the applicant did not accept the offer.
5.  the first applicant was detained in šiauliai remand prison from 11 january 2011 to 3 november 2011. the documents submitted to the court show that he was held in four different remand prison cells: nos.9 had not been renovated, had had almost no natural light and the artificial light provided in the evening had been very poor; the ventilation had been insufficient and the cell was cold; cell no.37 was dirty, the electrical system was damaged and thus dangerous, the sanitary facilities were not separated from the cell, the cell lacked light, ventilation and the temperature was too low.the court held that the applicant had not complained about his conditions of detention while in prison and had only lodged his complaint a year after leaving it.the court held that there was no information to show that the remand prison had purposely interfered with his right to dignity or treated him inhumanely, that he had not suffered a great enough negative impact from the hygiene violations, and that there were no grounds to award him compensation.the court observed that the document from the šiauliai health care centre (see paragraph 6 above) had been issued five months after the applicant had left the remand prison and it was not able to determine the negative impact of the unsanitary conditions on the applicant on the basis of such evidence alone.9.  the second applicant was detained in šiauliai remand prison from 15 december 2009 to 8 february 2012. the documents submitted to the court show that he was held in several different cells: nos.he argued that the conditions in which he had been held in šiauliai remand prison had been degrading: the cells were damp and dirty, there was insufficient light and ventilation, and the walls had not been painted.101 on 7 january 2011, while the applicant had been detained there from 5 january 2011 to 3 february 2011 and from 14 february 2011 to 28 april 2011. the cell had been dirty, the toilet doors broken, and there was mould on the walls and ceiling.the court thus held that the applicant had proven that the conditions in cell no.however, the court noted that the applicant had not proven the existence of unsanitary conditions in the other cells.the court further noted that the inmates were responsible for keeping the cells clean, but that the remand prison had not proven that it had provided the applicant with cleaning materials for at least six months.as regards the applicant’s health, the court observed that he had been prescribed several drugs for spinal osteochondrosis, but that there was no relation between his illness and the unsanitary conditions in cell no.101. the court also noted that during the hearing the applicant had claimed that all the cells had been overcrowded but he had failed to mention this in his written complaint.12.  the applicant appealed and on 11 june 2013 the supreme administrative court found that the court of first instance had acted unreasonably in dismissing his compensation claim, and awarded him with 300 lithuanian litai (ltl, approximately 87 euros (eur)) for non-pecuniary damage.
prior to the assembly, on 7 march 2011, the organisers, members of the opposition, gave notice to the relevant authority, the baku city executive authority (“the bcea”).7.  the bcea refused to authorise the demonstration at the place indicated by the organisers and proposed a different location on the outskirts of baku – the grounds of a driving school situated in the 20th habitable area of the sabail district.10.  according to the applicant, he was arrested at around 2 p.m. his arrest and custody in the police stations were video recorded on a mobile phone by one of the protesters, mr a.h. 11.  on the day of the applicant’s arrest, an administrative-offence report (inzibati xəta haqqında protokol) was drawn up in respect of him by police officer e.g. the report stated that at around 2.55 p.m., at fountains square in baku, the applicant had attempted to hold an unlawful demonstration and had disobeyed a lawful order of a police officer.13.  according to the official records, the administrative-offence report in the applicant’s respect was prepared on the basis of the abovementioned report drawn up by police officers m.a.19.  on an unspecified date the applicant lodged an appeal with the baku court of appeal, arguing that his arrest and conviction were in violation of his right to freedom of assembly and that the hearing before the first‑instance court had not been fair.who, according to the applicant, had witnessed his arrest and time in custody, and to examine the video recordings made by mr a.h., which, according to the applicant, showed his arrest and custody in the police stations.22.  on 18 march 2011 the baku court of appeal partially granted the applicant’s appeal and remitted the case to the first-instance court for re‑examination.the court did not address the applicant’s above‑mentioned requests to summon and examine the witnesses on his behalf and to examine the video recordings.32.  the appellate court did not address the applicant’s above-mentioned requests to summon and hear the witnesses and to examine the photographs and video recordings.during the search the domestic authorities seized a large number of documents, including all the case files relating to the pending applications before the court, which were in mr aliyev’s possession as a representative.the file relating to the present case, which, it appears, included copies of all the documents and correspondence between the court and the parties, was also seized in its entirety.he further complained about the seizure of the documents and files relating to the pending court proceedings before the court and the domestic courts.as to the seizure of the documents relating to the cases pending before the court and the domestic courts, it found that they could not be returned to the applicants at that stage of the proceedings.37.  on 25 october 2014 the investigating authorities returned a number of the case files concerning the applications lodged with the court, including the file relating to the present case, to mr aliyev’s lawyer.the investigator’s relevant decision specified that “since it has been established that among documents seized on 8 and 9 august 2014 there were files concerning applications by a number of individuals and organisations lodged with the european court of human rights, which have no relation to the substance of the criminal proceedings [against mr intigam aliyev], [those files] have been delivered to [mr aliyev’s lawyer] mr javad javadov”.
6.  according to the documents submitted by u. to state registration authorities, on 19 july 2010 the ordzhonikidzevskiy district court of ufa recognised his title to the flat at 66/2-39, ulitsa kommunarov, ufa.7.  on 30 october 2010 u. sold the flat to m. on 22 november 2010 the state registration authorities registered the said transaction and m.’s title to the flat.8.  on 12 february 2011 z., acting on m.’s behalf by virtue of the power of attorney, and the applicant signed a contract according to which a. sold the flat to the applicant.z. and the applicant submitted the documents for the registration of the transaction and the transfer of the title to the flat to the applicant.9.  according to the applicant, she paid the amount due under the contract to z. and moved into the flat while her application for the registration of the transfer of the title to the flat to her was still pending.10.  on an unspecified date a third party brought a civil action challenging u.’s sale of the flat to m. and the latter’s title to the flat.11.  on 28 february 2011 the ordzhonikidzevskiy district court of ufa issued an injunction in respect of the transactions with the flat.12.  on 3 march 2011 the state registration authorities informed the applicant that her application for the registration of the transfer of the title to the flat could not be granted pending the outcome of the civil proceedings concerning the title to the flat.13.  on 24 december 2012 the supreme court of the republic of bashkortostan dismissed the third party’s claims in respect of the flat in full.14.  on an unspecified date the housing foundation of the republic of bashkortostan brought a civil claim seeking, inter alia, the invalidation of m.’s title to the flat and the applicant’s eviction.it invalidated the purchase of the flat by m. and ordered the applicant’s eviction.the court considered that the applicant had not acquired the title to the flat and had no legal basis for moving into the flat and residing there.16.  on 7 november 2013 the supreme court of republic of bashkortostan upheld the judgment of 23 august 2013 on appeal.18.  on 28 august 2014 the supreme court of the russian federation rejected the applicant’s second cassation appeal.19.  on an unspecified date the applicant asked the district court to stay the eviction proceedings.
7.  on 5 december 2000 the leninskiy district court of ulyanovsk (“the district court”) ordered the administration of the ulyanovsk region to pay mr postnov 228,000 russian roubles (rub) in reimbursement of costs for purchase of housing.the amount was to be paid from the federal budget funds allocated for housing of the military servicemen.the district court further awarded mr postnov rub 810, the cost of the expert examination.8.  on 15 december 2000 the decision of the district court came into force.11.  on 16 june 2003 the applicant joined the enforcement proceedings in her late husband’s stead, pursuant to a domestic court’s decision.12.  in 2003 the applicant and the bailiff in charge of the enforcement proceedings applied for changing the method of execution of the judgment of 5 december 2000. they argued that as the administration of the ulyanovsk region had no authority to administer the federal budget funds, the judgment could not be enforced as prescribed in its operative part.13.  on 25 november 2003 the district court refused the application for changing the method of execution.14.  on 22 december 2004 the writ of execution in respect of rub 228,000 was returned to the applicant from the bailiffs’ service without enforcement.15.  on 30 january 2005 the judgment of the district court in the part concerning rub 810 was enforced.16.  on 13 november 2003, 13 july 2004, and 20 may 2005 the district court index-linked the amount due to the applicant under the judgment of 5 december 2000, and awarded her rub 169,846.46, rub 17,401.28, and rub 36,517.69 respectively.17.  in june 2005 the applicant obtained the writs of execution in respect of the three above decisions, and a new writ of execution in respect of the judgment of 5 december 2000 due to the change of the creditor in the enforcement proceedings (see paragraphs 10 and 11 above).18.  on 31 may 2006 the applicant submitted all the writs of execution to the bailiffs’ service.the writs of execution were returned to the applicant as the compulsory enforcement of the judicial decisions in question was impossible.20.  in 2005-2006 the applicant submitted the enforcement documents to the ministry of finance of russia and the federal treasury department for the ulyanovsk region.each time the writs of execution were returned to the applicant without enforcement.
6.  on 22 november 2011 the applicant was arrested and detained on suspicion of having committed war crimes against the civilian population and against prisoners of war during the 1992-95 war.7.  on 23 november 2011 the state court of bosnia and herzegovina (“the state court”) reviewed and extended his detention based on the risk of his obstructing the course of justice by exerting pressure on witnesses and co-accused or by destroying evidence.on 1 december 2011 that decision was upheld by the appeals chamber of the state court.8.  on 21 december 2011 the state court further extended the applicant’s detention on the same grounds as before.on 5 january 2012 that decision was upheld by the appeals chamber of the state court.9.  on 29 december 2011 the state prosecutor issued an indictment against the applicant and seven other co-suspects, which was confirmed by the state court on 10 january 2012.10.  thereafter, the applicant’s detention was regularly examined and extended every two months by the state court.in addition to those automatic reviews, the applicant repeatedly challenged his detention before the appeals chamber of the state court.11.  on 23 february 2012 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal, relying on article ii § 3.(d) of the constitution (see paragraph 16 below) and article 5 of the convention.12.  on 13 july 2012 the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina (“the constitutional court”), in a formation of eight judges, rejected the applicant’s appeal since it could not reach a majority on any of the proposals.the court’s reasoning included all the views expressed at the session on the issues raised in the case.13.  on 1 november 2012 the state court held that the grounds for the applicant’s continued detention had ceased to apply and released the applicant.by the same decision, the court imposed preventive measures on the applicant which included the following: a prohibition on leaving his place of residence without the prior approval of the state court save for the purpose of appearing before that court; the duty to report once a week to the hadžići police; a prohibition on associating with other co-accused and on associating or having contact with the witnesses.15.  at the date of the latest information available to the court (22 july 2016), the criminal proceedings against the applicant were still ongoing.
two days later the polyarniy town court of the murmansk region imposed on the applicant an undertaking not to leave the place of his residence.6.  on 21 february 2005 the town court, presided by judge d., convicted the applicant of robbery and forgery, sentenced him to seven years and four months of imprisonment and ordered his detention pending the appeal proceedings.7.  on 3 may 2005 the murmansk regional court, under the presidency of judge k., quashed the judgment on appeal and remitted the case to the town court for a fresh examination, ordering that the applicant should remain in custody.8.  on 3 june 2005 the town court, in its turn, further extended the applicant’s detention and remitted the case to the murmansk prosecutor’s office for the elimination of certain procedural deficiencies preventing the examination of the case on the merits.9.  the applicant’s detention was once again extended by the town court, presided by judge d., on 16 august 2005. the applicant challenged the presiding judge on the ground that he had convicted him on 21 february 2005. judge d. refused to step down.the regional court reasoned that by virtue of articles 61 and 63 of the russian code of criminal procedure judge d., who had already presided over the applicant’s trial once, could not take part in the new trial proceedings, however, he was not prevented from deciding on detention matters.while the applicant argued that he had never received it, the government stated that the detention order had been served on him on 5 december 2005. they supported their claim with a copy of the town court’s letter of 29 november 2005 by which the detention order had been forwarded to the applicant and a copy of the detention order from his personal file kept in a remand prison, bearing the applicant’s signature and the date of receipt.in particular, on 30 november 2005 the hearing was re-scheduled for 15 december 2005 because the applicant and his co-defendant asked to summon several defence witnesses.the hearing on 15 december 2005 was also adjourned owing to the applicant’s and his co-defendants’ counsel failure to appear.in the same decision the court, of its own motion, extended the applicant’s detention.12.  the applicant appealed, complaining, in particular, that the detention order of 15 december 2005 was delivered in his counsel’s absence.on 17 january 2006 the regional court, presided by judge k., dismissed the appeal, having noted that the counsel had failed to appear without providing any explanation for his absence.the appeal hearing was attended by a prosecutor and the applicant’s counsel, but not by the applicant himself, despite his request to that effect.13.  on 10 april 2006 the town court convicted the applicant of extortion and sentenced him to three years’ imprisonment and a fine of 3,000 russian roubles (rub).the regional court upheld the conviction on 5 september 2006, but reduced the sentence.
5.  the first applicant was born in 1971 and lives in leverkusen, germany.she is the daughter of the second and third applicants who were born in 1943 and 1942 respectively and lived in tambov, russia.6.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.7.  on 25 april 2007 mr p.z., the brother of the first applicant and the son of the second and third applicants, was charged with large-scale fraud; his name was placed on the list of fugitives from justice.he was accused of embezzling the assets of the companies under his management.the wronged companies filed a claim for compensation in respect of pecuniary damage.8.  on 12 may 2007 a senior operational officer from the federal security service sent a letter to the investigator in charge of p.z.’s case to inform him that “according to the available information, the real estate property owned by [the first applicant] (four flats) and by [the second applicant] (one flat) had been purchased at the expense of their close relative p.z.” 9.  on 22 may 2007 the investigator asked the basmannyy district court in moscow to authorise attachment of the applicants’ property, including three flats owned by the first applicant, a flat owned by the second applicant, and a car owned by the third applicant.10.  on 24 may 2007 the district court issued the requested writs of attachment.it observed that, “according to the information from the investigation”, p.z.had used the stolen money to purchase the property which he had registered in the name of his family members.it considered therefore necessary to attach the property which the district court described as being owned by p.z.the district court explained that the application for writs was to be granted because “it [had been] lodged in the framework of a criminal case by the competent official and with the prosecutor’s approval, it [was] well-reasoned and [complied] with the requirements of the code of criminal procedure”.they produced evidence showing that they had paid for the impugned property out of their pocket and that the link to p.z.12.  on 13 august 2007 the moscow city court rejected their appeals, stating that the district court had “carefully reviewed the materials enclosed with the investigator’s request and reached the justified conclusion that there were sufficient grounds for seizing” the listed property.13.  the attachment of the applicants’ property has remained in place to date.
9.  on 30 december 2002 b.k., counsel for the relatives of the deceased members of the kursk crew, challenged the decision to terminate the investigation before the chief military prosecutor.10.  on 21 april 2004 the military court of the moscow garrison confirmed the decision of 22 july 2002. on 29 june 2004 the appeal tribunal of the military court of the moscow garrison upheld the judgment on appeal.has written about this in his book ‘it has sunk ... the truth about the kursk hidden by prosecutor general u.’).” 16.  after the publication of the two articles, v.k., the chief forensic expert of the russian ministry of defence, a.e., the head of an investigative group within the chief military prosecutor’s office in charge of the kursk investigation, a.s., the chief military prosecutor of russia, and the chief military prosecutor’s office of russia as a legal entity lodged civil actions for defamation against the applicants with the basmannyy district court of moscow (“the district court”).insisted that his reputation as the head of the investigative group in charge of the kursk case had been tarnished by the following text: “... this is ... an abuse of public office, the purpose of which is to help the navy officers escape criminal responsibility.the abuse of public office ... was perpetrated not only by investigators of the chief military prosecutor’s office, but also by experts ...” 19.  the chief military prosecutor’s office and its head, a.s., sought to have the following parts of the articles retracted: “... this is ... an abuse of public office, the purpose of which is to help the navy officers escape criminal responsibility.the abuse of public office ... was perpetrated not only by investigators of the chief military prosecutor’s office, but also by experts ...” “there was no other prospect of success for the kursk case in russia, owing to the position adopted by v.u., the prosecutor general, and a.s., the chief military prosecutor.apparently, those two officials took a decision to help the officers in command of the northern fleet escape criminal responsibility and to terminate the investigation.” 20.  on 3 march and 7 july 2005 the district court joined the proceedings instituted by v.k., a.e., a.s. and the chief military prosecutor’s office.the district court found in the claimants’ favour, ordered the retraction of the statements concerning the claimants’ involvement in an abuse of public office, and awarded each claimant 50,000 and 7,000 russian roubles (rub – approximately 1,470 and 205 euros (eur)), to be paid by the applicant company and the second applicant respectively.23.  in so far as relevant, the district court’s judgment read as follows: “... assessing the impugned statements, the court considers that they contain affirmations that v.k., a.e., a.s. and investigators of the chief military prosecutor’s office broke the russian law which was in force and committed an abuse of public office, and that such statements tarnish the honour, dignity and business reputation of v.k., a.e., [and] a.s., as well as the business reputation of the chief military prosecutor’s office as an agency performing, in the name of the russian federation, state functions of supervision with regard to respect for the constitution of russia and laws in force within the russian territory.... contains the following text: “i think that the final decision not to find commanders of the northern navy criminally liable was taken by ..., a.s. and ...” in view of the above, comparing the impugned statements of the article ... and the text of the book, the court considers that the meaning of the phrase “to take a decision not to find [somebody] criminally liable” is not equivalent to the phrase “to take a decision to help [somebody] escape criminal responsibility”.furthermore, the defendants’ arguments that ... the editorial department and the author of the articles are not the authors of [b.k.’s] statements cannot serve as grounds to absolve a mass media outlet and a journalist of responsibility, in view of the following.under section 49 of ... the mass media act, a journalist must verify the truthfulness of the information he communicates, and section 57 of the act sets out an exhaustive list of grounds for absolving an editorial department, an editor-in-chief, or a journalist of responsibility for disseminating untruthful statements that tarnish the honour and dignity of individuals and organisations ... the court cannot accept as grounds to dismiss the [defamation] action the defendants’ arguments that the impugned statements are opinions, value judgments that could not be retracted under article 152 of the civil code, for the following reasons.under article 17 of the constitution, freedom of thought and expression, as well as the right to protect one’s honour and good name, are recognised and guaranteed ... at the same time, the realisation of the rights and freedoms of an individual and citizen should not breach the rights and freedoms of other citizens.therefore, expression by a journalist of his opinion on any topic, or the publication of an opinion by another person does not give grounds to absolve [the journalist] of responsibility where damage has been unlawfully inflicted on the values protected by the constitution and the civil code of russia, [such as] honour, dignity and the business reputation of an individual.” 24.  the applicants appealed, arguing in particular that the information contained in the impugned articles amounted to value judgments, and that the articles had reflected the opinions of r.k. and b.k., opinions expressed in the former’s application to the court and the latter’s book.in particular, it reasoned “the defendants have not submitted evidence of the veracity of the disseminated statements, [while] the claimants have provided evidence proving that they did not commit the actions mentioned in the disseminated statements.” 26.  the applicants also unsuccessfully applied for supervisory review.
we are always open to constructive dialogue with the international community, and we invite independent experts from the united nations and the european union to monitor the situation with their own eyes, so that the groundless and defamatory attacks on the chechens by russia’s propagandists, who insolently continue to pester the pace, osce and other authoritative organisations, can no longer distort the real picture in the chechen republic of ichkeria.we would therefore like to believe that the chechen people have a right to hope that you will soon recognise the war which the putin regime imposed on chechnya as genocide – a war which, in its scale, refinement, vandalism and inhumanity, overshadows the genocide of 1944. i sincerely believe in the triumph of reason and justice on earth, and in the final victory of the chechen people.he added that he had intended to convey to the readers the position of the leaders of one of the parties to the military conflict in the chechen republic as he had considered that, in the light of the continuing tragedy in the northern caucasus and terrorist threat, citizens should be entitled to have an idea of that position first hand rather than having the situation presented to them by russia’s mass media, which only reflected the point of view of the authorities of russia.in a report on the linguistic expert examination of the first article, she pointed out that the text contained statements in the affirmative to the effect that “the tragedy in the dubrovka [theatre] and the war in chechnya [were] beneficial for vladimir putin”, that “the cessation of war and a peace agreement with the leaders of the [chechen republic of ichkeria meant] the loss of power for v. putin”, and that “until v. putin [guided] the state, blood [would] continue to flow in chechnya and russia”.as long as they remain in the kremlin, blood will continue to flow in chechnya and in russia.” according to the report, that statement, analysed in the context of the whole article, contained a demand by the author to the people of russia not to vote for vladimir putin in march 2004. it went on to note that the author was also promising that, otherwise, killings and terrorist acts would be carried out in chechnya and in russia (“blood will continue to flow...”), verbally threatening the people of russia.22.  the other report of 18 february 2005 concerned a linguistic expert examination of the second article and stated that the following statements were aimed at inciting racial, ethnic and social hostility, associated with violence: “...the 1944 deportation was the ninth large-scale act of genocide by the military and political authorities of imperial russia...” “the very first deportation of the chechens was carried out by russia as early as in 1792...” “more than a quarter of a million innocent civilians have already died in the [chechen republic of ichkeria] (the cri) during the latest continuing russian-chechen war...” “...the international community ... has not the slightest desire to react in any way to this criminal madness by the bloody kremlin regime...” “...the 60th anniversary of the deportation ... many chechens marked ... in extremely harsh conditions of unmotivated mass murders, extrajudicial executions, groundless detentions, severe ‘clear-up’ operations, tortures, kidnappings, disappearances and ‘residential’ checks by russia’s invaders and their accomplices, who have been committing excesses in the territory of the cri for the past five years...” “today, just as 60 years ago, the new global russia’s terror has become our national tragedy.its inexorable millstones are grinding the gene pool of the unique and original chechen people...” “...we invite independent experts from the united nations and the european union to monitor the situation with their own eyes, so that the groundless and defamatory attacks on the chechens by russia’s propagandists... can no longer distort the real picture in the chechen republic of ichkeria...” “there is no doubt that the kremlin is today the centre of international terrorism, and [the kremlin] selected chechnya and the chechens as targets for testing terrorist methods which are being developed by the [federal security service]...” “it would be naive to believe that the present regime in russia would be too shy to use its terrorist experience in the international arena to solve its political and other problems...” “an example of this is the treacherous and cowardly terrorist attack by russia’s special services in the state of qatar, which prematurely took the life of ... zelimkhan yandarbiyev...” “...you have become witnesses to one of the numerous terrorist methods used by the state party of russia, notably taking hostages from the civilian population...” “we would therefore like to believe that the chechen people have a right to hope that you will soon recognise the war which the putin regime imposed on chechnya as genocide...” “the bright day is near when the sacred chechen soil will be completely cleansed of the countless hordes of russia’s invaders and their accomplices...” 23.  the report stated that in all those statements the author of the article was directly pointing out that it was russia and its invaders, military and political authorities, special services and state party who were carrying out “genocide”, “unmotivated mass murders, extrajudicial executions, groundless detentions, severe ‘clear-up’ operations, tortures, kidnappings, disappearances and ‘residential’ checks”, and that it was they who were “committing excesses”.the report went on to state that the expression “whatever the costs!” referred to the means and methods (“to use the enemy’s own methods against the enemy”, “terrorist methods”), and that it was of little importance whether those methods were condemned by the author or not, as the author’s “protective reservation” “to use the enemy’s own methods against the enemy, [an approach] which we unequivocally condemn” did not change the true meaning of the aforementioned expression.25.  t. also considered it necessary to note that the article contained a number of statements with contemptuous, angry stylistic connotations expressing a distinctly negative assessment of the actions of russia’s servicemen and governance of the military and political authorities of russia, such as “this criminal madness by the [bloody] kremlin regime”, “russia’s invaders and their accomplices, who have been committing excesses in the territory of the cri for the past five years”, “the kremlin is today the centre of international terrorism” and “the putin regime”.its inexorable millstones are grinding the gene pool of the unique and original chechen people, one of the indigenous nations of the ancient caucasus...” “the bright day is near when the sacred chechen soil will be completely cleansed of the countless hordes of russia’s invaders...” 27.  lastly, the report concluded that the article contained no appeals to extremist activity.32. in a judgment of 3 february 2006 the sovetskiy district court of nizhniy novgorod (“the district court”), sitting in a single-judge formation composed of judge b., established that, in breach of sections 51 and 59 of the mass media act, the applicant, “acting intentionally and using his official position as chief editor, [had] decided to publish two articles which contained statements aimed at inciting enmity and humiliating the dignity of a group of persons on the grounds of race, ethnic origin and membership of a certain social group”.on the basis of the evidence adduced to it, the district court found it necessary to classify the applicant’s actions as those punishable under article 282 § 2 (b) of the criminal code, namely those aimed at inciting enmity and humiliating the dignity of a group of persons on the grounds of race, ethnic origin, membership of a social group, committed through the mass media by a person using his official position.37.  the trial court found it necessary to exclude from the charges against the applicant reference to “the statements aimed at advocating the exceptionality and supremacy of the chechens on the grounds of their ethnicity” “in the absence of such wording in the provisions of article 282 of the russian criminal code”.the applicant also asked the court to include in the case file a copy and transcript of the audio recording of the first-instance hearings, made by the defence, indicating the discrepancies between the actual statements made by ms t. and those reflected in the trial record.it reiterated the reasoning of the trial court, stating that the applicant’s guilt for the offence with which he had been charged had been proven by the body of evidence examined during the trial – his own statements in which he had admitted having published the impugned articles and the expert reports of 18 february 2005. the regional court endorsed the trial court’s argument that there was no reason to question the conclusions of those reports.
regard being had to her previous convictions for similar offences, the applicant was ordered to spend four years and one month in a correctional colony.10.  at the time of her arrest the applicant suffered from hiv and chronic hepatitis c. 11.  she underwent a routine medical examination by a general practitioner on admission to her remand prison.14.  on 9 june 2015 the applicant complained of intense pain in the lower abdomen, which she had been experiencing for four months.16.  on 17 june 2015 the applicant, referring to “personal circumstances”, asked for the admission to hospital to be suspended.18.  on 21 july 2015 the applicant was admitted to gaaza prison hospital in st petersburg (“the prison hospital”).22.  in november 2015 the head of the prison hospital applied for the applicant’s early release on medical grounds.23.  at a hearing on 25 november 2015 before the smolninskiy district court of st petersburg, the applicant’s doctor supported the application, stating that she was very ill, was in constant, severe pain, and that the prison hospital had no drugs to treat her.24.  a representative of the detention authorities left the issue to the court’s discretion, only making positive comments about the applicant’s work while in detention and about her character.25.  the prosecutor in the case objected to the applicant’s release, stating that the detention facility could provide her with the requisite treatment.26.  the court dismissed the application, finding that the treatment she would receive in the prison hospital was similar to what she would get in a civilian one.27.  on 1 march 2016 the st petersburg city court quashed the decision of 25 november 2015 on appeal and remitted the case for fresh examination.28.  by a letter delivered to the court on 2 march 2016 the applicant asked to apply interim measures under rule 39 of the rules of court.on the same day the court indicated to the government, under rule 39, that the applicant should immediately be given access to the entire range of medication available for cancer patients in accordance with russian laws, including appropriate pain relief drugs.29.  following the court’s decision on interim measures the authorities continued treating the applicant in the prison hospital, which mostly consisted of treating her symptoms.she was afraid that she would have no chance to say farewell to her mother, who was dying of cervical cancer in a hospital.
5.  the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in bor.6.  the applicant was employed by the bank called borska banka ad, (“the debtor”).it would appear that at the relevant time the debtor was predominantly comprised of socially-owned capital.7.  on 13 february 2004 the zaječar commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor.8.  on 8 february 2005, upon a submission to that effect, the zaječar commercial court recognised the applicant’s claims concerning salary arrears.9. on an unspecified date the applicant was paid 8,533 serbian dinars (rsd) on account of the debt in question.the remainder of the debt has not been paid until the present day.11.  on 14 december 2006 the applicant applied to the zaječar commercial court for enforcement of the court’s decision of 8 february 2005, by which the applicant’s claims were recognised.the zaječar commercial court, however, declined its jurisdiction ratione materiae and transferred the case file to the bor municipal court.12.  on 7 may 2007 the bor municipal court dismissed the applicant’s enforcement request.in its reasoning, the court stated that the commercial court’s decision of 8 february 2005 was not suitable for execution.13.  on 23 november 2007 the zaječar district court upheld the first instance court’s decision, stating that the debtor had been subject to the pending insolvency proceedings.14.  on 18 march 2008 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal against the zaječar district court’s decision.15.  on 4 november 2010 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s constitutional appeal.it found that the applicant had failed to properly seize the constitutional court, having lodged her appeal against “the wrong” decision.
the judgment of the court of first instance was upheld by a final judgment of the bucharest court of appeal of 25 november 2011, which was finalised on 25 may 2012.8.  the applicant lodged two applications for a stay of execution of sentence under article 453 § 1 b) and c) of the former code of criminal procedure (“the ccp”) (see paragraph 22 below).he submitted that he was married and had a child who was only a few months old, born on 19 may 2011, whom he wanted to look after, and that his family were experiencing financial and social difficulties on account of his detention.9.  in a judgment of 27 march 2012, the bucharest court of first instance dismissed his first application on the grounds that a stay of execution of sentence provided for by article 453 § 1 b) of the ccp for convicted mothers up to their child’s first birthday had to be interpreted strictly and that the applicant could not seek application of that provision by analogy.it also found that the financial and family difficulties referred to by the applicant did not fall within the category of special circumstances required by article 453 § 1 c) of the ccp to allow a deferral of sentence, especially as they had existed prior to his placement in detention.10.  on appeal by the applicant, the bucharest county court upheld the judgment of the court of first instance in a judgment of 7 may 2012.11.  in a judgment of 13 june 2012, the bucharest court of first instance dismissed the second application lodged by the applicant under article 453 § 1 c) of the ccp on the grounds that the statutory conditions were not satisfied.in particular, the court found that enforcement of the sentence did not endanger the applicant’s personal or family situation.in a judgment of 17 july 2012, the bucharest county court dismissed an appeal by the applicant against that judgment.12.  the applicant was detained in a number of different prisons, including the bucharest police detention facility (from 1 to 13 december 2011), bucharest‑rahova prison (from 13 to 19 december 2011, 21 december 2011 to 9 january 2012 and 17 january 2012 to 30 january 2013), mărgineni prison (from 9 to 17 january 2012) and giurgiu prison (from 30 january to 25 february 2013 and from 11 march to 26 september 2013).13.  with regard to the bucharest police detention facility, the applicant stated that he had been detained there with three other detainees, in cell no.he added that the toilets were dirty and separated from the rest of the cell only by a curtain.15.  with regard to mărgineni prison, he stated that he had been detained there with twenty-four other detainees in a 2 x 6. sq.he alleged, among other things, that hot water had only rarely been available and that the mattress and bed linen had been dirty.17.  the government stated that in the bucharest police detention facility the applicant had been held in a 10.68 sq.
called the hotline of the bucharest child protection authority (direcţia generală de asistenţă socială şi protecţia copilului) to report the domestic abuse she and the applicant had been suffering at the hands of d.d.the child protection authority issued the following statement concerning the monitoring of the applicant’s case (on 29 august 2005 for the purpose of court proceedings): “mrs [c.i.]the police heard evidence from witnesses on behalf of the applicant and obtained information about the applicant’s situation from the centre where he and his mother had been relocated.based on the evidence gathered, the police sent the file to the prosecutor’s office attached to the bucharest district court (“the prosecutor”).this decision was upheld by the county court on 19 february 2009, but on 19 june 2009 the bucharest court of appeal quashed this latter decision and remitted the case to the county court, as it considered that the lower courts should have heard evidence from the applicant and relied on the psychological reports.it considered that the evidence in the prosecution file, in particular the psychological reports and the testimony given by a psychologist, confirmed that the child had suffered trauma as a consequence of his father’s abusive behaviour.based on article 17 of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccp”, see paragraph 24 below), the court, on its own initiative, awarded the applicant 20,000 romanian lei (ron) in respect of non-pecuniary damage.12.  upon an appeal on points of law lodged by d.d., on 7 april 2010 the bucharest court of appeal remitted the case to the county court and ordered that court to obtain an expert examination of the applicant by the forensic medicine institute.based on the evidence before it, notably the expert evaluations, psychologist’s testimony, witness statements, as well as the parents’ and the applicant’s statements, the county court considered it established that d.d.15.  when sentencing d.d., the court took into account the undue length of the criminal proceedings and that there had been significant periods of inactivity by the authorities involved, in particular by the investigators and the forensic medicine institute.relying on article 17 of the ccp (see paragraph 24 below), the applicant and the prosecutor complained notably about the fact that the county court had not awarded damages.had physically and verbally abused his child; his sentence was recalculated based on the same criteria, including the reduction as a remedy for the length of the trial.19.  the court further considered that in so far as both the prosecutor and the applicant had limited their initial appeals to solely the criminal aspects of the district court’s decision of 9 june 2008, the county court had been right in not awarding damages on its own initiative.the relevant part of the decision reads as follows: “in so far as the prosecutor’s office and the injured party argued that the [county court] should have examined the award of damages on its own initiative because the injured party was a minor, it is to be observed from the content of the decision under review that both the prosecutor’s office and the injured party had expressly limited their appeals to the criminal aspects of the case.in this situation, the [county court] was right in limiting its examination strictly to the issues brought before it.” 20.  the court of appeal rendered its final decision on 1 november 2012 and rectified the text of the operative part on 22 november 2012.
12.  in june 2012 the applicant instituted proceedings before the minnesota 4th judicial district family court (“the minnesota district court”), seeking dissolution of the marriage and sole custody of m. in the course of the proceedings s. agreed to the dissolution of marriage.13.  in july 2012 the applicant spent a holiday in ukraine with s. and m. 14.  on 14 august 2012 the applicant asked the ministry of justice of ukraine to order the return of m. from ukraine to the usa in accordance with the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction (“the hague convention” – see paragraph 37 below).17.  on 10 april 2013 the chernihiv regional chief department of justice, acting in the applicant’s interests, lodged a claim with the desnyansky district court of chernihiv (“the desnyansky district court”), asserting that m. had been wrongfully retained in ukraine and must be returned to the usa in accordance with the hague convention.during the hearings the applicant stated that he was prepared to cover travel expenses for both the child and the mother if the latter were to be ordered to accompany the child to the usa.the court found that such retention was wrongful within the meaning of the hague convention and that the child should be returned to the country of his habitual residence, the usa.given the applicant’s verbal assurances, the court considered that there were no objective obstacles to the mother’s accompanying the child to the usa and resolving the custody dispute before the courts of that country.in the operative part of the decision, the court ordered that m. should be returned to the usa ‒ to the father’s home address in minneapolis ‒ specifying that the child should be accompanied on the journey by both parents.22.  s. appealed against those decisions, maintaining that there was no abduction or unlawful retention of the child and that, in any event, there were grounds to apply the exception provided by article 13 (b) of the hague convention (see paragraph 37 below) as regarded the risk of psychological harm to the child and his being placed in an intolerable situation.23.  on 13 august 2013 the municipal centre of social services for family, children and youth of chernihiv issued a certificate stating their psychiatrist’s opinion that m. was “well settled in ukraine and, having regard to the strong bond between the child and the mother and the need to avoid causing the child psychological trauma, it would be inappropriate to remove the child to the other place of residence”.25.  on 20 november 2013 the higher specialised court of ukraine for civil and criminal matters (“the cassation court”) quashed the decision of 14 august 2013 (see paragraph 24 above) and upheld the desnyansky district court’s decisions of 19 june and 2 july 2013 (see paragraphs 20 and 21 above), noting that they were well substantiated and had been adopted in compliance with the requirements of the hague convention.in particular, there had been no clear stance on the question of whether or not the removal or retention of the child had been wrongful, and ‒ if that were the case ‒ at what moment it started to be wrongful, nor as to whether or not the father had consented to or subsequently acquiesced as regards the child’s retention, nor whether facts existed demonstrating that the child was settled in his current environment.30.  on 30 july 2014 the cassation court quashed the court of appeal’s decision of 14 august 2013 (see paragraph 24 above), on the grounds that the court of appeal had breached procedural rules and had failed to establish all the relevant facts.the court of appeal then considered the applicant’s updated submissions, in which he no longer argued that the retention of the child had been wrongful as from 16 august 2011 but rather as from 20 june 2012, which was the date when he had first expressed his disagreement with the child’s retention in ukraine.32.  as regards the period commencing on 20 june 2012, the court of appeal considered that the applicant had continued to consent to the child’s retention in ukraine as there was no express objection on that point before the request was made under the hague convention.the court of appeal examined the evidence relating to the child’s place of residence in ukraine, and the social and medical care provided to him in ukraine, and found that m. was assured of all the conditions necessary for his proper development.
in addition, the judge dismissed t.s.’s objection that the applicant’s claim was time-barred, holding that the time-limit set by article 1817 § 1 was unconstitutional insofar as the limitation thus imposed on the possibility of investigating an individual’s paternity at all times constituted an unjustified and disproportionate restriction of the right of a son to know who his father was.challenged the judge’s decision of 26 june 2012 ‒ in the part in which it considered article 1817 § 1 to be incompatible with constitutional provisions ‒ before the porto court of appeal.in the light of that result the vale de cambra court asked the parties about the usefulness of continuing the proceedings.13.  on 14 january 2014 the supreme court dismissed t.s.’s appeal and upheld the decision of the porto court of appeal in its entirety.appealed to the constitutional court, to which he submitted the question of the constitutionality of article 1817 § 1 of the civil code, pursuant to article 70 § 1 (a) of the law of the constitutional court.on 7 may 2014 the conference of the constitutional court upheld the previous decision of the constitutional court and dismissed the applicant’s claim.17.  as a result of the constitutional court’s decisions, the supreme court of justice dismissed the applicant’s action on 9 july 2014.20.  on 15 june 2013 the vila real court dismissed the second applicant’s action, holding that it was time-barred for being lodged outside the ten-year time-limit established under article 1817 § 1 of the civil code.in addition, it noted that the second applicant had not argued that there were any factors justifying the addition of a further three years pursuant to article 1817 §§ 2 and 3 of the civil code.21.  on 5 september 2013 the second applicant appealed to the porto court of appeal, challenging the judgment of the vila real court.he argued that the time-limit established under article 1817 § 1 of the civil code for the institution of paternity proceedings was not compatible with the constitution and that the right to one’s identity should prevail over the rights of the alleged parent.22.  on 10 december 2013 the porto court of appeal upheld the first‑instance judgment, finding that article 1817 § 1 of the civil code was not incompatible with constitutional provisions, pursuant to ruling no.one of the judges dissented, expressing the view that the protection afforded by the constitution to the fundamental right to personal identity required that the possibility of investigating one’s biological identity should not be subject to a time‑limit.23.  on 28 january 2014 the second applicant challenged the decision of the porto court of appeal before the supreme court of justice and asked it to rule that the referred time-limit was unconstitutional.24.  by a judgment of 27 may 2014 the supreme court of justice quashed the judgment of the porto court of appeal and held that the ten‑year time-limit established under article 1817 § 1 of the civil code was unconstitutional.
4.  in a dispute between the applicant and the domestic pension authorities, on 18 february 2011 the kryviy rih dovgyntsivskyy district court ruled in his favour, ordering an increase of his pension based on the rise in the average wages in the country since his retirement.the court sat in camera.5.  on 3 november 2011 the first-instance court amended the judgment at the applicant’s request, indicating that it was enforceable immediately.in doing so, the court referred to the provision of the code of administrative justice governing abridged procedure (see paragraph 11 below).6.  the defendant pension authority appealed to the dnipropetrovsk administrative court of appeal (“the court of appeal”).7.  on 23 november 2011 the first-instance court informed the applicant that an appeal had been lodged in his case.on 29 february 2012 he wrote to the court of appeal, requesting to be informed about the date of the hearing of his case.according to him, he received no response and no further information about the proceedings until 22 february 2013 when he received the court of appeal’s final decision, dated 26 june 2012, quashing the first-instance court’s judgment.8.  it can be seen from the material before the court that the applicant’s domestic case file contains copies of the ruling of the court of appeal’s judge (date illegible) opening appeal proceedings in his case and a notification letter dated february 2012 from the court clerk informing him of the upcoming examination of his case in camera on 26 june 2012 and stating that the judge’s ruling and a copy of the appeal were enclosed with the letter.the government alleged that the above documents had been sent to the applicant, while the applicant alleged that they had not.the file does not contain any postal documents or registers of sent correspondence showing that the above documents had been sent or delivered to the applicant.9.  on 26 june 2012 the court of appeal, in a final decision not amenable to appeal, quashed the first-instance court’s judgment, dismissing the applicant’s claim for a pension increase and holding that the domestic law did not require the pensions to be increased in case of rise in the average wages in the country following retirement.the court sat in camera.
5.  the applicants lived in a dormitory in lipetsk, russia.the dormitory was mainly inhabited by the students and the staff of the lipetsk metallurgy college (“the college”).6.  in 2000 the joint-stock company “nlmk” (“the company”) registered its title over that dormitory as a result of privatisation.7.  the applicants brought a case against the company seeking to obtain a title to the rooms they lived in.they argued in particular that the privatisation of the dormitory had taken place in violation of the legislation and that the company could not be declared as a sole owner of the property.the lipetsk metallurgy college was also involved into the case as a third party.8.  on 19 april 2010 the oktyabrskiy district court of lipetsk found for the applicants and granted their claims.the district court found that the dormitory was transferred to the company in breach of domestic law.9.  on 2 june 2010 the appeal court upheld the judgment and it became final.10.  in august 2010 the applicants registered their title to the dormitory rooms and subsequently sold them to third parties.11.  on 12 april 2011 the company lodged a request with the oktyabrskiy district court of lipetsk seeking to reopen the proceedings on the grounds of newly discovered circumstances.it relied on the order of the college’s director and a lease agreement concluded in 2008 between the company and the college in respect of the dormitory.the company further argued that it had not been aware of those documents since they were possessed by the college.12.  on 12 may 2011 the oktyabrskiy district court of lipetsk quashed the judgment of 19 april 2010. the court found in particular that the documents presented by the company might have had significant impact on the outcome of the case and thus they constituted “newly discovered circumstances”.13.  on 31 august 2011 as a result of the fresh consideration of the case the oktyabrskiy district court of lipetsk rejected the applicants’ claims and ordered reversal of execution of the judgment of 19 april 2010. this judgment was upheld on 26 october 2011 by the lipetsk regional court.
they took the applicant for questioning to the police station approximately at 1-2 p.m. 7.  according to the applicant, the police officers beat him and subjected him to electrocution.the expert noted the following injuries on the applicant’s body: a bruise on the right shoulder joint, a bruise and an abrasion on the right shoulder, abrasions on the right calf.in the expert’s opinion, the applicant might have sustained the injuries as a result of an impact of solid blunt objects, including blows administered by arms and legs, not a long time before the forensic examination.the applicant submitted to the expert that he had no memory as to what had happened to him after he had been arrested by the police.10.  on 18 november 2011 the investigator in charge of the applicant’s case reported the applicant’s injuries to the regional investigative committee.11.  following an inquiry into the circumstances of the applicant’s arrest, on 28 november 2011 the investigator refused to institute criminal proceedings against the police officers as regards the alleged unlawful deprivation of liberty of the applicant and ill-treatment in police custody on 10 october 2011. he based his conclusions on the findings as follows: “on 11 october 2011 from 7:45 to 8:30 a.m. ... investigator f. questioned [the applicant] as a witness [in the murder case].on 11 october 2011 at 10:10 a.m., in the presence of the [applicant’s] lawyer b., [the applicant] was [officially] detained on suspicion of [murder] and from 10:40 a.m. to 11:10 a.m., he was questioned.... according to [the applicant], he did not remember where he had sustained the injuries documented by the expert.... refused to comment ... according to former investigator f., ... on 10 october 2010 [the police] established the [applicant’s] whereabouts and he was taken to the police station for questioning.... according to police officer krut., ... in the morning on 11 october 2011 he took [the applicant] to the [investigator’s office] ... .[the applicant] behaved in a strange way in the police car and at the police station.[the applicant] could have inflicted all the injuries himself when he hit his head against the wall, fell down off the chair and rolled around on the floor.4925.11 dated 24 november 2011, regard being had to the placement and nature of the bodily injuries documented during the forensic examination [the applicant] underwent, it is possible that [applicant] sustained the injuries when he hit himself against the solid protruding objects in the circumstances described by [the police officers] ... .the inquiry further established that from about 1-2 p.m. on 10 october 2011 to 7:45 a.m. on 11 october 2011 ... [the applicant] stayed at the police station voluntarily.14.  on 28 june 2012 the voronezh regional court found that the applicant had committed the murders and in a state of insanity and ordered his confinement in a psychiatric institution.
5.  the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in budapest.6.  on 14 april 2010 the applicant notified the police that he planned to organise a demonstration from 2 to 7 p.m. on 17 april 2010 in front of the venyige street prison in budapest, in order to draw attention to the “situation of political prisoners”.venyige street is a broad cul-de-sac with a service lane.7.  on 16 april 2010 the head of the budapest police department banned the demonstration on the grounds that traffic could not be diverted to alternative routes (section 8(1) of the assembly act).in the decision, he referred to article 21 of the international covenant on civil and political rights, article 11 of the convention and decision no.55/2001.ab of the constitutional court.8.  on 19 april 2010, within the statutory time-limit, the applicant sought a judicial review of the decision.9.  on 22 april 2010 the budapest regional court dismissed the applicant’s case.it noted that in assessing whether or not traffic could be diverted to other routes, the authority had reckoned on the participation of some 200 demonstrators, as per the applicant’s notification, and that – after having obtained the opinion of a traffic expert – it had established that lawful parking and traffic circulation in the neighbourhood would become impossible should the event take place.the court agreed with the police’s decision in that although the right to assembly was a constitutional fundamental right, it was not absolute and must not give rise to a violation of the fundamental rights of others, and could therefore be restricted.the court was satisfied that the decision had been lawful as the police had adequately established the facts, complied with the procedural rules and applied clear assessment criteria, and the assessment of the evidence had been logical.
4.  the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in donji kraljevec.5.  on 15 october 2001 the applicant brought a civil action against a private person in the čakovec municipal court (općinski sud u čakovcu) seeking that a contract for lifelong maintenance (ugovor o doživotnom uzdržavanju) be declared null and void, that certain entries in the land register be altered, and that certain property be included in his deceased father’s estate.at the first hearing of the trial, the applicant indicated the value of the claim at 101,000 croatian kunas (hrk).6.  on 4 february 2005 the čakovec municipal court declared the applicant’s action inadmissible.the applicant lodged an appeal against the first-instance decision.on 12 may 2005 the čakovec county court (županijski sud u čakovcu) dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the first-instance decision.7.  the applicant then lodged an appeal on points of law (revizija) with the supreme court.on 19 april 2006 the supreme court accepted the applicant’s appeal on points of law, examined it on the merits and quashed the decisions of the lower courts and ordered a fresh consideration of the case.8.  on 17 february 2009, in the fresh proceedings, the first-instance court gave judgment in the applicant’s favour.9.  the defendant, t.b., lodged an appeal and on 10 june 2010 the čakovec county court reversed the first-instance judgment.10.  the applicant then lodged an appeal on points of law.on 21 september 2011 the supreme court declared the applicant’s appeal on points of law inadmissible ratione valoris because it fell below the threshold of 100,000 croatian kunas, given that the applicant’s civil action had included three separate claims lodged on different factual and legal bases – therefore, the amount of the claim had to be divided into three.the supreme court did not provide any reasoning as to why it had accepted as admissible the applicant’s previous appeal on points of law and decided on the merits.11.  a constitutional complaint subsequently lodged by the applicant was declared inadmissible by the constitutional court on 12 january 2012.
the claim was based on a delay on the defendant’s part in issuing a safety certificate, which the department had been required to issue in 2001 by a court judgment.8.  on 18 october 2005 the kyiv commercial court of appeal quashed the first-instance court’s judgment and rejected the claim, mainly on the grounds that the applicant company had failed to prove the loss of profit it had claimed.9.  on 21 february 2006 the higher commercial court reversed the ruling of the court of appeal and upheld the judgment of the first instance court.the higher court held that because the defendant’s inaction prevented the applicant company from operating its business as from 2001, the first instance court was correct in accepting the information about the applicant company’s gross income for 1999 and 2000.10.  on 6 june 2006 the supreme court quashed the ruling of the higher commercial court and upheld the ruling of the court of appeal.the supreme court considered that no causal connection has been proven between the defendant’s culpable inaction and the alleged loss of profit.it held, in particular, that the applicant company had failed to prove that it had realised a profit, rather than gross income, prior to 2001, or that its income for the preceding years came from operations which required a safety certificate.11.  following communication of the case and unsuccessful friendly settlement negotiations, on 2 september 2014 the government informed the court of their intention to resolve the issue raised by the application.they produced a unilateral declaration, in which they acknowledged a breach of article 6 § 1 of the convention and offered to pay the applicant company a sum to cover any pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage together with any costs and expenses.the government requested that the court strike out the application in accordance with article 37 § 1 of the convention.it argued, in particular, that under domestic law the unilateral declaration, unlike a court’s judgment finding a violation, would not provide grounds for reexamination of its case by the supreme court.13.  the government were invited to comment and on 10 july 2015 informed the court of the relevant domestic legislation (see paragraphs 15 and 16 below).they submitted a letter from the supreme court informing the government agent there was no relevant domestic case‑law on the matter.14.  on 3 november 2015 the applicant company’s only shareholder, east/west, informed the court that on 2 october 2014 the kyiv city commercial court had declared the applicant company bankrupt and opened liquidation procedure and on 8 october 2015 had declared it liquidated.asked to comment, the government responded on 18 january 2016 that they “do not object against the applicant’s request as to the payment to its sole shareholder the awarded compensation and, thus, leave this question on the court’s discretion”.
6.  on 14 may 2010 the applicant was arrested in kyiv by officers of the security service of ukraine (“the sbu”) on suspicion of unlawfully importing equipment for the covert surveillance of telephone networks and using it to intercept private telephone conversations (see paragraph 24 below), an offence committed in collaboration with m., a russian national.7.  an sbu investigator lodged a request with the shevchenkivskyy district court of kyiv (“the district court”) seeking that the applicant be remanded in custody pending the investigation.he submitted that the applicant’s detention was necessary in order to prevent him from absconding and interfering with the investigation, given that the applicant was a foreign national, did not have a permanent place of residence in ukraine and was suspected of a serious offence.8.  on 17 may 2010 the district court held a hearing in the presence of the prosecutor and his lawyer, remanded the applicant in custody, and ordered that he be placed in an sbu detention facility.it held that the arguments submitted by the investigator were sufficiently strong to allow the conclusion that the applicant should be detained.9.  on 27 may 2010 the court of appeal held a hearing to examine the applicant lawyer’s appeal against the order of 17 may 2010 in the presence of a prosecutor and the applicant’s lawyer and upheld the order.10.  on 13 july 2010 the district court held a hearing in the presence of the prosecutor, the applicant and his lawyer and extended the applicant’s detention until 14 september 2010. it noted that there were no reasons to release the applicant and that the investigative authority needed time to complete the investigation.11.  on 26 july and 6 august 2010 the court of appeal held hearings to examine, respectively, the applicant lawyer’s and the applicant’s own appeals against the district court’s decision of 13 july 2010. only a prosecutor was present at the former hearing, whereas the latter hearing was attended by the prosecutor, the applicant and his lawyer.12.  on 9 september 2010 the court of appeal held a hearing in the presence of the prosecutor and the applicant’s lawyer, granted the investigative authority’s request, and extended the applicant’s detention until 14 november 2010. the court noted that the charges against the applicant were serious, that there were no reasons to release him and that the investigative authority needed more time to complete the investigation.13.  on 1 november 2010 the investigator charged the applicant with several additional offences in connection with the same events: breaching the privacy of telephone communications and unlawful transfer of equipment subject to export control, committed in a group (see paragraph 24 below).16.  on 27 april 2011 the district court committed the applicant for trial, rejected the applicant’s request for release and ordered his continuing detention pending trial.the court stated that the applicant was charged with a serious offence, was a foreign national and had no permanent place of residence in ukraine.it gave reasons similar to those given in its decision of 27 april 2011 and added that there was no reason to set an end-date for the applicant’s detention since his detention was needed to complete the trial.20.  on 7 december 2012 the court of appeal quashed the conviction and remitted the case for additional investigation.23.  on 17 may 2013 the district court approved the applicant’s plea bargain, convicted him, and sentenced him to two years and eight months’ imprisonment, which was to be considered fully served in view of the time the applicant had spent in pre-trial detention.
7.  the applicant submits that on the trial days, that is to say on 20, 21, 24 and 25 may 2010, in the holding area in the basement of the riga regional court, he was insulted and physically assaulted by the detainee escort officers to make him confess to the crimes.12.  on 28 may 2010 riga central prison faxed to the riga regional court a copy of a medical certificate issued after the applicant had been medically examined on 26 may 2010. the handwritten medical certificate, dated 26 may 2010, provided to the court by the government stated that the applicant had the following injuries: wounds on his lower legs and on the right hand “in the typical area”; a haematoma on the left forearm; and a haematoma on the right side.according to the report, the applicant’s state of health on 26 may 2010 had been satisfactory; he had had several injuries covered by scabs on his lower legs; injuries covered by scabs on the “typical area” of the right hand caused by the use of handcuffs; a haematoma four centimetres in diameter on his left forearm; and a haematoma six centimetres in diameter in the “phase of absorption” on the right side in the area of the kidney.on 18 june 2010 the internal security office, referring to the complaint lodged by the applicant’s mother (see paragraph 8 above), sent a copy of the file to the riga regional division of the state police for it to decide on the lawfulness of the actions of its employees.20.  on 11 august 2010 the internal security office refused to institute criminal proceedings in view of the fact that the constituent elements of the offence of “exceeding official authority” under section 317(2) of the criminal law (krimināllikums) were lacking in the officers’ actions.it instructed the internal security office to question the persons with whom the applicant and his co‑accused had shared cells between 20 and 25 may 2010 and to obtain information regarding breaks during the trial days on which the applicant and his co-accused had allegedly been assaulted.it considered that the internal security office had not clarified the contradictions between the statements of the applicant and his co-accused on the one hand, and the statements of the escort officers on the other hand, and the circumstances in which the applicant and v.p.in respect of the applicant the report stated that the description of the injuries contained in the medical documentation, in the record of the applicant’s questioning by the police, and in the hearings transcripts was incomplete.while it was indicated in the record of the applicant’s questioning and in the hearings transcripts that injuries had also been inflicted to the applicant’s face, abdomen, buttocks, lower part of the back, back, and left side of the thorax, such injuries had not been identified in the medical examination of 26 may 2010.namely, the presentation of photographs to the applicant for the purpose of identifying the alleged perpetrators had been organised in a manner intended to impede justice ‑ while he had been shown the small black-and-white frontal photographs he had been surrounded by seven escort officers in an effort to intimidate him.furthermore, during the internal inquiry the internal security office had “interviewed” the applicant and the co‑accused, who had been minors at the relevant time, in the absence of a lawyer or a representative.he upheld the findings of the lower prosecutor – the decision to terminate the criminal proceedings had been lawful as the constituent elements of the offence had been missing.the higher prosecutor indicated that the applicant’s mother did not have the right to complain about the decision to terminate the criminal proceedings and that it had been wrong for the lower prosecutor to examine her complaint on the merits.he stated that his mother had been authorised to lodge complaints in his name under the power of attorney that he had granted her on 21 october 2011. he further noted that the assessment of the flaws in the proceedings had been superficial and had not properly addressed the points raised by his mother.lastly, because he had not been the one who had lodged the initial appeals, the applicant had missed the time-limit for lodging an appeal against the decision of 20 july 2012 terminating the criminal proceedings.
