the applicant was willing to say that she had received the letter on which the article was based by fax on friday 24 august 2007, at 5.35 p.m. she also stated that the article had been published on dn.no at 3 a.m. on 25 august 2007. the applicant further explained that she had considered the information in the letter as price-sensitive.in the court records (“rettsboken”), his arguments in favour of issuing such an order are restated as having included the following: “the prosecutor rose to speak and argued that the witness had an obligation to give testimony about her contact with the defendant in connection with the letter to [the bond trustee company] of 24 august 2007 and asked the court to make a decision on the matter.as to the scope of that duty, the city court held: “the obligation to make a statement is, however, limited to the contact with the defendant as a source and not her communication with possible other unknown sources with whom she has been in contact and who may be protected by the protection of sources.” 14.  the prosecutor then stated, according to the hearing protocol, “that he would not ask for postponement of the case as the prosecuting authority considers the case to be sufficiently disclosed (“tilstrekkelig opplyst”) even without the statement of the witness [the applicant]”.no motion for extension was made (pending a final decision) as according to the prosecutor the case was sufficiently disclosed (tilstrekkelig opplyst) even without the statement by [the applicant] and this was used as a basis by the court.” 17.  on 28 march 2011 mr x appealed to the borgarting high court (lagmannsrett) against the city court’s assessment of the evidence and application of the law in relation to the issue of guilt, its procedure and the sentence (see paragraphs 34-36 below).the disagreement in the supreme court concerned primarily the interpretation of the first paragraph of article 125 of the code of criminal procedure, according to which, inter alia, journalists may refuse to answer questions as to who is the source of information confided to them for use in their work (see paragraph 37 below).there was therefore greater reason to assess whether the rationale underpinning the main rule, namely the right not to answer questions concerning the identity of the source, could also be given significant weight when the person, who had been the source of the information, had given evidence concerning his or her role and had confirmed being the source.21.  if the imposition of an obligation on the press to give evidence were limited to cases where the source had come forward, the person who was considering giving information to the press would know that it was up to him or her to determine whether the person who received the information would have an obligation to give evidence.if the state of the evidence was such that confirmation by the journalist of the identity of the source could not be said to assist in identifying the source, it seemed unquestionable to maintain the obligation to testify.33.  the prosecutor had argued that mr x had used the applicant as a tool to commit serious crimes, and this would have constituted a relevant argument, had the case been one concerning a possible individual exception to the right to non-disclosure of sources made under the third paragraph of article 125. however, the prosecutor had not relied on that paragraph of the provision, and the source’s motive could not render the principle of source protection as such inapplicable.34.  mr x’s appeal against the city court’s judgment of 3 march 2011 (see paragraph 17 above) was examined by the high court, which summoned and heard the applicant as a witness on 13 january 2012. she answered certain questions but affirmed that she still would not reply to questions about her contacts with mr x. the court records contain the following passage: “when heard as a witness [the applicant] stated that she had received attorney [y]’s letter by fax on 24 august 2007 at 5.35 p.m. she does not wish to answer questions about who she had received the letter from or on her possible contact with mr [x] during the period before or after this point in time.it was emphasised that the duty to reply lay on the witness personally and that a possible fine would be imposed on her personally.” 35.  on account of her refusal to comply, the high court, by a decision of 25 january 2012, ordered the applicant to pay a fine of 30,000 norwegian kroner (nok), approximately 3,700 euro (eur) for an offence against the good order of court proceedings, failing which she would be liable to ten days’ imprisonment.34 concerning article 19 of the international covenant on civil and political rights (ccpr/c/gc/34), which reads, inter alia, (footnote omitted): “states parties should recognize and respect that element of the right of freedom of expression that embraces the limited journalistic privilege not to disclose information sources.” 40.  on 8 september 2015 the special rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression submitted a report to the un general assembly (a/70/361), which stated, inter alia (footnotes omitted): “c.r (2000) 7 on the right of journalists not to disclose their sources of information, adopted by the committee of ministers of the council of europe on 8 march 2000. relevant parts of the recommendation, with the explanatory report, are quoted in voskuil v. the netherlands, no.in determining whether a legitimate interest in a disclosure falling within the scope of article 10, paragraph 2 of the convention outweighs the public interest in not disclosing information identifying a source, competent authorities of member states shall pay particular regard to the importance of the right of non-disclosure and the pre-eminence given to it in the case-law of the european court of human rights, and may only order a disclosure if, subject to paragraph b, there exists an overriding requirement in the public interest and if circumstances are of a sufficiently vital and serious nature.the legitimate interest in the disclosure clearly outweighs the public interest in the non-disclosure, bearing in mind that: - an overriding requirement of the need for disclosure is proved, - the circumstances are of a sufficiently vital and serious nature, - the necessity of the disclosure is identified as responding to a pressing social need, and - member states enjoy a certain margin of appreciation in assessing this need, but this margin goes hand in hand with the supervision by the european court of human rights.
6.  at the time of the events the applicant was the director general of a joint venture v. (“company v.”), which had its office in the premises belonging to a joint stock company y.the new management questioned the legality of the use of its premises by company v. more specifically, they challenged the lease contract of 12 january 1999 in respect of those premises, which had been signed by the applicant, on the one side, and n., the chairman of the board of directors of company y. at the time, on the other side.8.  starting from april 2001, company y. no longer allowed access to its premises to company v. as a result, the applicant transformed his flat in a temporary office of company v. 9.  in june 2001 company v. brought commercial proceedings against company y. seeking compliance with the lease contract.by a final decision of the supreme court of 25 september 2003, the national courts rejected the claim of company v. and discontinued the proceedings as regards company y.’s counter-claim.11.  on 8 october 2001 the odesa prymorskyy district prosecutor’s office (“the prymorskyy prosecutor’s office”) issued a warrant for seizure of fifteen documents relevant for the investigation, such as the original of the lease contract itself, related correspondence and several statements of acceptance of the services indicated in the contract (see paragraph 7 above).the applicant did not specify in the domestic proceedings, or in the present proceedings, how the seizure of the documents had taken place.14.  on 22 october 2001 the investigator decided that a forensic expert examination of the signatures on the contract of 12 january 1999 was required in order to establish their real date.15.  on 7 november 2001 the odesa prymorskyy district court (“the prymorskyy court”) ordered a search of the applicant’s flat, which was also company v.’s office, with a view to collecting samples of his handwriting and signatures.16.  on the following day the search took place in the applicant’s flat in his presence and resulted in a seizure of eleven documents.the applicant did not provide any description, be it in the domestic proceedings or in the present proceedings, as to how the search had been carried out.although a forensic expert examination had established that the signatures on the impugned contract had been antedated (namely, it was established that they had been made no earlier than in february 2001), the official approval of the technical methods used by the expert was previewed only for the autumn of 2002.21.  on 1 september 2002 the applicant resumed his duties in company v. 22.  on 28 august 2002 the applicant brought proceedings against the prymorskyy prosecutor’s office claiming compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damage allegedly caused by its unlawful actions.he contended that the institution of the criminal proceedings had been arbitrary, which had led, inter alia, to the unlawful search of his flat and the seizure of documents.he argued, in particular, that the impugned measures had been devoid of any legitimate purpose given the impossibility at the time to carry out the forensic handwriting examination ordered by the investigator.as regards his complaint about the court’s failure to assess all the circumstances of the case, the appellate court dismissed it as ungrounded.
5.  the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in smědčice.6.  on 9 november 2006 the applicant requested a building permit for temporary stables for horses.on 6 january 2011 the rokycany planning office (stavební úřad) dismissed his request and on 26 may 2011 the plzeň regional office (krajský úřad) upheld that decision.7.  on 29 march 2013 the plzeň regional court (krajský soud) dismissed a complaint lodged by the applicant against the decision of the plzeň regional office.8.  on 31 july 2013 the supreme administrative court (nejvyšší správní soud) dismissed an appeal on points of law lodged by the applicant.the decision was served on the applicant on 28 august 2013.9.  on 29 october 2013 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint (ústavní stížnost).10.  on 31 march 2014 the constitutional court (ústavní soud) rejected the applicant’s appeal as being lodged out of time.it held that as the supreme administrative court’s decision had been served on him on 28 august 2013, the last day of the two-month time-limit for lodging a constitutional appeal was 28 october 2013.11.  on 8 april 2014 the applicant wrote to the constitutional court urging it to set aside its decision.he argued that as 28 october 2013 had been a national holiday, domestic procedural rules provided that the last day for lodging his appeal had been the following day, namely 29 october 2013.12.  by a letter of 11 april 2014 the registrar (generální sekretář) of the constitutional court acknowledged that the judge-rapporteur had undoubtedly overlooked the fact that the time-limit had been complied with.however, as the constitutional court did not have the power to set aside its own decision, he advised the applicant to lodge an application with the european court of human rights.
6.  at the time of the events he was the director of a private company.8.  on 7 december 2004 the kyiv dniprovskyy district court (“the dniprovskyy court”) found the applicant guilty of forgery in office.more specifically, instead of applying a straight-line depreciation method in respect of the company’s intangible assets, the applicant calculated their depreciation costs as the difference between the company’s gross revenues and expenses.as a result, the documents showed the absence of any profit or loss in the company’s activity, whereas in the reality it had had losses.the applicant was sentenced to one year’s restriction of liberty (namely detention in a semi-open penal institution by the place of his residence) with a ban on holding administrative posts for one year.he submitted that the activity of the company had been subject to numerous tax inspections, which had not found any violations of the tax legislation.furthermore, the applicant considered that the expert questioned in the trial did not have adequate qualification.accordingly, the applicant requested the appellate court to quash the first‑instance court’s judgment and to pronounce a new one, acquitting him for the lack of the constituent elements of a crime in his actions.10.  on 10 february 2005 the dniprovskyy court sent a letter to the kyiv city court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) stating as follows: “the [dniprovskyy court] is sending you the criminal case regarding [the applicant] convicted under article 366 § 1 of the criminal code of ukraine [forgery in office], for the appellate examination at 10.35 a.m. on 17 march 2005.” 11.  in addition to the president of the court of appeal, the above letter was also addressed to the prosecutor, the applicant and his lawyer.12.  on 17 march 2005, following a hearing held with the prosecutor’s participation, but in the absence of both the applicant and his lawyer, the appellate court rejected the applicant’s appeal.it delivered its ruling “having heard the report of the judge-rapporteur of the appellate court and the explanations of the prosecutor, the latter considering the judgment lawful and [the applicant’s] appeal groundless, having checked the case-file materials and having discussed the arguments advanced in the appeal”.the issue of the applicant’s and his lawyer’s absence from the hearing was not mentioned in the appellate court’s ruling.13.  the applicant appealed on points of law, challenging, among other things, the examination of his case on appeal in his and his lawyer’s absence as being in breach of his defence rights.14.  on 23 january 2007 the supreme court, in written proceedings, upheld the decisions of the lower courts.referring to the case-file materials, it noted that the first-instance court had informed the applicant and his lawyer about the scheduled appellate hearing, without further details.
6.  the applicant was driving his car along a road in the region of varna on the evening of 10 march 2014. as established subsequently by the prosecution and the domestic courts in criminal proceedings opened into the incident that took place that evening, his car was weaving in an unsteady manner and he was spotted by patrolling police officers parked on the side of the road.10.  according to written statements made during the criminal proceedings by several police officers present at the police station when the applicant was taken there, he told everyone present at the time that his clothes were muddy because he had tripped and fallen, which was also why he had a limp.11.  according to a written statement made on 11 march 2014 by the applicant’s brother to the police in the context of an official follow-up conducted into the events, on leaving the station, he asked him what had happened but the applicant stated that he did not wish to speak about it and preferred to be left alone in his home.12.  the applicant’s hospital record, signed by the doctor who had treated him and the head of the unit, stated that the applicant had been in hospital between 11 and 14 march 2014 and that he had a broken rib and a broken ankle.upon his discharge on 14 march 2014, a different doctor examined the applicant and issued him with a medical certificate which recorded that he had a broken rib, a bruise of about 8 mm on his right eyebrow, and a fracture of the fibula close to the ankle that was in a cast.as well as repeating the account of the two arresting officers, he stated that he personally had seen the applicant at the station and that the applicant had told him that he had fallen while running and that his back was hurting.in a written report he drew up on 11 march 2014 on his visit, he confirmed the existence of a record there that the applicant had visited it the previous evening and had been checked by a doctor who had directed him to the hospital for treatment of a suspected fractured ankle.the report indicated that in a conversation with the applicant conducted during that visit, the latter had told the officer that he could not remember the events in detail, but that he was certain that after the car chase two police officers had beaten and then handcuffed him before taking him to the police station.in it he referred to the car chase, stated that he had wanted to escape as he had felt drunk, that when he had got out of his car the policemen had grabbed him, that one of them had pulled him to the ground and that the other one had handcuffed him.16.  the two police officers involved in the car chase and the arrest also gave written statements on 11 march 2014. in addition to the description above (see paragraph 9), the officers stated that once the applicant had been handcuffed and put inside the police car, he had leaned on one of them and moaned.the order for the opening of those proceedings indicated that it was “against the guilty official from the ministry of the interior who, acting in the context of his professional functions, had caused bodily harm to the applicant on 10 march 2014 in varna”.the investigating authorities questioned several police officers as witnesses, including the two involved in the applicant’s arrest and those who had been at the police station on the night of the incident.the brother and his friend stated that the applicant had not told them anything about the circumstances of his arrest and that the brother had learned that the applicant had been beaten by the police from the doctors at the hospital.the forensic medical report, containing a comprehensive and independent assessment, concluded that the three injuries recorded in the medical certificates drawn up in the immediate aftermath of the events (see paragraph 12 above) were incompatible with the applicant’s allegations that the officers had hit him all over his body for a few minutes.in addition, when on 6 october 2014 the investigator had handed the investigation file over to the applicant, he had signed the related acknowledgement, indicating that he did not wish to acquaint himself with the evidence, read the documents in the file, which was voluminous, and that he had no requests, comments or objections to the investigation.
11.  on 27 june 2010 the applicant complained to the lublin regional inspectorate of the prison service that he had not in fact been taking part in the drug rehabilitation programme while serving his sentence.12.  on 24 september 2010 the head of the lublin regional inspectorate of the prison service replied that the applicant’s programme had been planned to start on 6 january 2010. however, owing to his anti-social behaviour, which might have been dangerous for other inmates, he had been classified as a dangerous detainee and had therefore not been able to participate in the programme, which, as a rule, involved group sessions and treatment.the commission made its decision after a request from the governor of chełm prison, which stated that the applicant had beaten another prisoner at the lublin detention centre in 2002 (this event was not a subject matter of the above criminal proceedings).14.  the decision to impose the dangerous detainee regime on the applicant was subsequently upheld, inter alia, by decisions of the lublin remand centre penitentiary commission of 10 december 2009; of 4 march, 2 june, 2 september and 2 december 2010; of 2 march, 2 june, 1 september and 1 december 2011; and of 1 march, 30 may, 29 august and 28 november 2012. the reasoning of all these decisions was similar and read as follows: “the commission, having noted the proposals made by the head of the protection division (kierownik działu ochrony) and the head of the penitentiary division (kierownik działu penitencjarnego) and having heard the applicant held, in his presence, that the reasons justifying his classification as a dangerous detainee have not ceased to exist.it has been unanimously decided to extend the applicant’s classification for further three months because he still poses a danger to the security of the society and the prison.” 15.  the applicant appealed against most of the decisions issued in 2010 and 2011. the appeals were dismissed by the lublin regional court on 9 april and 15 october 2010, and on 28 february and 27 april 2011.16.  the court held that the commission’s decisions had been lawful and justified as the dangerous detainee regime had been imposed on the applicant in accordance with article 88a § 2, sub-paragraph 2(c) of the code of execution of criminal sentences.17.  on 27 february 2013 the lublin remand centre penitentiary commission extended the period of the imposition of the dangerous detainee regime on the applicant.it also made reference to the request for an extension of the regime made by the director of the remand centre, according to which the applicant had destroyed some objects in the penitentiary unit and had behaved in an aggressive and unpredictable manner.on 9 july 2013 the lublin regional court upheld the commission’s decision holding that the extension of the dangerous detainee regime was justified by the applicant’s unpredictable behaviour, his interference with the peaceful functioning of the penitentiary unit, acts of self-mutilation and refusal to accept meals.it also referred to the request for an extension of the regime made by the director of the remand centre, who relied on the fact that in february 2013 the applicant had been punished for destroying some objects in the penitentiary unit and that his behavior was still unpredictable.19.  on 13 august and 13 november 2013 the lublin remand centre penitentiary commission again extended the period of the dangerous detainee regime imposed on the applicant.in the decision of 13 august 2013 the commission relied on the request made by the director of the remand centre of 12 august 2013, according to which the applicant had been disciplinary punished on 4, 18 and 28 june 2013. in the decision of 13 november the commission made reference to the request of 12 november 2013 which was justified by the applicant’s “emotional instability” and “unpredictable behaviour”.the applicant appealed, but the latter decision was upheld by the lublin regional court on 30 december 2013. the court found, among other things, that the applicant could not control his aggressive behaviour and was a threat and danger to order in the prison.he had committed a further unspecified disciplinary offence on 21 june 2013. the decision of 13 november 2013 was upheld by the lublin regional court on 30 december 2013. the court referred to the reasons relied on previously in its decision of 9 july 2013 (see paragraph 17 above).according to the applicant, he had to wear the joined shackles in the rest of the prison, including when he was going to attend visits by members of his family.
allegedly, the withdrawals had been made by the applicant and her colleague, b.e., by means of annulling the records of cash transactions and then taking the money received in respect of those transactions from the cash register.she had done so at the request of the deputy head of the company and had handed the cash over to him.10.  on 16 january 1998 the police inspector issued a decision to institute criminal proceedings (lēmums par krimināllietas ierosināšanu) in respect of “the misappropriation of funds in the amount of lvl 7,559 [approximately eur 10,756] carried out by the applicant and b.e.the government contested the applicant’s submission, as there was no mention of this in the witness statement record; the government stated that the applicant had signed the record and had made no remarks.12.  in the following years the applicant was interviewed as a witness five more times: on 21 january and 14 december 1999, 13 february 2002, and 6 january and 11 november 2004. her rights and obligations as a witness – as well as the fact that she would render herself criminally liable if she refused to testify or gave false testimony – were explained to her (reference was made to article 53 of the criminal procedure code, see paragraph 24 below); no mention of any right to legal assistance was made.14.  in 2000, 2001 and 2002 the police considered the case material to be sufficient for bringing charges against the applicant and referred the case to the prosecutor’s office.moreover, the role of the chief accountant and the deputy head of the company in the cash withdrawals had not been properly investigated.16.  the police carried out further investigative measures – they commissioned another audit, collected further evidence, and questioned more witnesses (including the head, the deputy head, and the chief accountant of the company, as well as some of its customers).no remarks were made regarding the absence of a lawyer during the questioning of 5 september 2005. the applicant was given access to the criminal case file in order that she could acquaint herself with its contents.she agreed that she had annulled three cash transactions and made three cash withdrawals in the amount of lvl 1,228 (approximately eur 1,747), but stated that she had done so at the request of the chief accountant and the deputy head of the company with a view to paying out salaries.the court, relying on witness testimony and other case material (the results of three audits, the electronic cash register records, the relevant bills and receipts, the respective employment agreements etc.in setting the sentence the court took into account her state of health, the fact that she had partly compensated the company for the damage in question, and the fact that she had committed the crime nine years previously and that since then she had not committed any other crimes.22.  the first appellate hearing was scheduled for 15 august 2007. on 17 august 2007 the criminal chamber of the supreme court (augstākās tiesas krimināllietu tiesu palāta) quashed the applicant’s conviction for lack of evidence in respect of five episodes of misappropriation of property.in setting the sentence the court took into account the significantly lower number of episodes for which the applicant had been convicted, the fact that a particularly long period of time had elapsed since the commission of the crime, and the fact that there was no indication that she had committed any other crimes since then.the senate indicated that the former criminal procedure code (which had been in force in january 2005, when the charges had been brought against the applicant) had not excluded that a person could have the procedural status of a witness while a pre-trial investigation was in progress and could only be officially charged once there was sufficient evidence concerning that person’s guilt.
the applicant’s submissions as to the overall surface area in those cells as well as the size of the sanitary facilities were consistent with the government’s submissions (see paragraph 13 below).13.  according to the government, the applicant was held in three different cells, the conditions of which are detailed in the table below.the calculation of personal space (overall surface area with the in-cell sanitary facility deducted, divided by number of inmates held therein) is based on an approximate measurement of the sanitary facility according to the floor plans of brasa prison.heating had been provided by one heating pipe of 5 cm in diameter and the heaters located in the adjacent corridor and in the hallway.the government provided records of three conversations between the applicant and a social worker in 2016, including a meeting on 11 april 2016 where the latter had called a non-governmental organisation (latvijas nedzirdīgo savienība) concerning the applicant’s hearing aid.20.  over the course of two years (2012-14) the applicant lodged some twenty‑five handwritten complaints with various institutions (the management of brasa prison, the prisons administration, the ministry of justice and the ministry of the interior).21.  he informed the authorities that he had been deaf and mute since birth and complained as follows: 1)  he had communication problems and conflicts with other inmates (he referred to “conflicts”, having been “influenced”, “offended” and “laughed about” by other inmates); 2)  he wished to be transferred to a single or dual-occupancy cell; 3)  he wished to be transferred to another prison; 4)  he wished to have his prison regime changed; 5)  his conditions of detention were inadequate and 6)  his medical care was inadequate.taking into account that the applicant’s state of health had permitted his placement in any prison, there had been no grounds to transfer him to another prison; he had had to continue serving his sentence in brasa prison.(4)  the possibility of his transfer to the most lenient prison regime could not be examined before 10 june 2015, when he would have served the relevant proportion of his prison sentence.as to the possibility of his transfer back to the more restrictive prison regime such actions could only be taken in cases of serious or systematic breaches of the prison regime.in any event, he had been able to complain of the quality of medical care in prison to the health inspectorate.24.  on 1 october 2012 a judge of a first-instance court refused to allow the applicant’s application to be transferred to another prison and to have his prison regime changed to a more restrictive one, a request made by the applicant in order to allow him to be held in a cell with a smaller number of inmates.25.  on 25 october 2012 another judge refused to allow the applicant’s application to be transferred to another prison and to be relieved from the obligation to continue serving his sentence.as concerns his transfer, reference was made to the decision by the prisons administration whereby a conclusion had been drawn that the administrative procedure law had not applied.30.  a conclusion was drawn that the applicant had participated in nearly all the rehabilitation activities provided in the prison taking into account his capabilities.
8.  on 2 july 1996 the i̇zmir administrative court dismissed a case brought before it for the annulment of the permit of 19 october 1994. on 13 may 1997 the supreme administrative court quashed the first-instance judgment and decided that the permit should be annulled.it referred to the state’s obligation to protect the right to life and to a healthy environment and assessed the physical, ecological, aesthetic, social and cultural effects of the mining activity in question as described in the environmental impact report and the various expert reports which had been submitted to it.it concluded that the operating permit in issue did not serve the public interest and that the safety measures which the company had undertaken to implement did not suffice to eliminate the risks involved in such an activity.on 15 october 1997, in compliance with the supreme administrative court’s judgment, the administrative court annulled the ministry of the environment’s decision to issue a permit for the mine.it concluded that operations at the mine could be authorised, having regard to the additional measures taken by the company, the conclusions of a report by the turkish institute of scientific and technical research (“tübi̇tak”), the ministry of the environment’s favourable opinion and an opinion of the president’s administration, which had emphasised the economic importance of an investment of that type.10.  on 1 june 2001 the i̇zmir administrative court delivered a judgment on an application for judicial review of the report of the prime minister’s office, brought by twenty-five residents of bergama, including the second and third applicants, mr mustafa demirgan (demircan) and mr yılmaz acar.notwithstanding the measures taken by the company, the court held that judicial decisions which had become final had found that the “risk and threat” in question resulted from the use of sodium cyanide in the gold mine and that it was impossible to conclude that those risks could be avoided by implementing new measures.accordingly, it was appropriate to conclude that the decision at issue could lead to the circumvention of a final judicial decision and was incompatible with the principle of the rule of law.11.  on 29 march 2006 the supreme administrative court upheld the judgment of 1 june 2001 in so far as it had been brought by nineteen of the plaintiffs, including the second and third applicants and dismissed a rectification application by the prime minister’s office on an unspecified date.12.  in the meantime, on 22 december 2000 the ministry of health decided to authorise the continued use of the cyanidation process at the mine for an experimental period of one year.in particular, it considered that the risks highlighted in the judgment of 13 may 1997 were, inter alia, linked to the use of sodium cyanide in the gold mine and to the climatic conditions and features of the region, which was situated in an earthquake zone.it also concluded that the issuing of the permit in question had been incompatible with the principle of the rule of law as that administrative decision had in reality been intended to amend a judicial decision that had become final.15.  on 29 march 2002 the cabinet of ministers took a “decision of principle”, stating that the gold mine situated in the area of ovacık and çamköy, in the district of bergama (i̇zmir) and belonging to the normandy madencilik a.ş.the supreme administrative court found that the prime minister’s decision had been unlawful as the environmental impact assessment report which had allowed for the operating of the gold mine had been previously annulled.20.  on 22 march 2006 the supreme administrative court annulled the decision of the cabinet of ministers a decision which was upheld on 21 february 2008 by the supreme administrative court.
5.  in 1993, a third party cooperative bought a plot of land measuring 12,000 square metres and the title deed of the land was registered in its name.in 1995, construction works started on the land in question.6.  in 2000, the forest administration initiated proceedings before the menderes civil court of first instance for the annulment of the title deed to the land, alleging that it was part of the public forest area.in the meantime, the third party cooperative had merged with the applicant cooperative and the land had been registered in the land registry in the name of the latter.7.  on 26 december 2002 the menderes civil court of first instance ordered that 9,322 square metres of the land be registered in the name of the treasury as it was part of the public forest area.it also ordered that the buildings constructed on this part of the land be demolished.8.  subsequently, the applicant brought a case before the menderes civil court of first instance and sought pecuniary damages from the treasury under article 1007 of the civil code which provided for the state’s responsibility for any damage resulting from the keeping of the land registry records.9.  on 4 february 2005 the menderes civil court of first instance awarded 138,917,600,000 turkish liras (trl – approximately 81,716 euros (eur) at the time) to the applicant.10.  on 7 february 2006 the fourth civil division of the court of cassation quashed the judgment of the menderes civil court of first instance on the ground that there was no illegal act or action on the part of the land registry officials that might have had a causal link with the applicant’s loss.11.  on 6 july 2006 the applicant submitted a further petition to the menderes civil court of first instance and indicated that there was a decision of the first civil division of the court of cassation which was in contradiction with the decision of the fourth civil division.in this context, the applicant alleged that its case should be accepted according to that decision of the first civil division issued on 7 may 2002 and numbered e.2002/3549 k.2002/5807.12.  on 20 october 2006 the menderes civil court of first instance followed the decision of the fourth civil division of the court of cassation and dismissed the applicant’s claim.reiterating its allegations and referring to the decision of the first civil division of the court of cassation of 7 may 2002, it repeated its compensation request.14.  on 1 may 2007 the applicant’s appeal was rejected by the fourth civil division of the court of cassation.15.  in their decisions, neither the menderes civil court of first instance nor the fourth civil division of the court of cassation expressed any reason about why they had reached a different conclusion from the first civil division of the court of cassation.
4.  the applicant, who was born in 1989, lives in istanbul.5.  on 14 january 2009 the applicant was taken into police custody on suspicion of membership of an illegal organisation.6.  on 17 january 2009 the investigating judge at the istanbul assize court, after questioning the applicant, ordered his pre-trial detention.7.  on 24 june 2009 the istanbul public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul assize court.8.  the trial commenced before the istanbul assize court and the first preparatory hearing was held on 4 november 2009.9.  in the subsequent hearings held between 17 february 2010 and 3 november 2010, the applicant appeared before the court and the judges ordered his continued detention.10.  the applicant filed an objection against the decision of 3 november 2010. on 29 november 2010 the 12th chamber of the istanbul assize court dismissed this objection without holding an oral hearing, and based on the public prosecutor’s written opinion, which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative.11.  on 13 february 2013 the applicant was released from detention on remand.12.  according to the latest information in the case-file, the proceedings against the applicant are still pending before the first-instance court.
8.  on 3 december 2004 the malatya public prosecutor filed an indictment with the malatya assize court, charging the applicant under article 125 of the former criminal code with seeking to destroy the constitutional order and unity of the turkish state and to remove part of the country from the state’s control.the public prosecutor claimed that the applicant: -  had exploded a remote-controlled land mine in ovacık province in november 2003 that had caused the injury of one soldier, -  had exploded a time bomb in ovacık province on 28 october 2003 that had caused the injury of two soldiers.when asked about his statement before the public prosecutor, the applicant essentially confirmed it, whilst insisting that he had not given any statement concerning the attacks in tunceli, a city in the east of turkey, and adding that he had signed it without reading it.stated that he had known the applicant as “zafer” and that he had knowledge of the attack in ovacık province, adding that he had heard such information from the member with the code name “serhildan”.the court took account of the variety of evidence and witness statements, including those of d.t., which had been taken by the kırklareli assize court at the trial court’s request.the relevant parts of the trial court’s reasoned judgment read as follows: “... evidence, examination of evidence and reasoning ... a)  evidence h.b., who is being tried for the offence of membership of an illegal armed organisation, stated on page 18 of his police statement that n.i.stated on page 52 of his police statement that the members of the [illegal] organisation [pkk] with the code names ‘zana’ and ‘fırat’, who had been acting under the leadership of a member with the code name ‘dilhas’, had infiltrated the security forces’ cordon in may 2003 around the ziyaret river at güleç village in malazgirt.stated on page forty-four of his statement that the attack on the public-order commando unit at the location known as göktepe in malazgirt province in may 2003, that resulted in two soldiers being killed, had been carried out by the members of the [illegal] organisation [pkk] with the code names ‘zana’ and ‘fırat’, who were acting under the leadership of ... ‘dilhas’.on page forty-four [of his statement], he stated that the bomb had been planted at the road checkpoint at the location known as efkartepe in ovacık province on 28 october 2003 by ... ‘hamza’ and that he was an expert in explosives and was from a unit whose leader was the member with the code name ‘diyar’.d.t., who was being tried for the offence of membership of an illegal armed organisation, stated on page 15 of his police statement that the decision to attack the military unit had been taken in october or november 2003 and that the mines had been placed and set off ... by suat daştan [the applicant], who had the code name ‘zafer’.d.t., who gave evidence as a witness before the kırklareli assize court, acting on letters of request, stated that his pre-trial statements had been correct and that he had knowledge concerning [the applicant]’s actions [under the code name “zafer”] in ovacık province and at the guard post and that he had received that information from ... ‘serhildan’.witness a.ç., in his statement before the [trial] court, stated that his pre-trial statements had not been correct and that the member with the code name ‘nurhak’ mentioned by the applicant had been himself [a.ç.]witness m.a., in his statement before the [trial] court, stated that he had known the applicant’s code name as ‘hamza’ and that he had no knowledge concerning the applicant’s illegal activities within the organisation [the pkk].... b)  examination of evidence, admission of our court and reasons ... although it was stated in the indictment that the applicant had been responsible for the attacks of 28 october and november 2003 in ovacık province, it was understood that the attack which was mentioned by the witness d.t.had identified the applicant as ... ‘hamza’ were consistent with each other and the admitted witness statements [showed] that ... the applicant, who was known as ‘hamza’ by the witness m.a., had sprung the trap and had placed the mines on 28 october 2003.
5.  the applicant was born in 1989 and lives in manisa.6.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.7.  on 7 july 2009 the applicant was dismissed from the expert gendarmerie school due to non-compliance with disciplinary rules.8.  on 28 july 2009 the applicant brought an action before the supreme military administrative court and requested the annulment of the decision to dismiss him.9.  on 6 january 2010 the supreme military administrative court rejected the applicant’s case, taking into account the “secret documents” submitted by the ministry of defence.these documents were not disclosed to the applicant.10.  on 5 may 2010 the applicant’s request for rectification was rejected by the same court.
5.  the applicants were born in 1981 and 1966 respectively and live in ecemiş village near the town of lice, located with the administrative jurisdiction of the province of diyarbakır.7.  at the time of the events the first applicant’s brother and the second applicant’s nephew murat tekdal was thirty years old and lived in ecemiş village.10.  according to a report drawn up on 13 september 2008 by seven members of the military, a military operation was being carried out in the area near the applicants’ village on 12 september 2008 when at 11.15 p.m. soldiers encountered 3-4 persons in the area whom they considered to be members of the pkk.the soldiers continued their search to the north of the brook, and found the body of murat tekdal in karaçay hill area.12.  the soldiers concluded in their report that there had been five pkk members in the area the previous evening who had either been planning to attack the security forces or transporting food supplies to pkk bases.having regard to the particular brand of the glue which some people used for sniffing, as well as to the hunting rifle, the seven soldiers concluded in their report that the applicant’s relative had been a “terrorist posing as an ordinary citizen”.the headman of the applicant’s village formally identified the body as that of murat tekdal, and told the prosecutor that murat lived in ecemiş village.he also recommended that the clothes with bullet holes in them be sent to the forensic authorities with a view to determining the distance and the direction from which he had been shot.17.  on 16 september 2008 the second applicant applied to the diyarbakır branch of the human rights association of turkey, and asked for assistance in bringing the perpetrators of the killing of his nephew to justice.in his letter accompanying the file the lice prosecutor named the first applicant fatma güler as the “victim of a crime”, and her deceased brother murat tekdal as the “deceased/suspect”.the offence in question was stated as the “destruction of the unity and integrity of the state and the country”.the lice prosecutor stated in his letter that on the evening of 12 september 2008 a number of soldiers from the lice infantry brigade had had an armed clash with a group of five pkk members and that the body of murat tekdal had been found in the search conducted by the soldiers the following morning.20.  on 24 november 2008 the applicants sent a letter to the diyarbakır prosecutor and stated that the lice prosecutor had started an investigation into the killing of their relative, but had subsequently decided that he had no jurisdiction to continue the investigation because the deceased had been a member of a terrorist organisation.in their letter the applicants denied that their relative had been a member of the pkk, and informed the diyarbakır prosecutor that their relative had been living in the village of ecemiş for the previous seven years and that all his fellow villagers knew him.22.  the applicants’ objection was rejected by the malatya assize court on 9 april 2010. the assize court stated that the prosecutor’s decision had concerned an offence which the applicants’ deceased relative was suspected of having committed.
22304/10), was in the novye aldy at the time of the events; the other applicants were out of the district or out of chechnya, owing to heavy fighting in the preceding months.8.  in support of their claims, the applicants submitted copies of the death certificates issued in respect of their relatives, copies of some documents from the criminal investigation file, decisions granting them or their close relatives victim status in the criminal proceedings, statements which they had made, statements from witnesses to the events, and press and ngo reports.9.  some applicants complained that their state of health had deteriorated due to the stress and anguish which they had suffered in the aftermath of the novye aldy killings, and particularly in view of the inadequate and callous response of the authorities to their plight.57941/00 and 2 others, 26 july 2007) in so far as the applicants claimed that their relatives had been killed by the same people and in the same circumstances as the relatives of the applicants in that case.it appeared that in the domestic criminal proceedings the proximity of the relationships between the victims and the deceased had not been fully ascertained, and, as noted in the musayev and others judgment, no single list existed of the victims and the people who had been granted victim status in the proceedings (ibid., §§ 74, 80, 162).12.  on the basis of the parties’ submissions and inferences drawn by the court, it was established that on 5 february 2000 eleven relatives of the applicants had been killed by state servicemen in the novye aldy settlement on the outskirts of grozny, during a special operation (a “sweeping” operation) carried out by, amongst others, servicemen from the police special task unit (отдел милиции особого назначения (омон)) from st petersburg (hereinafter the st petersburg omon).12011 into the murder of several inhabitants of the novye aldy settlement in grozny by “unidentified men armed with guns” under article 105 § 2 of the criminal code (the murder of two or more persons with aggravating circumstances); the decision also referred to the looting of residents’ property.18.  the deaths of eleven people were found to be in breach of article 2 of the convention in the musayev and others judgment (cited above), and the family members of five of those people are applicants in the present complaint (see appendix).while the first applicant in the musayev and others case was a cousin and a nephew of the deceased, the applicants in the present group are the deceased’s spouses, children and brothers.as of 2008 the applicants in the present case and in musayev and others and their close relatives were regularly questioned about the events of 5 february 2000. thus, in december 2008 the following applicants were questioned: zoya musayeva (no.during questioning, the investigators informed the applicants about forensic expert reports on the bodies that had been carried out in 2000. the applicants were also asked questions about the loss of property and were asked to estimate the pecuniary damage which they had sustained.28.  in april 2010 the investigation produced a list of over 170 servicemen of the st petersburg omon who had been posted in chechnya in february 2000, and asked for verification of whether one of them had a tattoo in the shape of a snake on his neck, mentioned by one of the witnesses.the letter contained detailed information and questions about the events of 5 february 2000, and asked the prosecutor to identify and question the people who had used known radio call signs and to identify the commanders of the operation.30.  in june 2010 the investigator in charge sought similar information from another military unit (the 15th motorised rifle regiment), including the names of the unit commanders who had taken part in the operation on 5 february 2000. in particular, the letter referred to the commander of company no.33.  in may 2011 the investigator in charge informed the military prosecutor of the southern military circuit that the special operation on 5 february 2000 in the south of grozny had been under the command of colonel ye.k., the head of the operative headquarters of the internal troops of the ministry of the interior.
6.  on 20 july 2015 a quarrel broke out between the applicant and his common-law wife, h.m. the latter called an ambulance because the applicant was under the influence of alcohol and was behaving oddly, and had a violent outburst.appeared at the applicant’s flat, handcuffed the applicant and took him to the orosháza police department, arriving there at about 5.10 p.m. 8.  according to the applicant he had no injuries when he was put into the police car.of the department of traumatology, and further injuries were noted on his body: bruises on his upper left arm, an abrasion around the right side of his collar‑bone, scratches around the left side of his collar-bone, bruises on both sides of his hips, two loose teeth, one broken and one missing tooth in the upper jaw.describing the circumstances of the incident before the police arrived she stated that the applicant had not mentioned to her before the incident that he had hurt his leg.she also stated that on the day of the incident the applicant had been found by her daughter lying on the kitchen floor.she confirmed the applicant’s version of events in so far as she maintained that she had seen no injuries on the applicant when he was put into the police car.k.b., the daughter of h.m., also questioned as a witness, stated that on 20 july 2015 at around 12.30 p.m. she had found the applicant lying on the kitchen floor and not breathing.15.  according to the police report, when the police officers arrived at the applicant’s flat, the applicant was sitting on the floor and was unable to communicate.and two other police officers who had been on duty at the police station at the time of the applicant’s placement in the room for short-term arrestees, and a third officer who had come on duty at around 6 p.m. the same day.17.  the two members of the medical staff of orosháza hospital who had been present during the applicant’s treatment could not recall the event in detail but remembered that the applicant had not complained about ill‑treatment by the police officers and, although limping, was able to walk unaided to the x-ray examination room.18.  on 1 november 2015 the medical expert appointed by the central investigation office expressed the opinion that the applicant’s leg had been broken one or two weeks prior to the incident and that it could not be determined whether the injuries to his teeth had been caused before or during his detention for questioning at the police station.according to the expert opinion, it was implausible that the applicant would have been capable of reconstructing the events of the day, owing to his drunkenness.19.  on 17 december 2015 the central investigation office discontinued the criminal proceedings for lack of any conclusive evidence (as regards ill‑treatment committed in the course of official proceedings and assault causing actual bodily harm) and for the absence of a crime (as regards causing grievous bodily harm).the decision also stated that the applicant’s tibia could not have been broken during the incident and that the applicant’s credibility was questionable due to his drunkenness.it endorsed the first-instance decision concerning the assessment of evidence and the legal classification thereof, informing the applicant of the possibility of pursuing substitute private prosecution proceedings.
he was the owner and the editor-in-chief of a publishing house, aram basım ve yayıncılık, which published a periodical, vesta.6.  on 29 december 2004 the istanbul public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul assize court, charging the applicant with disseminating propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no.according to the indictment, certain passages of the article depicted the pkk[1] as part of the kurdish intellectual movement and hence constituted propaganda of the organisation, known for employing violence and terror.7.  on 23 september 2008 the istanbul assize court convicted the applicant of disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk under section 7(2) of law no.8.  in its judgment, the istanbul assize court cited the following passages from the article: “in kurdish history, there have been moments, in certain periods, during which kurdish literature and culture developed and shone.however, objectively and without renouncing the past, the conditions of the birth of kurdish intellectualism are based on the 1970s.the political nature of the 20th century, the existence and rise of national liberation movements, the emergence of modern currents in kurdish politics and, most importantly, the creation of a mass movement, served as the basis for the birth of the kurdish intellectual.this process was manifested in the figure of the pkk.the ideological and intellectual superficiality of these revolts and their fierce repression led to the loss of existing knowledge and to falling behind.from this point of view, through political and thoughtful analysis, while being free from the system and alienation, and bearing within it its own cultural identity based on the impoverished kurdish rustics, [the pkk] allowed the beginning of a permanent and stable political enlightenment process.... another characteristic of the pkk movement at the beginning was that it realised that [the previous] abstract and theoretical movements had not led to a solution but deepened the problem.... the fact that the pkk movement was based on the impoverished kurdish rustics who were intact and preserved their national identity paved the way for a start favourable for a confident, militant and revolutionary tradition.yet, the progress of the movement was accompanied by the downfall of the level of quality.” 9.  the court considered that the aforementioned passages and the article in its entirety constituted propaganda in favour of the pkk.taking into account his good behaviour during the trial and his character, the court suspended the pronouncement of his conviction on condition that he did not commit another intentional offence for a period of five years, under article 231 of the code of criminal procedure (hükmün açıklanmasının geri bırakılması).10.  on 22 october 2008 the court dismissed an objection lodged by the applicant against the above-mentioned decision.
6.  on 6 september 2003 the applicant lodged an application with the commission for restitution (komisija za restituciju nepokretnosti) in berane requesting restitution of the property expropriated from his father in 1969.7.  following the adoption of a new restitution act (zakon o povraćaju oduzetih imovinskih prava i obeštećenju), on 28 december 2005, the applicant submitted another application to the newly established commission for restitution and compensation in berane (komisija za povraćaj oduzetih imovinskih prava i obeštećenja) requesting compensation.due to the location of the expropriated property, the applicant’s request was assigned to the commission with its seat in bijelo polje (hereinafter “the commission”).9.  on 19 february 2009 the applicant sought opinion from an independent expert regarding the expropriated property.10.  on 21 july 2009 the commission also requested an assessment report on the expropriated property.the report was submitted to the commission on 24 july 2009.11.  due to commission’s inactivity, on 4 september 2009 the applicant lodged an appeal (žalba zbog ćutanja uprave) with the appeals commission (komisija za žalbe u postupku za povraćaj imovinskog prava ili obeštećenja).12.  on 23 october 2009 and 5 december 2013 the applicant filed complaints with the ministry of finance and the administrative court, respectively, about the appeals commission’s inactivity.13.  on 24 december 2013 the appeals commission ordered the commission to decide on the applicant’s request within a period of 30 days.14.  on 13 october 2014 the commission ruled against the applicant.15.  on 23 december 2014 the appeals commission upheld that decision on appeal.16.  the applicant filed and action with the administrative court seeking redress.17.  on 17 april 2015 the administrative court rejected the applicant’s claim as unfounded.this decision was served on the applicant on 23 april 2015.according to the constitutional court, the applicant should first have made use of an additional request for the judicial review of his case (zahtjev za vanredno preispitivanje sudske odluke).
in january 2003 the vilnius county administration (hereinafter “the vca”) asked the vilnius city municipality (hereinafter “the vcm”) to determine whether or not the land in question was state redeemable.in february 2003 the vcm found that the land was state redeemable and that the question of restitution had to be dealt with by the other means provided for by law.11.  as the plot of land previously owned by the applicant’s father was state redeemable, in march 2003 the applicant asked to be provided with a new plot of land of equal value in vilnius.13.  in december 2007 the vca informed the applicant that his father’s land was state redeemable and that the question of restitution had to be dealt with by the other means provided for by law.14.  on 5 february 2009 the authorities adopted a decision restoring the applicant’s property rights to 0.18 hectares of his father’s land and informed him that his property rights to the remaining 9.3905 hectares would be restored at a later date.15.  the applicant lodged a claim with the vilnius regional administrative court and asked it to (i) annul the decisions of the authorities to restore property rights to his father’s land to third parties on the grounds that they were unlawful, (ii) award him 1,422,791 lithuanian litai (ltl, approximately 412,069 euros (eur)) in compensation in respect of pecuniary damage and (iii) oblige the authorities to restore his property rights to a specific plot of land.the applicant claimed that the decisions to restore property rights to his father’s land to third parties were unlawful because he had submitted his request when the land had not yet been state redeemable.16.  the vca explained that the applicant had submitted the request to have his property rights restored in 2000, while the third parties had done so in 1991 (see paragraphs 6 and 7 above).the vca also stated that the applicant had not provided any evidence that the requirements of the domestic law had been breached in restoring property rights to third parties.17.  on 10 april 2009 the vilnius regional administrative court held that the legislation in force at the time did not allow for the return of the land in natura to the applicant because he did not have any buildings on that land as property (see paragraph 24 below).it held that the applicant had not asked for the land to be returned in natura until after the property rights to it had already been restored to third parties (see paragraphs 6 and 7 above).the court also held that 29 october 2002 was the date when the specific location and borders of the land which the applicant asked to have returned in natura had been established.19.  in february 2012 the national land service informed the applicant that in order to accelerate the process of restoring property rights to citizens, the domestic law had been amended and it had become possible for him to receive monetary compensation for the land.the applicant replied in may 2012 that he had not changed his mind and still wanted to receive the land in natura or, if that was not possible, a plot of land of equal value in vilnius.20.  in august 2014 the national land service asked the vcm whether it was possible to demarcate any vacant land that was not state redeemable and could have been returned to the heirs of the applicant’s father.
6.  by a decision dated 6 december 2000, the banking regulation and supervision board (bankalar düzenleme ve denetleme kurulu – hereinafter “the board”) decided to transfer the management and control of demirbank to the savings deposit insurance fund (tasarruf mevduatı sigorta fonu – hereinafter “the fund”).in its decision the board held that the assets of demirbank were insufficient to cover its liabilities and that the continuation of its activities would threaten the security and stability of the financial system.7.  on 6 december 2000 the board of directors of the fund decided to take over the shares of demirbank in exchange for paying demirbank’s loss corresponding to its paid-up capital, namely 275,000,000 turkish liras (try).9.  on 2 february 2001, the main shareholder of demirbank, namely cıngıllı holding a.ş., brought administrative proceedings against the banking regulation and supervision agency (bankalar düzenleme ve denetleme kurumu – hereinafter “the agency”) before the ankara administrative court, seeking a ruling setting aside the decision of 6 december 2000 to transfer demirbank to the fund.11.  on 20 september 2001 ms s. cıngıllıoğlu, the main shareholder of cıngıllı holding a.ş., brought administrative proceedings against the fund before the ankara administrative court, seeking the annulment of the agreement to sell demirbank to hsbc.on 21 april 2004 the ankara administrative court annulled the agreement on the ground that the transfer of demirbank to the fund had been found to be illegal by the supreme administrative court.12.  on different dates the applicants applied to the board and claimed compensation arguing that they had lost their shares in demirbank, as a result of its transfer to the fund.the applicants therefore applied to the administrative courts and requested the annulment of the board’s implied rejection of their compensation claims.however, the administrative courts dismissed the applicants’ cases as out of time on the ground that they should have initiated proceedings at the latest within sixty days following 31 january 2001, the date on which demirbank’s equities had been transferred to the fund’s account at the stock exchange.13.  following the annulment of the decision concerning the transfer of demirbank to the fund by the domestic courts in 2005, the applicants applied to the administrative courts.relying on the restitutio in integrum principle, the applicants argued that the judgment of the court which annulled the board’s decision dated 6 december 2000 had to be enforced and their rights as shareholders of demirbank should be reinstated.on different dates the applicants’ requests were rejected by the administrative courts and the administrative courts’ decisions were upheld by the supreme administrative court.the supreme administrative court held that the judgment regarding the annulment of the board’s decision of 6 december 2000 could be secured by the return of the supervisory and executive rights to demirbank’s shareholders, and did not require the restitution of the actual shares.14.  following the annulment of the agreement to sell demirbank to hsbc, the applicants in the applications followed by an asterisk (*) in the annexed list, brought a third set of proceedings against the fund and claimed compensation for their lost shares in demirbank.the istanbul administrative court dismissed the applicants’ compensation claims for being out of time on the ground that they should have brought their claims within sixty-day statutory time-limit after demirbank’s equities had been transferred to the fund’s account at the stock exchange on 31 january 2001. the decisions of the administrative courts were upheld, and the applicants’ requests for rectification of the decision were rejected.
in the first applicant’s case, the court of appeal found as follows: “having examined the arguments of the defence that the alternative labour service in armenia does not comply with european standards, is of a military nature and is supervised by the military, the court of appeal finds that [the state] ... is taking appropriate measures in respect of the obligations assumed before the council of europe as regards, in particular, the enactment and continuous improvement of the legislation concerning alternative service.[citation of sections 17 and 18(3) of the act (see paragraph 28 below)] based on an analysis of the above-mentioned provisions, the court of appeal finds it necessary to point out that the fact that the head of the institution [where alternative service is performed] notifies [the local military commissariat] regarding the alternative labour service to be performed by the serviceman, the fact that the serviceman can be transferred to another institution or place and the fact that alternative labour servicemen are discharged from service to the reserve and are registered in the reserve in accordance with a procedure prescribed by law, are not sufficient to conclude that the alternative labour service in armenia is of a military nature, since ... the type, procedures and conditions of such labour are determined by the heads of the relevant institutions without any interference by the military authorities or their representatives.the preceding conclusion is evidenced also by a number of other provisions of the act, in particular, the fact that alternative labour servicemen are subordinate only to the heads of the relevant civilian institutions, are obliged to follow only their orders and instructions, and must abide by the internal disciplinary rules of such institutions, while questions relating to the social security of servicemen and their family members are regulated by the legislation on state pensions rather than military laws (sections 19 and 20).the fact that the minister of defence is also involved in the organisation of the alternative service does not suggest that the labour service transforms into military service, since, firstly, the minister of defence and certain subdivisions of the armed forces are called upon to participate in the organisation of the alternative military service.... in the light of the above, the court of appeal, based on the concrete facts of the case, namely that [the first applicant] has categorically refused to be conscripted to perform alternative labour service, concludes that he has been found criminally liable and sentenced in a justified and fair manner for such actions, and this fact does not contradict ... the case-law of the european court regarding article 9 of the convention.” in the second applicant’s case, the court of appeal found that his conviction had been lawful, well-founded and reasoned.2.  the head of the institution shall guarantee the alternative labour serviceman’s security at the place of service, oversee the implementation of the service and create the necessary conditions for the serviceman’s rest and family visits, in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the act establishing the internal regulations for service in the armed forces.30.  the amendments in question were eventually passed on 2 may 2013 and entered into force on 8 june 2013. they included the following changes: -  section 5 was amended, reducing the duration of alternative military service to thirty months and that of alternative labour service to thirty-six months; -  in section 14 a distinction was made between alternative military service, which was to be organised and supervised by a public authority in the field of defence, and alternative labour service, which was to be organised and supervised by a public authority authorised by the government.the court shall discontinue any criminal proceedings and exempt the person concerned from serving the remainder of the sentence, provided that he applies for alternative service before 1 august 2013 and the authorised body decides to grant the application in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the alternative service act.” 33.  pursuant to paragraph 2(b), alternative labour servicemen were to perform their service in various institutions under the authority of the ministry of health and the ministry of labour and social affairs, such as orphanages, retirement homes, mental health institutions, institutions for disabled persons and hospitals.the commission was composed of the head of the general staff of the armed forces of armenia, as its president, the military commissar of armenia (հհ զինվորական կոմիսար) as its vice-president, the deputy minister of health, the deputy minister of labour and social affairs, the head of the governmental department for national minorities and religious affairs, and the head of the governmental department for administrative bodies.797-a, which modified the composition of the national commission to include the first deputy minister of territorial administration as its president, the deputy minister of health, the deputy minister of labour and social affairs, the deputy minister of education and science, the deputy minister of defence, the deputy chief of police and the head of the governmental department for national minorities and religious affairs.37.  for the purpose of supervising the work discipline of persons conscripted to perform alternative labour service, the military commissar of armenia and the head of the military police division of the ministry of defence were ordered: (a) to carry out weekly joint spot checks to verify the presence of persons performing alternative labour service at the institutions located within the territory of the regional military commissariats and their sub-divisions; (b) to report the results of such checks to the head of the general staff at the end of each month; and (c) to report immediately to the head of the general staff in the event that any alternative labour servicemen were absent and to take necessary measures to find them.43.  pace noted that armenia had undertaken to honour the following commitment: “to adopt, within three years of accession, a law on alternative service in compliance with european standards and, in the meantime, to pardon all conscientious objectors sentenced to prison terms or service in disciplinary battalions, allowing them instead to choose, when the law on alternative service had come into force, to perform non-armed military service or alternative civilian service.” (b)  resolution 1532 (2007): honouring of obligations and commitments by armenia 44.  as regards armenia’s commitment to enact legislation on alternative service “in compliance with european standards” and “pardon all conscientious objectors sentenced to prison terms”, pace noted with disappointment that the current law, as amended in 2005 and subsequently in june 2006, still did not offer conscientious objectors any guarantee of “genuine alternative service of a clearly civilian nature, which should be neither deterrent nor punitive in character”, as provided for by council of europe standards.however, as a number of people are currently in prison for leaving or refusing to join the alternative civilian service due to the military influence on this service, the aim of the [alternative service act] has unfortunately not been met.” 46.  in his report of 9 may 2011 following his visit to armenia from 18 to 21 january 2011, the commissioner stated: “the issue of imprisoned conscientious objectors – currently, all of whom are members of the jehovah’s witnesses community – has been on the table for many years.it is also important that the length of the alternative service be adjusted – taking into consideration the duration of military service - in a way that it is not perceived as punitive, deterrent or discriminatory.” 47.  in their formal response to the commissioner’s report, the government admitted that the exercise of the right to conscientious objection was still flawed in armenia, and that they intended to introduce further legislative amendments to promote civilian control over alternative service and completely to withdraw military control over such service.48.  in its conclusions xix-1 of 24 october 2008 regarding compliance by greece with article 1 § 2 of the european social charter (the right to work: effective protection of the right of the worker to earn his living in an occupation freely entered upon), the european committee of social rights noted: “the committee notes that [the periods of alternative service to replace armed military service] are nearly double the length of armed military service.
9.  accordingly, before providing a description of the relevant facts and proceeding to the examination of the applicants’ convention grievances in the present case, the court considers it necessary to present the procedure hitherto adopted in applications concerning non‑enforcement or delayed enforcement of domestic court decisions in ukraine.even though the case was settled by the parties and the applicants received the sums indicated in the friendly settlement agreement, the general issue of non‑enforcement remained unresolved largely owing to the lack of funds of the state entities, state-owned or state‑controlled debtors (hereinafter “state debtors”).the court noted that the delays had been caused by a combination of factors, including the lack of budgetary funds, the bailiffs’ omissions and shortcomings in the national legislation, as a result of which mr ivanov and other applicants in a similar situation were unable to have the judgments enforced (see ivanov, cited above, §§ 83-84).... that the respondent state must set up without delay, and at the latest within one year from the date on which the judgment becomes final in accordance with article 44 § 2 of the convention, an effective domestic remedy or combination of such remedies capable of securing adequate and sufficient redress for the non-enforcement or delayed enforcement of domestic decisions, in line with the convention principles as established in the court’s case-law; 6.... that the respondent state must grant such redress, within one year from the date on which the judgment becomes final, to all applicants whose applications pending before the court were communicated to the government under rule 54 § 2 (b) of the rules of court before the delivery of the present judgment or will be communicated further to this judgment and concern arguable complaints relating solely to the prolonged non-enforcement of domestic decisions for which the state was responsible, including where complaints alleging a lack of effective remedies in respect of such non-enforcement are also raised; 7.... that pending the adoption of the above measures, the court will adjourn, for one year from the date on which the judgment becomes final, the proceedings in all cases in which the applicants raise arguable complaints relating solely to the prolonged non-enforcement of domestic decisions for which the state is responsible, including cases in which complaints alleging a lack of effective remedies in respect of such non-enforcement are also raised, without prejudice to the court’s power at any moment to declare any such case inadmissible or to strike it out of its list following a friendly settlement between the parties or the resolution of the matter by other means in accordance with articles 37 or 39 of the convention; ...” in the event of the state’s failure to adopt general remedial measures, the court stated that it “will have no choice but to resume the examination of all similar applications pending before it and to take them to judgment so as to ensure effective observance of the convention” (ibid.finally, as regards the application of article 41 in the case, the court held that the respondent state was to pay the applicant the outstanding debt under the domestic judgments and 174 euros (eur) to cover inflation linked adjustments in respect of pecuniary damage and eur 2,500 in respect of non-pecuniary damage (ibid.16.  in a letter of 27 january 2010 the court informed the ukrainian government of its intention to communicate under rule 54 § 2 (b) of the rules of court all ivanov-type cases pending before the court on the date of delivery of the ivanov pilot judgment of 15 october 2009 which became final on 15 january 2010 (see point of the 6 operative provision and paragraph 15 above).17. on 11 february 2010 the president of the fifth section accordingly decided, under the aforementioned rule, to communicate the cases concerned to the respondent government for information and possible action and, at the same time, to adjourn them formally for a period of one year from the date on which the judgment had become final (i.e. until 15 january 2011).the court considered that it fell to the committee of ministers to find the most appropriate and expedient means to bring about the necessary reforms in ukraine as part of the process of supervising the execution of the pilot judgment.following the chamber’s relinquishment of jurisdiction in favour of the grand chamber in the present applications (see paragraph 5 above), the government were informed that the court would not deliver further judgments in the ivanov-type cases pending the outcome of the proceedings before the grand chamber.42.  the court has received letters from some applicants complaining that the government had failed to honour their undertakings in the unilateral declarations on the basis of which the court had struck the applications in question out of its list of cases.43.  according to the statistical information in the court’s possession on the date of delivery of the present judgment, there are 12,143 ivanov-type cases pending before the court, 7,641 of which have already been communicated to the government.78.  having been notified about the impossibility of finding the remainder of the metals to be restituted under the judgment of 13 december 2007, the applicant company requested the dnipropetrovsk court to vary the mode of execution of the judgment in that part and to award it the monetary equivalent of missing metals.82.  following the applicant company’s complaint, on 21 september 2009 the donetsk circuit administrative court quashed the decisions of the ministry of fuel and energy of 6 june and 28 july 2008 concerning the liquidation of the state enterprise.
10.  according to the applicant, she was not able to take the test because she was in a state of anxiety that had been exacerbated by one of the officers shouting at her that she was drunk.11.  according to the traffic police report (annotazione di servizio della polizia stradale), the applicant agreed to be breathalysed, but did not blow into the device in the manner she had been told to do by the officers and refused to cooperate.12.  the applicant was taken to the municipal police station (comando di polizia municipale), where she arrived at approximately 1.50 p.m. 13.  according to the applicant, once at the station the lieutenant on duty started drafting an offence report (verbale di contestazione) for driving under the influence of alcohol.14.  as recorded in the joint report issued on 3 april 2013 by the two municipal police officers who had stopped her in the street and the lieutenant on duty at the municipal police station, upon her arrival at the station the applicant had started threatening and insulting them.the same account of the events is recorded in the offence notification (informativa di reato) filed by the directing commander of the benevento municipal police with the benevento public prosecutor on 3 april 2013.according to the report of the officer on duty, the applicant complained that she had been assaulted by benevento municipal police officers and that her finger had been fractured.when the officer informed her that the she could not file a criminal complaint because the station was closed, the applicant started speaking incoherently in a loud voice.she was taken home by ambulance at approximately 9 p.m. 17.  on 4 april 2013 the applicant lodged a criminal complaint against the two police officers who had stopped her in the street on 2 april 2013 and the other two officers who had been present at the municipal police station, but whose names she did not know, alleging assault and battery, infliction of bodily harm, abuse of office, and threats.one was the owner of a bar where the applicant had gone in order to call her former spouse once she had left the hospital on 2 april 2013. another was the applicant’s former spouse, who stated that her alcohol intake was limited to consumption during meals.the other three were colleagues, who stated that the applicant had not appeared to be intoxicated when she had left her office on 2 april 2013. the police officers who had allegedly been involved in the ill-treatment were not interviewed, and neither was the applicant.the basis of the request was that “the allegations in the criminal complaint are not confirmed by the statements made by the witnesses identified by the victim”.in that connection, she complained about the “total absence” of investigative measures with respect to the events that had occurred at the municipal police station and requested that the investigating judge order such measures without delay.21.  at a hearing on 22 september 2014 the applicant’s lawyer repeated the complaints and requests contained in the objection against the prosecutor’s request to discontinue the proceedings and reiterated, in particular, the request to conduct an investigation into the events that had occurred at the municipal police station.24.  on an unspecified date, the public prosecutor and the applicant reached a plea agreement with respect to the offence of bodily harm and requested that the judge proceed with the imposition of a sentence (applicazione della pena su richiesta delle parti).on the same day, the preliminary hearings judge suspended the proceedings against the applicant in connection with the charges of resisting a police officer, insulting a public official and driving under the influence of alcohol.
on 12 november 2004 the supreme council of justice initiated disciplinary proceedings against him on the grounds set out in section 2(2)-(a) act of 22 february 2000 on disciplinary proceedings against judges of ordinary courts (hereinafter, “the disciplinary proceedings act” – see paragraphs 16 and 17 below).he was accused in particular of having kept a defendant in a criminal case under his consideration in unlawful detention for the period of fourteen days in september 2004, which fact was qualified as a “manifest breach of the law” within the meaning of the above-mentioned provision of the disciplinary proceedings act.according to the transcript of the hearing, the applicant admitted to the act he had been accused of.after examining the circumstances of the case, the panel found the applicant guilty of the misconduct in question.8.  the applicant lodged an appeal with the disciplinary council of judges (hereinafter, “the disciplinary council”) on points of fact and law.he questioned the assessment of the circumstances of the case and the application of the legal provisions to the established facts in the decision of 18 november 2004.in a judgment of 11 july 2005, the supreme court quashed the disciplinary council’s decision of 27 january 2005 for lack of reasoning and legal assessment of the facts, and remitted the case for re-examination.(president and rapporteur), mr g.ch., mr i.k, who had sat at the first hearing, re-considered the applicant’s case; another member of the disciplinary council who participated in the examination of the applicant’s case was ms n.k.during the oral hearing, the applicant challenged the above-mentioned three members of the bench – mr k.k., mr g.ch.12.  after re-considering all the factual circumstances of the case, the disciplinary council found, in its decision of 4 august 2005, that the applicant had committed “a manifest breach of the law” and upheld the panel’s decision of 18 november 2004 in its entirety.had presided over all of the benches of both the disciplinary council and the panel, and three of the members sitting on the disciplinary council when it ruled on 4 august 2005 had already dealt with the case at first instance on 18 november 2004. he also complained about his request for their withdrawal being rejected.14.  on 14 november 2005 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law, finding that the case had been objectively and exhaustively examined by the disciplinary bodies and that the punishment imposed had been appropriate.as for the rest, noting that the disciplinary proceedings act had instituted a system whereby members of the disciplinary panel could also sit on the disciplinary council, the supreme court concluded that the composition of the benches complained of by the applicant had been perfectly legal.moreover, in the court’s opinion, the fact that the persons concerned had previously participated in the examination of the case was not in itself sufficient to prove that the disciplinary council, in its ruling on 4 august 2005, had not been impartial.15.  according to the materials available in the case file, the applicant did not voice, even in remote terms, either before the panel, the disciplinary council or the supreme court any complaint about the lack of professional qualifications by any of the individual members of the disciplinary council who had participated in the examination of his case.
5.  the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in kraljevo.6.  between june 2003 and december 2004 the applicant, as an entrepreneur, was providing heating installation services to ad fabrika za proizvodnju konfekcije i trikotaže raška, a socially-owned company based in novi pazar (hereinafter “the debtor company”).7.  on 2 december 2010 the kraljevo commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor company (st. 31/2010).8.  the applicant duly submitted his claim.9.  on 15 march 2011 the commercial court rejected his claim and instructed him to initiate a regular civil suit and request determination of his claim.the applicant lodged a separate civil claim.10.  on 1 december 2011 the commercial court ruled in favour of the applicant by recognizing his claim and ordered the debtor company to pay the applicant the costs of the civil proceedings.11.  on an unspecified date thereafter, the said judgment having become final, was acknowledged within the insolvency proceedings.12.  on 22 july 2013 the commercial court issued a decision ordering payment of approximately 10 % of the total debt to the applicant.the applicant received this payment on an unspecified date.13.  the debtor company was ultimately struck from the relevant public register on 9 july 2014.14.  on 16 december 2013 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal complaining against the commercial court’s decision of 22 july 2013 and that his right to work and right to compensation for work and providing services were infringed, because he received only 10 % of the total debt.he asked further the constitutional court to order the payment of the rest of the debt.15.  on 2 march 2015 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal finding that it is not vested with the power to order such a payment.that decision was delivered to the applicant after 24 april 2015.
6.  the applicant was born in 1954. he lived in the republic of dagestan and was the mayor of makhachkala between 1998 and 2013. he is currently detained in correctional colony no.9.  on 27 november 2014 the court delivered a judgment in the case, finding, inter alia, that there had been violations of articles 3 and 34 of the convention on account of the authorities’ failure to provide the applicant with adequate medical care or to comply with the interim measure indicated (see amirov v. russia, no.4 in rostov-on-don, to a specialised medical facility where he should remain under constant medical supervision and should be provided with adequate medical services corresponding to his needs; alternatively, the authorities could place him in a specialised prison medical facility, if the facility could guarantee the requisite level of medical supervision and care.11.   after 27 november 2014, the date of the court’s judgment in the applicant’s first case, he continued being detained in the remand prison pending the completion of his trial.18.  in the meantime, on 27 august 2015 the military court of the north‑caucasus circuit found the applicant guilty of having organised an act of terrorism and an attempt to murder an investigator in his case.according to a letter from the chairman of the committee for civil rights sent to the applicant’s lawyer on 20 april 2016, the cell was not adapted to the needs of a wheelchair prisoner.28.  from 6 to 8 june 2016 a commission of officials from the russian ombudsman’s office, the orenburg ombudsman’s office, the orenburg prosecutor’s office, the federal service of the execution for sentences in orenburg region and medical unit no.32.  in the meantime the applicant’s lawyer complained to the ombudsman of the russian federation of the applicant’s detention conditions and the poor quality of his medical treatment.having carried out enquiries, on 5 july 2016 the office replied as follows: “it has been established that on admission to [the correctional colony the applicant] was placed in [a cell of the quarantine wing].m, which satisfied the requirements of the execution of sentences act ... [the applicant’s] cellmate assisted him in his daily needs, which included hygienic procedures and moving around the cell.[the applicant] is assisted by the medical unit staff members and inmates in his movements within the medical unit, in particular when entering/leaving buildings in a wheelchair, and in his daily needs.as called for by [the applicant’s] disability and illnesses, he is examined by the prison doctors on a daily basis, he receives medical treatment as prescribed to the relevant medical standards, and he is provided with dietary nutrition.the regional medical standard “procedures for simple medical procedures, desmurgy and immobilisation”, approved by an order of the ministry of the health care and social development of orenburg region on 5 march 2010 does not require catheterisation or enemas to be carried out in a sterile room.5473-1 of 21 june 1993), [the applicant] was escorted for walks handcuffed and blindfolded until 24 may 2016. moreover, the inquiry, which had been performed earlier, revealed breaches of article 101 § 7 of the russian code on the execution of sentences and articles 10, 11, and 11.1 of the social protection of the disabled in the russian federation act (federal law of 24 november 1995 no.in the light of the above, on 2 june 2016 the prosecutor’s office for supervision of detention facilities in orenburg issued a formal order to the head of the correctional colony to rectify the identified shortcomings.
on 16 september 2013 a medical panel of the ministry of healthcare of the chechen republic offered that programme to the applicant.12.  on 3 june 2014 the applicant was examined at the rostov institute of cancer research (“the cancer institute”).the applicant agreed to the treatment, but several days later withdrew his consent, saying that he had no confidence in the doctors practising in the chechen republic.14.  on 22 september 2014 the applicant was admitted to the town hospital in groznyy for cancer surgery, but refused it the next day as he had no confidence in the doctors.15.  at the end of december 2014 he was moved from the remand prison to the correctional colony, where he had to serve his sentence.19.  on 6 april 2015 the head of the cancer hospital informed the detention authorities that the medical institution was unable to perform such complex surgery.on 23 november 2015 the promyshlenniy district court of vladikavkaz refused to examine the application on the merits, because his illness was not included in government decree no.21.  on 11 january 2016 the applicant lodged a request for interim measures under rule 39 of the rules of court, complaining of his inability to undergo the complex cancer surgery vitally needed in his situation.22.  on 25 january 2016 the court indicated to the russian government, under rule 39, that it was desirable in the interests of the proper conduct of the proceedings that the applicant be immediately examined by medical experts independent from the penal system with a view to determining: (i) whether he had been receiving adequate medical care; (ii) whether his current state of health was compatible with detention in the correctional colony; and (iii) whether his state of health called for urgent surgery and/or for a transfer to an appropriate civilian or prison hospital.furthermore, the government were also asked to ensure the applicant’s transfer to such a relevant hospital for surgery, should the medical experts conclude that urgent surgery in a hospital was required.23.  on 4 march 2016 the government responded to a letter from the court dated 25 january 2016, stating that the applicant’s transfer to a hospital for surgery was scheduled for 10 march 2016. they also submitted the following: a document setting out the periods of the applicant’s detention in custody, a document concerning the conditions of his detention, a report issued by the detention authorities on his current state of health, original and typed copies of his medical file, and copies of correspondence between the medical and detention authorities discussing surgery for the applicant.according to a letter from the head of the medical unit dated 14 april 2016, the facility was unable to carry any surgery out as its surgical unit was undergoing renovation.25.  having learned of the inability of the medical unit to provide the applicant with the required treatment, the detention authorities asked the cancer institute to perform the surgery.however, the hospital was ready to sign an agreement with the detention authorities and send a surgeon to a prison medical unit to operate on the applicant.26.  it appears that in response to the steps taken by the detention authorities to ensure surgery for the applicant by a civilian cancer surgeon, on 31 may 2016 he refused the treatment.
it firstly held that the time-limit for claiming damages was three years from the damage being caused, and thus dismissed the part of the applicant’s claim concerning the period before 19 december 2009 as time‑barred.the court then found that from 19 december 2009 to 19 december 2012 (the day when the applicant had submitted his complaint) he had had between 1.98 and 2.74 sq.m. however, the court found that the sanitary conditions in the cells complied with relevant domestic hygiene norms.the court further underlined that the applicant was detained in a dormitory-type facility, he was able to move around freely during the day, and various leisure and educational activities were available.9.  on an unspecified date the applicant submitted a new civil claim against the state concerning the conditions of his detention after 19 december 2012, claiming ltl 63,750 (approximately eur 18,500) in respect of non-pecuniary damage.it found that from 19 december 2012 to 21 october 2013 (the day the court issued its decision) the applicant had had 1.98 sq.m. again, the court found that the sanitary conditions in the cells complied with relevant domestic hygiene norms, and dismissed as unproven the applicant’s claims that his health had deteriorated.it firstly held that the time-limit for claiming damages was three years from the damage being caused, and thus dismissed the part of the applicant’s claim concerning the period before 28 june 2009 as time‑barred.the court then found that from 28 june 2009 to 28 june 2012 (the day when the applicant had submitted his complaint) he had had around 2.55 sq.m. however, the court found that the sanitary conditions in the cells complied with relevant domestic hygiene norms.it also held that the deterioration in the applicant’s state of health was not related to the conditions of his detention.the court further underlined that the applicant was detained in a dormitory-type facility, he was able to move around freely during the day, and various leisure and educational activities were available.16.  on 15 may 2013 the applicant submitted a new civil claim against the state concerning the conditions of his detention after 28 june 2012, claiming ltl 33,875 (approximately eur 9,800) in respect of non‑pecuniary damage.it found that from 28 june 2012 to 15 may 2013 (the day when the applicant had submitted his complaint) the applicant had had between 1.59 and 2.77 sq.m. again, the court found that the sanitary conditions in the cells complied with relevant domestic hygiene norms and found no causal link between the deterioration in the applicant’s state of health and the conditions of his detention.
6.  on 24 january 2011 a bomb attack at the domodedovo airport killed 37 people and injured more than 160. it was later established that the explosion was caused by a suicide bomber and organised by a militant group operating in the north caucasus.the applicant, who was present at the airport at the time of explosion, sustained multiple injuries to her body (wounds, contusions and fractures) which provoked further complications (cerebral oedema, coma, respiratory and cardiac insufficiency and a traumatic shock).7.  within the framework of the criminal investigation into the bombing, the investigative authorities arrested four persons.on 11 november 2013 the moscow regional court found them guilty of multiple charges, including commission of an act of terror, organisation of a criminal gang and illegal possession of firearms and ammunition.8.  on 25 november 2014 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the judgment of 11 november 2013 in substance on appeal.9.  according to the government, the applicant was granted a victim status.10.  on 25 january 2011 the russian authorities opened criminal investigation on the charges of negligence against the airport managers and employees and the policemen deployed at the airport.on 22 march 2011 the applicant was granted a victim status in the proceedings.on 26 march 2012 the investigator discontinued the proceedings.11.  on 22 may 2012 the deputy president of the investigative committee of the russian federation quashed the decision of 26 march 2012 and re-opened the case.12.  on 3 june 2013 the basmannyy district court of moscow dismissed the applicant’s complaint against the decision of 5 march 2012.13.  on an unspecified date the applicant brought a civil claim against the airport seeking damages resulting from the failure of the airport security to prevent the bombing.14.  on 27 august 2013 the presnenskiy district court of moscow dismissed the applicant’s claims for damages.on 16 december 2013 the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 27 august 2013 on appeal.the city court dismissed, inter alia, as unsubstantiated the applicant’s allegation that the suicide bomber had been able to enter the airport owing to the lack of a metal detector at one of the airport entrances noting that such fact should have been established in the course of the relevant criminal investigation.
6.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.7.  on 28 july 1999, the applicant was arrested in râbniţa by virtue of a decision of a prosecutor from the self-proclaimed “moldavian republic of transdniestria” (the “mrt”; for further details about the “mrt”, see ilaşcu and others v. moldova and russia [gc], no.8.  on 17 may 2000, the camenca district court, which was under the jurisdiction of the “mrt”, convicted the applicant and sentenced him to five years’ imprisonment.according to the applicant, he appealed, but his appeal was rejected by the “mrt” supreme court on an unspecified date.2. on 25 october 2001, he was transferred to pruncul prison hospital, which was under the control of the moldovan authorities.that form of authority, together with the application form, reached the court on 19 november 2001.10.  on 20 november 2001, a lawyer from lhr informed the moldovan prosecutor general’s office that the applicant and seven other people were being held in pruncul prison hospital on the basis that they had been convicted by “mrt” courts.he also submitted that some of those eight detainees had already lodged applications with the court, and that a failure to immediately release them or any attempt to transfer them back to the “mrt” authorities would result in the republic of moldova incurring responsibility.a similar letter was sent on the same day to the minister of justice.11.  on 21 november 2001, members of lhr organised a press conference, during which they informed the media of the circumstances of the case and of the letter sent to the prosecutor general’s office on the previous day.13.  on 23 november 2001, lhr informed the media of the detainees’ transfer back to the “mrt” authorities on 21 november 2001.14.  on 26 november 2001, the head of the penal institutions department of the ministry of justice informed lhr that the detainees mentioned in their request of 20 november 2001 were not being held at pruncul prison hospital.15.  on 7 december 2001, the lawyer from lhr wrote to the “mrt” ministry of justice, asking for permission to see the applicant and stating that he was planning to lodge in the applicant’s name an application before the court.16.  on 22 january 2002, the applicant was released from prison on the basis of an amnesty act.17.  the applicant described the conditions of his detention in the “mrt” in the following manner.
5.  the applicant was employed by hk komgrap and komgrap-makiš doo, a company based in belgrade (hereinafter “the debtor”).at the relevant time, the company was predominantly socially-owned (see stoković and others v. serbia, nos.75879/14 and seq.§§ 10-14, 8 march 2016) 6.  since the debtor had failed to fulfil its obligations towards its employees, the applicant brought a civil claim seeking payment of salary arrears and various social security contributions.7.  on 23 june 2003 the belgrade second municipal court (drugi opštinski sud u beogradu) ordered the debtor to pay to the applicant certain sums in respect of salary arrears and the various social security contributions.this judgment became final and enforceable on 25 july 2005.8.  on 26 september 2005 the applicant applied to the belgrade fourth municipal court (četvrti opštinski sud u beogradu) for enforcement of the judgment of 23 june 2003.9.  on 18 january 2006 the said court ordered the enforcement of the judgment and awarded the applicant the costs incurred in the enforcement proceedings.10.  on 27 october 2010 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal, seeking redress for the non-enforcement of the judgment in question.11.  on 27 november 2013 the constitutional court held that the applicant had suffered a breach of the “right to a trial within a reasonable time” with regard to the enforcement proceedings.the court ordered the acceleration of these proceedings and declared that the applicant was entitled to compensation for the non-pecuniary damage suffered in the amount of 800 euros (eur) converted into the national currency at the rate applicable at the date of settlement.12.  the constitutional court held that since the enforcement proceedings in question had not yet been completed, the constitutional appeals were premature in so far as they concerned the pecuniary damage, and dismissed the appeal in that regard.
on 10 april 2007 mpk subcontracted the sorting, packing and the transfer of the equipment leased to russian post to a private joint-stock company, the interregional mail centre (oao межрегиональный специализированный почтовый центр – hereinafter “mspt”).13.  on 16 july 2008 the chief of russian post’s mail service directorate informed its client, the russian subsidiary of french company yves rocher, the limited liability company yves rocher vostok (ooo ив роше восток), that from 1 october 2008 it would terminate the practice of collecting the client’s parcels from a specific distribution centre and that this service would henceforth be subject to a separate contract.15.  on 7 november 2008 the general director of mpk, mr sh., signed an agreement with gpa whereby the latter undertook to provide overall logistical services to mpk related to the printing, sorting, packing and distribution of telephone bills as well as the sorting, packing and transfer of electronic equipment to russian post.17.  at the beginning of 2012 the first applicant investigated the off-duty activities of the chief of the investigative committee of the russian federation (“the investigative committee”), mr bastrykin.18.  on 4 december 2012 the general director of yves rocher vostok, mr b.l., lodged a complaint with the investigative committee, alleging that in 2008 unidentified persons had misled his company’s employees and had persuaded them to conclude a contract with gpa, thus depriving the company of a free choice of contractor.the new file concerned suspicions of fraud by the applicants against yves rocher vostok and the laundering of the proceeds of illegal transactions, offences set out in articles 159.4 and 174.1 § 2 (a) and (b) of the criminal code.and the manager ms b., but the investigator rejected the request on 18 february 2013. it appears that the witnesses were questioned during the investigation, but the applicants were not informed of that fact or given the opportunity to have a formal face‑to-face confrontation with them.24.  on 11 february 2013 the financial director of yves rocher vostok, mr k.m., submitted an internal audit report to the investigator stating that the company had not sustained any damage or loss of profits due to its agreement with gpa; it had been established by the auditors that gpa had charged the market price for its services.27.  on 14 november 2014 the applicants requested that the court call and examine the general director of yves rocher vostok, mr b.l., the manager, ms b. and several employees of russian post as witnesses.the applicants were found guilty of money laundering and of defrauding mpk and yves rocher vostok and were convicted under articles 159.4 §§ 2 and 3 and 174.1 § 2 (a) and (b) of the criminal code.the first applicant received a suspended sentence of three and a half years and the second applicant a prison sentence of the same duration, to be served in a correctional colony.they received the full text of the judgment on the same day, which included the reasons for finding the applicants guilty of fraud.the court found that the applicants had set up a “fake company”, gpa, with the intention to use it as an intermediary to offer services to two clients of russian post, mpk and yves rocher vostok.it held that the second applicant had taken advantage of insider information that russian post had ceased to provide the companies with certain services for lack of operational capacity and had convinced those clients to use gpa as a substitute; that he had misled the clients about gpa’s pricing policy and its relationship with russian post, thus depriving them of the freedom of choice of service providers; that he had promoted his company’s services while knowing that it would have to subcontract the work to other companies; and that gpa had retained the difference in price between what mpk and yves rocher vostok paid for its services and what gpa paid to its subcontractors.the court further established that the amounts in question constituted the proceeds of crime, and that using that money to pay gpa’s office rent, legal services, dividends to the applicants and for transfers to affiliated companies had constituted money laundering.
5.  on 18 june 1998 the applicant started working for a company owned by i̇zmir city council (“the city council”).6.  on 12 april 2007 the applicant was paid 16,985 turkish liras (try ‑ approximately 9,200 euros (eur)) in respect of severance pay and he signed a release (ibraname) discharging the city council from all liability.7.  following his discharge from the military on health grounds shortly after he was enlisted, on 20 april and 31 may 2007 the applicant requested his reinstatement in his previous job.he relied on clause 19 of the collective bargaining agreement in force at the company (“the collective agreement”), which provided for the reinstatement of employees who had quit their jobs to perform their military service, provided that they applied within three months of their discharge from the armed forces.9.  on 12 september 2007, in a decision rendered orally in the presence of the parties, the i̇zmir labour court found in favour of the applicant.the labour court held that the applicant’s discharge from the military shortly after he had been enlisted fell under the provision of the collective agreement, which called for the suspension of the employment contract when an employee was conscripted (silah altına alınma) for reasons other than compulsory military service, such as being recalled to the armed forces in times of war.therefore it held that the applicant was entitled to be reinstated in accordance with the terms of the collective agreement.the court informed the parties that they could appeal against this decision within the time-limits set out in the applicable procedure.10.  on 18 september 2007 the city council appealed against the decision and reserved its right to submit additional observations once the reasoned judgment of the first-instance court had been served on it.11.  on 15 october 2007, the registry of the first-instance court forwarded the file to the court of cassation for appeal on points of law.it argued, inter alia, that the first-instance court’s interpretation of the collective agreement had been erroneous.13.  on 21 july 2008, following an examination based on the case file and without holding a hearing, the court of cassation quashed the first‑instance court’s judgment and found in favour of the city council.the court of cassation found it established that the applicant had resigned from his job to perform his military service and that he had been paid severance pay.it held that a rejection of the applicant’s request for reinstatement could not be regarded as the termination of the applicant’s employment contract; therefore, the applicant could not technically ask to be reinstated.the court of cassation further held that clause 19 of the collective agreement was not directly applicable in the case before it.
4.  the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in forráskút.at the time of lodging the application, he was detained at márianosztra prison.5.  on 29 january 2014 the applicant was convicted of possession of narcotics and sentenced to five years’ imprisonment.on appeal, on 14 october 2014 the budapest court of appeal upheld the judgment.6.  the applicant began serving his sentence at szeged prison on 15 january 2015 and was transferred to márianosztra prison on 26 january 2015. he was released on parole on 8 september 2015.7.  while the applicant was held at szeged prison, the per capita space available to him was about 3.2 sq.m; the gross ground surface of the cell was 16 sq.he was allowed to spend one hour per day in the open air and could take part in various sports and other activities, thus reducing the time spent in the cell.8.  at márianosztra prison, the per capita cell space available to the applicant was about 2.67 sq.m; the gross ground surface of the cell was 8 sq.only between 26 and 29 january and 11 and 15 may 2015 he was held in a cell where a wall separated the toilet from the rest of the space.10.  as regards the medical care in prison, the government submitted that, during the first examination at szeged prison, the applicant had stated that he suffered from epilepsy without presenting any relevant documentation.the doctor referred him for a psychiatric examination, which took place on 22 january 2015; but the applicant refused the treatment prescribed by the specialist.11.  during his first medical examination at márianosztra prison, the doctor noted that the applicant’s aptitude for work could be assessed only after external medical records concerning his illness had been obtained.following medication, his condition improved but he refused the neurological examination recommended by the doctor and any further treatment.
5.  the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in smederevo.6.  on 26 march 2007 the applicant lodged a claim with the žabari municipal court against his employer, the ministry of interior, seeking payment of certain benefits.7.  on 23 april 2012 the požarevac first instance court the žabari court unit ruled in favour of the applicant.8.  on 4 october 2012 the belgrade appellate court revised the first instance court’s judgment and rejected the applicant’s claim.the applicant received the said judgment on 5 november 2012.9.  on 12 november 2014 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s constitutional appeal.
5.  on 11 april 2009, quoting the relevant sections of the code of criminal procedure, the pest central district court ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention on charges of terrorist acts and other related offences involving abuse of firearms and explosives on the grounds that he might abscond for fear of a severe punishment, might frustrate the on-going investigation by colluding with accomplices still at large, or might execute the planned offences or re-offend.6.  the detention measure was extended on 8 may and again on 7 august 2009. the court reiterated its earlier reasons, adding that the risk of collusion was serious, since certain other suspects had not yet been apprehended.7.  a further extension was ordered on 9 november 2009. the court stated that the applicant was being prosecuted for terrorist acts committed as an associate of an organised criminal group whose plans entailed a real risk of loss of life.moreover, the volume of evidence supporting a reasonable suspicion, as weighed individually against the applicant, was increasing.8.  on 9 february 2010 the applicant’s detention was again extended, the court noting that, in view of the grounds for his detention, not even his clean criminal record, family ties and settled background could provide adequate justification for a less strict measure.9.  on 7 april 2010 the measure was renewed, with special reference to the fact that the case was concerned with a series of crimes committed over a long period of time by a criminal organisation.10.  on 9 june 2010 the budapest regional court ordered that the applicant be held under house arrest, holding that the danger of his re-offending was not of a degree that justified his continued detention, noting also that the investigation was about to be wrapped up and that, in any case, some accomplices in the case had already been released pending trial.the applicant was released from detention the next day.11.  on 7 july 2010 the budapest court of appeal again ordered the applicant’s detention.it held that the charges of several very serious offences committed over a long time in an organised group were of such gravity that they could not be addressed merely by house arrest.12.  the measure was extended on 4 august 2010. in addition to the previously cited reasons, the court considered that there was no reason to assume that the applicant’s political motivation behind the incriminated acts had subsided, which meant that the risk of re-offending was real.13.  on 24 november 2010 the budapest court of appeal ordered the applicant’s house arrest, observing that the applicant had abided by the previous house arrest (see paragraph 10 above) and holding that the risk of re-offending was slight.14.  on 20 september 2012 the applicant’s house arrest was replaced by a restraining order, which was eventually lifted on 6 july 2014.15.  on 22 april 2015 the applicant was again detained on remand for the purposes of prosecution for a new offence allegedly committed during the on-going proceedings.he was accused of having threatened and harassed a relative of one of the witnesses in the main case.
5.  the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in budenovsk, the stavropol region of the russian federation.6.  on an unspecified date the applicant sued his former employer military unit.7.  on 3 may 2001 the military court of the pyatigorsk garrison (“the military court”) ordered, inter alia, the head of the respondent military unit to re-calculate the period of the applicant’s service, applying the favourable terms of such calculation for the time when the applicant had participated in a military operation.the military court obliged the head of the military unit to issue the relevant orders, to calculate and to pay the applicant some additional payments and field allowance for the periods specified in the judgment.the judgment contained information on the indexes and other parameters that should be applied for the awarded amounts to be calculated.9.  in march 2002 the applicant obtained the writ of execution and submitted it to the department of the federal treasury in budenovsk.10.  on 19 march 2002 the department of the federal treasury returned the writ of execution to the applicant on the ground that the military unit did not have an account there, and the judgment contained no specific amounts awarded to the applicant.11.  on 21 march 2002 the applicant submitted the writ of execution to the bailiffs’ service.on the same day the enforcement proceedings were initiated.12.  on 19 february 2003 the enforcement proceedings were terminated and the writ was returned to the applicant without enforcement following his request to withdraw the writ.13.  in 2004-2005 the applicant applied to the domestic courts for clarification of the initial judgment with the view to establish the specific amounts due to him.the applicant’s requests were dismissed as being lodged out of time.the courts noted that, in any case, the matter concerning the awarded amounts should have been resolved by way of an additional decision rather than clarification of a final judgment, and informed that an application for an additional decision should have been lodged before the entry into force of the main judgment.14.  it is not disputed between the parties that the judgment of 3 may 2001 remained unenforced in the part concerning the payment to the applicant of the second salary and the field allowances for the periods specified in the judgment.15.  on 24 march 2016, after communication of the present case, the ministry of finance of russia calculated the amount due to the applicant under the judgment of 3 may 2001. according to this calculation, the main debt amounted to 80,220.74 russian roubles.
4.  the applicant was born in 1946 and lives in lisichansk-18, the lugansk region of ukraine.5.  in 1972 the applicant suffered 100 per cent disability as a result of a traffic accident.in 1994 the lisichansk town court of the lugansk region of ukraine found the state health care institution of the sanitary and epidemiology monitoring of the ministry of railways of the russian federation (“the institution”) responsible for the accident and ordered it to pay to the applicant compensation and to reimburse his medical expenses.since that time, the applicant has been involved in several sets of proceedings concerning various types of allowances and compensation due to him.6.  on 17 july 1995 by the lisichansk town court ordered the increase of the monthly payments due to the applicant in respect of compensation, allowances and medical expenses.it appears that the debtor institution complied with the judgment in part and in may 2000 discontinued payments due under the judgment.7.  on 31 march 2006 the perm regional court of russia allowed the applicant’s request for compulsory execution of the above judgment in russia as from may 2000. it was enforced on 30 march 2007.8.  the applicant sued the defendant institution for medical expenses, various types of allowances and compensation, as well as index-linking and arrears in the respective payments, and acquired several judgments by russian courts in his favour listed in appendixes i and ii.9.  in course of the proceedings the defendant institution was replaced by the federal health care institution “hygiene and epidemiology center of the perm region and the komi-perm autonomous region” and subsequently by federal health care institution “hygiene and epidemiology center of the perm region”, its legal successors.10.  he complained about non-enforcement to the ministry of finance, the prosecutor’s office and various other authorities, but to no avail.11.  the judgments were enforced fully or in part on dates listed in appendixes i and ii.some of them have not been enforced, as shown in the tables below.
7.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.in 1996, in the name of d., he concluded a contract with a collective farm (n.), situated in the self-proclaimed “moldovan republic of transdniestria” (the “mrt” – for further details about the “mrt”, see ilaşcu and others v. moldova and russia [gc], no.under the contract, n. undertook to send d. 15 tonnes of paprika and 5 tonnes of butter, while d. undertook to send n. 275 tonnes of diesel fuel as payment.9.  subsequently, n. sent the paprika, but according to the applicant some of it was of poor quality and d. suffered financial losses as a result.10.  on 22 december 1996 the applicant was summoned to the department for the fight against organised crime in crivoi rog, ukraine, and asked to give an explanation for his refusal to send the diesel fuel.after the second interview he was taken, allegedly against his will and without his passport, to the “mrt”.on 30 december 1999 he was convicted and sentenced to ten years’ imprisonment by the ribnita people’s court, which was under the jurisdiction of the “mrt”.he was given food once a day – some 250 grams of soup (containing no protein or vitamins), 100 grams of porridge of the same quality, and 250 grams of bread.as a result of the lack of food the applicant developed constant hunger pains, which he viewed as tantamount to torture.15.  on an unknown date in 1997 the applicant’s lawyer complained to the moldovan prosecutor general’s office of the unlawful detention of his client ordered by the “mrt” authorities.in a letter dated 21 january 1998 the office replied that the complaint had been accepted and that an action had been brought in the supreme court of justice for the annulment of any “mrt” court sentence that might be imposed in respect of the applicant.16.  on 14 november 2000, in reply to a complaint by the applicant’s lawyer, the moldovan prosecutor general’s office informed him that it had initiated a criminal investigation into his client’s abduction.it noted that the investigation was aimed at establishing whether the applicant had indeed been abducted, and if so by whom and precisely from where.17.  on 19 february 2001, the moldovan prosecutor general’s office informed the applicant’s lawyer that on 17 january 2001 a previously adopted decision to discontinue the investigation had been annulled; the documents relevant to the investigation of the complaint of kidnapping from ukrainian territory had been sent to ukrainian prosecutors.18.  in reply to a complaint concerning his client lodged on an unknown date with the russian president, on 25 september 2002 the applicant’s lawyer was informed that the complaint had been forwarded to the moldovan supreme court of justice.
6.  on 19 january 2004 the vladičin han municipal court ordered a socially-owned company dp pk delišes (hereinafter “the debtor company”), based in vladičin han, to pay the first applicant specified amounts on account of debt, plus the costs of the civil proceedings.7.  on 27 may 2004, upon the first applicant’s request to that effect, the vladičin han municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor company to pay the first applicant the enforcement costs.9.  as a result, the ongoing enforcement proceedings against the debtor company were stayed by the municipal court’s decision of 12 march 2014.13.  on 28 may 2015 the constitutional court found a violation of the first applicant’s right to a hearing within a reasonable time.the constitutional court dismissed the first applicant’s complaint concerning his right to the peaceful enjoyment of his possessions as well as his request for pecuniary damages, since the insolvency proceedings were still pending.16.  on 22 december 2005 the second applicant concluded the settlement with the debtor company before the niš municipal court, by which the debtor company was obliged to pay the second applicant specified amounts on account of salary arrears and social insurance contributions, plus the costs of the civil proceedings.17.  on 17 december 2010, upon the second applicant’s request to that effect, the niš municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said settlement and further ordered the debtor company to pay the second applicant the enforcement costs.18.  on 5 september 2008 the niš municipal court ordered the debtor company to pay the second applicant specified amounts on account of salary arrears and social insurance contributions, plus the costs of the civil proceedings.19.  on 28 december 2010, upon the second applicant’s request to that effect, the niš municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor company to pay the second applicant the enforcement costs.20.  on 30 june 2007 and 15 october 2007 respectively, the republic agency for peaceful settlement of labour disputes ordered the debtor company to pay the second applicant specified amounts on account of salary arrears and social insurance contributions.21.  on 27 december 2010 and 28 december 2010 respectively, upon the second applicant’s request to that effect, the niš municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said decisions and further ordered the debtor company to pay the second applicant the enforcement costs.it found that the second applicant failed to lodge his appeal within thirty days as of the date when the decisions on the staying of the enforcement proceedings as a result of opening of the insolvency proceedings had been delivered to him.30.  on 13 may 2002 the third applicant concluded the settlement with the debtor company before the kragujevac municipal court, by which the debtor company was obliged to pay the third applicant specified amounts on account of salary arrears, plus the costs of the civil proceedings.31.  on 27 august 2002, upon the third applicant’s request to that effect, the kragujevac municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said settlement and further ordered the debtor company to pay the third applicant the enforcement costs.it found that the third applicant failed to lodge his appeal within thirty days as of the date when the decision on opening of the insolvency proceedings had been rendered or as of the date when he had submitted his claim in the insolvency proceedings.
on 2 february 2004 the president of parliament rejected the request to lift c.t.’s immunity, relying on article 83 § 8 of parliament’s regulation, according to which a request to lift a member’s immunity for a criminal complaint based on the same facts as a previous request was inadmissible.9.  on 18 march 2004 the applicant lodged an application with the european court of human rights, complaining under article 6 § 1 of the convention that parliament’s refusal to lift c.t.’s immunity had violated his right of access to a court.on 16 november 2006 the court delivered a judgment concluding that the refusal by the president of parliament to lift c.t.’s immunity for acts that had allegedly been committed prior to his election had violated the applicant’s right of access to a court under article 6 § 1 of the convention (tsalkitzis v. greece, no.to date, the committee of ministers of the council of europe has not yet concluded the supervision of the execution of the judgment under article 46 § 2 of the convention.10.  in the meantime, on 4 april 2004 the applicant appeared on a television show on the nationwide alter channel and reiterated the allegations made in his criminal complaint.12.  before the three-member panel of the athens court of appeal (“the court of appeal”), the applicant submitted that his trial for slander should have been suspended pursuant to article 366 § 2 of the criminal code or, in any event, that it should have been adjourned in respect of all the charges, pursuant to article 59 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure.that court ... held that the refusal of the president of the greek parliament had violated article 6 § 1 of the convention ... therefore, the following issues have been identified concerning: a) the relation of international conventions to current constitutional provisions; b) the act in question of the president of the greek parliament and whether it breaches constitutional provisions and the above-mentioned international convention; and c) the question of whether or not it is possible to suspend the current criminal case being tried following the criminal complaint dated 2.11.2001 by the defendant vasileios tsalkitzis against ... c.t ... the matter of the supremacy of the constitution does not appear to be contradicted by the above-mentioned european court of human rights judgment, which identifies the issue as the act of the president of parliament of not putting the request to the plenary of the greek parliament, which resulted, according to the judgment, in impeding the applicant’s and the case’s access to the competent criminal court ... it is noted that the president of parliament’s act was based on article 82 of parliament’s regulations... according to the foregoing, it is clear that the greek parliament has irrevocably dismissed the request of the public prosecutor of the athens court of first instance, thus refusing to lift the immunity of the member of parliament against whom the criminal complaint was lodged ... on the basis of a legitimate procedure foreseen by the above-mentioned constitutional provisions.during the ... plenary meetings of the greek parliament, the issue of the well-foundedness of the accusation was examined as a whole, as were all aspects of the case, securing the work of the deputy and at the same time protecting him from malicious acts.in addition, and this is important, the whole case file which had been created following the preliminary examination was taken into account, as was the opinion of the competent public prosecutor who, following a review of the case, considered that there was no reason to initiate criminal proceedings against c.t.the trial record shows that the applicant left the building following a short break after the examination of the first three witnesses for the prosecution.in view of the applicant’s absence, the court of appeal asked his representative to express the applicant’s views on the accusations.14.  the court of appeal upheld the first-instance verdict, including the sentence of twenty months’ imprisonment and the deprivation of political rights (decision no.in particular, it held the following: “... it is clear from this new provision (article 59 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure) ... that in order to adjourn a trial owing to an interlocutory criminal issue (ποινικό προδικαστικό ζήτημα) concerning articles 224, 229, 362, 363 of the criminal code, a criminal prosecution must have been instituted for an act attested to on oath or for which a legal complaint has been submitted or one which a defendant has alleged or disseminated information about.as regards article 366 § 2 of the criminal code ... the suspension of criminal proceedings is obligatory, but also requires a prior criminal prosecution for the act that a defendant has alleged or disseminated information about ... in the present case ... the court dismissed the above requests, providing full and correct reasoning, in particular because the immunity of the person against whom the criminal complaint had been lodged, who is now a civil party and member of parliament, had not been lifted.it can be concluded from the above-mentioned considerations that the court correctly interpreted and implemented the above-mentioned provisions, and did not violate them, when it proceeded to examine the allegations of false accusation, perjury and slander against the defendant-appellant on points of law and dismissed the defendant’s request on the grounds that a criminal prosecution had not been instituted against the current civil party, former mayor and now member of parliament, without suspending and adjourning the proceedings until the end of the previously instituted proceedings against him ...” 16.  the decision was finalised on 4 june 2010 (καθαρογραφή) and the applicant was able to receive a copy on 7 june 2010. the applicant was imprisoned from 13 may 2010 to 21 may 2010 as he was not able to pay the fine to which his sentence had been commuted.
7.  according to the applicant, throughout the whole time that he spent in the police station he was not given any food or drink, allowed to go to the toilet, or allowed to use a telephone.8.  in the late afternoon or the evening of 24 january 2014 the applicant was taken to a hospital for a medical examination, and then, at about 10 p.m. the same day, taken to a pre-trial detention facility in sofia.9.  it appears that the next day, or one of the following days, the applicant was brought before the sofia district court with a view to a decision on whether he should be remanded in detention, and that it was decided that he should remain in custody pending trial.10.  according to the applicant, upon his arrival in the pre-trial detention facility on the evening of 24 january 2014 (see paragraph 8 above), he was given a dirty mattress, pillow and blanket, but no bedlinen.11.  according to the applicant, the cell in which he had been placed had been dirty, cold, poorly ventilated, infested with cockroaches, overcrowded, and with a toilet which was not properly separated from the rest of the cell.with the help of a co-detainee who spoke some english, about two weeks after his arrival in the facility he managed to obtain one minute of call time free of charge, and on 5 february 2014 contacted the consulate of france in sofia.the consulate immediately informed the applicant’s bulgarian girlfriend, a bulgarian friend of his and his parents, who resided in france, that he had been arrested and detained, and the consul came to visit him.the same day the applicant’s mother, who lived in france, wired money to the consul so that she could purchase food and clothes for the applicant.they submitted a declaration by him dated 24 february 2014 whereby he had asked the detention facility’s head to issue him a phonecard preloaded with 20 bulgarian levs of credit and, as required under the relevant regulations (see paragraph 30 below), had submitted for approval a list of the persons – his bulgarian girlfriend, a bulgarian friend, his lawyer, and his mother and father in france – whom he wished to call.the applicant alleged that the facility’s staff had often not complied with the recharging schedule and that on one occasion he had been unable to recharge his phonecard for five weeks.he did not provide further details in that respect, but from the documents submitted by him it appears that between 24 march and 14 april 2014, a period of three weeks, he had not spoken on the telephone to his mother in france.according to the government, the applicant had received such visits on 5, 8 and 9 february and 23 march 2014. however, on one occasion on 22 march 2014 the applicant’s bulgarian girlfriend, who had come to visit him, was turned away with the explanation that the same day he had been moved to a different wing, detainees in which could be visited on another date according to the schedule of visits.18.  according to the government, during his stay in the detention facility the applicant had been visited by his lawyer on twelve occasions in february and march 2014, and by consular staff on two occasions.19.  throughout his stay in the detention facility, the applicant was able to correspond with his parents in france with letters passed via his lawyer or the staff of the consulate of france in sofia.the same day the sofia district court approved the agreement, and the next day, 18 april 2014, the applicant was moved to sofia prison.
the applicant underwent this assessment in the psychiatric ward of cracow detention centre between 12 april and 30 june 2006. in an opinion dated 18 july 2006 (“the 2006 opinion”), two psychiatrists and a psychologist confirmed that he had been suffering from a chronic psychotic disorder of a delusional type related to organic lesions in his central nervous system, and also from a personality disorder (przewlekłe psychotyczne zaburzenia psychiczne o obrazie zespołu urojeniowego u osoby ze zmianami organicznymi o.u.n.12. the katowice regional court examined the case at two hearings on 5 and 25 september 2007. on the former date the court heard evidence from the experts who had prepared the opinions.t., an expert who spoke on behalf of the team, stated in particular that the experts had excluded the possibility that the applicant was simulating a mental illness.the katowice regional court asked the penitentiary division of the court to change the order in which the sentences would be served, and to apply the security measure first.25.  meanwhile, on 20 july 2012 psychiatrists from lubliniec hospital, in an opinion following a periodic review of the applicant’s condition (“the lubliniec opinion”), had noted that the applicant had been diagnosed with delusional disorders related to organic lesions in his central nervous system.however, in view of the initial diagnosis and his lifestyle, it was felt that the applicant should continue treatment at a psychiatric hospital, as there was still a risk that he might commit criminal offences of significant harm to the community.26.  at hearings held on 28 august and 24 september 2012 the katowice regional court examined the applicant’s application for release of 24 july 2012. the court heard evidence from lubliniec experts who had given the opinion of 20 july 2012 (see paragraph 25 above).one of the experts clarified that, in assessing the possible risk of the applicant committing criminal offences, she had relied on the initial diagnosis and his lifestyle (his multiple convictions and the fact that he was young and single with no children).with reference to the discrepancies between the two expert opinions, the court held that the pruszków opinion concerned the applicant’s capacity tempore criminis, while the lubliniec opinion related to his general progress in treatment and his future prognosis.the court relied on an expert opinion of 15 march 2013, in which experts from cracow psychiatric hospital had confirmed that the applicant suffered from a dissocial personality and had suffered from a psychotic disorder in the past.they confirmed that, at the time when the offences had been committed, the applicant had not been suffering from any delusional disorders which could have resulted in a conclusion that he had acted in a state of insanity.38.  the katowice court of appeal examined the applicant’s appeal at two hearings: on 21 january and 11 march 2014. on the latter date, relying on the evidence gathered by the regional court, it upheld the decision of 8 november 2013 (see paragraph 36 above).42.  on 15 may 2014 the katowice regional court appointed a new defence lawyer for the applicant, to replace the one who had resigned, and set a hearing date for 28 may 2014. on the latter date it heard evidence from the experts from the toszek hospital.the applicant was released on that date and transferred to wojkowice prison in order to serve the remainder of the sentence of imprisonment which had been imposed following the first set of criminal proceedings against him (see paragraph 6 above).47.  during a hearing on 14 january 2015 the court heard evidence from the cracow hospital experts who had prepared the opinion of 27 august 2013. as indicated in paragraph 33 above, they confirmed that the applicant had not been suffering from a mental illness, but had a personality disorder.
26211/13, § 17, 1 december 2015) were arrested on suspicion of drug trafficking and detained under article 123 § 1(2), (3) and (4) of the code of criminal procedure (risk of collusion, risk of reoffending, and seriousness of charges).7.  during the investigation, an investigating judge of the split county court (županijski sud u splitu) several times extended the pre-trial detention in respect of the applicant and the other suspects under article 123 § 1(2), (3) and (4) of the code of criminal procedure (risk of collusion, risk of reoffending, and seriousness of charges).8.  on 18 august 2011 the investigating judge extended the pre-trial detention in respect of the applicant and the other suspects under article 123 § 1 (3) and (4) of the code of criminal procedure (risk of reoffending and seriousness of charges).he found that all the relevant witnesses had been questioned and that there was no further possibility of remanding the suspects in detention on the grounds of the risk of collusion.9.  the investigating judge relied on the same reasons extending the pre-trial detention in respect of the applicant and the other suspects in the further course of the investigation.11.  following the submission of the indictment, on 18 may 2012 a three-judge panel of the split county court extended the pre-trial detention in respect of the applicant and the other accused relying on article 123 § 1 (3) and (4) of the code of criminal procedure (risk of reoffending and seriousness of charges).12.  on 20 february 2013 the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske), acting as a court of appeal, found that the applicant’s detention should be extended only under article 123 § 1 (3) of the code of criminal procedure (risk of reoffending).it was therefore not possible to remand the applicant on the grounds of the seriousness of the charges since the possibility of imposing a sentence of long-term imprisonment was one of the conditions for extending pre-trial detention under article 123 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure (seriousness of charges).13.  on 20 april 2013 a three-judge panel of the split county court extended the pre-trial detention in respect of the applicant and the other accused under article 123 § 1 (3) of the code of criminal procedure (risk of reoffending), without changing its previous reasoning.14.  on 17 may 2013 a three-judge panel of the split county court extended the maximum two-year statutory time-limit for the applicant’s pre-trial detention under article 133 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure for a further six months (until 19 november 2013) relying on section 35(2) of the office for the suppression of corruption and organised crime act (hereinafter “the oscoca”).15.  the applicant appealed to the supreme court arguing that section 35(2) of the oscoca was inapplicable to his case since he was not detained during the investigation.16.  on 7 june 2013 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on the grounds that the said provision of the oscoca made a mistaken reference to article 130 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure.instead it should be interpreted in line with the previous abrogated version of the oscoca, which in its section 28(3) had provided for a possibility of extension of the overall maximum period of detention for a further six months, which was in the applicant’s case until 19 november 2013.18.  on 11 july 2013 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint as unfounded, endorsing the reasoning of the supreme court.19.  the applicant’s pre-trial detention was extended, under article 123 § 1 (3) of the code of criminal procedure (risk of reoffending), until the maximum period expired on 19 november 2013, when he was released.
the domestic court considered that the applicant company, which had based the impugned passage of the book on, inter alia, an internal report of the federal office of criminal investigations (bundeskriminalamt), had not complied with its duty to carry out thorough research and had seriously interfered with the personality rights of the person referred to.accordingly, the book should have stated that the investigating authorities had not obtained any indications which would have served as a basis for filing an indictment, much less a sentence, and that in fact the investigations pursued against the plaintiff had not resulted in any such bringing of charges or in any sentencing.in addition, the court held, the publication had not made it clear that the pizza restaurant “da bruno”, in which the murders had been perpetrated, was not identical to the pizza restaurant of the same name in which the plaintiff had worked as a pizza baker many years prior to those deeds.14.  on 7 april 2009 the munich court of appeal dismissed the applicant company’s appeal against the regional court’s judgment of 15 december 2008. it held that the book expressed a serious allegation that the plaintiff was a member of a criminal organisation and therefore seriously interfered with his personality rights.rather, the court continued, the interplay of the many individual statements in the book created the impression that there was a very strong suspicion that the plaintiff was a member of the ‘ndrangheta.even though authors did not have to await the outcome of an investigation before reporting on a corresponding suspicion, if the reporting on a suspicion was reliant on investigations that had been carried out six or seven years previously, the author could not ignore the fact that the investigation proceedings had come to an end without any charges having been brought.the regional court reiterated the reasoning it had given in the judgment of 15 december 2008 and that given by the court of appeal in its judgment of 7 april 2009 (see paragraphs 13-14 above).lastly, the court held that the publication was unlawful as the author had not given the plaintiff the possibility to comment on the allegation prior to publication.in particular, it offered to provide the names of witnesses who could allegedly confirm the statements made in the internal report of the federal office of criminal investigation and the suspicion published in the book.the regional court refused to hear the witnesses as it found that they would be unable to give evidence regarding the alleged membership and that the applicant company had failed to identify the specific issues on which the witnesses could testify.20.  on 29 november 2011, the munich court of appeal, in addition to the injunction, sentenced the applicant company to pay damages in the amount of eur 10,000 and dismissed the plaintiff’s further claim for damages.as far as the violation of the plaintiff’s personality right was concerned, the court of appeal endorsed the reasoning of the regional court.it expressly conceded to the applicant company that there was great public interest in obtaining information about criminal organisations and “that the motivation of the author and of the defendant [in the instant case: applicant company] for informing the public on the activities pursued by the ‘ndrangheta in germany was commendable and honest”.it had been grossly negligent on the part of the applicant company to disseminate an allegation based on a suspicion which seriously interfered with the plaintiff’s personality right in spite of the fact that the plaintiff had obviously not been given an opportunity to be heard and that the allegation had been disseminated without including the necessary information that the murder investigation addressed by the book subsequently had been discontinued.21.  the court of appeal further reasoned that the injunction was not sufficient redress for the plaintiff, as it was not an adequate means of reaching the readers of a book that had already been published.
7.  by a decision of the competent prosecutor of 6 march 1996, as provided under domestic law at the time, the applicant was placed under house arrest.9.  in a final judgment of 27 january 1998 the sofia military court found the applicant guilty of failing to perform his duties and he was given a one‑year suspended prison sentence.10.  in another set of proceedings, in a final judgment of 26 march 2003 the supreme court of cassation convicted the applicant of fraud and sentenced him to one year of imprisonment.11.  the court also held in the second set of proceedings that the applicant should serve a single sentence for all his offences, which was set at one year in prison.the prosecutor noted that the period of pre-trial detention should have been deducted from the applicant’s sentence, which meant he had already served it.14.  in 2004 the applicant brought a tort action against the prosecution authorities under section 2(6) of the state and municipalities’ responsibility for damage act (see paragraph 21 below).he claimed 20,000 bulgarian levs (bgn) for non-pecuniary damage for his detention in 1996-97 to the extent it had exceeded the set term of imprisonment and bgn 40,000 for his imprisonment between 1 july and 18 september 2003.15.  the domestic courts examined witnesses and a court-appointed psychologist who said that the applicant had been traumatised by the experience and suffered from anxiety, that his personality had been “permanently altered”, that he had difficulties communicating with others, and that his family ties had been “irreparably damaged”.16.  in a judgment of 2 may 2006 the sofia city court (hereinafter “the city court”) allowed the claim in part, finding that the applicant had been detained for nine months and twenty-nine days in excess of his sentence and awarding him bgn 10,000 for non-pecuniary damage.17.  in accordance with the applicable provisions of domestic law, the city court ordered the applicant to pay bgn 2,040 (the equivalent of 1,040 euros – eur) in court fees, calculated as a pro rata percentage of the part of his claim that had been dismissed.18.  the judgment was upheld on 18 june 2007 by the sofia court of appeal (hereinafter “the court of appeal”), which specified that the prosecution authorities were also liable to pay default interest on the above amount, calculated from 18 september 2003.19.  in a final judgment of 24 april 2009 the supreme court of cassation reduced the award to bgn 3,000 (approximately eur 1,530), plus default interest.it justified the reduction by referring to the “nature of the offences” the applicant had been convicted for, the “regime under which the sentence had been served” and the “socially acceptable criteria for justice”.20.  the court has not been informed whether and when the amount above was paid to the applicant.calculations made with a calculator available on the internet show that the default interest on bgn 3,000 for the period from 18 september 2003 to 24 april 2009 would be bgn 2,265 (the equivalent of eur 1,155).
expressed his dissatisfaction with the car and requested that the applicant return his money and take the car back.reported the incident to the police on the same day.9.  on 8 january 2011 criminal proceedings were instituted against the applicant by the nasimi district police office under article 221.3 (hooliganism) of the criminal code.the investigator’s decision stated that at around 8.30 p.m. on 7 january 2011 the applicant and a certain c. had insulted and assaulted e.r.11.  on 10 january 2011 the applicant was charged under articles 127.2.3 (deliberate infliction of less serious injury to health) and 221.3 (hooliganism) of the criminal code.12.  on the same day the nasimi district court, relying on the charges brought against the applicant and an application from the prosecutor to apply the preventive measure of remanding the applicant in custody, ordered his detention pending trial for a period of two months.the court justified the application of the preventive custodial measure by the gravity of the offences imputed to him, the risk of his reoffending and the likelihood that he might abscond if released.13.  on 12 january 2011 the applicant appealed against that decision, stating that there was no justification for the application of the preventive measure of remand in custody and that the court had failed to substantiate the necessity for his detention pending trial.he also submitted that the court had failed to take account of his personal situation and to consider the possibility of another preventive measure, such as house arrest or release on bail.14.  on 17 january 2011 the baku court of appeal dismissed the appeal, finding that there were no grounds to quash the first-instance decision.15.  on 2 march 2011 the prosecutor in charge of the criminal case applied to the court for an extension of the applicant’s pre-trial detention for a period of one month.16.  on 3 march 2011 the nasimi district court extended the applicant’s detention pending trial by one month, until 8 april 2011. the court justified its decision by the need for more time to carry out further investigative actions, the complexity of the criminal case and the likelihood that the applicant might abscond and obstruct the investigation if released.17.  on 4 march 2011 the applicant appealed against that decision, arguing that the first-instance court had failed to substantiate its decision on his continued detention.18.  on 9 march 2011 the baku court of appeal upheld the nasimi district court’s decision of 3 march 2011.20.  on 17 june 2011 the nasimi district court found the applicant guilty on all counts and sentenced him to six years’ imprisonment.
19.  on 7 october 2003 the solicitor general sought, in administrative proceedings, that the restitution order be declared, under section 267(1)(5) of the administrative procedure act (see paragraph 37 below), partially null and void in respect of the part of the land which had been returned to the applicants but allegedly had not been confiscated from their predecessor.the solicitor general therefore lodged an application to have the restitution order declared partially null and void regarding the difference in surface area of the land specified in the first confiscation order of 23 august 1948 and the confiscation decision of 17 december 1948.20.  on 23 may 2005 the second-instance administrative-procedure commission in the area of denationalisation (комисија за решавање во управна постапка во втор степен од областа на денационализацијата – “the second-instance commission”) dismissed that application finding that the final restitution order, which had meanwhile been enforced, could not be declared null and void on the basis of section 267(1)(5) of the administrative procedure act because the sections of the restitution act on the basis of which the restitution order had been made had not contained any explicit provisions allowing for its nullification, as required under that subparagraph.as for the argument that the confiscation order had been neither signed nor stamped, is was stated that this could have been put forward before the finality of the restitution order, and could not have led to declaring the order null and void on the basis of section 267(1)(5).21.  the solicitor general challenged the latter decision by lodging an administrative action (тужба за управен спор) with the administrative court in which he complained that the restitution order of 14 january 2002 had been based on a confiscation order which had not been signed and stamped and on erroneous facts regarding the surface area of the land.in this connection the solicitor general referred to an extract from the state archives dated 16 august 2005 which indicated that the land had been expropriated on the basis of a confiscation order of 20 october 1948. in this submission the solicitor general noted that his claims regarding the differences in the surface areas had been substantiated by documents supplied to him by “interested parties” according to which the accurate area of the land could be established.22.  on 14 march 2008 the administrative court upheld the decision of the second-instance commission, finding that the remedy under section 267(1)(5) relied on by the solicitor general had been inapplicable to the facts of the case.with regard to the differences in surface areas the judgment stated: “the court, in deciding, assessed the arguments of the [solicitor general] put forward in the claim, but it did not accept them as bases to decide differently, because none of the conditions under [section] 267 of the administrative procedure act for declaring the order null and void had been fulfilled.” 23.  on 14 january 2009 the restitution commission, acting on its own motion (по службена должност) and relying on section 267(1)(3) of the administrative procedure act, found that the restitution order was unenforceable and declared it null and void in full (“the nullity decision”).m. the restitution commission also referred to evidence submitted on 23 august 2001 by the land registry office, according to which the area of the plot had been six shinik and had represented a part of a larger plot of land, the total surface area of which was 8,309 sq.in the present case there is no such situation and therefore it cannot be considered that section 2 of the restitution act has been breached ... this is so because the evidence admitted in the course of the proceedings provides a certain basis for the court to conclude that in the present case the restitution order ... was adopted in accordance with the restitution act, which had been preceded by a correct and full establishment of the facts, thereby leading to the conclusion that in that case all statutory conditions had been fulfilled for [the return of] the property concerned.however, that does not mean that those persons will be deprived of the right to protect their rights and interests ... a possibility remains for them to establish their rights by lodging a civil claim before a competent court within five years of the finalisation of the restitution order (section 63, paragraph 2 of the act), against the persons to whom possession was restored or compensation was paid in accordance with the provisions of the act.” 30.  on 3 and 4 august 2010 the solicitor general and the third persons respectively appealed against that judgment before the supreme court, which had in the meantime become competent to act upon appeals against judgments of the administrative court.the relevant part of the judgment reads as follows: “in the supreme court’s opinion, which has been stated in several of this court’s cases, a restitution order can be considered as legally impossible to enforce, if there are breaches of the law which cannot be remedied with the application of other legal means, as is the situation in the present case.... [t]he conclusion is correct that in the present case, with the restitution order, the property registered as property of the state was restored contrary to the conditions specified in the restitution act, sections 1 and 2. since the state organs established that part of the concerned property was not in possession of the legal predecessor [of the applicants], there is a legal obstacle for the exercise of a restitution right over that part of the property.hence, such an order cannot be enforced, which is grounds for the application of paragraph 1 subparagraph 3 of section 267 of the administrative procedure act, meaning that the decision is null and void (ништовно) ... ... in respect of the third persons, or the interested persons, the restitution act excludes the possibility for them to appear as parties to the restitution proceedings, but what remains for them is the possibility to claim their rights in a civil suit before a competent court within five years after the finalisation of the restitution order (section 63 paragraph 2 of the act), against the persons to whom possession was restored or compensation was paid in accordance with the provisions of this act.” 32.  this decision was served on the applicants on 24 december 2010 and 25 january 2011 respectively.34.  acting upon the initial restitution application, the restitution commission requested clarification from the land registry regarding the historical records of the plot of land in question on 27 march 2013. the land registry confirmed that the plot which had been taken from the applicants’ predecessor was now a part of a plot owned by the state with an area of 8,309 sq.
in the article the applicant had been mentioned by name and, based on reports by the us federal bureau of investigation (hereinafter “the fbi”) and european law-enforcement agencies, the applicant’s alleged ties to russian organised crime had been publicised.federal prosecutors, who opened their case in the wake of a number of private lawsuits challenging the legitimacy of the license award, have been examining documents for nearly a year, and the exact status of the investigation is not clear.” 10.  on 28 may 2001, before publication of the article, the journalist had notified the applicant, via an email to one of his employees, of the planned publication and had asked several questions.it found that, at the material time, the print version of the new york times was not distributed in germany and that the internet version of the newspaper was not directed at a readership in germany.the düsseldorf court of appeal confirmed that decision by its judgment dated 30 december 2008. on 2 march 2010 the federal court of justice quashed the part of the decision regarding the applicant’s claim for an injunction against the challenged statements in the online version of the article and referred that part of the action back to the court of appeal.the court held that the online version of the newspaper was accessible from germany, and because it mentioned a german businessman in the article, the publication had a direct connection with germany and german jurisdiction.14.  on 22 june 2011 the court of appeal decided on the part of the dispute which had been referred back to it by the federal court of justice.it granted the injunction in so far as the article stated that the applicant had been banned from entering the united states, and dismissed the remainder of the applicant’s action for lack of merit.the court of appeal held that german law was applicable with regard to the online publication, as the article was accessible in germany via the internet and therefore the alleged violation of the applicant’s reputation had at least occurred in germany.moreover, as the statements concerned a suspicion against the applicant, the presumption of innocence arising from article 6 § 2 of the convention and from german law also had to be taken into account.on the other hand, continued the court, the interference with the rights of personality associated with such reporting required higher standards of care for newspaper reporting, because even if the investigation was later discontinued, “something of the accusation might stick to the person affected”.16.  as regards the statements at issue, the court of appeal held that there was a great informational interest on the part of the public in the reporting that the applicant, as a german businessman internationally active in the media sector, was suspected by the secret service of being involved in gold smuggling, embezzlement and organised crime.this assessment was not changed by the fact that the applicant had been mentioned by name in the article, or by the fact that when the article was published in 2001, the criminal offences mentioned therein had occurred more than sixteen years previously.in that context the court also considered that although the applicant had been aware of the defendant’s reporting even before the article had been published, he had waited for more than one year before applying for an injunction against the defendant.18.  in sum, the court concluded that the defendant had complied with the required journalistic duty of care and that the reporting had relied on sources and background information, which the journalist could reasonably consider reliable.regarding the alleged entry ban, the court concluded that there had been no reliable sources and that the applicant had shown that he had recently travelled to the united states.
he hit the applicant’s head against the ground several times, dragged the applicant to a police car without releasing his grasp around his neck, hit his head against the car, punched him in the face and pushed him into the car.the officers drove to the garage of a local collective farm and then to the krasnogvardeyskiy district administration, where the applicant’s father found the applicant and his brother and took them home.the krasnogvardeyskiy district court, however, granted the applicant’s father’s appeal against that decision, finding that the decision, the administrative-offence record and other material lacked any evidence of the applicant’s father’s failure to properly raise the applicant, and that, on the contrary, all his children had been well cared for, had studied hard at school, and the family was well thought of.11.  on the same day the applicant’s mother complained to the krasnogvardeyskiy district prosecutor’s office that the applicant had been subjected to ill-treatment by the police officers.the expert concluded that the injuries could have been inflicted on the previous day, by fingernails as regards the abrasions on the neck, and by a hard blunt object as regards the bruises.the doctors recorded oedema of both lips with bruises, oedema in the area of the left eyebrow and right elbow, and oedema, abrasions and bruises in the area of the neck.14.  in an additional opinion of 2 december 2003 the forensic medical expert stated that the fracture of the branches of the hyoid bone, the oedema and the abrasions on the neck could have been caused on 4 november 2003 by pressure from fingers, and had resulted in harm to the applicant’s health lasting up to twenty-one days, that is, minor harm to his health.17.  in a decision of 27 february 2004, setting aside the refusal of 7 february 2004, a senior prosecutor from the adygeya republic prosecutor’s office held that, in the course of an additional inquiry, the investigator should establish exactly what each of the police officers had done when restraining the applicant and placing him in their car, in particular if the injury had been inflicted by seizing the applicant by his neck.o., the investigator, maintained his findings made in the decision of 7 february 2004, stating that the applicant’s allegations had not been confirmed by the results of the pre‑investigation inquiry.that he had seen the police stopping the motorcycle at the petrol station, that he had been invited to act as an attesting witness and sign a record of the motorcycle’s seizure which the police had drawn up on the spot, and that the applicant’s brother had refused to sign the record and receive a copy of it.21.  the investigator’s decision also referred to statements by other third parties, in particular b., who worked at the petrol station and stated that he had seen the applicant falling onto the tarmac himself, resisting the police officers taking him to their car and trying to escape.the applicant’s mother’s complaint that b. had given false statements was dismissed by an investigator of the krasnogvardeyskiy district prosecutor’s office on the grounds that false explanations given in the framework of a pre-investigation inquiry, as opposed to false statements given in the course of a criminal investigation, were not punishable as a criminal offence (decision of 10 january 2004).23.  on 26 september 2005 the district court decided that the application fell to be examined under the rules of civil procedure, and gave the applicant’s mother a time-limit for complying with those rules, in particular in relation to paying a court fee.on 31 january 2006 the adygeya republic supreme court quashed the decision, noting that the district court should not have examined the application, as the applicant’s mother had lacked authority to act on the applicant’s behalf, and should not have examined the lawfulness of the police officers’ actions in its review under article 125 of the ccrp (which concerned the lawfulness of investigators’ decisions).on 21 march 2006 the adygeya republic supreme court upheld that decision upon an appeal by the applicant’s mother, reiterating that she had lacked authority to act on the applicant’s behalf and that the lawfulness of the police officers’ actions could not be reviewed under article 125 of the ccrp.
5.  the applicant was born in 1992 and lives in istanbul.6.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.7.  on 7 december 2009 the applicant was arrested.8.  on 9 december 2009 the applicant was placed in detention on remand by the judge at the istanbul assize court on suspicion of committing crimes on behalf of an illegal terrorist organisation, disseminating propaganda for the same organisation, storage of hazardous materials, and damage to public property.9.  on 30 december 2009 the istanbul public prosecutor filed his indictment with the istanbul assize court.10.  on 6 may 2010 the first hearing was held before the istanbul assize court.at the end of the hearing the court ordered the continuation of his detention in the presence of the applicant.11.  the applicant filed an objection against this decision.on 20 may 2010 the 10th chamber of istanbul assize court dismissed this objection without holding an oral hearing.in delivering its decision, the court took into consideration the written opinion of the public prosecutor, which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative.12.  on 10 december 2010 the applicant was released from detention on remand.13.  at the time when the application was lodged, the proceedings against the applicant were still pending before the first-instance court.
4.  the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in mersin.5.  the applicant is a teacher in primary school and at the material time she was a member and secretary of the local branch of the trade union of education and science workers (eğitim ve bilim emekçileri sendikası).6.  on 28 november 2008 the applicant participated in a demonstration organised by the above mentioned trade union on the theme “no to violence against women”.7.  on 29 june 2009 the district directorate of national education imposed a disciplinary sanction in the form of a reprimand on the applicant for her participation in the aforementioned demonstration under article 125 of the law no.657 on civil servants.8.  on 10 july 2009 the applicant objected to this decision and requested its annulment.9.  on 29 july 2009 the disciplinary board of the yenişehir district governor dismissed the applicant’s objection considering that the contested decision was in accordance with law and there were no grounds for its annulment.
30767/05 and 33800/06, 12 october 2010), in which it singled out the deficiencies of the restitution mechanism, indicating to the respondent state under article 46 of the convention that new steps needed to be taken in order to process the restitution claims with more efficiency.9584/02 and 7 others, §§ 134-40, 29 april 2014), that the mechanism established by the new law offered a range of effective remedies that needed to be exhausted by those claimants whose complaints referred to one of the following situations: the existence of concurrent titles to property with respect to the same plot of agricultural land; the annulment of such title to property without any compensation; the delivery of a final judgment confirming the right to compensation in respect of the unlawful seizure by the state of any type of immovable property, without fixing the amount; the failure to pay such compensation awarded in a final judgment; and the prolonged failure to give a decision on a restitution claim.in particular, the applicants have alleged that their title to the property (building and appurtenant land) had been acknowledged by the domestic courts; however, owing to the sale of the property by the state, the applicants were prevented from enjoying their respective right.the court held that the immovable property had been nationalised unlawfully, since the applicant’s predecessors had not belonged to any of the social categories covered by the nationalisation decree and thus their right of property had been valid and continuous, being transferred as heritage to the applicant; the state could not therefore claim a valid title to the property.17.  on 12 may 1998 the mayor of bucharest issued a restitution decision in respect of the immovable property located on şoseaua giurgiului, in compliance with the operative part of the judgment of 6 june 1997.20.  the sale contract in respect of the ground-floor flat was concluded on 23 june 1997 between b. on behalf of the state, and the tenant, s. a.-l. (c)  steps taken under ordinary law and under law no.10/2001 to obtain the rescission of the sale contracts 21.  on an unspecified date in 2000 the applicant lodged before the domestic courts two civil actions seeking the rescission of the sale contracts of 5 november 1996 and 23 june 1997 respectively, in so far as the state had sold property which it had not owned.22.  the final judgment of 7 february 2002 given by the bucharest court of appeal dismissed the claim in respect of the first-floor flat, holding that the applicant did not have legal standing to ask for the rescission of the sale contract, in so far as she had not been a party thereto.23.  in its final judgment of 14 october 2003, the bucharest court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s claim in respect of the ground-floor flat, holding that the buyer had acted in good faith and had thus acquired a valid title to the property, in accordance with the provisions of law no.in its final judgment of 1 february 2006 the bucharest court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s claim, holding that in so far as the sale contract had been concluded by the buyers in good faith, it was in compliance with the law.several documents were appended to the application, including a copy of the judgment of 6 june 1997 and a copy of the inheritance certificate attesting to the fact that the applicant was the sole heiress of her predecessors.29.  between 1991 and 1995, the applicants wrote several letters to various domestic authorities, including the piteşti city council, the piteşti prefect’s office and the director of company r., which managed the building on behalf of the state, seeking to obtain possession of the flat.30. they claimed that the confiscation of the property had been unlawful, as on the one hand it had been in breach of the constitution in force at the time, and on the other hand, they had not been notified of the administrative decision to confiscate it.in its reasoning, the court essentially held that the sale contract had been validly and lawfully concluded by the tenants, who had acted in good faith at the time of the sale.39.  an appeal lodged by the defendants was allowed by the argeş county court on 16 june 2008. the court considered that the sale of the flat had been lawful.
10.  following an investigation, the authorities dealing with the matter established that the first applicant’s allegations had no basis in fact and that the complaint had been drawn up in the context of a conflict between the first applicant and the representative of the religious organisation in her village, who had allegedly excluded her from that community.11.  the first applicant’s complaint was then transmitted to the authority responsible for monitoring the situation of maltreated or abandoned children, namely the călăraşi directorate-general of social assistance and child welfare (“the dgaspc”, paragraph 12 below), in order to verify the circumstances of the applicants’ children.the dgaspc recommended that the applicants take the following measures: “ –  provide [their children] with an appropriate level of physical cleanliness and clean clothes, [and guarantee the cleanliness] of the house and a proper diet; –  sign up all the children with a family doctor, have them vaccinated and follow any recommended treatment; –  enrol the children aged from three to seven years in a nursery school; –  allow the children to create relationships with [the other children/] ([through] walks, games); –  refrain from subjecting the children to physical and/or verbal violence and from giving them emotionally traumatising messages (do not create [feelings of] fear, isolation, [do not create in them a] lack of confidence).” 14.  in the same letter, the dgaspc informed the applicants: “the manner in which you fulfil these obligations will be monitored by ... the dgaspc.17.  on 22 december 2010 and 18 january 2011 the spas went to the applicants’ home in order to assess the children’s situation and advise the applicants about the measures to be taken in order to meet the dgaspc’s recommendations (see paragraph 13 above).having regard to the findings of this report, the family’s precarious financial position and the parents’ lack of cooperation in spite of the psychological and educational advice provided by the social services, the dgaspc considered that it was necessary to replace the emergency placement measure in respect of i. by a temporary placement order.after drawing attention to the family’s income, it noted that the applicants had made efforts to maintain contact with their children, whom they had visited on two occasions since they were placed in care, and that the first applicant, at her initiative, had accompanied one of the children to hospital when he was ill. it added that the applicants had stated that they could not afford to travel more frequently to visit the children.40.  having regard to those factors, the dgaspc concluded that, for the time being, the conditions for ensuring the children’s safe return to the applicants had not been met: it emphasised the lack of fuel for heating the house and the second applicant’s lack of cooperation with the authorities.it explained that it would be better to delay the children’s return to their family and that the parents needed to achieve a certain level of progress, under the spas’s supervision, to acquire the necessary skills to ensure their children’s safety and to be informed of the potential risks to the children.it added that the children’s return to their family in the near future was not to be ruled out; in its view, however, given the need to improve certain conditions so as to ensure their safety, the applicants’ fluctuating attitude in their communication with the authorities and the applicants’ difficulties in grasping and responding to the children’s needs, the placement measure ought to be maintained for the time being.44.  the dgaspc did not follow the spas’s recommendation (see paragraph 42 above) and asked for the action to be dismissed on the grounds that, although the material living conditions in the applicants’ home had improved, this aspect was not sufficient to ensure the children’s safety.45.  by a judgment of 15 february 2012, the county court dismissed the applicants’ action on the ground that, in spite of the improvement in their living conditions, they had no other income apart from the allowances they received for their children and that there was no guarantee that these were used exclusively to care for the children.it held: “the conditions for the children’s reintegration [into the family] have not been met, given that the other criteria laid down by the dgaspc to ensure the children’s safety are not fulfilled: [namely,] the parents’ involvement and cooperation...; the repair of the roof; registration of the [second] applicant’s home in mănăstirea in order to be able to receive welfare payments; maintenance of links with the children by increasing the regularity of visits; acceptance of their parental responsibilities (registering the children with a doctor, enrolling them in primary and nursery school); the fact of finding employment; improved relations with the other members of the community; undergoing the psychological tests proposed by the dgaspc’s specialists to ascertain their level of parental skills, so as to be able to include them, if appropriate, in a parental support programme and thus develop and consolidate their parental skills; the prevention of major risks to the underage children by accepting monitoring by the mănăstirea spas.in addition, no evidence has been submitted proving that the applicants have received additional income through day-work carried out in the municipality by the second applicant ....” 54.  the appeal court concluded that, in any event, the improvements in the applicants’ living conditions noted in the social inquiry report which had been added to the case file (see paragraph 42 above) was not the only condition that the applicants had to fulfil before being able to request their children’s return.the report stated that the family’s monthly income consisted in two allowances received by the second applicant, amounting to a total of ron 646. it was suggested that the municipal authorities make an emergency payment of ron 1,800 to the applicants for repair of the house’s roof and the installation of toilets.272/2004 sought to protect the best interests of the child and that the public authorities were required to help ensure that children developed and were raised within their families, and explained: “... although the provision of a certain level of material comfort is an essential element for minors’ development, [it is nevertheless the case that] an inadequate income does not in itself represent an insurmountable obstacle to the children’s return to their family, provided that the parents show a genuine interest in raising the children themselves...”.
4.  the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in antalya.5.  the applicant is a teacher in a high school.at the material time he was a member of the local branch of the trade union of education and science workers (eğitim ve bilim emekçileri sendikası).6.  in may 2009, disciplinary proceedings were instituted against the applicant for putting up a notice encouraging the participation in a press statement published by his union on the notice board that was set aside for that particular purpose in their office, and for distributing it in one of the common areas at school.7.  on 30 september 2009 the district directorate of national education imposed a disciplinary sanction in the form of a reprimand on him, for putting up and distributing notices produced by the trade union, of which he was a member, under article 125 of the law no.657 on civil servants.8.  on 6 october 2009 the applicant objected to this decision and requested its annulment.9.  on 15 october 2009 the disciplinary board of the kepez district governor dismissed the applicant’s objection considering that the contested decision was in accordance with law and there were no grounds for its annulment.
10.  according to the police report of 31 july 2008 based on the statements made by the police officers and medical staff, upon their arrival at around 8 p.m. the police officers and medical technicians first talked to the applicant, who was sitting on a bench at the back of her house.with regard to the question of potential liability for mr štefančič’s death, he took the view that the asphyxiation occurred during the police intervention, and that the presence of a doctor could not have altered the course of events.as to the events leading to the death, the police report summarised the statements given by the intervention team and stated that mr štefančič had resisted the police officers who had tried to take him to the psychiatric hospital, whereupon physical force had been used on him.31.  these included contusions on the outer edge of the shoulder blade, the left of the back and the back of the right thigh, swelling on the right of the hairline and the squamous part of the temporal bone, contusions on the inside of the upper right arm and left forearm and on the front of the left thigh.several haematomas were recorded around the left shoulder blade, on the outer edge of the right shoulder blade, on the right of the thorax and on the scalp, as well as a pulmonary oedema, an oblique fracture of the fifth rib, bruising around the lumbar spine, and brain swelling.as regards the injuries to the back of his body, hairline and front left thigh, the forensic pathologist concluded that they had most likely occurred by him falling or falling after being struck, and that the bruises were caused by the body being pulled to the ground.35.  with regard to enquiries made by the investigating judge as to whether mr štefančič’s death could have been prevented by prompt and adequate medical assistance, the forensic report stated: “disregarding the particular circumstances surrounding the incident, this question could be answered in the affirmative; however, one cannot neglect the exceptional circumstances in which the incident occurred.in so far as the medical staff or the officers assisting them in the involuntary confinement had noticed in due course that [mr štefančič] began to vomit, they could have prevented him from inhaling gastric contents either by lifting his body into a vertical position or by turning him onto his side and mechanically clearing his oral cavity by using their fingers or an aspirator (if an aspirator was at the disposal of the medical staff).only then was it possible to apply more aggressive medical intervention (mechanical clearing of the oral cavity, suction of gastric contents from the oral cavity and respiratory tract, removal of potentially larger foreign objects and insertion of a tube with a balloon to prevent continuing aspiration of gastric contents, ventilation of the patient), which could not be performed on a conscious person, in particular on an aggressive person, due to the unpleasant feelings such an intervention induces.in the present case, the aspiration of gastric contents was particularly massive and aggressive, which is indicated by the pieces of food found by the histological analysis to be present even in the alveoli, the final branching of the respiratory system.in the present case it was not possible, once the deceased lost consciousness, to apply those methods and to suck the gastric contents from the respiratory passages and alveoli; considering the quantity and force of the aspiration of gastric contents, medical assistance probably would not have saved the life of [mr štefančič].” 36.  on 18 september 2008 the investigating judge of the nova gorica district court sent the statements of the persons involved in the incident, a record of the examination of the scene, the order for a forensic examination of mr štefančič’s body and the forensic report to the state prosecutor’s office.37.  on 23 september 2008 the head of the nova gorica state prosecutor’s office, b.o., informed the district court that the conditions had not been met for the institution of criminal proceedings, and that the case file had been archived.39.  after having reviewed the nova gorica state prosecutor’s office’s case file, on 2 june 2009 a state prosecutor from the group of state prosecutors for special matters (skupina državnih tožilcev za posebne zadeve – hereinafter “the special matters group”), which had exclusive jurisdiction over the prosecution of criminal offences committed by police officers, rejected both criminal complaints on the basis of the police and forensic reports and the media reports from the press conference on mr štefančič’s death.40.  the decision to reject the criminal complaints summarised the information included in the police and forensic reports, as well as the statements given to the police by dr b.a.moreover, as regards the anonymous criminal complaint, the state prosecutor established that, according to the reports in the media, the head of the nova gorica uniformed police unit had stated neither that mr štefančič had died as a result of being administered sedatives, nor that the medical team had immediately begun resuscitation after his condition had deteriorated.
4.  the applicants were born in 1961 and 1967 respectively and live in mersin and diyarbakır.5.  the applicants were civil servants for tax offices attached to the ministry of finance in mersin and diyarbakır.at the material time they were members of the local branch of the trade union büro emekçileri, which is affiliated to trades union confederation of public employees (kamu emekçileri sendikaları konfederasyonu-“kesk”).6.  in march and april 2009, the applicants were informed of the disciplinary investigations that were initiated against them for having participated in a statement to the press organised by the trade union of which they were members and were invited to send their defence submissions.7.   subsequently, the disciplinary sanctions of warning and reprimand were imposed on the applicants for their participation in the aforementioned trade union activities under section 125 of the law no.657 on civil servants.8.  the applicants objected to these decisions and requested their annulment.9.  in may 2009 the disciplinary board of the tax offices dismissed the applicants’ objections considering that the contested decisions were in accordance with law and there were no grounds for annulment.
9.  the applicants have been employed in the duty-free shops at i̇zmir adnan menderes airport since 1993. they are members of the tekgıda work union, which had signed a collective labour agreement with the general directorate of monopolies on spirits and tobacco, the applicants’ employer and formerly a state-run enterprise.13.  having regard to the common background of the applicants’ complaints in both sets of proceedings, the i̇zmir labour court decided to join each applicant’s proceedings and to seek an expert report concerning the calculation of their claims for overtime, weekend and public holiday pay and remuneration for unused annual leave.14.  on 14 july 2004 the expert submitted a report in which he noted, inter alia, that clause 25 (c) of the collective agreement concluded between the parties provided for an entitlement to overtime pay, calculated on the basis of one and half times the hourly rate.he further referred to an official audit report by the ministry of labour, dated 10 september 2003, which noted that during the preceding summer period, between the months of june and september, workers at the company in question had worked overtime of 139.5 hours in months which had thirty-one calendar days and 135 hours in the remaining months.15.  on the basis of his examination of the company’s timekeeping records, the expert calculated the number of hours worked as overtime in respect of each applicant, deducting three hours of rest per each day worked.20.  on 4 july 2005, the expert submitted a supplement to his report, in which he corrected his findings concerning the rest periods in the light of the applicants’ objection and calculated the hours they had worked as twenty-four in the course of a twenty-four-hour shift.21.  on 12 september 2005 the i̇zmir labour court found in favour of the applicants in part and awarded them the amounts given in the expert’s report in respect of the unpaid overtime.24.  in the resumed proceedings, the i̇zmir labour court requested that the expert amend the report in light of the court of cassation’s decision.27.  the defendant employer appealed, arguing that the presumption established in the case-law of the court of cassation that a person could not work more than fourteen hours in the course of a twenty-four-hour shift should be applied to the facts of the dispute.the court of cassation then quashed the first-instance judgment on 28 october 2008 and remitted the case on the following grounds: “it can be seen from the case file that during the summer months [the applicants] worked for 24 hours and subsequently rested for 24 hours; and in the winter months they worked for 24 hours and subsequently rested for 48 hours.however, as determined by the well-established case-law of the grand chamber of the court of cassation’s civil division, in workplaces where there are 24-hour shifts, after the deduction of time spent on certain activities such as resting, eating and fulfilling other needs, a person can only work for 14 hours a day ... this approach must also be followed in the present case.” 28.  in the resumed proceedings, the i̇zmir labour court decided to follow the decision of the court of cassation and another expert report was drawn up for that purpose.the calculation in the new report led to no overtime being found for the weeks in which the applicants had worked three days as the working time was less than the legal limit of forty-five hours.for the weeks in which the applicants had worked four days, the report calculated the total working time as fifty-six hours, leading to an assessment in the report of nine hours of overtime.on 28 december 2009 the i̇zmir labour court rendered a final judgment in the applicants’ case, based on the expert report of 21 july 2009. as a result of that interpretation, some of the applicants’ claims were dismissed entirely, while the others were awarded almost ninety percent less than the previous expert report had calculated.29.  on 25 january 2010 the applicants appealed against the decision and maintained that the fact that they had worked continuously for twenty-four hours had already been confirmed by the legal records of the ministry of labour, both parties’ witness statements and other evidence in the file, including the expert reports overturned by the court of cassation.
6.  as it is apparent from documents in the file, the applicant had unsuccessfully sought presidential clemency several times since 2007. he was initially placed in the high-security wing of varna prison where he started serving his sentence; since 2004 he has been under the “special regime”.in addition, the government submitted that owing to lack of physical space in the prison, it was impossible to organise collective sport activities, or gather inmates for the purposes of reading, listening to music, playing board games or using the computer.however, the authorities only checked the contents of the envelopes which the applicant received and not the text of the letters in them.the documents in the case file indicate that he had been initially imprisoned in lovech prison and was transferred to belene prison on 6 october 2009 where he was placed in the high-security wing.13.  the applicant submitted that he had been kept in isolation in belene prison under the “special regime” and that the living conditions in his prison cell were inadequate.16.  the applicant complained that, in accordance with the “special regime” under which he had been serving his sentence, he had been permanently locked up in a cell which he had only been allowed to leave for no more than one and a half hours a day.18.  the government submitted that the applicant had been kept in a permanently locked up cell in bobov dol prison, in strict compliance with the relevant legal provisions and in particular section 71(2) of the execution of punishments and pre-trial detention act.20.  the applicant was sentenced for a number of offences and was given a total sentence of whole-life imprisonment in 2000. he complained that his sentence had amounted, from the time of its imposition, to inhuman and degrading punishment, in breach of article 3 of the convention and that he did not have an effective remedy in this connection.this was upheld on appeal by the sofia appellate court in a final decision of 9 february 2011. the applicant has been serving his sentence under the “special regime” since 18 february 2011. he is kept in a permanently locked cell in vratsa prison, in the high-security wing, in accordance with applicable rules for life prisoners under the execution of punishments and pre-trial detention act.23.  the applicant complained that his sentence had amounted, from the time of its imposition, to inhuman and degrading punishment, in breach of article 3 of the convention and that he did not have an effective remedy in this connection.24.  the applicant was sentenced to life imprisonment in a final judgment of the supreme court of cassation of 13 november 2008. he has been serving his sentence under the “special regime” in varna prison.the applicant has been serving his sentence in stara zagora prison under the “special regime” in a permanently locked cell located in the high-security wing of the prison.the government pointed out that the applicant left his cell for an hour in the morning and for an hour in the afternoon every day for exercise and to spend time in the open air.31.  the government stated that he was enrolled in the following weekly activities: a catechism course lasting an hour-and-a-half per week; and a course in basic computer skills with hour-long sessions; he also had an additional hour in the open air, as well as half an hour to take a bath on wednesday evenings.the government further clarified that the applicant’s regime had been changed to “strict” in 2015 but he had continued to be in the high-security wing; according to the government, he had repeatedly stated that he had not wished to be placed together with other prisoners.
6.  on 21 february 2010 the applicants lodged an application to enter into a registered partnership under the registered partnership act (eingetragene partnerschaft-gesetz).7.  on 17 march 2010 the mayor of linz dismissed their application in accordance with sections 1, 2 and 5(1)(1) of the registered partnership act, finding that the applicants did not meet the legal requirements, as the registered partnership was exclusively reserved for same-sex couples.citing, inter alia, articles 8 and 14 of the convention, they complained of discrimination based on their sex and their sexual orientation.the upper austrian regional governor (oberösterreichischer landeshauptmann) dismissed the appeal on 18 august 2010, arguing with reference to schalk and kopf v. austria (no.30141/04, echr 2010) that as the contracting states were allowed to restrict access to marriage to different-sex couples, it would appear unreasonable not to allow them to reserve access to registered partnerships exclusively for same-sex couples.9.  the applicants subsequently lodged complaints with both the administrative court and the constitutional court, arguing that marriage was not a suitable option for them, as it was substantially different from a registered partnership.the applicants put forward several examples: the different statutory time-limit for divorce versus the time-limit for dissolution of a registered partnership in the event of an irretrievable breakdown (unheilbare zerrüttung) of the relationship; the alimony payment obligations following a divorce/dissolution where blame could be placed on one spouse/partner; the obligations conferred by the respective legal institutions, in particular as regards trust, faithfulness and contributions to the household; and the consequences of a declaration of the death of a spouse/partner.the applicants argued that the court’s considerations in schalk and kopf in respect of marriage were not applicable to the registered partnership, which was a new legal institution, introduced in the twenty-first century.the relevant parts of its judgment read as follows: “article 12 of the [convention] only applies to the traditional civil marriage ..., which has ‘deep-rooted social and cultural connotations’ and was, in the historical context, clearly understood ‘in its traditional sense’ (echr, case of schalk and kopf, §§ 55, 62).if the court, in its judgment in the case of schalk and kopf, considers that the national provisions in the council of europe member states are diverse and range from allowing same-sex marriage to explicitly forbidding it, and concludes from this that, as matters stand, the question whether or not to allow same-sex marriage is left to regulation by domestic law (echr, case of schalk and kopf, §§ 60f), this must, in view of the small number of states providing for a registered partnership for different‑sex couples in addition to marriage, be even more valid for this question.as the [convention] has to be read as a whole and its articles have to be construed in harmony with one another, and as article 12 of the [convention] does not grant different-sex couples, in addition to the right to marry, a right to enter into a registered partnership, the prohibition of discrimination pursuant to article 14 taken in conjunction with article 8 of the [convention], a provision of more general purpose and scope, cannot be interpreted as imposing such an obligation beyond the scope of article 12 of the [convention] either (see, concerning the correlating question of the right of same-sex couples to marry, which cannot be derived from article 14 of the [convention] either, echr, case of schalk and kopf, § 101).... [a]s the austrian legislator has provided for the possibility of legal recognition for same-sex couples by introducing the registered partnership, people may rely on the prohibition of discrimination provided for by article 14 of the [convention] ... the court has also stated, however, in the case of schalk and kopf, that the legislator may restrict access to marriage to different-sex couples because it has a certain margin of appreciation as regards the exact status conferred by alternative means of recognition.moreover, the court assumes that the registered partnership act allows couples to obtain, in many aspects, a legal status that is equal or comparable to marriage; apart from parental rights, there were only slight differences (see echr, case of schalk and kopf, §§ 108 et seq.).given that persons of different sex have access to marriage (see the [explanatory report on the draft law]); the registered partnership was introduced only to counter discrimination against same-sex couples; [the registered partnership] should, in substance, have the same effects as marriage; different-sex couples are not a group (historically) discriminated against; and there is no european consensus on this matter, it does not amount to a violation of article 14 taken in conjunction with article 8 of the [convention] if the austrian legislator does not grant different-sex couples access to the registered partnership.... the constitutional court is not called upon to examine whether the particular differences between these legal institutions, as regards the legal consequences and dissolution options, comply with the principle of equality [gleichheitssatz] and the prohibition of discrimination pursuant to article 14 taken in conjunction with article 8 of the [convention], since the only question to be examined is whether different-sex couples have a constitutional right to access to the registered partnership.” 11.  on 27 february 2013 the administrative court dismissed the applicants’ complaint (see paragraph 9 above) as unfounded.
16.  on 10 december 2004, following the same altercation with the prison officer, the second applicant was stripped of his clothes and led to a cell in the solitary confinement wing of the correctional facility.21.  a criminal investigation into the impugned treatment was launched in 2005. it was initiated when it emerged, in the context of covert surveillance in an operation to investigate drug smuggling in the asti correctional facility, that a number of the prison officers had discussed the ill-treatment inflicted on the applicants.they were charged with ill-treatment of the applicants under article 572 of the italian criminal code (“the criminal code”), in conjunction with article 61 § 9 of the criminal code, a provision which considers the commission of an offence by a civil servant abusing his or her position to be an aggravating circumstance.25.  as to the establishment of the facts concerning the ill-treatment, the court found that the evidence gathered during the investigation and produced at the trial showed that the events had occurred in the manner described by the victims in their submissions during the trial.the court relied on statements to the effect that the applicants had been subjected to physical and verbal abuse, coupled with the deprivation of food, water, sleep, and clothing, and had been detained in cells without adequate access to sanitation, heating, and bedding.31.  it emerges that the court ordered an inspection of the correctional facility, including the solitary confinement wing, during the course of the trial.when conducting its assessment, the court relied on the conclusion that the primary purpose of the impugned treatment was to punish the applicants, to “maintain order” in the correctional facility, and to convey a clear message to the other detainees.35.  the court considered that the conduct of the two prison officers thus fell most appropriately within the scope of article 608 of the criminal code, which deals with abuse of authority against arrested or detained persons.were also responsible for the infliction of bodily harm, but that, as the statute of limitations was applicable to that offence as well, such a finding did not alter the substance of the decision.36.  on 22 february 2012 the public prosecutor lodged an appeal with the court of cassation, arguing that the asti district court had erred in the legal classification of the offence with respect to c.b.the prosecutor contended that the most appropriate offence for the purposes of classification of the conduct in question would have been aggravated ill‑treatment under article 572 of the italian criminal code ‒ as initially identified in the bill of indictment ‒ in conjunction with article 608 of the criminal code.the court expressed its agreement with the prosecutor’s contention as a matter of principle but, as the statute of limitations had been likewise applicable to the offence of aggravated ill‑treatment, a decision in favour of the prosecution would have been devoid of any practical effect.must have had cognisance of the decision at the moment the public prosecutor lodged an appeal with the court of cassation (see paragraph 36 above) or, at the latest, when his representative filed a defence brief at a hearing before the court of cassation in may 2012.45.  according to a document issued by the staff director of the prison administration department of the ministry of justice on 12 october 2015, and furnished by the government, the four prison officers were not suspended from duty (sospensione precauzionale dal servizio) during the course of the investigation or the trial.46.  at the court’s request, the government submitted extracts from the prison medical record of the second applicant between 26 november 2004 and 5 march 2005 and typed copies of his hospitalisation record of 16 december 2004.
9.  the applicant was served with a written notice from the supreme court dated 1 september 2005, informing him of the allegations against him and noting that the supreme court had decided that it was justified to activate rule 3 of the procedural rules concerning the exercise of the scj’s disciplinary authority (“the procedural rules”; see paragraph 41 below).the charges against the applicant were as follows: “first charge misconduct (articles 153 § 7 (4) and 157 § 3 of the constitution) particulars while you exercised the duties of president of the industrial disputes court you repeatedly displayed oppressive, disparaging, scornful and, more generally, insulting behaviour towards the lay members of the court, both inside and outside the courtroom and, at the same time, in the course of proceedings you sometimes ignored them, sometimes did not allow them to put questions and sometimes did not allow them to ask for clarification on the matters at issue.second charge misconduct (articles 153 § 7 (4) and 157 § 3 of the constitution) particulars while you exercised the duties of president of the industrial disputes court you repeatedly displayed oppressive, disparaging, scornful and, more generally, insulting and even humiliating behaviour towards lawyers and/or litigants and/or witnesses during the proceedings, including ironic comments at their expense and/or innuendos, with the result that, owing to the agitation and disruption caused to them, the entire proceedings were diverted from their proper course.” 17.  a list of fifteen witnesses was attached to the charge sheet.following a request by the applicant’s lawyer, the scj also held on the same day that in view of the defence’s line of argument all the files of the proceedings in which the witnesses had sat as members of the idc, from the applicant’s appointment as president of the idc onwards, should be brought before it.he raised the issue of the charge sheet again and also submitted that because the supreme court and the scj had the same composition, the same judges had examined the witness statements, had decided to refer the case to trial, formulated the charge sheet and overseen the proceedings.30.  in a decision of 19 september 2006 the scj found, by a majority of twelve to one (the president and eleven justices concurring), that on the basis of the evidence and all the material facts before it, the applicant’s alleged misconduct had been proved.the president and members of the supreme council of judicature did not put a single question to the witnesses who were listed on the charge sheet, or to those summoned on behalf of mr kamenos, which might have been construed as cross-examination for the purpose of contesting the witnesses’ allegations.it is unfounded for the reasons which we explained above, and unjustifiable because it conflicts with what the lawyer said to us at the beginning of the proceedings, when he ... spoke in praise of the powers invested by the constitution in the supreme council of judicature, describing its work as difficult and important [in those instances] when it is called upon to decide whether a judge displayed misconduct and is obliged, again in accordance with the constitution, to terminate the latter’s services in the event of conviction.in brief, mr efstathiou not only accepted but also praised as correct the competence, arising from the constitution, of the supreme council of judicature, which is made up of the full bench of the members of the supreme court, the highest judicial authority in the state.the competence of the supreme council of judicature is only to decide whether the charges of improper behaviour (misconduct) are proved, which [behaviour] in the case we are examining and according to the particulars of the charges, is continuous (κατά συρροή, διαρκής) and directly refers to the function of mr kamenos as the president of the industrial disputes court.the principle is based, as stated in the decision, on what was said by the supreme court of the state, that the purpose of the procedure was not to punish judges who have erred but to protect the judicial system and those who are subject to the formidable power exercised by judges.in accordance with the relevant provisions of the constitution, which are referred to in our decision, the proof of a charge of misconduct against a judge leads to the termination of his services.” 32.  the dissenting judge found in his decision that the evidence was not sufficient to prove such a serious charge as misconduct.furthermore, with regard to the investigation and the object of the hearing, he observed: “a judicial official with the duties of prosecutor was not appointed, a possibility which is referred to in rule 16, and we adopted the following approach: every witness read his statement to the investigating officer out loud and, immediately after, was cross-examined by mr kamenos’s lawyer.that is to say, whether, from each individual’s evidence and the correlation between them, to the extent possible, there arises conduct as cumulatively stated on the charge sheet, [and] in the case of the second charge “with the result that, owing to the agitation and disruption they were caused, the entire proceedings were diverted from their proper course”.of course, the charge sheet does not extend to those cases and does not concern the issue of interventions as such ... the core of the charge is the conduct attributed to mr kamenos at the expense of lay members of the court, lawyers, litigants and witnesses, and it is in the light of such considerations that i shall go on to examine the evidence adduced.” 33.  the applicant continued to receive all the benefits that came with his post during the proceedings.
9.  the applicant obtained an official permit for the construction of a house on the land and has been living there since 2004. the house is the permanent residence of the applicant and his family.14.  on 29 may 2009 the supreme court upheld the vilnius regional court’s decision of 4 january 2007. the court found that the applicant had purchased the plot of land of 0.2 hectares in 1993. the lawfulness of the purchase agreement had been proven by the domestic courts (see paragraph 17 below).15.  in october 2007 the prosecutor’s office started court proceedings and asked the domestic courts to annul the decisions of the national authorities and the purchase agreement that had entitled the applicant to 0.05 hectares of land, to apply restitution, to return the plot of land of 0.05 hectares to the state and to pay the applicant 15 lithuanian litai (ltl, approximately 4.34 euros (eur)) in compensation.the applicant was ordered to return the plot to the state, with the state having to repay him the ltl 15. the parts of the order allocating the additional plot of 0.05 hectares to the applicant and the relevant part of the purchase agreement were annulled.on 10 december 2008 the vilnius regional court noted that according to the prosecutor and the court of first instance any breach of legal norms regulating the division of land was a breach of the public interest.he thus could not have anticipated that the additional plot of 0.05 hectares would occupy part of the road because the road had not existed at the time the detailed plan had been drawn up or when the applicant had purchased the land (see paragraph 8 above).if the prosecutor’s request were to be satisfied and proceedings reopened, the court of first instance would have to decide on the lawfulness of a decision by a higher court and domestic law did not provide for the possibility of a court of first instance annulling decisions made on appeal.finally, the supreme court observed, without further specifications, that the lower courts had failed to properly assess the circumstances which had led to an alleged violation of the public interest and remitted the application to reopen proceedings for fresh examination by the appellate court.22.  on 14 july 2011 the vilnius regional court held that the first‑instance decision (see paragraph 19 above) had lacked reasons for why a clear mistake in the application of the law had been made (see paragraph 57 below) and without them the appellate court could not decide whether the prosecutor general’s request to reopen proceedings had been examined properly.23.  on 25 october 2011 the vilnius district court held that an application to reopen proceedings on the grounds of a mistake in the application of the law required not only that the mistake had to be clear, but also be one of substance (see paragraph 57 below).the court held that the additional plot of 0.05 hectares had been allocated to the applicant in breach of the requirements of domestic law and that by holding that the rights of the applicant’s neighbours had not been breached and that the applicant had been a bona fide party to the purchase agreement, the vilnius regional court had made a clear mistake in the application of the law.it also held that the applicant’s argument that he could not have known that part of his land would block the road was not convincing enough as there had been a plan of the whole of the zujūnai settlement and it had been obvious that there was a continuing road which was part of the 0.05 hectares of land in question.the supreme court dismissed the first one as not raising important legal issues but merely disputing the facts established by the lower courts on 22 february 2013. the second appeal on points of law was dismissed on 26 april 2013. the supreme court accepted that if a person’s appeal was dismissed as not raising important legal issues, he or she could, within the time-limit prescribed by law, submit another appeal on points of law having corrected the deficiencies.however, it found that in the applicant’s case, the deficiencies of the first appeal on points of law had not been corrected, although the applicant had modified his arguments; therefore the complaint was repetitive and could not be accepted in accordance with the existing regulations (šiuo atveju kasacinio skundo trūkumai nepašalinti, skundas pripažintinas pakartotiniu, pagal nustatytą reglamentavimą jis negali būti priimtas).33.  in january 2015 the authorities conducted an examination of the use of the 0.05 hectares of land and found that the applicant had not removed the fence, trees, a shed and paving stones from the plot.
6.  on 13 january 2005 the bacău police division responsible for the fight against organised crime and drug trafficking (“the police”) was informed by the bacău regional division of the romanian post office (“the post office”) that it had identified three envelopes containing suspicious items.9.  on 9 and 14 february 2005 the division for the investigation of organised crime and terrorism from the bacău prosecutor’s office (“the prosecutor”) issued orders authorising the seizure of the suspicious envelopes under the urgent procedure provided for by article 98 § 12 of the code of criminal procedure (hereinafter “the urgent procedure” and “the ccp” – see paragraph 26 below).143, bearing in mind the urgency and the well-foundedness [of the measure] under article 98 § 12 of the ccp orders that the envelopes ... be taken by police officers ... items which are of no relevance to the case shall be returned.” 10.  on 18 february 2005 the prosecutor started criminal investigations in the matter against unidentified perpetrators.the envelopes were seized under the urgent procedure provided for by article 98 § 12 of the ccp (see paragraph 26 below) and on the next day the prosecutor sent the orders to the court for the court’s information.the prosecutor’s orders read as follows: “... a man brought a parcel with suspicious contents which were of interest to investigators ... as the correspondence was of interest to investigators and as the situation is urgent and duly justified, under article 98 § 12 of the ccp orders that the police ... seize the parcel.correspondence and items which have been seized but which are of no relevance for the case shall be returned.” 13.  on 25 march and 18 april 2005 an expert examined the writing on the envelopes seized by the police and concluded that it belonged to the applicant.17.  the applicant contested the lawfulness of the interception of his correspondence before the bacău county court and argued that the prosecutor had not obtained authorisation from the court to seize it, as required by the relevant provision of the ccp.as for the contents of the seized envelopes, he stated that he had sent scientific papers and samples abroad in relation to his research work and that he had used a fake identity to protect his private life and reputation in case the quality of the scientific work was considered as poor.the county court excluded the prosecution’s main evidence, considering that the seized envelopes had been obtained unlawfully as the prosecutor had failed to ask the court to approve the measure.as for the remaining evidence in the file, it noted that the audio and video-recordings were not relevant for the accusations brought against the applicant and that the witnesses were unreliable as they had changed their statements in court.it therefore sent the case back to the county court and recommended that the court check whether the prosecutor’s orders had been sent as information to the court and to examine the accusation in the light of all the evidence in the file.the county court relied on the evidence in the file, namely the seized envelopes and the expert evaluation of their content and of the writing on them.it also relied on transcripts of the audio and video-surveillance in the post office and of the applicant’s telephone; statements by seven pharmacists that they had sold the medicine in question to the applicant without prescription; and testimony by two doctors who had been asked by the applicant or pharmacists to write prescriptions to cover up for the medicine sold without prescription.the county court also had at its disposal statements from other witnesses, notably nine post office workers who remembered the applicant sending between one and five envelopes a week abroad, starting from 2003; four fellow researchers from the university, who worked or had worked in the same research team as the applicant; and a bus driver who said he had delivered an envelope for the applicant.the court further relied on the results of checks on the addresses abroad used by the applicant; interpol information about the recipients of the envelopes; and police reports about checks on the two pharmacies used by the applicant, notably concerning bills and permits for selling prescription medicine which constituted drugs (see paragraph 14 above).
the second applicant is a privately owned company, founded by the first applicant in 1990, with its registered seat in ilijaš - podlugovi, bosnia and herzegovina.6.  on 19 december 2001 the second applicant requested a licence to build a petrol station on the main highway in bosnia and herzegovina.7.  on 21 october 2002 the federal road directorate of bosnia and herzegovina (“the directorate”) rejected the request.9.  on 28 march 2003 the second applicant initiated proceedings for judicial review before the supreme court of the federation of bosnia and herzegovina (“the supreme court”).10.  on 25 august 2005 and 24 august 2006 the second applicant urged the supreme court to expedite the proceedings.11.  on 22 november 2006 the supreme court quashed the decisions of 21 october 2002 and 28 february 2003 (see paragraphs 7-8 above) on procedural grounds, and remitted the case to the directorate.12.  on 9 may 2007 the second applicant informed the supreme court that the decision of 22 november 2006 had not been enforced yet.13.  on 16 august 2007 the directorate rejected the second applicant’s request.14.  on 8 november 2007 the second applicant complained to the administrative inspectorate of the federal ministry of justice about the inaction of the administration.the decision was served on the second applicant on 18 april 2008.16.  on 30 may 2008 the second applicant initiated proceedings for judicial review with the supreme court seeking it to quash the decisions of 16 august 2007 and 12 november 2007 (see paragraphs 13 and 15 above).on 31 august 2009 the supreme court referred the claim to the mostar cantonal court, as the competent court.18.  on 6 january 2010 the applicant submitted a request for an extraordinary review of the decision of 27 november 2009 with the supreme court, which request was rejected as unfounded on 12 may 2010. that decision was served on the second applicant on 9 july 2010.19.  on 6 september 2010 the second applicant lodged a constitutional appeal before the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina (“the constitutional court”) complaining, notably, about the length of the above administrative proceedings.it noted that the relevant proceedings had lasted eight years and five months in total, that seven different decisions had been rendered by the competent authorities and that, therefore, the length of the proceedings had not been excessive.
8.  a customs officer decided that the applicant had failed to declare the ingots and confiscated them.an offence report drafted by the officer stated that the applicant had failed to declare two silver ingots of 1 kg each and had thereby breached the provisions of article 653 (a) of the customs regulations (see paragraph 12 below).the report also stated that according to documents produced by the applicant he had bought the two ingots from a bank.9.  the applicant lodged an administrative complaint with the albiţa customs office, asking for the annulment of the offence report of 28 october 2008 and the restitution of the confiscated goods.he explained that he had legally acquired the two ingots, which had a value of eur 500. he had kept them on him in order to prevent them being stolen during the bus trip and not to elude customs.the passengers had not been allowed to get off the bus before the customs officers had got on and he had wished to avoid saying what he was carrying in front of the other passengers.based on the elements in the case file, the court observed that the customs officer had asked the applicant whether he had anything to declare and the applicant had said no.under those circumstances the court held that the applicant had been correctly sanctioned by the customs officer.the court held that the applicant, who had signed the offence report, had failed to produce any evidence to challenge the customer officer’s findings in that document.707/2006, are as follows: article 156 “(1) a written customs declaration shall be submitted for the following goods: .... c) objects made of precious metals, with or without precious stones, which exceed the purposes of personal use as set forth in legal provisions; (2) for the goods listed in paragraph (1) travellers shall submit the written customs declaration on standard forms which are made available free of charge, upon request, by customs offices.” article 653 “the following is considered an offence and shall be sanctioned with a fine between 3,000 and 8,000 lei: a) concealing from customs any goods or merchandise which should be placed under a customs regime.in such situations the goods shall be confiscated; ...” article 657 “the offences set forth in the present chapter are subject to the regulations provided for by government ordinance no.2/2001 on the legal system concerning offences ...” 13.  according to the romanian integrated customs tariff in force at the relevant time silver imported from the republic of moldova was not subject to any duties.(2) the principal sanctions are: ... b) a fine ... (3) the complementary sanctions are: a) the confiscation of goods destined, used or derived from offences; ... (4) special laws may provide for additional principal or complementary sanctions.(5) the sanction must be proportionate to the degree of social danger of the offence committed.2658/87 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the common customs tariff entered into force on 1 january 2008 and from that date was directly applicable in all member states.
the prosecutor observed that the applicant had been suspected of the former offence and that he had been granted victim status in respect of the latter offence, and the prosecutor considered that one person could not have dual status in the same investigation.with regard to the first charge, the applicant had the status of witness, and with regard to the second charge, he had the status of victim.the court considered it unlikely that d.a., who at the time of writing the letter had already been suspected of the murder, would falsely incriminate himself in the letter to the applicant, especially as their relationship at that time had not been friendly.the court concluded: “as the facts laid out in the letter are consistent and objective, there are no grounds to doubt the truthfulness of the contents of the letter; the statement in the letter that [d.a.]so that all the profit would go to that individual alone, and that all the money which they had jointly owned would belong to the individual in respect of whom a separate pre-trial investigation was opened, must be considered true.” 19.  the descriptive part of the judgment also stated that d.a.21.  the prosecutor, d.a., the applicant and another victim submitted appeals against the vilnius regional court’s judgment of 20 june 2011. in his appeal, the applicant argued that the court had de facto found him guilty of having instigated the murder of r.ž.the applicant asked the court of appeal to remove from the descriptive part of the judgment all the passages which alleged his involvement in the murder, in particular those which discussed d.a.’s letter (see paragraphs 16-18 above).for personal gain while they were in a helpless state – has been proved by a series of pieces of indirect evidence collected in the case and adequately assessed in the [first‑instance] judgment, as well as one of the main pieces of direct evidence ‑ d.a.’s letter to [the applicant], allowing [the court] to make well-founded conclusions regarding the nature of the convicted individual’s actions and the form of his guilt.... it is underlined that the principal statements of the letter, assessed together with the other evidence collected in the case, correspond to the events which took place at that time ... the chamber concludes that the facts indicated in d.a.’s letter are not made up, he refers to actual events which took place in his life, and there is no indication that he intended to threaten [the applicant] with that letter to make the latter pay him money.” 24.  as to the applicant’s appeal, the court stated: “contrary to what is alleged in [the applicant’s] appeal, the first-instance court, while examining the evidence related to [d.a.’s] guilt in respect of the murder of r.ž.only that investigation can determine [the applicant’s] guilt in respect of the criminal offence of which he is suspected ... [the applicant] essentially contests his guilt in respect of the part of the judgment in which he does not have the status of either convicted individual or victim ... and his request goes beyond his procedural rights as a witness ... [the applicant’s appeal] is thereby dismissed.” 25.  d.a.in response to the applicant’s submissions, the supreme court stated that the criminal proceedings in question concerned d.a.’s and not the applicant’s guilt in respect of the murder of r.ž.the court underlined that it had not been proved that the death of r.ž., who had been the applicant’s business partner, had been beneficial to the applicant; on the contrary, after his death, their company had suffered great losses and had eventually ceased operating.the court also considered that d.a.’s threat to forward the letter to the media further indicated that it had been written with the purpose of blackmailing the applicant.the money which he had demanded, nor had he destroyed the letter, but had submitted it to the police, which confirmed that the applicant had not been connected to the murder of r.ž.he submitted, inter alia, that the contents of d.a.’s letter had been examined in the previous criminal proceedings which had been concluded by a final court judgment (see paragraphs 18, 23 and 26 above), and the courts in the proceedings against the applicant should have followed that assessment.
8.  on 21 february 2005 the celje regional unit of the pension and disability insurance institute of slovenia (hereinafter “the regional zpiz”) granted the applicant a so-called “allowance for the period of waiting to be reassigned to or employed in a different appropriate position of employment” (hereinafter “waiting period allowance”) from 8 october 2004. though the sums appear to be lower during the first few months, he had been subsequently receiving around 390 euros (eur) per month in waiting period allowance.the regional zpiz relied on section 123 of the pension and disability insurance act (hereinafter “the 1992 act”) and section 446 of the new pension and disability insurance act (hereinafter “the 1999 act” – see paragraphs 24 and 25 below).it noted that the applicant had been registered as unemployed on 3 march 2003 and had been a beneficiary under section 22 of the 1999 act from 1 march 2003 to 7 october 2004. thus, once his unemployment allowance had come to an end he had become entitled to a waiting period allowance under section 123 of the 1992 act (see paragraph 24 below).10.  on the basis of, inter alia, information provided by the applicant’s doctor, the regional zpiz, on 2 february 2011, decided that the applicant had a right to be reassigned to another position of employment with several limitations, such as not to work at unprotected heights or drive category c and e vehicles, with effect from 1 february 2011. subsequently, on 28 june 2011 it adopted a decision granting him a disability allowance (nadomestilo za invalidnost) from 24 february 2011 onwards.the regional zpiz relied on the 1999 act, which had introduced certain new disability benefits (the term “disability benefit” is used to cover any type of allowance that arises from a disability) and discontinued some of those provided for under the 1992 act, including the waiting period allowance.the regional zpiz noted in its decision that the applicant had not been insured under the compulsory insurance scheme at the onset of his disability, but had been registered as unemployed on 3 march 2003 within thirty days of the final decision on his disability, as required by section 97 of the 1999 act.the regional zpiz found that, pursuant to section 94(1)(1) and (3)(1) of the 1999 act, he should receive a benefit in the form of disability allowance, which in his case amounted to eur 192.91. it drew the applicant’s attention to section 185 of the 1999 act, which required beneficiaries to inform the zpiz of any change in circumstances which could affect their rights under that act (see paragraph 26 below).11.  on 21 july 2011 the applicant appealed against the above decision, arguing that in determining the amount of his disability benefit, the regional zpiz should have respected the principle of acquired rights.12.  on 21 october 2011 the central pension and disability insurance institute of slovenia (hereinafter “the central zpiz”) dismissed the applicant’s appeal, confirming that the regional zpiz had properly applied the law and correctly calculated the amount of his disability allowance.it explained that while recipients of disability-related rights under the 1992 act retained their acquired rights after the date set out in section 446 of the 1999 act, in the applicant’s case a reassessment of his disability had been carried out on 2 february 2011 due to a worsening of his condition (see paragraph 10 above), which had resulted in further workplace limitations and his rights being consequently determined anew.15.  on 25 april 2012 the applicant appealed against the judgment, repeating the complaints he had made before the first-instance court and alleging that he ought to have been informed of the consequences of a request for a reassessment of his disability.16.  on 21 june 2012 the higher labour and social court dismissed the applicant’s appeal, confirming the position of the lower court that the applicant’s case concerned a change in the level of disability, which had required a fresh determination of his disability benefit.17.  on 4 september 2012 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law before the supreme court, arguing that he could not have legitimately expected that the worsening of his disability would result in a severe reduction of his disability benefit.in that connection, he alleged that the higher labour and social court’s view that the reduction did not interfere with his acquired rights or constitute a violation of his constitutional right to social security was arbitrary, as the court had provided no reasoning for that conclusion.18.  on 5 march 2013 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law, finding that the higher labour and social court had sufficiently explained that the change in his level of disability had required a fresh determination of his benefit in accordance with the 1999 act.
9.  the applicant eventually signed the record of the questioning, which stated that the questioning had taken place between 5.51 a.m. and 6.33 a.m. 10.  later that morning, at about 6 a.m., the applicant was allegedly escorted to the toilet, where he said the officers had again started hitting and kicking him.11.  the applicant was released at about 2 p.m. 12.  later that day, at the request of the applicant’s mother, the general practitioner of the neighbouring village, dr c.s., came to the applicant’s house and examined him.at 7.34 p.m. he was issued with a medical certificate, for which he paid the fee due, stating that he had bruises on the forehead, the nose and the left shoulder and an abrasion on the right hip; both his hands and arms were swollen and hyperaemic; and the rear surface of both thighs, as well as the soles of his feet, were swollen, red and sore.17.  on 8 november 2010 the applicant was heard as a witness and shown, for the purposes of his identifying his alleged assailants, the photos of police officers serving at the gyöngyös police department.in his opinion given in retrospect, he made the following statement as to the time when the applicant’s injuries had been sustained: “the exact time of the infliction of the injuries cannot be established.since, according to the police report on the application of coercive measures, the local police constable handed the applicant over to the officer on duty without any complaints or injuries, the injuries were likely to have occurred after this point in time.” “a sérülések pontos keletkezési ideje nem határozható meg.the prosecutor emphasised the fact that since the applicant had been apprehended just after he had committed the crime in question (and still in possession of the proceeds of that crime), coercive interrogation by police officers with the intention of extracting his confession to the offence in question seemed pointless and thus hardly plausible.relying on the internal records of the police department recording the shifts of the officers, the prosecutor was satisfied that three of the alleged perpetrators, gy.k., f.i.the prosecutor also found it material that the applicant had been uncertain of the identities of the alleged perpetrators when shown photos of the gyöngyös police officers; that he had contradicted himself on several occasions; and that he had complained about the alleged incident only on 27 september 2010, not before.the prosecutor was satisfied that the investigation had been adequate and comprehensive, and that the obtaining of further evidence – in particular, by questioning the applicant’s brother and friend, who were present at his release – was superfluous.the high court heard dr c.s., who confirmed that she had not seen any marks of external injury on the applicant’s body when examining him on the day of the incident.the court also obtained testimony from the applicant’s mother and brother and a friend (the two latter had not been heard during the investigation), who had been waiting for him in front of the gyöngyös police department on his release.and m.z., the court highlighted that even though the applicant said that he had been ill-treated in order to force him to admit to at least three counts of theft – which he finally did – there was actually no reference in the record of the questioning to any further counts of theft.the court also emphasised that, contrary to the statements of the applicant, the two officers could not have been continuously present in the gyöngyös police department because between 3 a.m. and 5 a.m. they had been carrying out some onsite inspections in another town, gyöngyöspata.according to the reasoning of the judgment, the court relied on documentary evidence relating to the applicant’s apprehension and questioning, documents relating to the service particulars of the officers involved, the testimony of the applicant, medical documentation, and the testimony of the officers.
she reported this to homebond in september 2001. the company carried out an inspection of the house and, in september 2002, offered to make certain repairs to it in accordance with the terms of the guarantee.according to the applicant, homebond refused to issue an engineer’s certificate/guarantee upon the completion of the works, which would have been required if the applicant were to sell the house afterwards.11.  in july 2004 the applicant again applied to the high court for a default judgment against the first three defendants, in light of their failure to enter their defence to the action.the defence was filed in september 2004. while it was presented as the defence of the first and second defendants, it was clarified at a later stage in the proceedings (in mid-2009), that it also concerned the third defendant.12.  on 20 december 2004, at the request of the applicant, the high court gave a default judgment against the fifth and sixth defendants (mr q and his company), holding them liable to the applicant in damages and for costs.13.  according to the applicant, in the years 2005-2008 her solicitors considered it more effective to engage principally with the fourth defendant, homebond, in light of the guarantee on the house.15.  on 22 april 2009 the applicant gave notice of intention to proceed with her case to all of the defendants, a necessary step under domestic law where proceedings have been dormant for more than one year (order 122 r. 11 of the rules of the superior courts).only the fourth and fifth defendants appeared (the latter only briefly) at the hearing that commenced on 29 january 2013. the first three defendants, although given notice of the hearing, were not represented at it.the high court’s ruling, given on 20 march 2013, therefore only considered the claims against homebond and mr q. the judge ruled that homebond was liable to the applicant under the terms of the guarantee.although the guarantee set an upper limit of iep 30,000 (approximately 38,100 euros), the judge considered that in the circumstances of the case it was justified to award the full amount of the estimate for repairs, approximately 51,000 euros.28.  on 8 july 2013 the high court made a garnishee order attaching monies owed by a commercial bank to the first and second defendants in the amount of the damages awarded to the applicant.29.  on 26 july 2013 the supreme court granted to the defendants a stay on the award of damages, on condition that they pay into court the sum of 45,000 euros within a period of three months, failing which the stay would lapse.31.  on 24 january 2014 the supreme court again refused an application from the defendants to stay the judgment of the high court.33.  the appeal was transferred to the court of appeal, which indicated on 19 november 2014 that it would first consider the issue of the liability of the first and second defendants, and set a short deadline for the parties’ submissions on this.34.  the hearing took place on 9 march 2015. the court of appeal set aside the judgment of the high court, holding that as a matter of law mr and mrs f were not liable to the applicant for the defects in the house since they had simply sold her the land and were not themselves party to the building agreement.
5.  on 27 august 2002 the applicant brought civil proceedings against the administration of the mirninskiy ulus of the sakha (yakutiya) republic (“the administration”), a private person s., her husband b., and a private company a. claiming a title to a flat, damages, and s.’s eviction from the flat.6.  on 18 september 2002 the mirninskiy district court of the sakha (yakutiya) republic (“the district court”) refused to consider his action, because there already had been a decision of 6 february 2001 taken by the district court concerning the same dispute.7.  on 13 november 2002 the supreme court of the sakha (yakutiya) republic overruled the refusal and remitted the case for a new examination, as the action included a new co-defendant, and, therefore, it could not be said that the dispute was among the same parties.8.  on 15 january 2003 the district court ordered eviction of s. and her family from the flat and dismissed the claim against the administration.9.  on 3 march 2003 the supreme court of the sakha (yakutiya) republic quashed the judgment on appeal and returned the case for a fresh examination, as the lower court had failed to address issues related s.’s property rights.12.  in the meantime, the applicant amended his claims and sought to obtain compensation for his belongings allegedly stolen in 1999, non‑pecuniary damage, legal costs, travel expenses and reimbursement of the rent he had to pay after his eviction from the disputed flat back in 1999.13.  on 29 august 2003 the district court examined the case, ordered the administration to pay the applicant 800,000 russian roubles (rub) in respect of the flat’s market value and dismissed the remainder of the claims.16.  on 27 august 2004 the district court granted the administration’s request for suspension of the enforcement of the judgment of 29 august 2003 until 15 january 2005 due to financial difficulties encountered by the debtor.19.  on 29 september 2005, upon the applicant’s extraordinary appeal, the presidium of the supreme court of sakha (yakutiya) quashed the judgment of 29 august 2003 and the decision of 20 october 2003 and remitted the case for a fresh examination.the presidium found that the courts had incorrectly applied the material law to various aspects of the case, and had failed to join the appropriate financial body as co-defendant.23.  on 16 february 2006 the district court joined, at the defendant’s request, the ministry of finance as co-defendant in the proceedings and suspended the examination of the case on account of b.’s poor state of health.24.  on 14 february 2007 the case was assigned to a different judge of the district court, for the sake of the court’s impartiality.26.  on 4 june 2007 the supreme court of sakha (yakutiya) upheld the judgment on appeal except for the parts concerning the eviction of s. and b., reimbursement of the rent, payments for utility services, a commission fee, and recovering of the cost of the apartment.33.  in the meantime, the applicant sued the administration for statutory interest for the delay in enforcement of the judgment of 29 august 2003.34.  on 7 february 2007 the district court discontinued the proceedings as the judgment of 29 august 2003 had been quashed and a new decision in the case had not yet been adopted.
8.  the applicants were born in 1949 and 1923 respectively and lived in bucharest, where the first applicant still lives.9.  the applicants were co-owners of two adjacent plots of land in montenegro.10.  on 13 june 2009, during a visit to the plots, the first applicant noticed a metal fence built partly on their property.the fence divided the two plots of land and made it impossible for them to access one plot from the other.it appears that the fence had been erected some time in february 2009.11.  on 15 july 2009 the applicants, who had legal representation, instituted civil proceedings for trespass (radi smetanja posjeda) against b.ć., their neighbour.12.  on 27 june 2011 the court of first instance (osnovni sud) in kotor ruled in favour of the applicants and ordered b.ć.to remove the fence and pay the applicants 1,435 euros (eur) in respect of legal costs.the court was satisfied that the applicants had lodged their claim in time, given that the deadline for initiating proceedings was 30 days from the day on which they had noticed the trespass, taking into account that 13 and 14 july were national holidays.in doing so the court relied on section 77 of property act (see paragraph 14 below).13.  on 20 december 2011 the high court (viši sud) in podgorica, ruling on an appeal lodged by b.ć., quashed the previous judgment and rejected the applicants’ claim (tužba se odbacuje) as submitted out of time.the court held that 13 and 14 july were indeed national holidays when the courts did not sit.it considered, however, that the 30-day period within which the applicants could institute proceedings was mandatory “[in which case] there could be no shifting of the time-limit when its last day fell on a day when the courts [did] not sit”.the time-limit had therefore expired on 13 july 2009, and the applicants had not filed their claim until 15 july 2009.
6.  the applicant was deputy head of the omsk regional department for the execution of sentences.7.  on 22 august 2002 the novosibirsk regional court authorised for 180 days the interception and recording of the applicant’s telephone conversations, interception of postal communications and the collection of data from technical channels of communication.the surveillance authorisation read in its entirety as follows: “operational-search measures carried out with the aim of combatting corruption within state authorities have revealed indications of a systematic bribery scheme operated by certain prison officials in the omsk region.according to operative information, there are good reasons to suspect [the applicant], deputy head of the omsk regional department for the execution of sentences, of arranging for, and systematically receiving, unlawful payments from confidants of the convicts serving their sentences in omsk penal institutions in exchange for granting them various privileges (such as a prison leave, improved conditions of detention or transfer to another penal institution within the omsk region, which was for some reason preferred by the convict in question).given that [the applicant’s] actions contain elements of criminal offences under article 290 § 4 of the criminal code [bribe-taking], classified as a serious offence, and under article 285 § 1 of the criminal code [abuse of power], it is necessary to perform a combination of operational-search measures (interception and recording of telephone conversations, monitoring of correspondence and collection of data from technical channels of communication) in order to collect evidence of his criminal activities, and to receive information about the bribe‑givers and the payment mechanisms used.” 8.  on 18 february 2003 the novosibirsk regional court authorised “audio surveillance” of the applicant’s office for 180 days.10.  in march 2003 the applicant was charged with disclosure of state secrets, an offence under article 283 § 1 of the criminal code, for informing a convict’s relative that the convict was under covert surveillance.11.  when studying the criminal case file, the applicant learnt for the first time that his telephone conversations had been recorded and his other communications monitored.he also learnt that a recording of his telephone conversation with ms l., a sister of a convict detained in a penal institution under his supervision, formed the basis for the charge of disclosure of state secrets.during the conversation, which had taken place on 17 october 2002, the applicant had warned ms l. that her relative was under covert surveillance and that there were listening devices hidden in his cell.13.  on 16 february 2005 the omsk regional court found the applicant guilty of disclosure of state secrets, an offence under article 283 § 1 of the criminal code.it relied on the recording of the applicant’s telephone conversation with ms l., among other evidence.in particular, the interception of the applicant’s telephone conversations had been authorised by a court on the grounds that he was suspected of the serious criminal offence of bribe‑taking.14.  in his appeal submissions the applicant complained, in particular, of a violation of his right to respect for his private life.he argued that the interception of his communications had been unlawful and unjustified, and that the recording of his conversation with ms l. was inadmissible as evidence.15.  on 21 june 2005 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the conviction on appeal.
5.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the applicants, are similar to those in association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos.6.  between 21 and 27 december 1989 many people including the applicants and/or their close relatives involved in this case took part in the anti-communist demonstrations in bucharest, timișoara, brașov, reșița and craiova which led to the fall of the communist regime.7.  in 1990 following the overthrow of the communist regime, the military prosecutor’s office opened investigations into the armed crackdown on the demonstrations.the main criminal investigation into the use of violence, particularly against civilian demonstrators, during the events of december 1989 in bucharest and other cities has been contained in file no.97/p/1990 (current number 11/p/2014).8.  in a number of cases concerning events in bucharest and craiova, the prosecutor decided not to initiate a criminal investigation or to discontinue the proceedings.those decisions were taken between 1990 and 2007. it results from the documents submitted by the parties that, after the adoption of those decisions, the prosecutor continued to examine the circumstances of these cases in the main criminal investigation – object of file no.97/p/1990 (current number 11/p/2014).9.  to date, the main criminal investigation appears to be still ongoing.the most important procedural steps were summarised in association “21 december 1989” and others (cited above, §§ 12-41) and alecu and others v. romania, nos.10.  following the entry into force of the new code of criminal procedure in february 2014, jurisdiction over the case was relinquished in favour of the military prosecutor’s office.11.  on 14 october 2015 the prosecutor’s office closed the investigation, finding that the applicants’ complaints were partly statute-barred, partly subject to an amnesty and partly ill-founded.it also found that some of the facts which had been investigated could not be classified as criminal offences and that some of them were res judicata.the parties have not submitted any information on whether there was an appeal against that decision (see ecaterina mirea and others v. romania, nos.however, from the information available on the prosecutor’s office website, the investigation is still ongoing and must have therefore been reopened.
upon the completion of the police investigation the public prosecutor, on 15 june and 15 november 2012, dismissed the cases in accordance with article 145 of the act on criminal procedures, because the evidence which had been gathered was not sufficient or likely to lead to a conviction.a picture of the applicant was published on the front page and in the interview the applicant discussed the rape accusation against him.12.  on 17 december 2012, the applicant lodged defamation proceedings against x before the district court of reykjavík and asked for him to be sentenced to punishment, under the applicable provisions of the penal code, for altering the picture and for publishing it on instagram with the caption “fuck you rapist bastard”.the applicant further requested that the statement “fuck you rapist bastard” be declared null and void and that x be ordered to pay him 1,000,000 icelandic krónur (isk; approximately 8,800 euros (eur)) in non-pecuniary damages under the tort liability act, plus interest, isk 150,000 (approximately 1,300 eur) for publishing the judgment in the media under article 241 of the penal code, and the applicant’s legal costs.as to the subject matter, the district court found that the picture and the statement had been a part of general public debate because the applicant was a well-known person in iceland and had to accept being the subject of public discussions.16.  furthermore, the judgment contained the following reasons: “[x] claims that his act of uploading the altered picture onto the picture-sharing application in question did not constitute the publication of the picture within the meaning of article 236(2) of the penal code no 19/1940, as he had believed that only a limited number of people would have access to it.this cannot be accepted, as the act of making something accessible in electronic format to such a large number of people as stated above, irrespective of whether the persons in question are the friends and acquaintances of the person doing so, [...], is considered to be a publication according to the traditional definition of the term.the appealed judgment describes in detail that, before the complaints of sexual offences against him as described above had been reported, [the applicant] had been a well-known person, not least for his performance in public under the names of gillz or gillzenegger, the names under which he wrote on internet, published books and pictures and presented himself in the media.the supreme court agrees with the district court that the [applicant] enjoys the personal protection provided for by law, under article 71 of the constitution and article 8(1) of the european convention of human rights, cf.[x] enjoys freedom of expression according to article 73(2) of the icelandic constitution and article 10(1) of the european convention on human rights, and the district court reached the correct conclusion that under these circumstances he had enjoyed greater freedom to express himself about the [applicant] and his opinions.in assessing whether or not comments or other expressions can be considered a defamatory allegation according to article 235 of the general penal code, taking into consideration the manner in which the provision of article 10 of the [convention] has been clarified by the european court of human rights, it has to be decided whether the expression involved a value judgment or a factual statement.if the altered picture and the comment ‘fuck you rapist bastard’ are taken as a whole – as the parties agree should be the case – the supreme court agrees with the district court that this was a case of invective on the part of [x] against the [applicant] in a ruthless public debate, which the latter, as stated previously, had instigated.accordingly, and with reference to the conclusion of the appealed judgment, the conclusion that [x] expressed himself within the limits of the freedom to which he is entitled under article 73(2) of the constitution, must be upheld.article 166 of act no 91/1991 on civil procedure, legal costs before both court instances will be cancelled.” 17.  in the minority’s opinion, the statement “fuck you rapist bastard”, considered in the light of the content of the article published by monitor, could not be considered a value judgment but rather a grave insinuation that the applicant had committed a serious criminal offence.the minority concluded that, considering that the criminal investigation had ended with the case against the applicant being dismissed, and even if the applicant was a public person who had expressed himself in a controversial way in public, he should not have to tolerate this kind of comment.
4.  between 1986 and 1987 the applicants took part in the clean-up operation at the chernobyl nuclear disaster site.they were subsequently registered disabled and became entitled to various social benefits and compensation paid on a regular basis.5.  considering these benefits insufficient, the applicants together with other 482 people, sued the russian ministry of finance for additional compensation corresponding to non-pecuniary damage suffered as a result of their participation in the operation.6.  on different dates in january and april 2011 the nalchik town court of kabardino-balkaria (“the town court”) allowed their claims in part and awarded each claimant, including the applicants, compensation ranging between 1,100,000 russian roubles (rub) and rub 1,800,000 for non‑pecuniary damage.7.  no appeals were lodged against these judgments within the statutory ten-day time-limit.the judgments became final.some judgments in respect of several applicants remained unenforced (see “enforcement status” in the appendix).8.  on different dates in 2012 and 2013 the domestic courts granted the defendant authority’s request to extend the time-limit for appeal essentially on the ground that the defendant authority had not been served with the impugned judgments.subsequently the regional supreme court quashed the judgments delivered in the applicants’ favour on the grounds that they had been based on retrospective application of the law.the applicants were ordered to repay the sums received under the judgments.9.  the applicants lodged a supervisory review application.there is no indication that they requested the enforcement proceedings to be suspended pending the examination of their supervisory review application.10.  between june and august 2013 the presidium of the regional supreme court partially quashed the appeal judgments as regards the applicants’ obligation to reimburse the sums paid.
he suffered severe serious injuries.7.  on 10 june 2005 the applicant lodged a civil claim for non-pecuniary damages with the second municipal court in belgrade against the belgrade city’s transportation company (gradsko saobraċajno preduzeċe beograd).8.  on 27 december 2007 the second municipal court ruled in the applicant’s favour.on 3 july 2008 the district court quashed the decision and remitted the case to the first instance.9.  on 23 october 2009 the second municipal court adopted a partial decision (delimičnu presudu) against which the applicant and the defendant appealed on 7 december 2009 and 10 december 2009, respectively.10.  on 30 september 2010 the court of appeals in belgrade quashed the decision and remitted the case to the court of first instance for a re-trial.11.  in the meantime, on 22 december 2009, the applicant lodged an appeal with the constitutional court complaining under article 32 of the constitution (a provision which corresponds to article 6 of the convention) about the overall fairness of domestic proceedings and their length.the constitutional court’s decision was rendered on 4 november 2010. no violation in respect of the applicant’s complaints was found.12.  due to applicant’s change to the value of the dispute (vrednost spora), on 31 october 2010 the court of first instance ruled that it had no further jurisdiction to examine the applicant’s complaint.the case was then sent to the high court in belgrade.13.  on 20 june 2013 the high court adopted a partial judgment against which the applicant and the defendant appealed to the court of appeals in belgrade.14.  on 6 june 2014 the court of appeals partly quashed the impugned judgment.15.  it would appear that the case is still pending before the high court.16.  additionally, on 28 october 2014 the applicant lodged a new submission with the constitutionals court concerning, inter alia, the length of the impugned proceedings.it would appear from the facts of the case that the constitutional court has not yet responded.
when the first applicant stopped the car, one of the five policemen pulled him out of the car and hit him in the face.6.  the first applicant arrived home at approximately 2.30 a.m. on 9 august 2003. on the same day the first and third applicants filed a complaint about the incident with the local police station.an extract from a medical record drawn up in the hospital indicated that the first applicant had injuries on the right cheek, the left shin and the lower back and the swelling of soft tissues.8.  on 13 august 2003 the first applicant was admitted to the stavropol regional hospital where he was diagnosed with “a multisystem trauma; closed craniocerebral injury; a light brain contusion; an injury of the soft tissues of the right temporal region; a closed uncomplicated stable vertebra medullispinal injury, a compression fracture of the th.having examined the first applicant, the forensic expert documented multiple injuries on the right cheek and the lumbar region, multiple bruises all over the body and swelling of the soft tissues.having examined the forensic medical documents and the statements made by the police officers, the first applicant and the witnesses, the police investigator concluded that the first applicant might have sustained injuries as a result of the force used by the police officers in response to his unlawful actions.20.  on 6 march 2006 the investigator concluded that there was no evidence showing that the first applicant’s injuries had been caused by the police officers and that he was unable to establish the real perpetrator.at the same time the prosecutor endorsed the investigator’s reasoning that there was no evidence showing that the offence had been committed by the police officers.the investigator established that, when searching the first applicant and his car, one of the police officers had punched him on the right cheek and hit him in the back twice with a blunt solid object.the investigator also accepted that, as of the morning of 9 august 2003, the first applicant had bruises on the right cheek, the back and the left shin.he also noted that a number of the first applicant’s neighbours had not confirmed that the latter had had any injuries on him on 9 august 2003. as regards the statements made to the contrary by the other neighbours, the investigator found them to be unsubstantiated.25.  on 14 january 2011 the deputy head of the supervision unit of the investigative committee considered the decision of 17 july 2006 unlawful and unsubstantiated, quashed it and remitted the matter for further investigation.he noted, inter alia, that the investigator had failed (1) to establish what each of the police officers had done once they had pulled over the first applicant’s car; (2) to check whether any of the police officers had had a machine gun as claimed by the first applicant; and (3) to establish the reasons why the witnesses who had initially claimed that they had seen the police officers beating the first applicant had revoked their statements.26.  on 1 march 2011 the senior investigator with the district investigative committee dismissed the first applicant’s accusations against the police officers duplicating the findings summed up in the earlier decisions on the matter.27.  on 30 september 2004, at approximately 11.00 p.m., the applicants, suspecting that their neighbour had committed a number of thefts and intended to steal their property, beat him up, broke into his car, took the documents for the car and refused to return them until the arrival of a police patrol car.
5.  the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in ivanovo.6.  at the relevant time the applicant was a member of the ivanovo region electoral commission.7.  on 23 october 2003 a deputy head of the ivanovo region department of internal affairs ordered audio-visual “surveillance” (“наблюдение”) of the applicant’s office.8.  the surveillance was carried out from 27 october to 5 november 2003 by means of a hidden camera.9.  the applicant was subsequently charged with abuse of power, an offence under article 285 of the criminal code.while studying the criminal case file he discovered that it contained video recordings of him talking on the telephone in his office.10.  at the trial the applicant pleaded not guilty.he claimed, in particular, that the video recordings were inadmissible as evidence as they had been obtained unlawfully without prior judicial authorisation.he also challenged the authenticity of the recordings.11.  on 27 september 2004 the leninskiy district court of ivanovo convicted the applicant of abuse of power and sentenced him to two years’ imprisonment, suspended for two years.the court relied on statements by several witnesses, physical evidence, expert reports and the video recordings of the applicant’s telephone conversations.it found that the video recordings were authentic and that they had been obtained in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law.he reiterated, in particular, his argument that the video recordings were inadmissible as evidence.13.  on 12 november 2004 the ivanovo regional court upheld the conviction on appeal.the court held that the district court had correctly declared the video recordings admissible as evidence because they had been obtained in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law.
4.  the applicant was born in 1952 and lives in sarajevo.5.  in 1999 the applicant instituted civil proceedings against his employer, the local police, seeking his reinstatement and damages.his claim was eventually rejected.6.  the first-instance judgment was rendered by the sarajevo municipal court on 17 april 2006.7.  the second-instance judgment was rendered by the sarajevo cantonal court on 27 march 2008.8.  the third-instance judgment was rendered by the supreme court of the federation of bosnia and herzegovina on 26 january 2010.9.  on 19 april 2010 the applicant filed a constitutional appeal with the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina complaining under article 6 § 1 of the convention and article 1 of protocol no.1 about the outcome and length of his labour dispute.10.  on 10 april 2013 the constitutional court found a breach of the applicant’s right to a trial within a reasonable time and rejected the remainder of the case.it did not award any damages.
6.  at the material time the applicant was a police officer with the economic crimes department of the department of the interior of the krasnoyarsk region.7.  on 31 july 2008 a certain mr p. complained to the internal security department of the department of the interior of the krasnoyarsk region (“the internal security department”) that the applicant had extorted money from him.9.  on the same day, 31 july 2008, the head of the internal security department also ordered the interception of the applicant’s telephone communications without judicial authorisation by reference to section 8(3) of the of the operational-search activities act (hereafter “the osaa”).the decision read in its entirety as follows: “[the internal security department] has received operative information that [the applicant], a senior police officer with the economic crimes department of the department of the interior of the krasnoyarsk region, is extorting money in the amount of 200,000 roubles from [p.], the director of limited liability company [the company name], for assisting him in obtaining a licence for the retail sale of alcoholic beverages.at the request of the police officer the money must be delivered in the period from 31 july to 2 august 2008; the exact time and place for delivering the money is to be agreed in advance by telephone [telephone number] given by [the applicant].[the applicant’s] actions contain elements of a criminal offence under article 290 § 2 of the criminal code [bribe-taking] ... it is necessary to perform the operational-search measure ‘interception of telephone communications’ with the aims of documenting [the applicant’s] criminal activities in a thorough and objective way, collecting evidence and uncovering other participants in criminal offences.” 10.  on 1 august 2008 the acting head of the internal security department sent a letter to the deputy president of the tsentralnyy district court of krasnoyarsk, informing her that on 31 july and 1 august 2008 the applicant’s telephone had been tapped in accordance with the urgent procedure provided for by section 8(3) of the osaa.11.  on the same day, 1 august 2008, after the police had intercepted the applicant’s telephone conversation with mr p. in which the two men had arranged to meet later that day, mr p. was provided with a video camera, a radio transmitter and the necessary amount of money in banknotes marked with a special substance.13.  on 28 october 2008, in reply to a request from the applicant for an expert examination of the recordings of his telephone conversations and the video recordings of his meeting with mr p., the investigator in charge of the case held, in so far as relevant, as follows: “... [the applicant’s] guilt for the criminal offence under article 159 § 3 ... is completely proven by the preponderance of evidence collected.” 14.  identical statements were made by the investigator in his decisions of 7 november and 12 december 2008 and 1 april 2009 rejecting various complaints lodged by the applicant.15.  in reply to the applicant’s complaints that his telephone had been tapped unlawfully without judicial authorisation, the investigator stated, in his decisions of 7 november and 12 december 2008, that section 8(3) of the osaa permitted the interception of telephone communications without judicial authorisation in urgent cases, provided that a court was notified within twenty-four hours of its commencement and judicial authorisation was obtained within forty-eight hours, failing which it had to be discontinued.interception of the applicant’s telephone communications had been ordered by the head of the internal security department because at the time there had been sufficient reasons to believe that the applicant was involved in a serious criminal offence punishable under article 290 § 2 of the russian criminal code.the district court had been notified of the interception the next day, and on the same day, that is, before the expiry of the forty-eight-hour time-limit, the interception had been discontinued; hence, there had been no reason for seeking judicial authorisation.16.  during the trial the applicant challenged the admissibility of all the items of evidence obtained as a result of the “operative experiment” and the interception of his telephone communications.i suppose that at the time when the police made the decision to carry out the operative experiment and other operational-search measures against [the applicant] they had information that he had committed criminal offences classified as serious or especially serious under the law (abuse of power, bribe‑taking).in the court’s opinion, for ordering operational-search measures it is sufficient that there be some elements of a criminal offence, rather than the entire corpus delicti, permitting [the police] to make a preliminary rather than definitive classification of the offence ... the court is not convinced by [the applicant’s] arguments that the interception of his telephone communications was unlawful because the case file does not contain a judicial decision authorising this operational-search measure.the court based its judgment on the statements of numerous witnesses, material evidence, expert opinions, and the audio and video recordings made on 31 july and 1 august 2008. it found that the recordings were authentic and had been obtained in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law, repeating the reasoning set out in the decision of 7 december 2009 on the admissibility of evidence.
5.  on 12 april 2002 the local police sent to the local investigations committee audio recordings of telephone conversations between the applicant and several persons, and video recordings of their meetings in a flat in novgorod.the accompanying letter, which the government presented to the court, stated that the audio and video recordings had been obtained in the course of covert “operational-search” measures (“оперативно-розыскные мероприятия”) authorised by the president of the novgorod regional court on 19 july and 31 august 2000 and 17 and 27 february 2001.11.  on 20 august 2002 the novgorod town court scheduled the first hearing for 16 september 2002. the hearing of 16 september 2002 was adjourned until 23 september 2002 because the applicant’s counsel was in hospital and because the prosecution witnesses did not appear.the applicant and another defendant, mr k., had rented a flat where the members of the group had met to receive instructions from the applicant and to distribute the profits.the owner of the flat testified that he had rented his flat to mr k. and that on several occasions the rent had been paid by the applicant.it repeated verbatim the town court’s finding that the audio and video recordings were admissible as evidence because they “had been obtained in the course of authorised covert operational-search measures aiming at uncovering criminal acts committed by zubkov and the criminal group organised by him”.20.  the criminal case file also contained a letter of 21 october 2004 from the federal security service to the local prosecutor stating that the audio recordings had been obtained in the course of covert operational‑search measures authorised by the tver regional court in its decisions nos.the court rejected the applicant’s argument that the audio recordings were inadmissible as evidence, finding that “the examination of the material in the case file [had] permitted [the court] to establish that the evidence [had been] obtained in accordance with the code of criminal procedure and the operational-search activities act”.36.  on 2 february 2007 the applicant asked the investigator for a copy of the judicial decision authorising the interception.336 of 13 may 1998 (see paragraph 54 below), he replied that the police were not required to send the interception authorisation to the investigator; it was to be kept in the operational search file.37.  on 6 february 2007 the applicant complained to the frunzenskiy district court of vladimir that the interception of his telephone communications had been unlawful, in particular because the case file did not contain a judicial authorisation.he submitted that the refusal to give him a copy of the interception authorisation had frustrated him in the exercise of his defence rights and deprived him of an effective remedy against an interference with his rights guaranteed by articles 23 and 24 of the constitution and article 8 of the convention.in particular, he had been unable to ascertain whether the interception authorisation had been issued by a competent court in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law, whether it had been based on relevant and sufficient reasons or whether the requirements for judicial authorisation, such as the authorised duration of interception, had been complied with at the implementation stage.relying on section 12 of the operational-search activities act (see paragraph 49 below), the court held that the judicial decision authorising operational-search measures and the material that served as a basis for that decision were to be held in the exclusive possession of the state agency performing such measures.the court further referred to the constitutional court’s ruling of 14 july 1998, holding that the person whose communications were to be intercepted was not entitled to participate in the authorisation proceedings or to be informed about the decision taken (see paragraph 50 below).
4.  between 1986 and 1987 the applicants took part in the clean-up operation at the chernobyl nuclear disaster site.they were subsequently registered disabled and became entitled to various social benefits and compensation paid on a regular basis.5.  considering these benefits insufficient, the applicants together with other 482 people, sued the russian ministry of finance for additional compensation corresponding to non-pecuniary damage suffered as a result of their participation in the operation.6.  on different dates in january and april 2011 the nalchik town court of kabardino-balkaria (“the town court”) allowed their claims in part and awarded each claimant, including the applicants, compensation ranging between 1,200,000 russian roubles (rub) and rub 1,600,000 for non‑pecuniary damage.7.  no appeals were lodged against these judgments within the statutory ten-day time-limit.the judgments became final but have never been executed.8.  on different dates the town court granted the defendant authority’s request to extend the time-limit for appeal on the grounds that the authorities had not received a copy of the judgment in due course.subsequently the regional supreme court quashed the judgments delivered in the applicants’ favour on the grounds that they had been based on retrospective application of the law.
7.  on 23 december 2003 the murmansk regional court authorised the interception and recording of the applicant’s telephone communications on his mobile telephone, number ...-15. the surveillance authorisation read in its entirety as follows: “[the police] are investigating [a case] against a criminal gang involved in robberies and the extortion of money and personal belongings from citizens in murmansk and other russian regions.in view of the above and given that it seems impossible to obtain the information necessary to expose [the applicant’s] unlawful activities by overt investigation, the court, on the basis of article 23 of the russian constitution and article 186 § 2 of [the code of criminal procedure] decides to authorise for 180 days the interception of [the applicant’s] telephone communications on his mobile telephone number ...-15.” 8.  on 24 and 25 december 2003 the police intercepted the applicant’s conversations with an accomplice, m. 9.  on 25 december 2003 two of the applicant’s accomplices, m. and s., were arrested.11.  on 26 december 2003 the murmansk regional court authorised the interception and recording of the applicant’s telephone communications on his mobile telephone number ...-49. the surveillance authorisation read in its entirety as follows: “[the police] have intelligence information about a criminal gang involved in robberies and the extortion of money and personal belongings from citizens in murmansk and other russian regions.operational-search measures have revealed that [the applicant] uses mobile phone number ...-49. in view of the above and given that it seems impossible to obtain the information necessary to expose [the applicant’s] unlawful activities by overt investigation, the court, on the basis of article 23 of the russian constitution and article 186 § 2 of [the code of criminal procedure] decides to authorise for 180 days the interception of [the applicant’s] telephone communications on his mobile telephone number ...-49.” 12.  on 26 and 27 december 2003 the police intercepted conversations between the applicant and g. 13.  on 27 december 2003 the applicant was arrested.17.  on 24 august 2004 the investigator appointed legal aid counsel for the applicant, noting that he had refused to choose replacement counsel and had insisted on being represented by g. 18.  on 30 august 2004 the investigator decided to remove g. as counsel for the applicant, finding that it was necessary to question him about his telephone conversations with the applicant on 26 and 27 december 2003. he noted that at the time, g. had not yet been the applicant’s counsel.he had also informed him about the course of the criminal proceedings, which had become known to him as at the time he had been representing the applicant’s accomplices, s. and m. when the police had tried to force the applicant’s door, the applicant had summoned g., who had said that he could not come and offered to send another lawyer.having analysed the transcripts of the applicant’s telephone conversations with g., it held as follows: “the lawyer had not been formally admitted to provide legal assistance to [the applicant] at the time [when the interception had taken place].the court does not have any reason to believe that the information obtained as a result of [intercepting the applicant’s] telephone communications with [g.] cannot be used as evidence, given that the information in question has not become known to [g.] as a result of providing legal assistance to [the applicant].” 37.  the applicant appealed against the conviction, claiming that the regional court had erred in its assessment of the evidence, that the transcripts of his telephone conversations with his co-defendant m. and counsel g. had been unlawfully used as evidence in the criminal proceedings, that g. had been unlawfully removed as counsel from his case, and that the authorities had refused to allow his brother to act as his legal representative.41.  on 24 february and 18 june 2004 the regional court ordered extensions of the applicant’s detention, citing the need for further investigation, the gravity of the charges and the risks of the applicant absconding, putting pressure on witnesses and obstructing the course of justice.on 22 october 2004 the regional court ordered the applicant’s and his co-defendants’ detention during trial, referring to the gravity of the charges and the lack of permanent employment “at the time of the commission of the crimes”.the trial could not proceed for objective reasons as it was necessary to wait for the results of a psychological expert examination of s. and for the transfer for questioning of two prosecution witnesses against s. 44.  the applicant appealed against the above extension orders to the supreme court.45.  on 11 august, 9 november and 15 december 2005 and 30 march 2006 the supreme court upheld the above extension orders on appeal, referring to the gravity of the charges and the risks of the applicant absconding or putting pressure on witnesses.331 30 december 2003 to 5 january 2004 49.  the government asserted that in all the cells where the applicant had been detained between 2003 and 2007, the number of inmates had not exceeded the number of beds and that at all times while in detention the applicant had been provided with an individual sleeping place.55.  in reply to the applicant’s complaints about poor conditions of detention, the murmansk regional prosecutor’s office stated, on 14 november 2005, as follows: “... the applicant’s complaints ... that the conditions of detention in sizo-1 were not fully compatible with the sanitary regulations prescribed by the federal law on pre‑trial detention ... that the minimum individual space prescribed by the law (4 sq.m per person) was not always complied with, that the premises needed repair, that the walls in some of the cells were stained with mould and crumbling, that the plumbing was often out of order, that not all the cells were equipped with a sufficient number of shelves and tv sets, that broken glass in the windows was not replaced promptly and that there were no refrigerators – [all these complaints] reflect the reality.
8.  on 9 and 10 december 2010 the applicants lodged a civil action within the criminal proceedings against the suspect, j., claiming compensation for non-pecuniary damage and reimbursement of the legal costs incurred in the criminal proceedings.10.  on 4 february 2011 the applicants’ consent to the application of the settlement procedure was recorded in a report signed by the prosecutor and the applicants’ representatives.the report stated that the applicants had been informed of their rights under the settlement procedure and set out the consequences of applying the settlement procedure.they complained that they had not been allowed to attend the court hearing of 7 march 2011 and that the court had left their claim for reimbursement of the legal costs undecided.relying on articles 246 and 318 of the code of criminal procedure (ccrp; kriminaalmenetluse seadustik), the court found that the applicants had not been parties to the court proceedings and did not, therefore, have the right to appeal (see paragraph 29 below).18.  the applicants appealed against the county court’s decision, insisting that they had been parties to the proceedings and had the right to appeal.19.  at a public hearing on 5 april 2011 the tallinn court of appeal examined the appeal in the presence of j. and his counsel, the prosecutor and the applicants’ counsel.at the hearing, the prosecutor firstly noted that the applicants had not submitted any documents concerning their claim for legal costs, despite the fact that they had had a week after the settlement to do so.according to the report of the hearing, the prosecutor later noted that those documents could have been submitted when the applicants had signed the report (see paragraph 10 above) or a few days later.the report stated that j. had wanted to submit the out-of-court settlement agreement to the judge in order to prove that it covered all the relevant damages.however, the court of appeal had refused, considering that it did not concern the subject matter of the dispute before the court in those proceedings.20.  by a decision of 13 april 2011, the tallinn court of appeal dismissed the applicants’ appeal and upheld the harju county court’s decision of 23 march 2011. it referred to article 243 of the ccrp, under which the victim was not entitled to revoke his or her consent to the application of the settlement procedure, and to article 246 of the code, which provided that the victim did not have to be summoned to a court hearing in settlement proceedings (see paragraphs 28 and 29 below).the court of appeal concluded that the applicants, as victims, had not been parties to such court proceedings and that, accordingly, they had no right to appeal against the county court’s judgment.the court noted that according to article 245 of the ccrp, the settlement agreement did not necessarily have to address matters dealing with the costs of criminal procedure or cover the extent of granting the civil claim or of compensating for the damage caused by the criminal offence.however, referring to article 306 §§ 11, 13 and 14 of the ccrp and article 248 § 1 (3) of the ccrp, the supreme court considered that those matters should not be overlooked by the court concerned (see paragraphs 30 and 31 below).
7.  the applicant was born in 1980. he arrived in russia in 2003. he travelled to tajikistan on a number of occasions to visit his parents for short periods of time.8.  on 3 may 2011 the applicant was charged in absentia in tajikistan with participating in an extremist religious movement, the islamic movement of uzbekistan, and an international search and arrest warrant was issued in his name.on 4 november 2013 the meshchanskiy district court of moscow (“the district court”) ordered his detention pending extradition.10.  on 4 december 2013 the tajik prosecution authorities requested the applicant’s extradition on the basis of the above charges.11.  on 12 december 2013 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 3 may 2014.12.  an appeal by the applicant of 16 december 2013 was dismissed by the moscow city court (“the city court”) on 3 february 2014.13.  on 29 april 2014 the district court again extended the applicant’s detention until 3 august 2014.14.  an appeal by the applicant of 5 may 2014 was dismissed by the city court on 23 july 2014.15.  on 9 october 2014 the applicant’s extradition was refused by the deputy prosecutor general of the russian federation, owing to the absence of culpable actions under russian criminal law.18.  on 14 october 2014 the district court found the applicant guilty of violating migration regulations, fined him and ordered his administrative removal.the district court assessing the risks stated that “[t]he claims of the representative ... are of a speculative nature and not confirmed by the case materials” 19.  the above judgment was upheld on appeal by the city court on 24 october 2014. claims by the applicant under article 3 of the convention were dismissed with reference to the district court’s assessment of the case, which took into consideration “...the nature of the administrative offence, the character of the accused [who was criminally convicted in russia]... the length of his stay in russia and other circumstances of the case”.20.  according to the latest submissions of his representative in 2015, the applicant was still in detention.21.  on 18 december 2013 the applicant lodged a request for refugee status, referring to persecution in tajikistan and a real risk of ill-treatment.the applicant challenged that decision in the courts, referring, inter alia, to the risk of ill‑treatment.23.  on 12 november 2015 his appeals were dismissed by a final decision of the city court.
therefore a total of 227 police officers were deployed, including two squads – comprising eight to ten police officers each – of the 3rd platoon of the munich riot control unit (unterstützungskommando), one squad of the 2nd platoon of the munich riot control unit and the 23rd platoon of the 6th dachau public-order support force battalion (bereitschaftspolizei).8.  after the match had ended the police cordoned off the stands of the supporters of one of the teams, including both applicants, to prevent them from leaving the stadium and encountering supporters of the other team.while walking between the exit of the stands and the exit of the football stadium a group of police officers dressed in black uniforms came running towards the exiting spectators with their truncheons raised above their heads.12.  according to the government the blockade was lifted due to the aggressive behaviour of some of the spectators and the pressure applied to the police cordon.13.  the government furthermore challenged the accounts of the applicants and submitted that there was no credible evidence that the applicants had deliberately been hit or harmed by police officers and that the injuries had been a result of the police operation.14.  as of 15 december 2007 the press reported about the police operation in the aftermath of the football match, inter alia quoting football supporters describing arbitrary attacks by police officers of the riot control unit with truncheons and pepper-spray.the officer in charge interviewed a total of twenty witnesses, including the applicants, the officer in charge of the munich riot control unit and the squad leaders of the deployed squads of the 2nd and 3rd munich riot control units.18.  the applicants appealed against the decision to discontinue the investigation and argued, in particular, that the public prosecutor had only questioned the squad leaders, but had not identified all the officers involved in the operation and deployed in the area of the stadium at issue.on 20 october 2008 the head of the investigation unit met with the platoon leaders of the munich riot control unit and other division heads of the munich police to discuss the investigation.upon the request of the applicants to secure the entire video material of the police operation, and not only the already submitted video excerpts, it was established that the original video tapes and possible digital copies had already been deleted and that only the excerpts were still available.in a detailed fifteen-page decision he first summarised the investigative measures taken, referring in particular to the interviews of several witnesses, including police officers and the alleged victims, the review of video material from the police and from the internet, the assessment of the applicants’ written observations and of the submitted documents, inter alia, medical certificates, as well as gathered information and reports on past events and applicable guidelines.after assessing all the available evidence, the public prosecutor concluded that the enquiries had shown that several supporters had aggressively approached, insulted and provoked the deployed police officers and that therefore a situation had existed in which the officers could have been justified in using their truncheons.besides this general conclusion he held that the applicants had neither been able to identify a particular suspect nor to determine whether the suspected police officers had been male or female and that the investigation had not produced other persons who had witnessed the alleged acts against the applicants.22.  on 20 august 2009 the applicants appealed and pointed out that the members of the deployed squads had still not been questioned and that the inspected videos were fragmentary, but nonetheless contradicted certain parts of the statements made by the squad leaders.in its decision the constitutional court referred to the court’s case-law concerning the procedural obligation of article 2 of the convention and, in particular, to the cases of mccann and others v. the united kingdom (27 september 1995, series a no.
6.  on 30 december 2005 a judge of the riga city kurzeme district court (rīgas pilsētas kurzemes rajona tiesa – hereinafter “the city court”) scheduled the first hearing to take place on 21 april 2006. during this hearing the applicant’s representative requested additional time to examine the relevant legal norms and to obtain the relevant documents from the plaintiff.7.  on 9 august 2006 the plaintiff applied to have the hearing postponed because the applicant’s debt for services had in the meantime increased and the plaintiff had not yet settled the courts fees for the increased claim.8.  on 17 october 2006 the plaintiff increased the amount of the claim and submitted the relevant documents.13.  on 13 november 2007 the applicant’s representative applied to have the hearing postponed as he had only received the relevant documents on the previous day.the city court ordered the plaintiff to submit the specific documents and scheduled the next hearing for 17 april 2008.15.  on 17 april 2008 the plaintiff submitted the relevant documents and the applicant’s representative applied to have the hearing postponed to examine them.16.  the parties continued to plead their case in the hearing of 4 june 2008. the city court imposed a monetary fine on the applicant’s representative for disobeying a judge’s order.following an application by the plaintiff the hearing was postponed because the applicant’s debt for services had in the meantime increased; they had not prepared the documents for the increased amount of the debt.the plaintiff was ordered to submit the relevant documents by an unknown date in september 2008 and the next hearing was scheduled for 28 october 2008.17.  on 28 october 2008 the city court held the last hearing in the case; it refused a fresh application by the plaintiff to postpone the hearing once again.on 6 november 2008 the city court dismissed the plaintiff’s claim against the applicant as unsubstantiated – the plaintiff had not proved that the expenses had actually been incurred and that they had duly reflected the services provided.18.  the first hearing before the regional court was held on 13 september 2010. the plaintiff increased the amount of the claim because the applicant’s debt for services had in the meantime increased to lvl 3,173 (approximately eur 4,515) and submitted the relevant documents.the regional court admitted those documents to the case file and scheduled the next hearing for 8 december 2010.on 22 december 2010 the riga regional court partly allowed the plaintiff’s claim and ordered the applicant to settle the debt in the total amount of lvl 2,854 (approximately eur 4,059).on 3 february 2012 the senate of the supreme court (augstākās tiesas senāts) remitted it to the regional court as the applicant had not paid the security deposit for lodging it.
and s.d., against whom charges had already been brought in connection with the collapse of the building, the experts also identified the involvement of t.a., a civil engineer, and i̇.ö., the head of technical services of the municipality of düzce (“the municipality”), in the preparation and authorisation of the respective construction project.9.  according to another report dated 7 september 1999, the expert examination of the collapsed building revealed that the granulometry of the concrete used in the building was very poor, that the concrete contained a very high proportion of pebbles, that the water-to-cement ratio in the concrete mix was not appropriate and had resulted in the formation of pores in the concrete, and that the ironwork had worked loose from the concrete because the metal brackets had corroded.in view of the special judicial procedures that had to be followed in respect of the prosecution of civil servants under the law on the prosecution of civil servants and public officials (law no.in respect of the deaths caused by the collapse of the building in question on 17 august 1999. the public prosecutor accused them of endangering the lives of others by carelessness, negligence or inexperience under article 383 § 2 of the turkish criminal code in force at the material time (law no.13.  at the hearing held on 21 october 1999 the applicant requested the investigation of all municipal officials who had authorised the construction and occupation of the building despite its failure to comply with the relevant technical regulations.14.  according to an expert report added to the criminal case file on 29 april 2001, the following people had responsibility for all private construction undertaken within the municipal boundaries: (i) the contractor, who was responsible for the realisation of the project in compliance with the technical and work safety standards; (ii) the project engineer, who was responsible for all technical aspects of the project, including compliance with all relevant rules and regulations; (iii) the municipal representative, who was responsible for examining the calculations and the plan prepared by the project manager, verifying the compatibility of the project with the regulations in force, and authorising the project; and (iv) the technical implementation officer, who was in charge of inspecting the construction work on behalf of the municipality.could be held criminally liable in connection with a collapse of the building had started running in 1985 – when the last official licence for the building was obtained – and had already expired by the date of the earthquake.the applicant appealed against this judgment and once again requested an investigation into the responsibility of the relevant municipal officials in relation to the collapse of the building.19.  on 6 july 2004 the court of cassation once again quashed the first‑instance court’s judgment, this time as the court had not taken any decision as regards the applicant’s request to join the proceedings as a civil party in respect of the case subsequently brought against t.a.it was also stated in the report that the defendants jointly bore 75% of the responsibility for the collapse of the building.relying on the findings of the later expert report as regards the responsibility of the municipal officials for the collapse of the building, it also decided that a criminal complaint should be filed against the relevant officials with the düzce public prosecutor’s office.23.  on 21 february 2007 the düzce assize court decided to discontinue the criminal proceedings in respect of all three of the defendants as the prosecution of the offence in question had become time-barred.25.  on 16 august 2000 the applicant, along with his wife and other daughter, instituted compensation proceedings before the sakarya administrative court against the the ministry of public works and settlement (bayındırlık ve i̇skan bakanlığı), the düzce governor’s office and the municipality of düzce, in respect of the death of their daughter nesrin delibaş.26.  on 29 december 2005 the sakarya administrative court commissioned an expert report to determine responsibility on the part of the administration for the collapse of the building.27.  as regards the findings in the reports adduced to the criminal case file, the experts noted that the quality of the concrete used in the construction and certain structural elements of the building had been below the required standard.
5.  by five judgments of the travnik municipal court (“the municipal court”) of 5 march 2009, 18 january 2012, 31 march 2010, 30 april 2012 and 13 june 2011, which became final on 17 june 2010, 13 february 2012, 1 september 2010, 12 march 2013 and 21 july 2011, respectively, the central bosnia canton (srednjobosanski kanton, “the cb canton”; one of the ten cantons of the federation of bosnia and herzegovina) was ordered to pay the applicants various sums in respect of unpaid work-related benefits together with default interest at the statutory rate and legal costs.6.  the writs of execution issued by the municipal court on 23 september 2010, 14 june 2012, 4 october 2010, 13 february 2013 and 25 october 2011, respectively, were transferred to the competent bank and were listed among the charges on the debtor’s account.7.  on 26 february 2013 and 7 january 2014 the ministry of finance of the cb canton (“the ministry”) informed the bank that no funds for the enforcement of final judgments had been provided in the cantonal budget for 2013 and 2014 and that, accordingly, the final judgments against the canton could not be enforced.8.  however, on 9 january 2015, upon the applicants’ enquiry, the ministry informed them that in 2013 the canton had designated 620,000 convertible marks (bam)[1] for the enforcement of judgments and bam 605,900 in 2014 for the same purpose.1 to the convention in the applicants’ and five other cases, on account of the prolonged non-enforcement of the final judgments in their favour.it ordered the government of the cb canton to take the necessary steps in order to secure the payment of the cantonal debt arising from the final judgments within a reasonable time.... the court notes that the judgments [in favour of the appellants] have not been enforced due to the lack of funds on the debtor’s bank account.... 39.  the constitutional court reiterates that under the constitution of bosnia and herzegovina and article 1 of the european convention all levels of government must secure respect for individual human rights, including the right to enforcement of final judgments under article 6 § 1 of the convention and the right to property under article 1 of protocol no.1 to the convention ... the scope of that obligation is not reduced in the present case, notwithstanding the large number of judgments ... [t]he constitutional court notes that in jeličić v. bih, and again in čolić and others v. bih, the european court of human rights reiterated that ‘it is not open to a state authority to cite lack of funds as an excuse for not honouring a judgment debt.admittedly, a delay in the execution of a judgment may be justified in particular circumstances, but the delay may not be such as to impair the essence of the right protected under article 6 § 1’ ... 40.  the constitutional court agrees with the position taken by the european court ... it is nevertheless aware of the effects the global economic crisis had on bosnia and herzegovina...the court notes that the federal and the cantonal governments had taken certain steps with the view to enforcement of final court decisions.section 138 of the federal enforcement procedure act 2003 provides that the final judgments against the federation and the cantons shall be enforced within the amount of budgetary funds designated for that purpose ... and that the creditors shall enforce their claims in the order in which they acquired the enforcement titles ... ... 42.  the court finds that the crux of the problem in the present case is that the cb canton did not identify the exact number of unenforced judgments and the aggregate debt ... without which it is impossible to know when all the creditors will realise their claims against this canton.these measure and adequate funds in the annual budget would ensure that all the final judgments are enforced within a reasonable time ... and the cb canton would ensure the respect of its obligations from article 6 § 1 and article 1 of protocol no.... 44.  the court considers that the adoption of section 138 of the enforcement procedure act 2003 had a legitimate aim, because the enforcement of a large number of judgments at the same time would jeopardise the normal functioning of the cantons.however, the limitation of the enforcement in the present case is contrary to the principle of proportionality enshrined in article 1 of protocol no.1 which requires that a fair balance is struck between the demands of the general interest of the community and the requirements of the protection of the individual’s fundamental rights ... section 138 places a disproportionate burden on the appellants ... they are placed in a situation of absolute uncertainty as regards the enforcement of their claims ... ... 46.  in order to comply with its positive obligation, the government of the cb canton must, as explained above, calculate the total amount of the aggregate debt arising from the final judgments and prepare a comprehensive and transparent database ... this court will not specify what a reasonable time-limit should be ... but, in any event, it must be in accordance with article 6 § 1 and article 1 of protocol no.
4.  the applicants are turkish nationals, whose dates of birth and places of residence are shown in the appendix.they all own plots of land located in different cities of turkey.5.  following local land development plans, the applicants’ plots of land were designated for public use.subsequently, complaining about the decrease in the market value of the land and the long-term uncertainty about the fate of their plots of land, the applicants initiated compensation proceedings before the civil courts.6.  during the proceedings relating to their land, the applicants submitted the decision given by the plenary chamber of the court of cassation (civil divisions, numbered e.2004/5-555 k.2005/17) to the domestic courts and asserted that according to this decision their compensation claims had to be accepted.7.  on various dates between 2007 and 2010, the applicants’ respective claims for compensation were dismissed by the domestic courts on the ground that their plots of land were not actually seized by the authorities.in their decisions, neither the courts of first instance nor fifth civil division of the court of cassation, which examined the applicants’ claims on cassation, expressed any reason as to why they had reached a different conclusion from the plenary court of cassation.8.  the details of the proceedings may be found in the appended table.
the twelve jurors held the applicant responsible for the murder by ten votes to two, and for unlawful possession of firearms by nine votes to three.9.  by a judgment of 13 april 2007, the moscow city court sentenced the applicant to eighteen years’ imprisonment.10.  on 18 april 2007 the applicant lodged a statement of appeal in which he alleged, inter alia, that sh.’s statement had been read out during the trial in contravention of the applicable rules of criminal procedure.he wrote that he had found out that on several occasions the presiding judge had entered the room where the jurors had been deliberating and advised them to declare him guilty.the applicant asked the appellate court to take evidence from the jurors and to quash the conviction.11.  on 14 may 2007 judge sht., who had presided over the applicant’s trial, refused to amend the minutes of the trial to take note of the applicant’s statement that the judge had been present during the jury’s deliberations, had advised them as to how to fill out the questionnaire and had made comments about the applicant’s character and guilt.the juror stated that during the trial the presiding judge sht.had often visited the deliberations room, that he had spoken of the applicant’s guilt as if it had been already established and that he had given them instructions on how to fill out the questionnaire.13.  on 5 june 2007 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the conviction on appeal.it rejected the applicant’s complaint about the presiding judge’s interference with the jury deliberations in the following terms: “the [applicant’s] allegations ... that the presiding judge breached the secrecy of jury deliberations and that he entered the deliberations room and told the jury how they were supposed to answer the questions [issued by the judge] are not substantiated.it follows from the trial record that the defence did not object to the actions of the presiding judge and did not allege any breach of confidentiality of jury deliberations.the [applicant’s] argument that he learned about those breaches only after the end of the trial is not grounds for quashing the conviction.the additional documents submitted by the defence – the statement by one of the jurors certified by a notary public – may only give rise to an application to law-enforcement authorities, which would have to decide on the institution of criminal proceedings.moreover, the jurors rendered the verdict by a majority vote rather than unanimously ...” 14.  as regards the applicant’s argument that sh., a witness, was not questioned in person during the trial and that the presiding judge allowed an earlier statement of hers to be read out, the supreme court noted as follows: “the defence did not object to the reading-out of the statement by sh., who did not appear in court on account of her undergoing treatment in hospital.neither [the applicant] nor his counsel questioned the authenticity of the medical certificate submitted by sh.’s counsel ...” 15.  by a letter of 16 july 2007, the moscow city prosecutor’s office rejected the applicant’s complaint concerning the actions by the presiding judge by reference to the supreme court’s findings in the judgment of 5 june 2007.
5.  by a judgment of the zenica cantonal court of 5 february 2007, three judgments of the tešanj municipal court of 30 july 2008, 31 march 2008 and 15 may 2009 and a judgment of the zenica municipal court of 26 april 2007, which became final on 5 february 2007, 18 august 2008, 23 march 2009, 25 june 2010 and 27 march 2008, respectively, the zenica-doboj canton (zeničko-dobojski kanton; one of the ten cantons of the federation of bosnia and herzegovina) was ordered to pay the applicants different sums in respect of unpaid work-related benefits together with default interest at the statutory rate and legal costs.6.  the writs of execution issued on 2 march 2007, 5 april 2010, 2 march 2010, 14 december 2010 and 24 june 2008, respectively, by the zenica municipal court and the tešanj municipal court, were transferred to the competent bank and were listed among the charges on the debtor’s account.1 to the convention in mr suljo kunić’s and ten other cases on account of the prolonged non-enforcement of the final judgments in the appellants’ favour.it ordered the government of the zenica-doboj canton to take the necessary steps in order to secure the payment of the cantonal debt arising from the final judgments within a reasonable time.... the court notes that the judgments [in favour of the appellants] have not been enforced due to the lack of funds on the debtor’s bank account.... 45.  the constitutional court reiterates that under the constitution of bosnia and herzegovina and article 1 of the european convention all levels of government must secure respect for individual human rights, including the right to enforcement of final judgments under article 6 § 1 of the convention and the right to property under article 1 of protocol no.1 to the convention ... the scope of that obligation is not reduced in the present case, notwithstanding the large number of judgments... [t]he constitutional court notes that in jeličić v. bih, and again in čolić and others v. bih, the european court of human rights reiterated that ‘it is not open to a state authority to cite lack of funds as an excuse for not honouring a judgment debt.admittedly, a delay in the execution of a judgment may be justified in particular circumstances, but the delay may not be such as to impair the essence of the right protected under article 6 § 1’ ... 46.  the constitutional court agrees with the position taken by the european court ... it is nevertheless aware of the effects the global economic crisis had on bosnia and herzegovina ... the court notes that the federal and the cantonal governments had taken certain steps with the view to enforcement of final court decisions.section 138 of the federal enforcement procedure act 2003 provides that the final judgments against the federation and the cantons shall be enforced within the amount of budgetary funds designated for that purpose ... and that the creditors shall enforce their claims in the order in which they acquired the enforcement titles ... in 2010 and 2011 the amount of funds for that purpose in the budget of the zenica-doboj canton was 100,000 convertible marks.... 48.  the court finds that the crux of the problem in the present case is that the zenica-doboj canton did not identify the exact number of unenforced judgments and the aggregate debt ... without which it is impossible to know when all the creditors will realise their claims against this canton.these measure and adequate funds in the annual budget would ensure that all the final judgments are enforced within a reasonable time ... and the zenica-doboj canton would ensure the respect of its obligations from article 6 §1 and article 1 of protocol no.... 50.  the court considers that the adoption of section 138 of the enforcement procedure act 2003 had a legitimate aim, because the enforcement of a large number of judgments at the same time would jeopardise the normal functioning of the cantons.however, the limitation of the enforcement in the present case is contrary to the principle of proportionality enshrined in article 1 of protocol no.1 which requires that a fair balance is struck between the demands of the general interest of the community and the requirements of the protection of the individual’s fundamental rights ... section 138 places a disproportionate burden on the appellants ... they are placed in a situation of absolute uncertainty as regards the enforcement of their claims... ... 52.  in order to comply with its positive obligation, the government of the zenica-doboj canton must, as explained above, calculate the total amount of the aggregate debt arising from the final judgments and prepare a comprehensive and transparent database ... this court will not specify what a reasonable time-limit should be ... but, in any event, it must be in accordance with article 6 § 1 and article 1 of protocol no.... the current situation does not give any guarantees to the appellants that their claims against the zenica-doboj canton will be enforced within a reasonable time.” 10.  on 16 january 2013 the constitutional court adopted a procedural decision to the effect that its decision of 12 october 2011 and eight other decisions on the same matter in cases concerning various individual appellants (see paragraph 15 below) had not been enforced.
at the time of the events giving rise to the present application, the applicant was a student at the philosophy department of the faculty of arts and science at dicle university.the crowd blocked the traffic as they carried the coffins, chanted separatist, hostile slogans in turkish and kurdish in support of the organisation and abdullah öcalan, the leader of the pkk, and waved pkk posters and banners.the public prosecutor noted that on 28 march 2006 the applicant had participated in an illegal demonstration held under the pretext of a funeral; had chanted a slogan; and had covered his face with the hood of his coat during the demonstration.the public prosecutor also noted that the applicant had supported the chanting of slogans in favour of the pkk by applauding during the demonstration of 5 march 2007. the public prosecutor further claimed that the applicant had regularly, willingly and knowingly participated in illegal demonstrations organised by political parties, associations and persons who supported the pkk and that therefore he should be punished for membership of an illegal organisation.a witness was also heard by the trial court, and confirmed the applicant’s version of events of 5 march 2007. at the end of the hearing the court ordered the applicant’s continued detention on remand.16.  on 30 november 2007, at the end of the fourth hearing, the diyarbakır assize court convicted the applicant of membership of an illegal organisation, the pkk, pursuant to article 314 § 2 of the criminal code, on the basis of articles 220 § 6 and 314 § 3 of the same code, and sentenced him to six years and three months’ imprisonment.17.  the court first gave a summary of the applicant’s defence submissions, the public prosecutor’s observations on the merits of the case and the evidence in the case file.that evidence was the applicant’s statements to the police, the public prosecutor and the judge, dated 10 march 2007; a photograph relating to the funeral of 28 march 2006; printed versions of news articles published by various media in support of the pkk which had been downloaded from the internet; the arrest and incident reports; reports on the video recordings; a copy of the leaflet distributed at dicle university on 5 march 2007; reports by experts on the examination of the video recordings; the applicant’s identity documents; and a document showing that he had no previous criminal record.18.  in its judgment, the assize court observed, on the basis of the police video recordings and the photographs extracted from those recordings, that the applicant had attended the funeral of four pkk militants on 28 march 2006; that he had walked in front of one of the coffins during the funeral; and that he had made a “v” sign.noting that the funeral had subsequently turned into propaganda for the pkk-kongra/gel, thus an illegal demonstration, and considering that the applicant had walked close to the coffins, the court considered that the applicant had played an active role in the illegal demonstration.hence, the court found it established that the applicant had acted with the intention of supporting the deceased on 28 march 2006 and had acted together with illegal demonstrators on 5 march 2007, thereby committing the offence of disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk and its leader.2007/2432) of the ninth criminal division of the court of cassation, in which the latter had considered that the acts of the accused demonstrators (participation in the demonstration of 28 march 2006 after calls for a demonstration had been made by the pkk, in accordance with the latter’s aims; the chanting of slogans in support of the pkk and abdullah öcalan; singing the pkk’s youth march song; burning tyres and blocking traffic; carrying pkk flags and banners and öcalan posters; attacking public buildings, as well as police and civilian vehicles with stones and molotov cocktails; carrying the bodies of the pkk militants who had been killed by the security forces) should be considered as offences committed on behalf of that organisation.noting that the applicant had acted together with the aforementioned demonstrators on 28 march 2006, the diyarbakır assize court considered that the applicant’s participation in the funeral and demonstration and his conduct at that time had also occurred as a result of instructions and calls by the pkk.the court considered that the applicant had acted on behalf of the organisation, in line with the goals and activities of the pkk, and that therefore he should be punished for not only disseminating propaganda, but also for membership of an illegal organisation.23.  on 29 january 2009 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of 30 november 2007 in so far as it related to the applicant’s conviction under article 314 § 2 of the criminal code, on the basis of articles 220 § 6 and 314 § 3 of the same code, for membership of an illegal organisation.
12.  during the inquiry, the investigator took statements from the medical personnel who had provided assistance to k.m., including a.g., the nurse, and the driver.in particular, in her statement of 14 november 2007 the nurse stated that the doctor had ordered her to administer an injection of magnesium sulphate but that k.m.’s convulsions had continued, after which the doctor had handed her a phial of relanium, which she had injected.the nurse stated, in particular, that the fact that only the injection of relanium and not the one of magnesium had been mentioned in the ambulance visit record could possibly be explained by her having forgotten to remind the doctor about the injection of magnesium.89) produced on 14 january 2008, the injection of relanium 2 mg and magnesium 3 g by the ambulance crew had been correct at the given moment, taking into account the patient’s condition − that is to say convulsion syndrome − and the injection of the given quantity of those substances was not contra-indicated.2.  injection of relanium 2 mg and magnesium 3 g by the emergency care specialists was correct in view of the presence of the convulsion syndrome at the given moment.3.  in the case in question the medical assistance provided by the ambulance crew and in hospital was appropriate and sufficient, without omissions, which is substantiated by the data contained in the medical documents and by the evidentiary material in the case file.89 produced by the forensic medical investigation panel are accurate and well‑founded; scientific methodologies were applied: histological examinations of the organs of the corpse were performed, and leading specialists of the ministry of health participated in the panel examination.21.  on the same day the investigator lodged a request with the director of the “emergency medical service” state close joint stock company of the yerevan municipality (“the emergency medical service”) seeking to impose an appropriate penalty on the ambulance crew.22.  on 30 april 2008 the applicant lodged a complaint with the avan and nor-nork district court of yerevan concerning the investigator’s decision of 25 april 2008 seeking the institution of criminal proceedings against a.g. and the nurse.23.  on 16 may 2008 the medical council of the emergency medical service held a meeting at which the circumstances described in the investigator’s decision of 25 april 2008 were discussed.as regards the late arrival of the ambulance, incorrect completion of the visit record and the doctor’s failure to sit beside the patient during the journey to the hospital, the district court referred to the fact that a.g. had been reprimanded for poor performance of her duties.26.  on 4 september 2008 the criminal court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of the district court.as regards the applicant’s arguments with regard to the contra‑indication of medical substances administered by injection to k.m., the court of appeal relied on the forensic medical opinions according to which their administration had been correct, taking into account the convulsion syndrome at that moment.27.  on 30 september 2008 the applicant lodged an appeal with the court of cassation against the decision of the court of appeal.28.  on 30 october 2008 the court of cassation decided to refuse the examination of the appeal on points of law (վճռաբեկ բողոքը թողնել առանց քննության) since it had not been lodged by an advocate (փաստաբան) licensed to act before the court of cassation, as required by article 404 § 1 (1) of the code of criminal procedure.
the investigating judge ordered that an autopsy be conducted by a sworn and judicially certified expert (beeideter und gerichtlich zertifizierter sachverständiger); the autopsy was conducted on 5 october 2005. on the same day, the investigating judge, in response to a request made by the public prosecutor, delivered a decision ordering the seizure of the blood samples taken from y.c., together with the pertinent examination report.25.  on 24 october 2005 the investigating judge complied with a request lodged by the public prosecutor for the inclusion in the case file of the results of the investigation up until that date, as well as for y.c.’s medical history to be obtained from the detention centre, and for these documents to be transmitted to the expert dr h. it was further decided that the scale used to weigh y.c.rather, it was more likely that a shift in the electrolyte system had commenced over a period of several days, as indicated by the results of the blood test conducted by linz general hospital on 4 october 2005. a post-mortem examination of y.c.’s blood (conducted in the course of the autopsy) had shown that he had been a carrier of sickle cell trait (sichelzellanlage).34.  on 12 october 2005 the public prosecutor made a note in the criminal file (aktenvermerk) about a conversation with dr h. the doctor had expressed the opinion that with hindsight y.c.’s extraordinarily aggressive behaviour at the hospital on the day of his death had resembled a delirious state caused by advanced dehydration and the consequent disintegration of his blood cells.until his death had also stated during the iap hearing that he had not appeared to be ill or weak, but that on the contrary, even on the day of his death he had seemed athletic and strong; which had been corroborated by photographs taken of his dead body and its description by dr h. in the autopsy report (see paragraph 30 above).41.  one of the police doctors, dr f.g., gave evidence regarding, inter alia, the reason why the calculation of the critical weight of a detainee on hunger strike was based on his or her weight at the outset of the hunger strike, and not the weight recorded upon admission to the detention centre.to and from the hospital on the day of his death, stated that the reason for y.c.’s placement in solitary confinement had been that – following y.c.’s behaviour at the hospital – he and the other officer in charge had feared that y.c.dr w.g, who had not examined y.c.’s body, had based his report on the autopsy report and expert report issued by dr h., the report of the oia (see paragraph 24 above) and the report by linz general hospital, and had come to the following opinion.45.  the applicant asked the iap that the second police doctor in charge at the detention centre on the day of y.c.’s death be questioned, and that another expert report be obtained in order to refute the expert report issued by dr h. (see paragraphs 30-33 above).46.  the iap, at the end of the hearing of 13 february 2006, ruled that y.c.’s detention pending his expulsion had been unlawful and that the conditions of detention during his hunger strike had violated y.c.’s right under article 3 of the convention to protection against ill-treatment.it held that the applicant had no locus standi regarding the request for a review of the lawfulness of the detention of his brother because rights under article 5 of the convention were not transferable to other persons.concerning the complaint under article 3 of the convention, it held that the mere fact that a person was detained did not place any duty on the state to take measures (the need for which had not necessarily been foreseeable) because of the genetic disposition of that person without a manifest outbreak of disease in that person.it essentially reiterated the reasoning contained in its previous decision, explaining that the proceedings were not aimed at identifying an individual who could be held culpable for y.c.’s death but at identifying errors inherent in the detention system – specifically, the lack of a standardised test for sickle cell disease for certain high-risk groups and the lack of clear instructions for the staff of the detention centre concerning detainees on hunger strike.56.  on 13 july 2012 the iap dismissed the applicant’s complaint about the conditions of y.c.’s detention, basing its decision on the finding contained in the expert report of dr l. (see paragraph 54 above) that the need for an analysis of y.c.’s blood in respect of sickle cell trait had not been indicated.it reiterated that according to the administrative court’s legal interpretation, by which it was bound, the state had no duty to take measures the need for which had not been foreseeable in respect of a person because of a certain genetic disposition without a manifest outbreak of the disease in that person.
he noted that the government had taken a decision to ‘punish and frighten’ him, and that there were several reasons for that: firstly, the applicant’s blog posting of 28 january 2013, which had revealed facts embarrassing the government; secondly, the fact that real had raised a public debate on the june 2012 legislative amendments aimed at keeping secret information concerning shareholders in companies, creating ‘a more clandestine environment for stealing the oil money’; thirdly, the applicant’s earlier criticism of the national assembly, in which he compared it to ‘a zoo’, following enactment of the legislation placing ‘severe limitations on the freedom of assembly’ by ‘introducing unjustifiably high monetary penalties for attending unauthorised demonstrations’; and lastly, the real movement’s ‘quickly accumulating strength’ prior to the presidential election, becoming a ‘serious barrier in the eyes of the traditional [political] players’ and threatening ‘to spoil the repeat of the election farce performed year after year’.” 13.  on 4 february 2013 the prosecutor general’s office charged the applicant with criminal offences under articles 233 (organising or actively participating in actions causing a breach of public order) and 315.2 (resistance to or violence against public officials, posing a threat to their life or health) of the criminal code, in connection with his alleged involvement in a riot in the town of ismayilli on 24 january 2013. on 30 april 2013 the applicant was charged under articles 220.1 (mass disorder) and 315.2 of the criminal code, thereby replacing the original charges.15.  the specific actions attributed to the applicant were described as follows: “beginning at around 3 p.m. on 24 january 2013, ilgar eldar oglu mammadov, having taken advantage of the fact that from around 9.30 p.m. on 23 january 2013 a group of persons in the town of ismayilli had engaged in acts of malicious hooliganism causing a serious breach of public order, had deliberately burned, in a publicly dangerous manner, property belonging to various persons [including] the chirag hotel, four cars, five mopeds and scooters, and an auxiliary building located in the yard of a private residential house, and had committed acts of violence against government officials, having, in his false way of thinking, considered [the above events] as a ‘rebellion’, aiming to make the above acts develop and acquire a continuous character in order to create artificial tension and to violate the social and political stability in the country, being a resident of baku, arrived in ismayilli and, together with tofiq rashid oglu yaqublu and with the active participation of others, [committed the following:] organised, as an active participant, acts causing a serious breach of public order, by means of openly and repeatedly inciting town residents [e.i.and others, who had gathered at the square near the administrative building of the regional education department located on the nariman narimanov street opposite to the administrative building of [the idea], [to do the following:] [i]  to enter in masses into the area in front of the building of [the idea], which is the competent body of the executive power of the republic of azerbaijan, and by doing so to create difficulties for the movement of traffic and pedestrians, [ii]  to disobey the lawful demands to disperse, made by government officials wanting to stop their illegal behaviour, [iii]  to resist uniformed police officers protecting the public order, by way of committing violent acts posing danger to [police officers’] life and health, using various objects, [iv]  to disrupt the normal functioning of [the idea], state enterprises, bodies and organisations, as well as public-catering, commercial and public-service facilities, by way of refusing to leave, for a long period of time, the areas where the acts seriously breaching the public order were being committed, and [v]  to stop the movement of traffic, by way of blocking the central avenue and the nariman narimanov street, and was finally able to achieve that, at around 5 p.m. of the same day in the town of ismayilli, a group of persons consisting of [e.i.17.  in that judgment, the court found that, during the pre-trial period, the applicant had been deprived of his liberty without a “reasonable suspicion” of having committed a criminal offence, in breach of the requirements of article 5 § 1 (c) of the convention (ibid., §§ 87-101), that he had not been afforded a proper judicial review of the lawfulness of his detention in breach of article 5 § 4 of the convention (ibid., §§ 111-19), that his right to presumption of innocence under article 6 § 2 of the convention had been breached owing to the prosecuting authorities’ prejudicial statements made before he had been proved guilty according to law (ibid., §§ 125-28), and that the restriction of the applicant’s liberty had been applied for purposes other than bringing him before a competent legal authority on reasonable suspicion of having committed an offence, constituting a breach of article 18 of the convention taken in conjunction with article 5 of the convention (ibid., §§ 137-44).24.  the defence then applied to the court with the following requests: (a)  that the applicant be released from detention, with reference to article 5 of the convention and various provisions of the domestic law; (b)  that the proceedings against the applicant be discontinued owing to the absence of corpus delicti and on the grounds that the charges against him were false; and (c)  that the evidence against the applicant obtained at the pre-trial stage, including statements by a number of prosecution witnesses (including those mentioned in paragraphs 48 and 52-56 below), be declared inadmissible on the grounds that it had been unlawfully obtained, and that letters from the ismayilli region police department (“the ismayilli rpd”) and the ministry of national security (“the mns”) (see paragraph 73 below) also be declared inadmissible on the grounds that they contained information that had not been verified independently by the prosecution authorities.(β)  police officers 47.  ten police officers mentioned in their pre-trial statements that they had seen the applicant on 24 january 2013. some of them stated that there had been disorder between about 10 a.m. and 11 a.m. on 24 january 2013. they further stated that on the afternoon of 24 january 2013 (according to three of them, at around 4 p.m.; according to two of them, at around 5 p.m.; according to four of them, between 4 p.m. and 5 p.m.; and one of them did not specify the exact time), they had seen a crowd gathered near the administrative building of the regional education department (only two of them specified the size of the crowd, one of whom stated that there were twenty people, and the other – two hundred people).71.  the court also examined the applicant’s mobile phone geo‑localisation records for 24 january 2013. they indicated that at 2.41 p.m. he had been within the zone of the antenna in the town of gobustan; at 3.39 p.m. – the antenna in the village of diyalli in the ismayilli region; at 3.46 p.m., 3.59 p.m., 4.27 p.m., 4.40 p.m. and 4.58 p.m. – the antenna on javanshir street in the town of ismayilli; at 6.09 p.m. – the antenna in the village of bizlan in the ismayilli region; at 7:25 p.m. – the antenna in gobustan; and at 8.41 p.m. – an antenna in baku.according to letter of 6/2274 of the ministry of national security dated 20 april 2013, on 24 january 2013 [tofiq yaqublu and the applicant] were in ismayilli and called on residents to resist the police, to block roads ... and to commit other similar acts aimed at disturbing social and political stability.” 74.  on 18 november 2013 the applicant’s lawyers applied to the trial court with a number of requests, in particular: (a)  that the applicant be released from pre-trial detention, with reference to article 5 of the convention and various provisions of domestic law (this request was similar to the one lodged at the preliminary hearing); (b)  that various pieces of evidence against the applicant obtained at the pre-trial stage be declared inadmissible, including statements by a number of prosecution witnesses (including those mentioned in paragraphs 48 and 52-56 above) on the grounds that they had been unlawfully obtained, and the letters from the ismayilli rpd and the mns (see paragraph 73 above) on the grounds that they contained information that had not been verified independently by the prosecution authorities (this request was also similar to the one lodged at the preliminary hearing); (c)  that additional witnesses for the defence be heard (including i.a., r.c., and e.m. (see paragraphs 59 and 62-63 above)) and other additional evidence (inter alia, contemporaneous media reports concerning the events of 24 january 2013) be examined; and (d)  that the hearings be held in a larger courtroom which could accommodate media representatives.75.  the court examined those requests at the hearing held on 29 november 2013 and decided: (a)  to reject the request for release on the grounds that the applicant’s circumstances had not changed; (b)  to reject the request concerning the inadmissibility of the evidence produced by the prosecution, on the grounds that it was ill-founded; (c)  to postpone the examination of the request for admission of additional evidence, because it was not sufficiently substantiated; and (d)  to reject the request to change the hearing venue, because media representatives were able to attend the hearings in the current venue.118.  in conclusion, the applicant’s lawyer argued that a proper assessment of the available evidence clearly showed that, contrary to the prosecution’s version of the facts, there had been no acts of mass disorder at the time when the applicant had been in the town (between about 4 p.m. and 5 p.m.) and that some clashes between protesters and the police had taken place several hours before he had arrived in the town (between about 10 a.m. and 11 a.m.) and several hours after he had left the town (after 8 p.m.).127.  during the hearings at the sheki court of appeal, the applicant’s lawyers lodged a number of applications, including requests for the applicant’s release from detention; for the allegedly unlawfully obtained statements of prosecution witnesses (including those mentioned in paragraphs 48 and 52-56 above) and other evidence produced by the prosecution (including the letters of the ismayilli rpd and the mns) to be declared inadmissible; for additional defence witnesses to be heard; for the admission and examination of contemporaneous news reports by various information agencies; and for examination of the video recording taken by the camera installed on the unibank building.the specific circumstances mentioned in their statements cannot be accepted as objective, sincere and genuine because they do not fit the factual circumstances of the case and conflict with other, irrefutable evidence.” 136.  as to the video recording by the camera installed on the unibank building, the court assessed it as follows: “the court holds that the statements of [the applicant and tofiq yaqublu] ... do not fit the actual circumstances of the case....” 137.  as to the video evidence originally examined by the first-instance court, the sheki court of appeal mentioned the video recording showing the applicant and tofiq yaqublu “standing in the centre of the town of ismayilli, opposite to the administrative building of the education department, at a place where acts of mass disorder had been committed”, without specifying the time of day when that scene had been shot (see paragraphs 69 and 103 above).as described above, on 23 and 24 january 2013 in ismayilli, under the organisation and with the active participation of the accused persons, a crowd formed by a large number of residents spontaneously joined together and destroyed, by burning, and partly looted the building of the chirag hotel, destroying equipment and items found inside the building, as well as personal belongings of the hotel guests and staff; [they also destroyed, by burning,] three cars in the grounds of the hotel, damaged houses and cars on the streets with stones, [and also destroyed, by burning,] private property of people who had no connection to the events, and inflicted bodily injuries on individuals, including many police officers who were performing their official duty to restore public order.in particular, it stated: “the above-mentioned [posts by the applicant] demonstrate once again that, before traveling to ismayilli, the applicant had an intention to organise mass disorder with the aim of defending the real movement’s demands for the creation of conditions for a revolt, and that, after he had arrived in ismayilli, he had carried out his intention.” 147.  the court concluded its analysis as follows: “the above-mentioned circumstances of the case prove beyond doubt that on 24 january 2013 [the applicant] travelled to ismayilli and organised mass disorder there together with [tofiq yaqublu].
as stated by the applicant association, after its abolition the territory over which the ohrid archdiocese had jurisdiction, which had included what is now the territory of the respondent state, fell under the jurisdiction of the ecumenical patriarchate of constantinople, which in 1918 issued a canonical release of those territories to the benefit of the serbian orthodox church (soc).(bishop d.) and not by mr vraniškovski, who had been authorised to seek registration of the applicant association; (b)  the application for registration had been submitted outside the thirty‑day time-limit specified in section 11 (1) of the act on religious communities and religious groups (“the 1997 act”, see paragraph 47 below), which had started to run on 25 december 2003, the date on which the applicant association’s holy synod had been set up (see paragraph 10 above); (c)  relying on the applicant association’s charter, the commission established that it would act as an autonomous religious group in canonical union with the peć patriarchy (soc).had only handed it over to the commission’s archives; (b)  the applicant association had been founded formally on 1 september 2004. on 25 december 2003, the date to which the commission referred in its decision, the applicant association had only appointed the members of its holy synod; (c)  the applicant association was a new religious community that had no connection with, let alone stemmed from, the moc, which, in any event, had not been recognised by any orthodox church; (d)  the fact that the moc had sought to have the bureau add “ohrid archdiocese” to its name was irrelevant, since no such name existed in the commission’s records; (e)  the applicant association had denied that it had been set up by a foreign church or a foreign state.neither has it jurisdiction to decide as a hierarchically superior court and examine the lawfulness and constitutionality of decisions adopted by competent administrative bodies ... the complainant refers to the non-registration as an action, but such an action ... stems from an individual decision which this court is not competent to examine ... the registration of ... a religious community or a group does not determine the religious beliefs and internal religious belief of a person, since expression of beliefs is an individual act, the registration procedure does not affect personal religious belief and rituals, and the court has not been presented with any evidence that they have been violated at any point.” 22.  the court also held that the appeal had been submitted outside the two-month time-limit specified in the rules of the constitutional court (see paragraph 52 below), calculated since 9 november 2005, the date of the supreme court’s decision (see paragraph 18 above).25.  according to “the minutes of the constituent assembly” (записник од основачкото собрание) “... at the proposal of his beatitude (неговото блаженство), the archbishop of ohrid and metropolitan of skopje mr jovan (vraniškovski), the holy synod of the orthodox ohrid archdiocese composed of (bishops j., m., and d., all macedonian nationals) convened a meeting on 27 april 2009 in order to adopt decisions for setting up and registration of “the greek-orthodox ohrid archdiocese of the peć patriarchy”.any person who does not respect human rights and freedoms regarding association of people on religious grounds, especially if he or she is a judge ... does not differ much from famous persecutors of the holy church ... we wrote the above in order to warn that it will be unpleasant if the court does not register ‘the greek-orthodox ohrid archdiocese of the peć patriarchy’ ...” 30.  on 10 july 2009, without reference to the applicant, the registration court sought an explanation from the moc as to the meaning of the notion of “peć patriarchy”.on 21 july 2009 the moc replied (the reply was reproduced in the decision of the registration court of 28 july 2009, see paragraph 31 below) as follows: ‘“peć patriarchy’ forms part of the name of the serbian orthodox church and expresses the historical continuity of the serbian orthodox church as canonical heir of the peć patriarchy: in the same way the name ‘ohrid archdiocese’ is part of the name of the macedonian orthodox church.the serbian orthodox church, specifically the peć patriarchy, has no canonical or any other jurisdiction over the macedonian orthodox church or in the territory of the republic of macedonia.” 31.  on 28 july 2009 the registration court dismissed the applicant association’s request for registration in the court register (се одбива барањето за упис) for the following reasons: (a)  it was founded by the so-called holy synod, as a body, which was contrary to section 2 of the 2007 act (see paragraph 49 below) according to which a decision to establish a religious entity was to be taken by the founding members at a constituent assembly.if registration was granted “it would operate in the territory of the respondent state as part of a foreign orthodox church ... it would operate and be managed autonomously within the canonical jurisdiction of the peć patriarchy, notably (the soc) ... which had no canonical or any other jurisdiction over (the moc) or in the territory of (the respondent state).” that was in violation of article 1 of the un declaration on the elimination of all forms of intolerance and of discrimination based on religion or belief, article 18 of the un universal declaration of human rights and article 9 of the convention; (d)  the founding decision had specified only the temporary place of registration of the applicant association, without specifying “a specific seat and address” (точно одредено седиште и адреса), as required under section 13 § 1 (2) of the 2007 act; and (e)  bishop d. was nominated to act on behalf (застапува) of the applicant association, but not to represent (претставува) it, as required under section 12 § 2 (5) of the 2007 act.it would also violate the legitimate legal status of other voluntary associations of persons recorded in the court register ... their management bodies, hierarchy, competencies, titles, religious activities ...” 33.  the applicant appealed, arguing (i) that the court had erred when seeking “an expert opinion” about the meaning of “peć patriarchy” from the moc, which was not neutral; (ii) that the registration of the moc in november 2008 under the name “macedonian orthodox church-ohrid archdiocese” had been unlawful.in this connection, the applicant submitted extracts from several media reports published at the time, according to which the competent body of the moc, at its meeting held on 4 and 5 october 2008, had refused to change the name in its constitution; (iii) that the moc had applied to the bureau for registration of the name “macedonian orthodox church-ohrid archdiocese” as a trademark was irrelevant, since the industrial property act concerned goods and services and not religious organisations.consequently, those names were never registered as trademarks, nor were trademark certificates ever issued; (iv) the applicant association was set up by three founding members who had signed the minutes of the constituent assembly held on 27 april 2009. consequently, the court had been wrong to hold that the founding decision had been rendered by the applicant association’s holy synod, as that body had no legal capacity to act before the applicant association was registered; (v) no reasonable explanation had been given as to why the applicant association’s intended name did not imply that it concerned a religious organisation; (vi) the court’s interpretation that the expression “greek” was an english translation of “orthodox church” was wrong; (vii) the intended name of the applicant association was different from the name of any registered religious organisation, including the name of the moc to which “ohrid archdiocese” had been unlawfully added.this clearly suggests that the court would refuse to register [the applicant association] under any name”; (viii) the registration court had given unsubstantiated explanations of a theological and historical nature favourable to the moc; (ix) the applicable legislation did not preclude a religious community from being in canonical union with other churches in the world; (x) the refusal to register the applicant association violated the freedom of religion of the orthodox greeks and serbs in the respondent state, as the intended name suggested that it represented those communities; and (xii) lastly, the applicant association reiterated that it was ready to rectify any error the registration court might ask it to.referring to the courts’ decisions rejecting the applicant association’s request for registration as “greek-orthodox ohrid archdiocese of the peć patriarchy” and relying on articles 9, 16 and 19 of the constitution and article 9 of the convention, the court stated: “the court cannot examine the appeal on the merits since the complainant did not comply with the formal statutory requirements before a competent court (for registration of the applicant).the refusal he received was for non-compliance with the statutory requirements.” 37.  an article published in the daily newspaper dnevnik on 26 september 2002 quoted the then chairman of the commission (see paragraph 10 above), who stated that: “not at any price will bishop jovan (vraniskoski) be allowed to perform religious rituals or to have a seat in an exarchate.” 38.  an article published in the daily newspaper vest on 8 april 2004 quoted the following part of a joint statement by the then president of the respondent state and the archbishop of the moc: “the moc and the macedonian state are and will remain together.
no inspection of the place of death was performed by the coroner and in his report neither the temperature nor the weight of the body was recorded.9.  on 9 february 2006, following the public announcement concerning the wiretapping case (see §§ 14 – 17 below) and while the investigation into his brother’s death was still ongoing, the first applicant lodged a criminal complaint with the public prosecutor’s office, asking for the scope of the investigation to be expanded.14.  on 2 february 2006 the minister of public order made a statement informing the public that since june 2004 (two months before the olympic games) the telephones of many state officials had been tapped through spyware that had been implanted in the network of phone operator v. the wiretap, installed by persons unknown, had targeted more than 100 of greece’s state officials, including the prime minister and many senior members of the cabinet.mr tsalikidis’ death occurred the day after the spyware had been removed from v.’s network and the day before the relevant ministers were informed and this fact was mentioned in all the newspaper articles, suggesting an association between his death and the wiretapping affair without his involvement in the case being established.the relevant parts of his report read as follows: “... 2. in forming my opinion i have had to rely on a relatively limited group of materials including the original autopsy report translated by mr peter tsalikidis, a set of colour scene photographs (it is not clear to me who took these photographs), scans of white and black photos showing an unclothed body with a ligature mark on mid‑-neck (the detail is poor) and a website videos that were produced for an exposé produced by the al-jazeera network.having said that, the case has a number of disturbing features: (1) the autopsy was grossly inadequate, and even if signs of homicide had been present, they would have been missed; (2) the face was of normal colour – neither congested nor pale; this argues for death before hanging; (3) there was no accumulation of blood in the lower extremities – this absence argues against hanging altogether; (4) the furrow around the neck is in a position more often seen in strangulation than suicide; (5) none of the normal scratch marks normally seen outside of the neck when individuals hang themselves were evident.he identified in particular the lack of reference to the existence or not of haemorrhagic infiltration where the rope was positioned, as well as the precise position of the rope with reference to the neck (obliquely or vertically directed).in particular, he stressed the absence of signs usually found in cases of hanging, that is to say cyanosis of the face, oedema of the face, and projection of the tongue, all of which were not present in this case.25.  as third evidence the applicants submitted a letter dated 15 june 2010 written by the president of the committee on institutions and transparency of the greek parliament and addressed to the public prosecutor at the court of cassation in which the former expressed the view that there had not been sufficient investigation of the relationship between the death of costas tsalikidis and the wiretapping affair.they requested in particular that the following investigative measures be implemented: phone operator v. to be ordered to provide the minutes of the meeting that took place the day before mr tsalikidis was found dead, representatives of v. to confirm officially that mr tsalikidis was the person responsible for accepting on behalf of their company the legal software provided by company e. which was used to activate the program of wiretapping, a forensic examination of the place of death and a reconstruction of the circumstances of the death to be conducted, exhumation and new toxicology tests to be run, a cross‑examination of the applicants’ technical advisors together with coroners g.d.l.they stressed in particular that the scope of the investigation should include the deletion of the illegally installed software from the network of v. and why it was removed before the authorities had been informed.e 2006/1200/29-2-2012, issued by the public prosecutor at the athens court of first instance on 29 february 2012 and addressed to the public prosecutor at the athens court of appeal, approval was sought to reopen the case file pursuant to article 43 § 3 (a) and article 47 § 3 of the code of criminal procedure.28.  on 20 april 2012 the public prosecutor at the athens court of first instance ordered the exhumation of mr tsalikidis’ body, the conduct of a new forensic autopsy and the execution of all laboratory tests to be carried out in a laboratory in the presence of the technical advisors appointed by the applicants.however, in both reports it was stressed that the absence of a positive finding did not preclude the possibility of the administration of poison or medication to the deceased, since a number of factors, such as the lapse of time, could have affected the results.33.  on 16 june 2014 the public prosecutor at the athens court of first instance, with the approval of the public prosecutor at the court of appeal, closed the supplementary investigation, concluding that the above‑mentioned reports, considered in conjunction with the evidence gathered during the main investigation, were sufficient to allow the case file to be archived, thereby upholding the conclusions of order 80/06 issued by the public prosecutor at the athens court of first instance (order no.
had still been in a highly agitated state, lying face down in the van, with the police officers restraining him: one either sitting or kneeling on the victim’s buttocks, and the other holding his legs; his hands were outstretched and fastened by several handcuffs to the back seat of the van; the victim’s head was on the driver’s side, and his right cheek face down on the floor.he added that the police officers had then attempted to handcuff him and that when he had resisted attempts to put him in the police van constable d. had pulled his legs, which had unbalanced him and caused both of them and deputy police sergeant l. to fall over in the police van.through a side window of the police van she stated that she had seen a female and a male police officer trampling on the spot while hanging on to the roof of the van, one administering three punches in a downwards movement and lifting his knee up very high before bringing it down in one sharp movement.he said that the blows administered by constable m. and described as “two punches to the suspect’s abdominal area with the aim of distracting and and securely handcuffing him [were] among the priority areas for attempting to weaken the resistance of the person concerned.the death is due to natural causes.” 35.  on 10 december 2010 dr t. and dr f. produced their anatomopathological expert report after examining a copy of the autopsy report of 16 november 2009, a copy of the interviews with the members of the police patrol team who had arrested m.b., a copy of the record of examination of two witnesses, various sealed samples collected both by dr h. and by professor l. and dr r.: “[m.b] died suddenly of cardiac rhythm disorders owing to a coronary spasm triggered by a context of intense and prolonged emotional and physical stress.... in conclusion, the intense and prolonged emotional stress, and the prolonged and severe agitation, which started in the pharmacy and contined during the arrest explain the series of physiopathological phenomena which caused the death: (1) intense stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system (adrenergic neuro-hormonal system), (2) coronary-ischemic spasm, (3) fatal cardiac rhythm disorders.” 36.  on 14 and 16 december 2010 and 19 january 2011 the four police officers appeared for the first time as assisted witnesses.during the visit to the scene the forensic doctor stated that he had not noted any traumatic injury consistent with the violence described by the witness ms s, the only injuries suggesting direct action by a third party being those corresponding to the punches administered to the stomach.the superficial injuries observed, during the autopsy, to the right-hand side of the face and the front of the knees [appear to him] compatible with immobilisation on the floor of the van and the petechial injuries to the upper abdomen and the left abdominal region are compatible with punches administered as described in the autopsy report.” 39.  on 25 november 2011 the ombudsman, an institution independent of the state, having the task, inter alia, of ensuring compliance by the police with their code of professional ethics, to whom a member of parliament had submitted the case, produced a report.he found that whilst the police officers had been very quick to seek the assistance of the fire brigade and the emergency medical service, it was regrettable that the situation had been inaccurately described by the incident room to the firemen prior to their intervention (the latter had been informed of m.b.’s “withdrawal symptoms”).the ombudsman concluded that the precipitation with which the police had acted had led them to make an erroneous assessment of m.b.’s situation and to react in a stereotypical manner rather than adjust their conduct during the intervention, despite the fact that they knew that m.b.the judges found that the evidence given by ms s. had been invalidated by the observations made during the reconstruction, the statements made by the pharmacists and the conclusions of the forensic doctor.as the police did not know about [m.b.’s] heart disease, of which he himself was unaware, they could not foresee that the combination of these two factors [stress and heart disease] could create a risk for the victim.” 44.  the judges considered that the force used by the police officers had been necessary and proportionate “even if being pinned down in the van, by l. and p. and m.’s position – standing on [m.b.’s] legs – may appear objectionable in absolute terms”.on 16 october 2013 the investigation division of the besançon court of appeal upheld the decision finding no case to answer on the following grounds: “[m.b.’s death was due] according to the forensic doctor who carried out the initial autopsy ... to heart failure in circumstances of stress and effort acting on a predisposed heart condition; the second forensic report supported the finding of cutaneous injuries that could not have been a contributory cause of death and ruled out death due to chest compression; the experts indicated that the death of [m.b.]had been pinned to the floor of the van in conditions that had been “admittedly unusual, or even objectionable”, but that these had preserved the respiratory capacity and ventilation of a person who “was continuing to oppose strong resistance to the police officers”.on 18 november 2014 the court of cassation dismissed their appeal on the following grounds: “ ... the court of cassation is satisfied on the basis of the grounds of the judgment being appealed that in upholding the decision finding no case to answer the investigation division, after analysing all the facts referred to it and addressing the main grounds in the statement of appeal, gave sufficient and coherent reasons for their finding that the investigation had been thorough and that there was insufficient evidence on which to convict the persons charged with of manslaughter or any other offence ...” ...
5.  the applicant company is a limited liability company registered in the town of kstovo, in the nizhegorodskiy region.6.  the applicant company is the founder, editor and publisher of a local newspaper, zemlyaki, printed in kstovo and distributed in the kstovskiy district.7.  in 2004 the applicant company published a series of articles commenting on the professional activity of y.l., the then head of the kstovo district administration (“the district administration”).8.  in an article published in issue 11 (400) dated 6 march 2004 and entitled “success has turned his head” (“головокружение от успехов”), n.g., a member of a local council, contested the validity of the district administration’s policy concerning spending and property management in respect of 2003 in the following terms: “... i do not object for the sake of objecting, y.l.the trade committee is renting out the land for street commerce, but the profits somehow do not get back into the budget.i would not be surprised if [the shops] were sold by the trade committee to the ‘right people’, avoiding an open auction and following a well-established scheme (as was the case with your mercedes car).11.  on 31 august 2004 the court issued a judgment in which it granted y.l.’s claims against the applicant company and n.g.the court reasoned as follows: “... examining the text of the publication, the court comes to a conclusion that the information contained in issue no.13 (402) dated 20 march 2004 in the article ‘the golden grin awards’ is defamatory to the claimant’s honour, dignity and reputation; and in particular, in the article ‘success has turned his head’, the defendant n.g.compares the claimant’s activity as the head of the administration to the actions of a marmoset, eventually calling that marmoset a fool.evgenyev, the meaning of word ‘marmoset’ is defined as ‘a little monkey with long limbs, a long tail and a short muzzle’, and the meaning of the word ‘fool’ as ... ‘a stupid, dumb person, in ancient times, a court or domestic jester’.in the article ‘the golden grin awards’ the defendant placed the claimant’s photograph in a photo collage with a muslim turban and a beard, having added to the portrait the following text in bold ‘we could blow anything up.1, the court finds that the publication is defamatory to the honour, dignity and business reputation of the claimant and creates an image of an aggressive, cruel and fanatical actor....” 12.  the court declared the information in question erroneous and defamatory, and ordered the applicant company to pay an amount of a symbolic value to the claimant in damages and publish a retraction phrased in the following terms: “the editorial board of the [applicant company] offers its apologies to the head of the kstovo district administration, y.l., for the unethical comparison of [his] actions with the actions of the marmoset, called a ‘fool’, ... as well as for the photo collage of y.l ... the editorial board recognises that the photo collage is unfounded, incorrect and injurious, and once again offers its apologies to y.l.” 13.  the applicant company appealed against the judgment of 31 august 2004, relying on, among other things, the case-law of the court and the failure of the kstovo city court to draw a distinction between statements of facts and value judgments, and the statements of politicians and those of the general public.it held as follows: “having examined the case-file, the text of the publication [...] the [first instance] court rightly concluded that the information at issue defamed the honour, dignity and business reputation of y.l.
7.  in 1998 the federal migration service (“the fms”) provided the applicants and the first applicant’s mother with a room in a three-room flat.8.  in october 2000 the fms extended the forced migrant status of the first applicant and her mother until 2 june 2001.10.  on 8 november 2001 the fms deprived the first applicant of her status as a forced migrant on the grounds that she had not applied in due time for it to be extended.in particular, the court held that the first applicant had had valid reasons for missing the deadline for applying for an extension of her forced migrant status.20.  on 25 january 2011 the st petersburg city court quashed the decision of 3 november 2010 and dismissed the first applicant’s complaint against the decision of the fms of 25 january 2010. the court held, in particular, that between 2003 and 2010 the first applicant had not tried to contest the refusals of the fms of 8 november 2001, 20 february and 8 may 2003 to re-establish her forced migrant status, which showed that she had lost interest in having that status.in her complaint the first applicant had contested the decision of 25 january 2010 and therefore, it was irrelevant whether she had had valid reasons for missing the deadline for applying for an extension of her status.the court held, that the decision of 25 january 2010 had been based on section 5 (4), of the federal law on forced migrants, which provided that the extension of the status of forced migrants could be granted only at their request (see relevant domestic law below).22.  the local authorities objected to the eviction, because the room was the only dwelling available to the second applicant.[the first applicant] lost her forced migrant status in 2001, her minor son has never had such a status, and therefore the court comes to the conclusion that the respondents unlawfully occupy the disputed housing and should be evicted without the provision of any alternative accommodation ...” 25.  the applicants lodged an appeal against the eviction order, submitting that their eviction was disproportionate since the court had not taken their arguments into account.[the first applicant] in her grounds of appeal, whereby the eviction from the disputed housing without the provision of any alternative accommodation is a violation of their [the applicants’] housing rights, since they do not have any other housing.the housing stock aimed at providing forced migrants with temporary housing is for a strictly designated use – the provision with housing of individuals who have been legally acknowledged to be forced migrants and their family members; the loss or deprivation of the status of forced migrant implies the loss of the right to live in the housing, termination of the social tenancy agreement and the obligation to vacate the occupied accommodation ...” 27.  the applicants did not lodge a cassation appeal against the above decisions.29.  on 13 may 2013 the first applicant asked the administration of the primorskiy district of st petersburg to provide her with alternative accommodation.30.  on 12 august 2013 the administration of the primorskiy district of st petersburg concluded an agreement with the first applicant for use of social accommodation free of charge for a period of one year.32.  on 11 march 2015 the enforcement proceedings were terminated on the grounds that the applicants had voluntarily vacated the room.35.  according to the information provided by the government, in 2016 the administration of the primorskiy district of st petersburg prepared a draft order for the removal of the second applicant from the waiting list of persons eligible for social housing.
10.  on 1 july and 26 october 2011 respectively, the bratislava i district court and, following an appeal by the mother, the bratislava regional court, ordered the return of the children to ireland as their country of habitual residence and issued several ancillary orders.14.  on 26 march 2012 the district court stayed the enforcement proceedings on the return order pending the outcome of the mother’s request to the prosecutor general.firstly, they concluded that there already existed a previous decision on provisional measures, which had been delivered by the michalovce district court on 16 may 2011. that decision had temporarily entrusted the children to the care of the mother and required the applicant to pay child maintenance in the meantime.given the fact that the mother had not been identified as the recipient and that the applicant had not been provisionally entrusted with the care of the children, the order could not be enforced.he referred to the shortcomings in the order as identified by the enforcement courts and asked the court to specify to whom the order had been directed and to provide a time frame for the return of the children.19.  on 9 july 2014 the constitutional court declared the complaint admissible and on 27 may 2015 it found on the merits that the košice regional court had violated the applicant’s rights, as specified below (“the first constitutional judgment”).21.  the constitutional court found that the regional court’s decision had been taken on purely formal grounds and had been arbitrary and in contravention of the code of civil procedure, the brussels ii bis regulation, the hague convention and the constitution.22.  consequently, the constitutional court quashed the contested decision, remitted the applicant’s appeal against the district court’s decision of 18 october 2012 to the regional court for re‑examination and awarded him 3,000 euros (eur) in compensation for non‑pecuniary damage.24.  following the first constitutional judgment, the enforcement proceedings resumed before the regional court, which heard the case on 3 august 2015. it acknowledged that it was bound by the constitutional court’s judgment.however, having regard to the considerable length of time that had elapsed, it deemed it necessary to assess afresh all the circumstances decisive for the enforcement of the return order, such as the children’s whereabouts, their health and the possibility of their returning to ireland.it relied on medical reports concerning the children’s health, a psychological report referring to negative consequences for them if they were separated from the mother and an opinion from the court-appointed guardian (the michalovce office of employment, social affairs and family) about the stable family environment they had while living with their mother.relying on the convention on the rights of the child and the court’s grand chamber judgment in the case of neulinger and shuruk v. switzerland (no.having regard to the sensitive nature of the matter and its importance for the applicant’s enjoyment of his parental rights, the constitutional court found that the district court had proceeded with the matter over a long time (for more than four years) and inefficiently (it had stayed the proceedings, delivered an arbitrary enforcement decision on the first occasion, and had taken lengthy procedural steps).moreover, the constitutional court found that there had been a violation of the applicant’s right to respect for his family life as a consequence of the fact that throughout the enforcement proceedings, whose length had been in breach of his right to a hearing within a reasonable time, he had been unable to assert his parental rights before the competent courts.30.  after the enforcement proceedings had been completed by a final and binding decision and before the second constitutional judgment had been issued, the applicant applied to the constitutional court a third time on 14 october 2016. he relied on that occasion on article 6 (fairness and length) in conjunction with articles 13 and 8 (family life) of the convention and challenged the decisions of 15 april and 3 august 2016 (see paragraphs 26 and 27 above) on their merits.
5.  the applicant was born in 1984 and is currently being detained in a correctional colony in the village of torbeyevo, mordovia republic, russia.6.  on 21 april 2005 the applicant was convicted during a public hearing of murder and was sentenced to imprisonment.he and his lawyer had had thirty-five minutes to study the case file, which consisted of five volumes.the conviction was upheld on appeal in a public hearing on 18 august 2005 (“the 2005 proceedings”).7.  on 30 july 2010 the appeal judgment was quashed by way of a supervisory review (on grounds not related to the applicant’s article 6 complaints in respect of the 2005 proceedings) as the applicant’s right to defence had been breached during the appeal hearing.8.  the applicant was allowed to re-read the case file within the new appeal proceedings.he and his lawyer had five days, from 4 to 8 october 2010, to study the now six-volume case file (about 1,500 pages) in remand prison no.iz-24/1 in krasnoyarsk, where the applicant was being detained.the applicant was allegedly held in a metal cage while studying the case, without a table or any other facilities to take notes.after studying the case file both the applicant and the lawyer filed appeals.in his appeal statements the applicant analysed the case materials in detail, referred extensively to all the main items of evidence, including expert opinions and witness testimony, and referred to exact pages in the case file.9.  the applicant’s case was examined by the supreme court of russia (“the supreme court”) over four hearings, three of which (21 october, 30 november and 16 december 2010), according to the trial record and the court’s procedural decisions, were held in camera.the case file did not contain any formal decision by the supreme court to close the hearings to the public.the applicant was represented by two lawyers who confirmed to the court that they had had enough time to study the case file.10.  on 16 december 2010 the supreme court upheld the judgment of 21 april 2005. the supreme court’s judgment was delivered to the remand prison, where the applicant was still being detained, on 11 january 2011 (“the 2010 proceedings”).
the first applicant is the mother, the second applicant is a daughter, and the third applicant is the widow of the late mr kaimov.17.  on 22 april, 31 may and 8 june 2010 the doctor responsible for mr kaimov’s treatment again noted in the medical file that the patient was not taking his drugs as prescribed and insisted that he should follow medical instructions properly.22.  according to the government, the investigating authorities carried out a criminal inquiry into the circumstances of mr kaimov’s death, which ended with a decision of 21 july 2010 not to open a criminal case.23.  on 22 november 2010 mr k. asked the head of the investigative committee of the republic of tatarstan to investigate the circumstances of mr kaimov’s death.24.  the investigating authorities interviewed mr k., who confirmed his statements, and ms i., the head of the tuberculosis unit responsible for mr kaimov’s treatment in 2009 and 2010. the doctor stated that the patient had received tuberculosis treatment until late may 2010, when he had refused to take any drugs.25.  on 6 december 2010, citing statements by ms i., the investigating authorities concluded that there had been no appearance of negligence on the part of the medical authorities.27.  the investigator again refused to open a criminal case on 5 january 2011. that decision was annulled by the higher-ranking authority on 15 march 2011 for want of necessary investigative measures, in view of the investigator’s failure to rectify the shortcomings already identified in the previous review decisions.29.  in the meantime, mr k. submitted a new criminal complaint to the central inter-district department of the investigative committee in the republic of tatarstan.the authorities were called on to verify whether the alleged inaction of the medical authorities had amounted to the deprivation of medical care, an offence under the russian criminal code.relying on the above statements and mr kaimov’s medical history, he found that the latter’s death had resulted from his own careless decision in not taking the prescribed drugs, and that the medical authorities had taken all reasonable steps to convince him to re-initiate the treatment.32.  the first applicant appealed against the decision of 29 may 2011. her appeal was rejected, in the final instance, by the supreme court of the tatarstan republic on 11 october 2011. the courts concluded that the investigation into mr kaimov’s death had been thorough and comprehensive.the decision refusing the institution of criminal proceedings had been based on the examination of the medical file and statements by a number of witnesses, including the medical personnel of the prison hospital.the courts endorsed the investigator’s conclusion that mr kaimov had refused treatment and had not followed the recommendations of the medical personnel.the courts also noted that the first applicant had been aware of mr kaimov’s behaviour and had not made any complaints about the quality of the treatment at that time.33.  following the communication of the application to the russian government, they submitted that on 13 and 26 february 2015 the decisions of 27 march and 29 may 2011, respectively, had been overruled by higher‑ranking officials and additional investigative measures had been ordered.
4.  the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in yerevan.5.  on 16 august 2004 he was charged with fraud in armenia and the kentron and nork-marash district court in yerevan issued an arrest warrant.6.  on 8 november 2006 the applicant was arrested in ufa, russia.on an unspecified date the russian prosecutor general received an extradition request from his armenian counterpart.7.  on an application a district prosecutor in ufa, on 27 december 2006 the kirovskiy district court in ufa remanded the applicant in custody, without setting a time-limit for his detention.on 13 february 2007 the supreme court of bashkortostan upheld the detention order on appeal.8.  on 23 march 2007 a deputy prosecutor general granted the extradition request; on 17 july 2007 the supreme court of russia upheld that decision in final instance.9.  on 24 august 2007 the applicant was extradited to armenia where he was acquitted of all charges and released.10.  on 16 february 2008, when attempting to return to russia, the applicant was detained by the russian border control and held in custody until 22 february 2008. the parties did not produce a record of the applicant’s arrest or any judicial decision authorising his detention.
5.  the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in ercsi.6.  on 28 february 2007 the applicant filed an action with the székesfehérvár labour court against his former employer, claiming unlawful dismissal.on 6 june 2008 the court found in his favour and obliged the respondent to the action to pay him a severance payment, outstanding wages, a lump sum in compensation, and default interest.7.  on appeal, on 25 february 2009 the fejér county regional court changed the judgment in part.in june 2009 the respondent filed a petition for review.8.  in an order of 2 june 2010 the supreme court forwarded the respondent’s petition to the applicant and informed him that, within eight days of receiving the order, he could file comments on the respondent’s petition and/or request an oral hearing.9.  on 7 june 2010 the applicant received the order, and on 14 june 2010 he dispatched his comments on the petition for review.the document was received by the supreme court on 17 june 2010.10.  meanwhile, on 16 june 2010 the supreme court, sitting as a review court, had given a judgment in which it had reversed the previous decisions and dismissed the applicant’s action.the court stated that the applicant had not filed any comments on the petition for review.11.  the applicant complained and addressed his complaint of 6 december 2010 to the president of the supreme court.the head of the civil division informed him that his comments on the petition for review had been belated.
4.  the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in groznyy in the chechen republic.5.  on 23 june 2012 the applicant was arrested in connection with a drug-related offence and placed in custody.6.  on 14 august 2012 the oktyabrskiy district court of groznyy found the applicant guilty and sentenced him to one year’s imprisonment.7.  on 14 november 2012 the supreme court of the chechen republic quashed the conviction and ordered a retrial.8.  on 30 may 2013 the oktyabrskiy district court again convicted the applicant and sentenced him to one year’s imprisonment.the court stated that the “preventive measure [should] remain unchanged until the conviction [had become] final”.9.  on 24 june 2013 counsel for the applicant asked the director of the remand prison to release the applicant since he had already served the one-year sentence.on the same day a judge of the district court faxed a letter to the director, informing him that the applicant should not be released until the supreme court had examined the matter on appeal since the district court ordered the preventive measure to remain unchanged.10.  on 3 july 2013 the supreme court upheld the conviction and the applicant was released.
(the chief officer on duty in the iv zagreb police station) and n.v. (the deputy head of iv zagreb police station) were informed of the use of force against the applicant.all these reports alleged that the applicant, in attempting to flee from the police officers, had fallen and that while on the ground had actively resisted the police officers, who had then applied the armlock technique and handcuffed him.14.  on 21 december 2012 the head of iv police station in zagreb, s.t., compiled a report for the public-order division of the zagreb police, on the basis of the report of a.l.stated that the applicant had said that he had fallen and that the police officers had caught him and applied force against him and denied that he had resisted arrest.in a short report of 28 december 2012 the head of the zagreb police, g.b., concluded that the information gathered had shown that the use of force by officers v.b.15.  on 28 december 2012 the head of the zagreb police informed the head of iv police station in zagreb that, on the basis of the report of a.l., he considered the force used by officers v.b.against the applicant to have had a “basis in law and [to have been] justified” 16.  on 3 january 2013 the head of the zagreb police sent the case file concerning the internal police investigation to the internal control service of the ministry of the interior.upon inspecting the file the internal control service instructed the police to forward the file to the zagreb municipal state attorney’s office (hereinafter the “zmsao”) for further assessment.17.  on the instructions of the head of the zagreb police, on 5 february 2013 the iv police station in zagreb sent a report on the events at issue together with the applicant’s medical report to the zmsao.18.  on 6 february 2013, upon a request by the applicant’s lawyer, the head of the iv police station in zagreb shortly informed the applicant’s lawyer that the force used against the applicant by the two police officers had had a basis in law and had been justified.19.  on 15 may 2013 the head of iv police station in zagreb compiled a report for the legal, financial and technical tasks division of the zagreb police, where he described in detail the events at issue and the results of the internal police investigation with a final conclusion that the use of force against the applicant had had a basis in law and had been justified.23.  the zmsao attempted to contact the applicant on six occasions between 27 november 2014 and 15 september 2015. however, these attempts were unsuccessful since the applicant had changed his address and had not replied to the telephone calls on the mobile telephone number provided by his lawyer.25.  on 13 october 2015 the zmsao interviewed the applicant, who said that during his arrest on 20 december 2012 one of the police officers, when applying the armlock technique, had broken his right arm.28.  on 13 january 2016 the zmsao interviewed b.z., a witness to the applicant’s arrest, who said that the applicant had attempted to run from the police and had fallen and that he had not seen any police officers hitting or kicking the applicant.30.  on 28 august 2013 the applicant instituted civil proceedings in the zagreb municipal civil court (općinski građanski sud u zagrebu) against the state claiming damages in connection with his alleged ill-treatment by the police during his arrest and stay in the police station.
6.  the case file indicates that in april 2001 and march 2005 the applicant was found guilty of various criminal offences, but his prison sentence was suspended for health reasons (cardiovascular and lung disorders, high blood pressure, a left bundle branch block, and tuberculosis of the left lung).the court further decided that the aggregate term of imprisonment to be served pursuant to that judgment and the judgment of 14 june 2007 should be fixed at thirty years.10.  the judgment of 25 september 2007 was altered on appeal on 21 january 2008. the prison sentence for the offences committed in 2005 was reduced to ten years, but the total sentence to be served remained unchanged at thirty years.12.  the applicant entered the prison system with a history of tuberculosis of the left lung.on 10 april 2008 he was transferred to the department of prisons’ medical facility (“the prison hospital”), where an x‑ray of his lungs was performed.on 6 may 2008 additional blood tests revealed that the applicant did not have aids, but it was not possible at that stage to determine the presence of the hepatitis c antibody in his blood.in addition to being treated by a dentist, according to the medical file, the applicant had a consultation with a neurologist and an endocrinologist because he was experiencing persistent headaches.15.  on 8, 9, 15 and 24 september 2008 the applicant applied to the prison authorities to be returned to the prison hospital “for serious health reasons”.on 10 september 2008 the prison authorities forwarded the applicant’s letters to the governor of rustavi prison no.on 11 november 2008 the public defender sent a report on the meeting to the prison governor and requested news of the applicant’s state of health.20.  on 29 december 2008 the public defender wrote a letter to the minister of justice, the head of the prisons department, and the governor of rustavi prison no.6, challenging the effectiveness of the insurance company with which the ministry of prisons had concluded a contract, on the basis of, inter alia, the applicant’s case.while discussing in detail the failures and shortcomings of the existing insurance scheme, the public defender recommended that the relevant authorities annul the relevant contract.on 23 january 2009 bacteriological tests revealed the presence of tuberculosis bacteria, and the applicant was immediately put on a dots (directly observed treatment, short‑course) programme, the treatment strategy for the detection and cure of tuberculosis, as recommended by the world health organisation.27.  according to a letter from the prison governor dated 24 june 2008, the applicant was only visited by his family once during his time in that prison, on 22 april 2008.
7.  the applicant was a member of the icelandic parliament (althingi) during the years 1987 to 2009. he served as minister of finance in the years 1998 to 2005, minister for foreign affairs from 2005 to 2006 and prime minister from 2006 to 2009. after parliamentary elections in may 2007 the applicant led the government which was formed by the independence party (sjálfstæðisflokkurinn), of which he was a member, and the social democratic alliance (samfylkingin).this included the applicant and two other ministers from his cabinet, the minister of finance, mr árni m. mathiesen from the independence party, and the minister of business affairs, mr björgvin g. sigurðsson from the social democratic alliance, who were found to have shown negligence by omitting to respond in an appropriate fashion to the impending danger for the icelandic economy that was caused by the deteriorating situation of the banks.there was nevertheless specific reason to do so, especially after the meeting on 7 february 2008 between him, ingibjörg sólrún gísladóttur, árni m. mathiesen and the chairman of the board of governors of the central bank of iceland; after his and ingibjörg sólrún gísladóttir’s meeting on 1 april 2008 with the board of governors of the central bank of iceland; and following a declaration to the swedish, danish and norwegian central banks, which was signed on 15 may 2008. the prime minister did not initiate a formal ministerial meeting on the situation nor did he provide the government with a separate report on the problem of the banks or its possible effect on the icelandic state.25.  the case was filed by the prosecution with the court of impeachment on 7 june 2011. the prosecution argued, inter alia, in respect of count 2 of the indictment, that the matter of the banking system and the risk of financial crisis had been important government matters and could hardly have been more important.32.  by a judgment of 23 april 2012 the court of impeachment unanimously acquitted the applicant of counts 1.3, 1.4 and 1.5 of the indictment, finding that the prosecution had not established that the actions which he was accused of having neglected could or would have averted the danger facing the icelandic financial institutions and the state treasury or reduced it considerably.33.  as to the criminal liability under the ministerial accountability act, the court generally stated: “the accountability provided for in article 14 of the constitution and article 1 of [the ministerial accountability act] represents an addition to the parliamentary and political responsibility borne by a minister towards parliament in respect of the discharge of his duties of office on the basis of parliamentary rule.section 1(2) of the aforementioned act.” 34.  the court went on to make the following remarks about section 8(c) of the ministerial accountability act: “according to section 8(c) of [the act] it is punishable if a minister, apart from the incidents described in points (a) and (b) of the section, ‘by other means personally implements, orders the implementation or allows the implementation of any measure that contravenes the constitution of the republic, or fails to implement any measure prescribed therein, or causes neglect of such implementation’.accordingly, it falls within the conduct description of this provision to fail to comply with the duty, provided for in article 17 of the constitution, to hold ministerial meetings ‘to discuss new legislative proposals and important government matters’.” 35.  in regard to the applicant’s motion to have the whole case dismissed due to the alleged lack of clarity of section 8(c) of the ministerial accountability act, the court of impeachment considered that the words “important government matters” in article 17 of the constitution, to which section 8(c) referred, could easily be understood by a reasonable man in the office held by the applicant and that the provisions contained predictable and reasonable criteria regarding the minister’s discharge of official duties.it concluded as follows: “... these two features, that the constitutional provisions on ministerial meetings has remained substantially unchanged despite the change in iceland’s constitutional position in 1944 and that a distinction was made between matters to be discussed at ministerial meetings, on the one hand, and those to be submitted to the state council, on the other, in the first act on the government offices of iceland, unequivocally support a literal interpretation of the instruction under article 17 of the constitution.39.  as regards the specific conduct imputed to the applicant, the court stated, inter alia, the following: “according to that which has been related above, it is considered proved beyond doubt in the case that the great danger facing the icelandic banks and thus the welfare of the state was not discussed at cabinet meetings in the period from february 2008 until the end of september the same year.last but not least it is proven that those two aforesaid documents that were forwarded to foreign authorities [a declaration of 16 may 2008 signed by the defendant, the ministers of foreign affairs and finance and the board of governors of the central bank of iceland to the central banks of sweden, denmark and norway on the completion of currency swap agreements and a letter of 20 august 2008 by the ministry of business affairs to the uk treasury providing answers to certain questions posed by the latter] and contained, on the one hand, obligations, and, on the other, promises, in the name of the government, were not discussed at its meetings.the defendant’s conduct of failing to comply with article 17 of the constitution where it prescribes that ministerial meetings should be held on important government matters ... not only led to a breach against a procedural rule but also contributed to the fact that a political policy to address the huge problem of which the defendant must have been aware in february 2008 was not formulated at the level of the cabinet of ministers.if such a policy had been formulated and then implemented in an organised manner, including action by the central bank of iceland and the financial supervisory authority, it may be argued that it would have been possible to lessen the harm caused by the collapse of the banks in the beginning of october 2008. it is also likely that the authorities would then have been better prepared for taking a position towards the request of glitnir bank hf.... [i]t must be regarded as gross carelessness on the part of the defendant to have failed to take up the issues related above for discussion at cabinet meetings, as he was aware or at least should have been aware that they were of such importance, and of such nature, as an integral part of the government’s economic policy, that he had a duty to do so.” 40.  the applicant was consequently convicted of a violation of section 8(c) of the ministerial accountability act, for having by gross negligence failed to hold ministerial meetings on important government matters as prescribed in article 17 of the constitution.it expressed the following view on the history of articles 16 and 17 of the constitution: “according to the interpretation of article 17 of the constitution related above, the duty to hold ministerial meetings only extended to meetings on matters to be submitted to the state council and matters which individual ministers wished to raise, and the actual practice in respect of the functions of ministerial meetings has been in keeping with this ever since.
the supervisory board consists of three members of the regional government, one person who is appointed by the regional government and two representatives of the employees of the kabeg.was the chairperson of the supervisory board and leader of the parliamentary group (fraktionsführer) of the freedom party of carinthia (freiheitliche partei in kärnten) in the carinthian regional parliament (landtag).10.  because of financial problems, rehiring (wiedereinstellung) of high‑level managers and accusations of tortious interference on the part of politicians in the recruitment process, management errors and corruption within the kabeg, a public debate arose in 2010. on 28 october 2010 the medical director of klagenfurt regional hospital (landeskrankenhaus), who was in charge at that time, criticised i.m.these minutes were drafted after the employees’ meeting on 28 october 2010 in the course of a subsequent meeting in the office of the board of management and they state: ‘[i.m.]([freedom party of carinthia]), chairperson of the supervisory board, who also put pressure on journalists in respect of critical reports on the kabeg, is supposed to be the spiritus rector of the spying operation.]’s version ...” 12.  on 10 january 2012 k.s., referring to the statement, that he was supposed to be the spiritus rector of the spying operation, initiated private prosecution proceedings for defamation under the media act (mediengesetz) against the applicant company.15.  on 18 april 2012, following a prior complaint lodged by k.s., the vienna court of appeal (oberlandesgericht) quashed the regional criminal court’s decision of 21 march 2012 and ordered it to initiate proceedings under the media act against the applicant company.assuming that the statement was to be understood in the way set out in the court of appeal’s judgment of 18 april 2012, and noting that the applicant company had not provided evidence as to the truth of the allegation, it found that the article and statement qualified as defamation within the meaning of article 111 § 1 and 2 of the criminal code (strafgesetzbuch).it held that describing someone as the spiritus rector of a negatively connoted spying operation had left no doubt for the readers addressed that the suggestion had been that this person had been the initiator and spin doctor of this operation.as regards the applicant company’s complaint about the amount of compensation granted, the court of appeal held that it did not even amount to 10% of the maximum compensation permitted by law, and was not excessive in relation to the circulation of the newspaper and the online news portal.20.  the applicant company subsequently lodged an application for renewal of the criminal proceedings (erneuerung des strafverfahrens) under article 363a of the code of criminal procedure (strafprozeßordnung) with the supreme court (oberster gerichtshof), complaining under article 10 of the convention of a violation of its right to freedom of expression.it stated that the court of appeal’s considerations as to the qualification of the statement as a statement of fact did not raise concerns, and held that such statements of fact, which had not been proven to be true and were thus defamatory, were not protected by article 10. it concluded that the interference with the applicant company’s right to freedom of expression had been prescribed by law, had pursued the legitimate aim of protecting the reputation of others and had been necessary in the circumstances of the case, in particular taking into account the low amount of compensation granted.26.  on 19 november 2012 the commercial court granted the injunction, finding that the criminal conviction in the proceedings under the media act had binding effect on the injunction proceedings.it confirmed that, in line with the supreme court’s case-law, the conviction in the proceedings under the media act was binding, both in relation to the established elements of facts and the legal assessment.in particular, a final conviction under section 6 of the media act establishing that a particular media content fulfilled the objective elements of defamation would determine – in a way that was binding and not revisable in the civil proceedings – that the audience understood the media content as defamatory.
10.  acting on the evidence presented in the police report (see paragraph 9 above), on 21 july 2008 the pula county state attorney’s office (županijsko državno odvjetništvo u puli) asked an investigating judge from the pula county court (županijski sud u puli) to authorise the use of special investigative measures in respect of the applicant, namely tapping his telephone, covertly monitoring him using undercover agents, and conducting a simulated purchase operation.as the materials and information available to the police suggest that there is probably cause to believe that zoran grba, a national of bosnia and herzegovina, engages in the offence of currency counterfeiting under article 274 §§ 1 and 2 of the criminal code, and given that, in the view of the investigating judge, the investigation cannot be efficiently carried out by other means, or would be extremely difficult, the well-founded request of the [pula county state attorney’s office] should be granted and the requested measures are hereby ordered with regard to zoran grba as indicated in the operative part of this order.the judge found that the grounds set out in his order of 21 july 2008 remained valid (see paragraph 11 above) and that the information provided by the police suggested that it was necessary to extend the use of special investigative measures in respect of the applicant for a further month.on the same day, the investigating judge opened an investigation in respect of the applicant in connection with suspected currency counterfeiting relating to the four occasions on which he had sold the counterfeit banknotes to the undercover agents.26.  in the course of the investigation, the investigating judge obtained an expert report stating that the 600 banknotes of 100 euro which the applicant had sold to the undercover agents were counterfeit.35.  at a hearing on 27 march 2009 the applicant, represented by a lawyer, pleaded not guilty with regard to the first three instances of the alleged uttering of counterfeit notes (see paragraphs 14-15 above), whereas he considered himself “responsible” for the transaction on 22 november 2008 because he had “given in to the inducement” by the police.37.  following the questioning of the witnesses, the trial bench examined the secret surveillance recordings and asked the police to inform them whether the euros paid for the counterfeit notes at the first three meetings (see paragraphs 14-15 above) had been traced and confiscated.the trial bench of the pazin municipal court dismissed the request by the defence as irrelevant and adjourned the hearing in order to examine the recordings of the applicant’s secret surveillance.55.  with regard to the applicant’s plea of entrapment, the pazin municipal court observed: “in the case at issue, examination of the audio recordings of the phone taps confirmed the circumstances surrounding the communication between the undercover agents and the accused, in particular the intensity of the telephone communications.taking note of the recorded statements of the undercover agents during their communications [with the applicant], it was established that the purpose of the communications was [organising] a meeting with the accused in order to effectuate a simulated purchase.the investigating judge’s order ... of 18 november 2008 shows that the use of [special investigative] measures was extended for a month from 21 november to 21 december 2008. it is apparent from the order that, in response to an application by the state attorney’s office, the investigating judge extended the use of [special investigative] measures for appropriate reasons.first contacted the accused without telling him the reason for the contact, as was established by the first-instance court from the statement of e.k., and the fact that the first meeting took place almost a month later (on 6 august 2008) ‒ when the undercover agent in duga resa bought one 100 euro counterfeit note from the accused for the amount of hrk 300 ‒ cannot be considered as an incitement but was a tactical action aimed at gaining the confidence of the accused and further uttering of counterfeit euros.the fact that the undercover agent succeeded in his task is self‑evident, since the accused continued to sell him larger quantities of counterfeit euros for real euros until he was arrested.” 58.  on 6 november 2010 the applicant filed a request for extraordinary review of a final judgment before the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske), challenging the findings of the pula county court.furthermore, the pula county court had not taken into account the fact that the majority of the contacts with the applicant had been initiated by the undercover agents, and it had not analysed the substance of their discussions, even though they had been duly recorded, as a result of the applicant’s phone having been tapped.it also considered that there had been sufficient basis for the use of secret surveillance and that the orders of the investigating judge had been issued in accordance with the relevant provisions of the code of criminal procedure.
9.  on 6 april 2005, in view of the absence of any positive changes in mr r.’s health, he was moved to a prison tuberculosis hospital.12.  in the light of the above, on 23 april 2005 mr r. was transferred to the arkhangelsk regional prison tuberculosis hospital (“regional prison hospital”), where his treatment continued as previously prescribed.in early may 2005 both the applicant and mr r. unsuccessfully sought the latter’s transfer to a medical facility located in a southern region, where mr r. could have been provided with adequate treatment in a more suitable climate.15.  on 18 july 2005 the regional prison hospital received the result of the drug susceptibility test of 12 april 2005. it revealed that mr r.’s tuberculosis was resistant to four antibiotics being used in his treatment.16.  according to a medical entry made at the top of a page outside the related fields in mr r.’s medical file, on 28 july 2005 he was prescribed treatment with advanced antibiotics.the investigator concluded that mr r. had died of tuberculosis for which he had received medical treatment, and that the patient’s detention in a northern region had not breached russian law.20.  in november 2006 the applicant repeated his request, having argued that the custodial authorities bore responsibility for his son’s death because they had failed to protect him from tuberculosis and to ensure prompt diagnosis of the disease.21.  by a letter of 9 january 2007 a prosecutor informed the applicant that a criminal inquiry had established that his son had contracted tuberculosis in early march 2005. the correctional colony had promptly identified the disease and had ensured treatment keeping the disease under control.22.  the applicant appealed against the decision of 21 october 2006, insisting that the investigator’s finding had not been supported by expert evidence.he further argued that the detention authorities had failed not only to diagnose his son’s tuberculosis promptly, but also to provide him with adequate care in the regional prison hospital.ms b. stressed that the testing had been complex and that the hospital had only received the test result in august 2005. on 26 august 2005 the doctors had learned that mr r.’s tuberculosis had been drug resistant.24.  having regard to the investigation file, the court noted that the investigating authorities had solicited neither the autopsy report nor medical documents concerning mr r.’s treatment and that they had not interviewed any doctor involved in the treatment.it noted that it was not for the investigative authorities to assess all possible versions of the events and that there was no obligation on them to resolve each inconsistency in the case.the court found that the documents obtained by the first‑instance court and the statement by ms b. had remedied the alleged shortcomings in the investigation.it concluded that the criminal inquiry had been carried out in compliance with the requirements of the russian code of criminal procedure, and that the impugned decision of 21 october 2006 had been based on sufficient evidence duly assessed by the investigating authorities.
4.  the applicant was born in 1961 and lived until his arrest in the town of yuzhno-sakhalinsk, the sakhalin region.a week later the applicant was charged with a number of crimes, including organisation and leadership of an armed gang, several counts of aggravated kidnapping, extortion, robbery and fraud, as well as illegal possession of firearms.7.  the applicant’s detention was further extended by the yuzhno‑sakhalinsk town court and the sakhalin regional court on thirteen occasions up until his conviction.when extending the applicant’s detention, the domestic courts referred to the particular gravity and quantity of the charges against him; complexity of the criminal investigation and difficulties of jury trial; the applicant’s liability to abscond, re-offend and interfere with the course of justice, given his personality and criminal record; significant volume of evidence presented by the defence during the trial.the courts also kept track of the course of the investigation and assessed investigative and operative measures planned by the prosecution, including arrests of the applicant’s accomplices (which were still at liberty or had absconded in breach of the measure of restraint imposed on them and had been put on the wanted persons’ list), complex expert examinations requiring participation of the applicant and the victims and examination of the case-file by the applicant and his accomplices.on 12 may 2006 the regional court, relying on the jury verdict, sentenced the applicant to twenty-one years’ imprisonment.10.  the applicant was found guilty, in particular, of an aggravated fraud, robbery, kidnapping and extortion in respect of mr l., a businessman from the moscow region.the jury found that in may 2001 the applicant had approached mr l. under the pretence of being a car salesman.however, after mr l. had transferred the money to an account indicated by the applicant, the latter had disappeared.on his arrival at the airport of yuzhno-sakhalinsk on 13 october 2002 mr l. was met by mr k., one of the applicant’s accomplices, and taken to the applicant’s country house where he was held until 6 november 2002, being subjected to beatings and extortion by the applicant and his gang.as for mr l., residing in the moscow region, the trial court attempted to secure his presence on several occasions by summoning him and ordering his escort to the court.having regard to these circumstances, the trial court allowed the prosecution’s request to read out mr l. and mr k.’s statements incriminating the applicant, despite the latter’s objections.12.  the jury further established that in september and december 2002 and in march 2003 the applicant had organised an armed robbery and kidnapping of eight other victims, including mr p. and had extorted a large sum of money in exchange for their freedom.disregarding the applicant’s objections, the regional court read out mr p.’s pre-trial statements against the applicant.13.  the applicant’s lawyer appealed against the judgment of the regional court, complaining, among other matters, about the decision to read out pre-trial statements by mr l., mr p. and mr k. on 14 november 2007 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the judgment of the regional court, noting that it had correctly considered that reasons for the witnesses’ absence had been extraordinary and that it had lawfully read out their pre-trial statements.
the doctor noted, in a police document, that there was no sign of physical violence on the applicant’s body.7.  on 16 march 1995 the applicant was taken part in “an identification parade with statements (ifadeli yüzleştirme tutanağı)” with other accused persons and identified, in the absence of a lawyer, certain persons as members of the said organisation and confessed to committing a murder.8.  on 26 march 1995 the applicant further participated in the reconstruction of the events (olay ve yer gösterme) in the course of which he had confessed, in the absence a lawyer, having carried out an arson attack.9.  on 29 march 1995 the applicant was questioned by the police officers in the absence of a lawyer.10.  on 5 april 1995 the applicant was brought before the public prosecutor and the investigating judge respectively, again in the absence of a lawyer.before the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, the applicant denied his police statements claiming that he had been subjected to torture.on the same day and before his statements were taken, he had been examined by a doctor at the request of the police.the doctor noted, in a police document, that there was no sign of physical violence on the applicant’s body.12.  on 2 may 1995 the applicant gave evidence as complainant before the public prosecutor and stated that the had been subjected to various forms of torture, which included beatings, electric shock treatment, blindfolding, hosing with cold water, and being stripped naked.13.  on 23 may 1995 the public prosecutor at the diyarbakır state security court filed a bill of indictment against the applicant and several other persons.the applicant was accused of carrying out activities for the purpose of bringing about the secession of part of the national territory, proscribed by article 125 of the former criminal code.the case against the applicant was transferred to the diyarbakır assize court.16.  on 31 march 2005 the diyarbakır assize court convicted the applicant of attempting to undermine the constitutional order, proscribed by article 146 § 1 of the former criminal code, and sentenced him to life imprisonment.17.  on 11 december 2006 the court of cassation quashed the judgment of 31 march 2005 in respect of some of the accused, including the applicant, and remitted the case to the diyarbakır assize court.18.  on 9 november 2007, the diyarbakır assize court convicted the applicant of attempting to undermine the constitutional order, proscribed by article 146 § 1 of the former criminal code, and sentenced him to life imprisonment again.
6.  on 1 february 2011 the dean of the school of mathematics of the university of montenegro (prirodno-matematički fakultet), at a session of the school’s council, informed the professors teaching there, including the applicants, that “video surveillance has been introduced” (da je uveden video nadzor) and that it was in the auditoriums where classes were held.the decision specified that the aim of the measure was to ensure the safety of property and people, including students, and the surveillance of teaching (praćenje izvršavanja nastavnih aktivnosti).8.  on 14 march 2011 the applicants complained to the personal data protection agency (agencija za zaštitu ličnih podataka, “the agency”) about the video surveillance and the collection of data on them without their consent.they relied on the personal data protection act (see paragraphs 24‑27 below).the applicants submitted, in particular, that the amphitheatre where they taught was locked both before and after the classes, that the only property there was fixed desks and chairs and a blackboard, that they knew of no reason to fear for anybody’s safety and that, in any event, there were other methods for protecting people and property and monitoring classes.10.  on 22 march 2011 the applicants filed an objection to the report, submitting, inter alia, that they were not aware of any of the alleged incidents and that, in any event, it was unclear how such cameras could ensure the safety of people and property.11.  on 28 april 2011, after the applicants’ objection to the report, the agency’s council (savjet agencije za zaštitu ličnih podataka) issued a decision (rješenje) ordering the school of mathematics to remove the cameras from the auditoriums within fifteen days as the video surveillance was not in accordance with the personal data protection act, notably sections 10, 35 and 36 (see paragraphs 24, and 26-27 below).in particular, the council held that the reasons for the introduction of video surveillance provided for by section 36 had not been met, given that there was no evidence that there was any danger to the safety of people and property in the auditoriums, still less to confidential data, and that the surveillance of teaching was not among the legitimate grounds for video surveillance.13.  on 19 january 2012 the applicants brought a compensation claim against the university of montenegro, the personal data protection agency and the state of montenegro, for a violation of their right to a private life, notably by the unauthorised collection and processing of data on them.they submitted in particular that such an interference with their private lives, without any possibility to control that process, was not provided for by any piece of legislation and that therefore it had not been in accordance with the law, within the meaning of article 8 § 2 of the convention.they relied on the relevant provisions of the personal data protection act, article 8 of the convention and the relevant case-law of the court.it also held, however, that the university was a public institution performing activities of public interest, teaching being one of them (poziv redovnog profesora [je] takođe javan), and that it was thus not possible for video surveillance of the auditoriums as public places to violate the applicants’ right to respect for their private life.the court further held that such a conclusion was in accordance with the court’s case-law given that the monitoring of actions taking place in public was not an interference with a person’s private life when those means just recorded (bilježi) what others could see if they happened to be in the same place at the same time.the court also held that the monitoring of the actions of an individual in a public place by the use of photographic equipment which just instantaneously recorded visual data did not give rise to an interference with that individual’s private life, which could arise once any footage of such material became publicly available.during the proceedings one of the witnesses stated that there had been cases of theft and of damage to the interior of the building and that on one occasion five laptops had disappeared from a laboratory.the high court held in particular that the applicants had not proved that their right to privacy had been violated and found that the first-instance court had “sufficiently related the court’s case-law to the case at issue (dao jasan osvrt na odnos prakse evropskog suda za ljudska prava i konkretnog slučaja) ... the court considered the [applicants’] other arguments and found that they did not justify ruling otherwise in the present case...”.
he discovered that the applicant’s signature in his passport had been made in red ink and told him that he would be charged with an administrative offence under article 19.15 of the code of administrative offences for using an invalid identity document.once the report had been completed at 3.15 p.m., another police officer took the applicant, again by police car, from goragorsk the nadterechnyi district police station (одч надтереченского района).one of them was set aside by the nadterechnyi district court on 13 july 2007 for the following reasons: “the issue whether the administrative detention of mr timishev was necessary has not been clarified.pursuant to article 27.3(1) of the code of administrative offences, administrative detention may be applied in exceptional circumstances if this is necessary for the prompt and proper examination of the alleged administrative offence.in these circumstances, the court sees no grounds for the administrative detention of mr timishev.” 8.  subsequent decisions refusing institution of criminal proceedings stated alternatively that it was impossible to establish the time of the applicant’s detention because it had not been recorded in any documents, that the applicant had been detained for disobeying police orders, that he had been actually free to go after 3.15 p.m. but had asked to be taken to the nadterechnyi office to file a complaint there and the police had ensured his safe passage.the court pointed out that it had not been established why the report on the administrative office could not have been drafted at the checkpoint and why it was considered necessary to escort the applicant to goragorsk.it remained unclear what had happened to the report: the investigator had not obtained the forwarding letter or any information about the outcome of the proceedings.the investigator had not inquired why an escorting report required under article 27.2(3) of the code or the detention report required under article 27.4 of the code had not been prepared.nor had he determined what “exceptional circumstances” within the meaning of article 27.3(1) had called for the applicant’s detention and at what time the applicant had actually left the nadterechnyi police station.10.  the court was not convinced that the applicant had asked the police to take him to the nadterechnyi office to file a complaint.even assuming that he had indeed wished to make a complaint, the investigator did not establish what had happened to it or, alternatively, why he had not written it, or why he had gone there in person instead of sending it by post from goragorsk.statements by the police officers who stated that the applicant had been “released” were also indicative of the fact that he had been taken to the nadterechnyi office against his will.605 of 15 september 1997), the head of the passports department should have asked the passport holder to sign the passport with special ink.responsibility for the wrong kind of ink should lie with the official who departed from the guidance rather than with the applicant.it was similar in its wording to the previous ones and did not touch upon the areas of concern identified in the district court’s judgment.
and seeing the fight through the window, he had gone out of the bar and had seen the applicant and his sons, as well as s.m., f.m., and š.a., fighting.after the letter had been read out, the panel of judges took a decision that his and i.b.’s statements to the investigating judge should be read out at the hearing, finding that the conditions set out in point 1 of the first paragraph of section 340 of the criminal procedure act had been met (see paragraph 39 below).he was asked to explain the difference between his testimony during the investigation, when he said he had fought with one of the applicant’s sons, and at the hearing, when he had said that he had not fought back.by stabbing the first in the neck, on the back of the head and the left side of his chest, the second in the left side of the stomach and the third in the back.and m.h., and še.a.” referring to m.h.’s initial testimony and the applicant’s statement during the investigation, which it found was also supported by še.a.’s testimony, the court rejected the applicant’s statement at the hearing that his knife had only had a three-centimetre blade.33.  regarding the applicant’s argument that he had acted in self-defence, the court found that “the statements given by the accused were contradictory and refuted self-defence ... [and] the evidence produced at the hearing completely excluded that possibility [of self-defence]”.according to the higher court, the defence had been aware of the notice of the possibility to participate in the questioning of witnesses during the investigation but had consciously disregarded it.moreover, the higher court considered that the applicant had failed to comply with paragraph 2 of section 371 of the criminal procedure act (see paragraph 39 below) as he had not substantiated in what way his inability to question the two witnesses at the trial had undermined the legality of the judgment.37.  the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law, which was dismissed by the supreme court on 24 august 2012. the court confirmed that the first-instance court had correctly applied section 340 of the criminal procedure act by reading out the testimony given by i.b.however, according to the supreme court, the applicant had failed to explain how that error on the part of the investigating judge had affected the legality of the impugned judgment.if the defendant has been detained and the investigative measures are to be carried out outside the area of the court’s jurisdiction, the investigating judge must decide whether the presence of the defendant is necessary....” section 340 “(1) in addition to the instances specified in the present act, the record of witnesses’ statements ... can be read out, on the basis of a decision by a panel and only in the following circumstances: (i) if the persons questioned have died, or have been affected by a mental illness, or cannot be found, or are unable to appear in court because of old age, illness or some other weighty reason, or their appearance would involve great difficulty, or if they live abroad and fail to appear at the main hearing despite being duly summoned; (ii) if witnesses or experts refuse to testify at the main hearing without a legal justification.... (4) the reasons for reading out the record shall be indicated in the transcript of the main hearing ...” section 342 “after examining each witness or expert, and after reading each record or other written document, the presiding judge shall ask the parties and the injured person to make comments if they so wish.” section 371 “(1) a substantial violation of the provisions of criminal procedure shall be deemed to exist: ... (viii) if the judgment relies on evidence which was obtained by a violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the constitution, or evidence it should not have relied on, in accordance with the provisions of the present act, or evidence which was obtained on the basis of such impermissible evidence; ... (2) a substantial violation of the provisions of criminal procedure shall also be deemed to exist if in preparation for a hearing or in the course of a hearing or in giving judgment the court omitted to apply a provision of this act or applied it incorrectly, or if in the course of the hearing the court violated the rights of the defence, which influenced or might have influenced the legality and regularity of the judgment.” 40.  section 55b, paragraph 2, of the constitutional court act (official gazette no.15/94 with relevant amendments) provides as follows: “(2) a constitutional complaint shall be accepted for consideration: - if there has been a violation of human rights or fundamental freedoms which has had serious consequences for the complainant; or - if it concerns an important constitutional question which exceeds the importance of the particular case in question.” 41.  on 26 june 1997 the slovenian parliament ratified the “treaty between slovenia and the republic of macedonia concerning legal aid in civil and criminal matters”, which entered into force on 5 september 1997. article 3 of the treaty states that legal assistance comprises, among other things, the service of legal documents and the questioning of witnesses.42.  the 1959 council of europe convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters entered into force with respect to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia on 26 october 1999 and with respect to slovenia on 17 october 2001. it provides in articles 8 and 10, respectively, as follows: article 8 “a witness or expert who has failed to answer a summons to appear, service of which has been requested, shall not, even if the summons contains a notice of penalty, be subjected to any punishment or measure of restraint, unless subsequently he voluntarily enters the territory of the requesting party and is there again duly summoned.” article 10 “1 if the requesting party considers the personal appearance of a witness or expert before its judicial authorities especially necessary, it shall so mention in its request for service of the summons and the requested party shall invite the witness or expert to appear.
6.  in 2005, after having obtained a permit to operate a mine, the applicant opened a mine in a plot of land of 8,700 m² which it owned.subsequently, the commission drew up a report, proposing that the applicant should be ordered to pay 131,250 turkish liras (try)[1] for quarrying substantial amounts of sand in the neighbouring plots of 5,000 m², outside of its licensed area.8.  on 8 march 2006 the tarsus provincial administration informed the applicant that it had decided to impose the proposed administrative fine pursuant to article 19 of the regulation concerning group a mines (a grubu madenlerle i̇lgili uygulama yönetmeliği).9.  on 8 february 2006 the applicant company’s president, ü.t., filed a complaint with the mersin public prosecutor’s office, stating that one of the auditors in the commission, m.a.l., had told him that the fine had initially been calculated as try 500,000 and that he had reduced that amount.he noted, inter alia, that after the inspection of the audit commission, he had conducted another inspection with an official from the directorate of land registration, and had calculated that he had trespassed on the neighbouring plots by only 400 metres.he also explained that he had acted as an undercover agent in line with the directions of the public prosecutor to catch the perpetrators in flagrante delicto.accordingly, the police gave him try 10,000 and noted down the serial numbers of the banknotes.and f.g., he had given the money to a third person, who had received it in the name of the other two.the appeal proceedings with regard to that judgment are still pending before the court of cassation as of september 2017.13.  in the meantime, on 17 april 2006 the applicant had filed an objection with the tarsus magistrates’ court and requested a stay of execution of the fine.by a subsequent petition dated 5 june 2006, the applicant also requested the court to hold an oral hearing, to carry out an on-site examination, and to hear its witnesses in order to better evaluate the credibility of the inspection report the fine was based on.relying on the inspection report drawn up on 31 january 2006, the court rejected the applicant’s objection.15.  the applicant objected to that decision, arguing that the fine had been unlawfully imposed on it and that the magistrates’ court had failed to adequately assess the case as it had not held a hearing.it drew the court’s attention once again to the criminal proceedings against the officials involved.17.  on 7 march 2008 the administration seized the plot of land where the applicant conducted mining activities due to the latter’s failure to pay the administrative fine.
4.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.5.  the applicant was born in 1986 in the georgian ssr of the ussr.in 2003, the applicant graduated from high school in kaluga and began studies at the finance and economics institute.6.  on 4 may and 17 october 2005 the applicant was convicted of various offences and given a custodial sentence.7.  on 12 january 2012 the police stopped the applicant in the courtyard of his house and charged him with illegal residence in russia.8.  on the following day the kaluzhskiy district court in the kaluga region found the applicant guilty of the administrative offence under article 18.8 § 1 of the code of administrative offences (failure to leave russia upon the expiry of the authorised period of stay and illegal residence) and sentenced him to a fine of 2,500 russian roubles (62 euros) and administrative removal from the russian federation.pending removal, the district court held that the applicant should be held in the detention centre.9.  the applicant asked the district court to postpone the enforcement of the removal order, emphasising that it was currently unenforceable because he had no identity documents and because he was not a georgian national and could not be sent to georgia.on 12 april 2012 the district court refused the applicant’s request in a summary fashion.10.  the applicant was held in the administrative detention centre operated by the kaluga regional police.11.  the toilet bowl sunk into the floor was located 40 centimetres from the nearest bed.the applicant did not speak the uzbek language and could not communicate with his cellmates.in january and march 2012 two members of the kaluga public monitoring commission visited the facility.a search operation was launched; the applicant was located on 30 january 2013 and returned to the detention centre.16.  on 31 january 2013 the applicant was placed on board of a tbilisi-bound flight and left russia.
after the protest movement known as the arab spring began in 2010, he was taken into police custody in algeria and he alleges he was subjected to ill-treatment there.on the same day, the applicant was placed in a detention room at the yalova police headquarters, where he was detained between 3 november 2013 and 7 january 2014.10.  the applicant submitted that the detention room in which he had been kept was in an ordinary police detention facility where arrestees were held for short periods (generally one day).12.  in their submissions dated 18 january 2017, the government submitted that the applicant had been detained in the “custody cell” of the public security branch of the yalova police headquarters.13.  in their additional observations dated 23 may 2017, the government submitted that foreign nationals and turkish nationals detained in the context of criminal investigations were kept separately in two detention rooms in the facility in question.they stated that at the material time the turkish nationals had been kept locked in one of the detention rooms and that the applicant and other foreign nationals had had access at all times to the hall in the centre of the facility − where there were chairs and a table – and to the toilets.14.  in support of their submissions the government submitted a sketch map of the detention facility and a total of thirty-nine photographs.nine other photographs show the room for the taking of police statements, the room used for interviews between arrestees and their lawyers, and the identification parade room.15.  the government also submitted custody registers showing the occupation rates at the detention facility for the period between 4 november 2013 and 7 january 2014. according to those documents, the applicant was detained alone for thirty-one days and for thirty days he was detained together with between one and six foreign nationals.during the remaining thirty-five days, a minimum of one and a maximum of five turkish nationals had been in detention, except for 1 january 2014, when eleven turkish nationals had been held in police custody.as regards the applicant’s complaint that the conditions of his detention at the yalova police headquarters had amounted to ill-treatment, the constitutional court noted that he had complained that his health had worsened as a result of the conditions in which he had been detained.since the applicant had been provided with medical assistance when he had fallen ill in detention, the constitutional court found that the administrative authorities had taken the necessary measures to protect the applicant’s physical and psychological health.as a result, the court concluded that the treatment of the applicant had not attained the minimum level of severity required to be described as inhuman or degrading treatment.20.  the standards of the european committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment (“the cpt”) concerning the conditions of detention of foreign nationals (see the cpt standards, document no.29.  in the view of the cpt, in those cases where it is deemed necessary to deprive persons of their liberty for an extended period under aliens legislation, they should be accommodated in centres specifically designed for that purpose, offering material conditions and a regime appropriate to their legal situation and staffed by suitably-qualified personnel.
on 27 november 2012 the applicant had been admitted to the bucharest institute of oncology, from which he had been discharged on 11 january 2013. from 14 to 18 january 2013 he had once again been admitted to hospital.the prognosis was that he had a short time to live given that the disease had spread to the bone, for which condition the existing treatment was insufficient.11.  on the same day the applicant, through the intermediary of his lawyer, applied to the bacău county court for an interruption of his prison sentence on health grounds.furthermore, it transpired from the medical documents made available to the committee that the applicant had had chemotherapy sessions at bacău hospital on 12 april 2013 and at the bucharest institute of oncology on 10 and 17 may 2013.14.  in its report of 19 june 2013 the board concluded that the applicant’s survival depended on the medical care with which he was being provided and a complex form of treatment which he could only receive in specialised clinics operating under the ministry of health.having regard to the seriousness of the applicant’s illness, it ruled that hospitalisation under supervision would considerably reduce his chances of survival and recovery owing to the stress and mental suffering caused by the continued execution of his sentence.moreover, the court emphasised that the applicant posed no threat to public order, that the sentence, one third of which had already been served, was reasonably short and that the applicant’s conduct had been good throughout the criminal proceedings.relying on articles 455 and 453 of the code of criminal procedure (hereafter “the cpp” - see paragraph 34 below), the court of appeal ruled that the interruption of the applicant’s sentence was unjustified provided that his treatment could continue, under guard, in a civil hospital.in a dissenting opinion, one of the judges on the trial bench considered that the sentence should be interrupted on humanitarian grounds; consequently, having regard to the applicant’s condition, he considered that his continued detention was in breach of the proportionality principle and reduced his chances of survival.on the same day, noting the deterioration in the applicant’s general condition, a multidisciplinary team from the târgu ocna prison hospital placed a prisoner on constant standby to assist the applicant in his everyday activities.20.  on 9 october 2013 the applicant was once again transferred to bacău prison, from whence he was taken, on the same day, to the bacău hospital oncology department.28.  on 4 december 2013 the applicant was transferred to bacău prison and then to bacău hospital, where he remained until 7 december 2013. on that date he was transferred to the târgu ocna prison hospital.29.  it transpires from the medical files included in the case file that between 24 january 2013 and 24 december 2013, the date of his death, the applicant was admitted to bacău hospital eighteen times, including several hospital stays lasting several days.drawing on the medical files relating to the applicant’s stays in that hospital, he pointed out that on 14 march 2013 the applicant had begun the chemotherapy without having received the radiotherapy recommended by the doctors in his department.the institute’s senior medical officer stated in the report that the applicant had duly respected all his medical appointments and that during his stays at the institute he had not been constrained but had been guarded by prison officers.
5.  the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in st petersburg.she is the mother of the late mr denis aleksandrovich vyrzhikovskiy.6.  on 1 october 2010 police officers apprehended the applicant’s son and his friend, ms z. and took them to the moskovskiy district department of the interior of st petersburg (увд по московскому району г. санкт‑петербурга).7.  for approximately six hours the applicant’s son was ill-treated by police officers he was repeatedly punched in the stomach and hit to the head, right palm and both calves.he was also subjected to the so-called “swallow” method of torture (“ласточка”), with his head, hands and legs being pulled together towards the spine.8.  two police officers then took the applicant’s son and ms z. to another police station.ms z. later testified to having seen a bruise on mr vyrzhikovskiy’s forehead and to his having been in pain and having had difficulties getting into a police car.9.  early in the morning on 2 october 2010 mr vyrzhikovskiy was taken from the station to a hospital.an autopsy report stated that the cause of death was “a severe fat pulmonary embolism aggravated by bronchopneumonia with cerebral edema resulted from a comminuted humeral head fracture with a tear of joint capsules and massive bruises, suffusion and strain of soft tissue and the subcutaneous fat layer.” a pathologist also found the following ante mortem injuries on mr vyrzhikovskiy’s body, all directly linked to his death: massive bruises covering hands, chest, upper back, neck, armpits and most of his face and ears; bruises on the left hip, right palm, right part of the stomach, right thigh, left knee, both calves; abrasions and bruises on the buttocks.the applicant was granted victim status in the proceedings.11.  on 26 march 2014 the moskovskiy district court of st petersburg found the officers guilty as charged and sentenced them to various terms of imprisonment.on 1 october 2014 the st petersburg city court partially quashed the judgment and acquitted officers of manslaughter for lack of evidence.while having found it established that the injuries had been inflicted on the applicant’s son intentionally in the police custody, the city court remitted the case for an additional investigation in order to identify those responsible for his death.12.  on 2 march 2015 the investigation was suspended because the time‑limit for the investigation had expired and it was impossible to identify the perpetrators and to carry out any investigative measures in the absence of an accused.on 12 november 2015 the oktyabrskiy district court of st petersburg upheld that decision as lawful.
4.  the applicant was born in 1960 and is detained in nizhniy tagil.5.  on 20 january 2009 the verkh-isetskiy district court in yekaterinburg remanded the applicant in custody on suspicion of fraud.the authorised detention period was subsequently extended on several occasions.6.  on 16 february 2010 the district court determined that the case was not ready for trial.it directed the prosecution to remedy certain defects and extended the authorised period of the applicant’s detention until 22 april 2010.7.  on 21 april 2010 the sverdlovsk regional court heard an appeal against that detention order and decided that the applicant could be released on bail.by a supplementary decision taken on the following day in the absence of the applicant and his representatives, the regional court fixed the time-limit for posting bail until 11 may 2010. on 29 april 2010 that decision was sent by fax to the remand prison where the applicant was held.he was however unable to post the bail because the district court did not have a deposit account.the applicant remained in custody.8.  on 12 may 2010 the district court held that the applicant must be re-detained for his failure to comply with the bail conditions.it did not set any time-limit for the application of the custodial measure.9.  on 2 june 2010 the regional court quashed the detention order, finding that the detention order had lacked a basis in fact.it annulled the custodial measure and ordered the applicant’s release.10.  the applicant was released on 4 june 2010.11.  the conditions of the applicant’s detention in remand prison iz-66/1 can be summarised as follows: (a)  cell 622, from january to june 2009, measured 30 square metres and accommodated 20 to 25 persons who took turns to sleep; windows were not glazed; the toilet was not separated from the living area; (b)  cell 129, june and july 2009, 9 square metres and 6 inmates; (c)  cell 407, july 2009, 12 square metres and 12 to 14 inmates; (d)  cell 408, august 2009 to april 2010, same as above; (e)  cell 155, april 2010, 15 square metres; (f)  cell 134, may 2010, 14 square metres for 8 inmates.
the present case concerns a commentary (glosa) delivered during a television programme broadcast on 12 april 2010 after the crash of the plane in which the late president of poland, lech kaczynski, had been travelling.7.  the commentary’s title was “compassion in accordance with protocol”; the commentary contained the following: “the crash of a polish plane carrying the presidential couple on board is a true human tragedy.i envy them.” 8.  following the broadcast of the above-mentioned commentary, the broadcasting council (rada pre vysielanie a retransmisiu) commenced administrative proceedings against the applicant company, pursuant to section 19(1)(a) of the broadcasting and retransmission act (law no.9.  on 14 september 2010 the broadcasting council found that the applicant company had breached its obligations under the broadcasting act in that the manner of processing and presenting the content of the commentary had interfered with the dignity of the late polish president, lech kaczynski.10.  the broadcasting council assessed the conflict between the applicant company’s freedom of expression and the protection of the human dignity of the late president.on the one hand, it acknowledged the aim of the commentator to express his opinion and his subjective stance on the social and political event through criticism, sarcasm and irony, which were inherent to journalistic expression.on the other hand, where the broadcasting council found difficulties was in particular the content of the last two sentences of the commentary (“i am sorry, but i do not pity the poles.the broadcasting council concluded that the manner in which the commentator had presented his opinion – that is to say his lack of regret for the polish president’s death – had contravened the duty to respect his human dignity.according to the broadcasting council, the degree of sarcasm and irony in the broadcast commentary had been so high that its content and the manner in which the author’s opinion had been presented had been sub‑standard and had dishonoured the late president.11.  the broadcasting council noted that mr kaczynski, as president, was sufficiently recognisable as an “individual”, which was a prerequisite for the applicability of the protection of the dignity, human rights and fundamental freedoms of “others” under section 19(1)(a) of the broadcasting act.it concluded that by broadcasting the aforesaid commentary the applicant company had committed an administrative offence (správny delikt) – in particular a breach of its duties under the said provision – and that imposing a fine on it in that respect was in order.rather, the supreme court confirmed the broadcasting council’s conclusion about the defamatory character of the commentary in question and the interference with the late president’s human dignity.13.  the applicant company lodged a complaint before the constitutional court challenging the decisions of the broadcasting council and the supreme court under articles 6 § 1 and 10 of the convention and articles 26 (freedom of expression) and 46 (right to judicial protection) of the constitution.as to the applicant company’s complaint under article 10 of the convention (and article 26 of the constitution), the constitutional court held that a general court could not bear “secondary liability” for a violation of fundamental rights and freedoms of a substantive nature unless there had been a constitutionally relevant violation of procedural rules.given that it had rejected the complaint concerning the alleged violation of procedural rules, it also had to reject the complaint relating to an alleged violation of a substantive provision.
on the following day the verkh-isetskiy district court in yekaterinburg remanded him in custody and set the time-limit until 12 july 2009.however, on 31 july 2009 the sverdlovsk regional court quashed the extension order as it had been issued outside the authorised detention period, and ordered the applicant’s release.the arrest record mentioned the charge, without specifying when or where the theft had been committed or why the applicant was suspected of it.8.  on 2 august 2009 the district court adjourned the detention hearing for seventy-two hours, at the request from the applicant’s counsel.on 4 august 2009 the district court issued a detention order which did not set a time-limit for the applicant’s detention or give any assessment to the existence of a “reasonable suspicion” against the applicant.on 2 september 2009 the regional court upheld the detention order on appeal.9.  further extensions of the applicant’s detention were granted by the leninskiy district court on 29 september, 20 october and 2 november 2009. the last extension order was issued in the absence of the parties.on 25 november 2009 the regional court found that extension order unlawful and set it aside, but extended the applicant’s detention for a future period.10.  on 23 december 2009 the bogdanovichi town court in the sverdlovsk region opened the trial and extended the applicant’s detention.the applicant’s appeal against the extension order was rejected by the regional court on 11 june 2010.11.  on 2 march and 22 april 2010 the town court extended the applicant’s detention.each time the court referred to the gravity of the charges and the applicant’s criminal record.on 18 august 2010 the regional court upheld the conviction but reduced the sentence to three years’ imprisonment.his request to be allowed to attend the funeral was rejected by the governor of the iz-66/1 remand prison and upheld by the courts on the ground that remand prisoners did not have the benefit of a leave of absence under russian law.when his father died on 5 november 2010, the director of the correctional colony in sosnovoborsk in the krasnoyarsk region also refused his request for a short-term absence, on account of the funeral being held outside of the region where the colony was located.
5.  a list of the applicants is set out in the appendix.6.  on 21 november 1994 the applicants were taken into police custody.their statements were taken by the police in the absence of a lawyer.all the applicants confessed to having committed the crimes with which they had been charged.on 28 december 1994 they were remanded in custody.7.  on 24 january 1995 the public prosecutor at the diyarbakır state security court filed a bill of indictment against the applicants (except for eyyup yaşar), charging them under section 125 of the former criminal code with carrying out activities with the aim of bringing about the secession of part of the national territory.8.  on 18 june 1999 the constitution was amended and the military judges sitting on the bench of the state security courts were replaced by civilian judges.9.  on 4 december 2001 the diyarbakır state security court convicted the applicants as charged.10.  on 20 november 2002 the court of cassation quashed the convictions.11.  state security courts were abolished on 16 june 2004 pursuant to law no.5190. the case was accordingly transferred to the diyarbakır assize court.12.  on 22 february 2007 the diyarbakır assize court again convicted the applicants under section 125 of the criminal code and sentenced them to life imprisonment.13.  on 6 february 2008 the court of cassation upheld the convictions.
the event had been approved by the city authorities in the form of a march followed by a meeting at bolotnaya square which was supposed to end at 7.30 p.m. the march was peaceful and held without any disruptions, but when the marchers arrived at bolotnaya square it turned out that barriers installed by the police had narrowed the entrance to the meeting venue allegedly restricting the space allocated for the meeting.8.  on the same day the moscow city department of the investigative committee of the russian federation opened criminal proceedings to investigate suspected acts of mass disorder and violence against the police (articles 212 § 2 and 318 § 1 of the criminal code).11.  on 26 july 2012 the basmannyy district court ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention until 25 september 2012 on the following grounds: “the prosecution bodies suspect [the applicant] of having committed a serious offence punishable with imprisonment of over two years.... the court concludes that there are grounds to consider that [the applicant], if at liberty, is likely to abscond from the investigation and trial, to act in person or through proxy with the aim of avoiding criminal liability, to continue [his] criminal activity, to destroy evidence and otherwise obstruct the investigation, which is at its initial phase.the court takes into account that [the applicant] may request medical assistance in the detention facility, if necessary ...” 12.  the district court dismissed an application by the applicant for an alternative preventive measure, such as house arrest, and stated that his state of health did not preclude him from detention.on the same day the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 6 july 2013. it considered that a milder preventive measure, including release on bail, would not prevent the applicant from obstructing the proper administration of justice.the applicant’s allegations in respect of the deterioration of his health were dismissed; the court relied on the medical statement from the remand prison, according to which his health was satisfactory.along with the seriousness of the charges, the court based its decision on the findings that “the reasons which had initially warranted the detention have not changed” and that “no other measures of restraint would secure the aims and goals of the judicial proceedings”.19.  on 2 august 2013 the presidium of the moscow city court examined the supervisory appeal lodged by the ombudsman of the russian federation.it rectified the extension orders of 24 september and 31 october 2012, and 4 march and 6 june 2013 as well as the moscow city court’s decision of 15 october 2012. the presidium found that the applicant’s detention had been unjustified and that the detention orders had not been supported by relevant facts; it also took account of his worsening health.the presidium lifted the detention order and placed the applicant under the house arrest until 2 october 2013 under the following conditions: prohibition from leaving his house or changing his place of residence; prohibition from communicating with co-defendants and witnesses; prohibition from sending and receiving correspondence; prohibition from using any means of communication.20.  on 26 september 2013 the zamoskvoretskiy district court extended the applicant’s house arrest until 2 january 2014. it referred to the seriousness of the charges and considered that as a human-rights activist the applicant could communicate with different authorities and persons and thus obstruct the course of criminal proceedings.26.  the applicant was subsequently examined by a gp on 25 september, 19 october and 26 november 2012, and 24 january, 15 and 25 february, and 15 march 2013. the examinations revealed no negative dynamics in the state of the applicant’s health; the prescriptions for the special diet were renewed each time.34.  the public commission for the monitoring of detention facilities visited the applicant on 17 and 24 april and 2 may 2013. according to the journal of their visits, the applicant did not complain of inadequate medical assistance in iz-77/1.39.  the applicant’s description of the conditions of detention during his transfer from the remand prison to court and back was identical to that in the case of yaroslav belousov (cited above, §§ 69-73).
4.  the applicants were born in 1961 and 1996 respectively and live in muğla.5. the first applicant was the husband and the second applicant was the son of mrs özlem gürakın, who died on 3 september 2001.6.  on an unspecified date, the applicants brought compensation proceedings against the dokuz eylül university hospital, alleging that mrs özlem gürakın had been a victim of medical negligence.the applicants further requested legal aid for the court fees.in respect of their legal aid claim, they submitted documents attesting to their poor financial situation.7.  on 13 december 2006 the izmir administrative court rejected the applicants’ legal aid claim, without indicating any specific reasons.they were notified that they had to pay 1,683 turkish liras (try) (approximately 870 euros (eur)) in court fees within one month to continue the proceedings and that failure to do so would result in the discontinuation of the proceedings.8.  as the applicants failed to pay the court fees within the time-limit, the i̇zmir administrative court sent a further warning letter to the applicants and ordered them to pay the court fees.9.  on 6 april 2007 the applicants made a second request for legal aid and asked the court to reconsider its former decision.10.  on 20 april 2007 the izmir administrative court once again rejected the applicants’ request and granted them one month to pay the court fees.11.  on 12 july 2007 the court decided to discontinue the proceedings, because the applicants had not paid the necessary court fees.
14.  at 12.50 a.m. on 20 june 2006 investigator s. arrested the applicant as a suspect and questioned him between 1 and 1.50 a.m., and then between 11 and 11.15 a.m., in the presence of p., a state-appointed lawyer invited by investigator s. the applicant reiterated his earlier self‑incriminating statements, as well as the statements concerning his ill‑treatment at the severnyy police department.between 11.30 a.m. and 1.32 p.m. his statements were verified at the scene of the crime by investigator s. in the presence of lawyer p. and operative officers of the sovetskiy police department.the applicant stated that the injuries had been inflicted after his arrest on 17 june 2006 by police officers who had punched him in the head and different parts of his body and beaten him with a rubber baton on the back and legs.17.  on the same day the sovetskiy district court of voronezh (“the district court”) ordered the applicant’s detention at a hearing in the presence of lawyer p. he was placed in detention facility sizo-36/1.18.  on 28 june 2006 investigator s. communicated the applicant’s allegations concerning the unlawful actions of the police officers from the severnyy police department to the kominternovskiy district prosecutor’s office of voronezh.19.  in the most recent refusal of 29 september 2006 to institute criminal proceedings for lack of evidence that the officers of the severnyy police department had committed a crime, the investigator established the facts as follows, relying on the police officers’ statements.20.  the investigator noted that on the two occasions the applicant had been taken to the severnyy police department – first, for giving statements in relation to i.’s disappearance, and second, for having committed the administrative offence – he had had no injuries.in the same decision the investigator suggested that the applicant’s injuries could have been inflicted by a third party outside the severnyy police department, between 17 and 19 june 2006, between one and three days before his medical examination by the forensic expert on 20 june 2006.21.  on an unspecified date the applicant also complained about the unlawful actions of officers of the sovetskiy police department, explaining that he had blamed the officers of the severnyy police department for all his injuries for fear of reprisals from the officers of the sovetskiy department, in whose hands he had been at the time.22.  in the most recent refusal of 21 september 2006 to institute criminal proceedings for lack of evidence that a crime had been committed, the investigator found, relying on statements by the operative officers of the sovetskiy police department, that the applicant had been taken to the station with his consent and had confessed to the murder of i. he had also shown where he had hidden her body voluntarily, without any coercion.23.  an appeal by the applicant of 17 may 2007 against the investigators’ decisions was not examined by the district court because by that time he had been convicted by a final judgment, as was stated by the court in a letter of 4 june 2007.24.  at his trial the applicant pleaded innocent and submitted that he had given the self-incriminating statements at the preliminary investigation stage as a result of physical coercion by officers of the severnyy and sovetskiy police departments.his counsel requested that the records of the investigative measures carried out on 19, 20 and 21 june 2006 be declared inadmissible, arguing, inter alia, that they had been obtained in the presence of lawyer p., who had been invited by investigator s. in breach of the relevant procedure and without the applicant’s consent.25.  the district court dismissed the request, noting that all investigative measures since the applicant’s arrest as a suspect on 20 june 2006 had been carried out in the presence of lawyer p. moreover, there was no evidence that the applicant had rejected her services.the court based its findings on the self‑incriminating statements given by the applicant in the preliminary investigation, noting that his allegations of ill‑treatment in police custody had been examined and dismissed by the sovetskiy and kominternovskiy district prosecutor’s offices in decisions of 21 and 29 september 2006 respectively.
the prosecution noted in that regard that a paranoid affective psychosis diagnostic had been posited on several occasions between 1994 and 1999. it stated the following: “... in the present case there is sufficient circumstantial evidence of the precarious state of health of the accused, who represents an extremely serious danger to society given that he is liable to commit further such antisocial acts.” 11.  on the same day the applicant was admitted to the alexandru obregia psychiatric hospital in bucharest.15.  by decision of 27 february 2002 the prosecution, in the absence of a medical certificate and since the applicant’s daughter had not confirmed the sexual relations with her father, ordered the closure of the criminal proceedings against the applicant for incest.listing the criminal charges against the applicant, the court stated the following: “in the light of the findings of the psychiatric forensic medical report that n. suffers from chronic paranoid schizophrenia and lacks discernment as regards the offences he committed, and having regard to the recommendations of the [reporting] committee that the preventive detention measure should be imposed on the accused, the court accedes to the [prosecution’s] request and, pursuant to article 114 cp, confirms the provisional medical detention order and informs the bucharest health department of the implementation of that order.” 17. the applicant did not attend the hearing, nor was he represented by a lawyer in court.33.  in july 2007 the competent medical board drew up a report based on the results of an examination of the applicant, the medical documentation transmitted by the psychiatric hospital, the report by his gp, a social welfare inquiry concerning the applicant conducted on 3 may 2006, the 22 april 2002 decision of bucharest district court 6 and the forensic medical report of 2 november 2001. the board found that during his detention the applicant had expressed delusions of grandeur with transient psychotic relapses, had endeavoured to conceal his symptoms, had behaved in a calm, composed manner, had accepted his treatment, had refrained from stirring up trouble with the other patients and had shown little hostility during the treatment.40.  he was assisted by various officially appointed lawyers, who, in the proceedings completed before 2016, had confined themselves to referring to the findings of the forensic medical assessments carried out, and had either left it to the discretion of the courts whether or not to maintain the measure or objected to the lifting thereof.the court referred to a forensic medical report drawn up after an examination of the applicant the same month, which had recommended maintaining the measure and described the applicant’s delusional ideas concerning the setting up of a new state, his lack of feasible future plans and the fact that he had not fully accepted his drug therapy.in its decision of 17 december 2013 the court further had regard to a forensic medical report drawn up following an examination of the applicant carried out a few days previously, in december 2013. furthermore, it referred, broadly, to the “aim of the preventive measures, which was to put an end to a situation of danger and prevent the perpetration of acts punishable under criminal law”, and concluded that the criteria set out in article 434 § 1 cpp had been satisfied.55.  in april 2015 the applicant appealed to the judicial inspection board of the higher council of the judiciary against the alleged practice of buzău district court of conducting retrospective reviews of the need to maintain the detention measure.it emphasised that the persistence of the applicant’s delusional ideas concerning the setting up of a “new state” and his lack of social and family support, a factor conducive to social reintegration, supervision of his medical treatment and the management of the applicant’s daily needs relating to the purported “new state”, had justified maintaining the detention up until then.61.  on 12 april 2016 the ifm submitted its expert report, which stated, in particular, that: –  the applicant was suffering from chronic delusional disorder with no prospect of improvement, but rather with future aggravation of the illness due to aging; –  the illness as manifested in the applicant did not point to any risk of a danger to society, but the lack of feasible plans for the future foreshadowed future conflicts, a risk of advanced social deterioration and the impossibility of monitoring the evolution of his illness; –  the applicant lacked any social support from his family or other persons of trust.it held as follows: “given the absence of improvement in the patient’s state of health and the fact that the members of his family cannot monitor his continued medical treatment, and having regard to the nature of the charges against him which had resulted in his medical detention, family members against whom [the applicant] has committed antisocial acts cannot be expected to cohabit with him.nevertheless, the director of the establishment [where the applicant is detained] must inform the social welfare services responsible for transferring [the applicant] to a specialised institution capable of providing proper living conditions and treatment.” (b) measures taken by the national administrative and hospital authorities 65.  on 6 september 2016 the director of săpoca hospital invited the directorate general of social assistance and child welfare (“dgaspc”) in bucharest district 6 to adopt welfare measures in respect of the applicant pursuant to the instructions set out in the forensic medical report of 12 april 2016.67.  on 15 november 2016 the director of săpoca hospital contacted the municipality of unguriu, which had meanwhile been assigned the guardianship of the applicant .... the director informed the municipal authorities the implementation of the preventive detention measure was temporary, and that they were required to act in the interests of the applicant, particularly with a view to his possible placement in a specialised institution after his release.the report mentioned in particular: –  the existence of a single, strange and systematic delusionary theme concerning the creation of a “united somali state”, which delusion did not however alter his compliance with hospital rules; –  lack of conflict situations and of incidents pointing to potentially aggressive behaviour; –  proper therapeutic cooperation during detention, despite his purely formal acquiescence in the reality of his illness and need for treatment; –  absence of antisocial precedents – apart from the acts noted during his placement in detention – or consumption of psychoactive substances (drugs, alcohol); –  negative effect of the extension of detention for social reasons on the development of the applicant’s illness and physiological state, and –  the guardianship order.b)  measures taken by the national administrative and hospital authorities 74.  on 8 march 2017 the lawyer representing the applicant before the court sent a letter to săpoca hospital recommending, in the framework of enforcement of the decision of 21 february 2017, the applicant’s ultimate reintegration into society rather than his placement in a residential centre.
furthermore, the fourth applicant had stayed with the first applicant and x during the first days at the family centre, but had not noticed the first applicant’s lack of parenting skills, even though it had been obvious to the staff.sometimes, the staff had to pressure the mother into feeding her son.” 26.  the high court found that the family centre had made a correct evaluation and – contrary to the city court – considered it very unlikely that the evaluation would have been different if x had not had an eye infection.... ... the biggest source of stress for [x] is probably not meeting his mother and her extended family during the contact sessions in itself, but the amount of contact and the pressure arising from [utterances to the effect that] ‘now you’re coming back home’, and an atmosphere dominated by the mother’s hostility towards the foster mother.in conclusion to the question of the first applicant’s competence as a carer, she stated in her report that the stay at the family centre had illustrated that the first applicant “had problems handling and retaining information in such a manner that it could be used to guide her behaviour”.such manifestations of cognitive impairment will be invasive in relation to caring for the child and could result in neglect.” 31.  the high court agreed with the conclusion of expert m.s., before proceeding to the question whether assistance measures could sufficiently remedy the shortcomings in the first applicant’s lack of parenting skills.it agreed with the conclusions of the court-appointed expert, m.s., who had stated in her report: “in my assessment, there are grounds for claiming that there were serious deficiencies in the care the child received from the mother, and also serious deficiencies in terms of the personal contact and security he needed according to his age and development.it is also found that satisfactory conditions for the child cannot be created with the mother by means of assistance measures under the act relating to child welfare services, section 4-4 (e.g. relief measures in the home or other parental support measures), due to a lack of trust and a reluctance to accept interference from the authorities – taking the case history into consideration.” 35.  the high court’s conclusions in its judgment of 22 april 2010 was that a care order was necessary and that assistance measures for the mother would not be sufficient to allow the son to stay with her.moreover, the board stated: “in her statement before the county social welfare board, the mother maintained her view that the care order was a conspiracy between the child welfare service, [the parent-child institution] and the foster parents for the purpose of ‘helping a woman who is unable to have children’.both the mother and grandmother stated that it would not be a problem, ‘he just had to be distracted’, and thus gave the impression of not having sympathy with the boy and therefore also being incapable of providing the psychological care he would need in the event of a return.” 42.  in addition, the board had especially noted the conclusions of expert m.s.52502/07, § 37, 28 october 2010 – were also pertinent to the present case: “‘a decision that he should remain a foster child would tell him that the people with whom he has always lived and who are his parents and with whom he established his earliest ties and sense of belonging should remain under the control of the child welfare service — the public authorities — and that they are not viewed by society as his true parents but rather as foster parents under an agreement that can be terminated.46.  the child welfare authorities opposed the appeal and submitted that the first applicant’s ability to care for x had not changed since the high court’s judgment of 22 april 2010. the visits between x and the first applicant had not worked well.she had married in august of 2011, her husband had a permanent job and they had a daughter, y. it also noted that the child welfare authorities in the couple’s current municipality were conducting an ongoing inquiry concerning the mother’s ability to care for y. a staff member of the authorities in that new municipality had testified at the oral hearing, stating that they had not received any reports of concern other than that from the authorities in the first applicant’s former municipality.nothing had emerged during the city court’s consideration of the case to indicate that the first applicant had developed a more positive attitude to the child welfare authorities or to the foster mother, beyond a statement made by her to the extent that she was willing to cooperate.to shed light on her own situation, she had chosen to post her story on the internet in june 2011 with a photograph of herself and x. in that article and several comments posted during the autumn of 2011, she had made serious accusations against the child welfare authorities and the foster parents – accusations which she had admitted in court were untrue.as concerned the new evidence, the court noted that the evaluation dated 21 march 2012 had been made by, inter alia, an expert who had testified before the city court and that the document would not change the outcome of the case.
11.  on 22 september 2009, the day of ramadan bayram, a religious holiday celebrated by the applicant and his family, a large cross was drawn on the applicant’s apartment door, and a large message was written on the wall next to it saying “move out or you’ll bitterly regret it” (“seli se, usko će ti bit”).the same day the applicant lodged a criminal complaint with the police against the families of x, y, s and b, and one more family living in the building.14.  v submitted that the discussion of 9 september 2009 had referred to another person sought by the police at the time in relation to various attacks, and they had been discussing how they would defend themselves in the event of an attack.the applicant was notified that he could take over the prosecution as a subsidiary prosecutor and that the case file had already been forwarded to the state prosecution service on 26 october 2009 (see paragraph 17 above).20.  on 25 november 2009 the state prosecution service issued an official report (službena zabilješka) finding that the impugned words of 26 may, as well as those of 9 september 2009, which referred to the use of swords and axes, had not been addressed to either the applicant or anybody close to him, and that the incident of 15 september 2009 could not be considered a threat.at the same time the police were informed that the applicant’s criminal complaint in this regard would be kept until the perpetrator was found, or until 22 september 2012, when the prosecution of that criminal offence would become time-barred.in particular, the submitted video material was considered to be inadmissible, having been obtained without a prior court order, and the court observed that the suspected neighbours had denied that what they had said related to the applicant.it was further held that the applicant had not submitted any evidence in relation to the incident of 22 september 2009, nor had he called the police at the time to come to the scene and “collect the necessary material for further analysis” in order to verify his suspicions.in doing so, the court held that the applicant’s objections as to the gathering of evidence by the police “could not be the subject of [that] court’s assessment”.27.  on 7 april 2016, as regards the incident of 22 september 2009, the police informed the state prosecutor’s office that “[they] had acted on [the applicant’s] criminal complaint and undertaken measures in accordance with their authority, having dedicated a significant amount of time [to the complaint].on 30 september 2008 the applicant was found guilty in misdemeanour proceedings of disturbing public order and peace (narušavanje javnog reda i mira) by shooting several shots in the air from his starting pistol on 20 december 2007. he was sentenced to a ten-day period of imprisonment and the pistol was confiscated.in the course of the proceedings, a medical expert witness submitted that the applicant had a contusion (nagnječenje) on the left part of the back of his head, which would have been classified as a minor physical injury at the time it had been inflicted.30.  the applicant reported the following events to the police, but to no avail: (a) on 6 october 2008 an unknown person had thrown a brick and broken one of the windows of his apartment; (b) on 11 september 2009 s and her husband, z, had tried to hit the applicant’s parked car with their own car; this was confirmed by another neighbour, n.l., who witnessed this event and was interviewed by the police in october 2009 (see paragraph 16 above); (c) on 16 october 2009 s had asked y aloud if he was going to “slaughter” somebody, and he had answered that he was, both of them looking at the applicant; s had said that he would “make [his] car dirty with that man”; (d) on 19 december 2009 an unknown person had fired several shots in front of the applicant’s apartment, below the children’s bedroom; the applicant gave the police eight bullet shells that he had found on the ground; (e) on 1 january 2010, shortly after midnight, x had thrown firecrackers at the applicant’s car and broken its windscreen; he had also thrown a glass bottle at the applicant and a metal bar at his son, swearing profusely and threatening to slaughter them all; this had been followed by gunshots.34.  on 26 may 2010 the applicant lodged a criminal complaint against x with the state prosecution service, alleging that in august and september 2009 he had threatened to “cut [the applicant’s] gypsy head off and impale it on a pike” (nabiti na kolac).on 12 august 2010 the applicant filed a private criminal action (optužni predlog) against x, who was acquitted by the court of first instance on 7 june 2011. the court found that x had indeed said the impugned words in front of a witness, and that the words could have made the applicant feel frightened and insecure, but the court could not accept “that [the applicant] had taken those words seriously, especially since the witness, who was the only one who had heard the words, had not taken them seriously, which was why he had informed the applicant about them only two months later”.
4.  the first applicant lives in sarajevo.he is the grandfather of the second applicant.the second applicant was born in 1986 and lives in sarajevo.5.  on 10 november 2005 the second applicant initiated administrative proceedings in order to obtain recognition of the veteran status of his late father.his request was rejected on 12 december 2005. the second applicant appealed on an unknown date in december 2005 or january 2006.6.  on 26 january 2006 the competent ministry upheld the first-instance decision.7.  on 21 january 2008 the sarajevo cantonal court quashed the decisions of 12 december 2005 and 26 january 2006, and remitted the case to the first-instance body.in the new proceedings, the second applicant’s request was again rejected.the last decision was given by the sarajevo cantonal court on 25 september 2012. it was served on the second applicant on 23 october 2012.8.  in the meantime, on 10 october 2012, the constitutional court found a breach of the second applicant’s right to a trial within a reasonable time.it did not award any damages.
in particular, members of the yugoslav people’s army (hereinafter “the ypa”), the armed forces of the sfry, paid their contributions to and received their pensions from a special military pension fund based in belgrade (zavod za socialno osiguranje vojnih osiguranika, hereinafter “the ypa fund”).9.  in 1992 the slovenian government issued the ordinance on the payment of advances on military pensions (see paragraph 28 below, hereinafter “the ordinance”) which regulated, on a temporary basis, the payment of military pensions to former ypa military personnel residing in the republic of slovenia who had applied for or fulfilled the conditions for retirement under the rules governing the pension and disability insurance of military personnel (hereinafter “the sfry military rules”) by 18 october 1991, the date of withdrawal of the ypa from slovenia (see p.p.this was followed in 1998 by a new act on the rights stemming from the pension and disability insurance of former military personnel (see paragraph 29 below, hereinafter “the 1998 act”) which put in place a comprehensive regulatory framework for the pension rights of former ypa military personnel, in most cases allowing for pensions to be paid only to slovenian nationals.10. in 1994 the federal republic of yugoslavia (succeeded in 2006 by serbia) transformed the ypa fund (see paragraph 7 above) into the social insurance fund of military personnel of the federal republic of yugoslavia on the basis of the yugoslav army act.however, it remains uncertain to what extent, if at all, the ypa fund continued paying ypa pensions to the citizens of the federal republic of yugoslavia residing in the other former sfry republics (see also, mutatis mutandis, kudumija v. bosnia and herzegovina and serbia, and remenović and mašović v. bosnia and herzegovina, (dec.), nos.11.  at the inter-state level, however, the question of responsibility for the payment of pensions to military personnel who had acquired or applied for pensions with the ypa fund under the rules governing the pension and disability insurance of military personnel (hereinafter “the sfry military rules”) remained unresolved until the agreement on succession issues entered into force in 2004 (see paragraph 30 below).after the constitutional court quashed the decision and the case was remitted to the ministry of interior for fresh consideration, the latter on 2 september 1997 again dismissed his application on the same grounds.by a decision of 17 may 1993 his payments were stopped with effect from 31 january 1992. the applicant lodged this request after realising that the pension and disability insurance institute of slovenia (hereinafter “the institute”) only granted advances under the ordinance provided that the ypa fund stopped paying the pension.by a decision of 5 may 1993 the institute found that the applicant had been entitled to such an advance starting from 1 november 1991. it held that he had been a permanent resident of slovenia since 1 april 1981 and had fulfilled the conditions for pension entitlement under the sfry military rules by 18 october 1991.16.  on 13 october 1998 the institute, on the basis of section 25 of the 1998 act (see paragraph 29 below), issued of its own motion a decision not to convert the applicant’s advance on his military pension into an old-age pension under the 1998 act.his advance was suspended as of 31 october 1998. the institute decided that since the applicant had been in active military service in the ypa from 25 june to 18 july 1991 and from 18 july 1991 had been on leave, he did not fulfil the statutory conditions for converting the advance on his military old-age pension into an old-age pension under section 2(1)(4) of the 1998 act.18.  the applicant subsequently applied for judicial review of the institute’s decision before the ljubljana labour and social court, maintaining that, as a resident of slovenia, he should have been treated in the same way as slovenian citizens.on 21 march 2007 the appeal was dismissed, essentially on the grounds that in the legally relevant period the applicant had been a foreigner who had not had rights to a pension or other benefits under the sfry military rules by 25 june 1991 as required by section 2(1)(2) of the 1998 act.the court held that the other provisions of section 2 of the 1998 act were applicable only to slovenian citizens and, thus, the applicant, who had not fulfilled the condition of nationality, should not have relied upon them.it held that in the period at issue the applicant had not met the requirements of any of the categories of beneficiaries under section 2 of the 1998 act, having applied for the pension under the sfry military rules on 16 july 1991 and having only acquired slovenian citizenship on 1 april 2003.
the relevant part of the first-instance judgment rendered in that case, depicting the religious community to which the applicant also belonged, reads as follows: “in his report/findings and opinion and at the main trial, the expert witness prof. azinović clarified the notions of ‘wahhabism’ and ‘salafism’ from a scientific perspective: ‘... salafi communities in bosnia and herzegovina, like the one in gornja maoča (in which the accused lived at the time of the attack), are often isolated and inaccessible.the positions taken by this group are, inter alia, available at a number of web sites, including www.putvjernika.com, while part of its followers live in serbia, croatia, montenegro, slovenia, austria, germany, switzerland, australia and other countries.’ ... 6.1.5.1  punishment of the accused (article 242 of the code of criminal procedure) having been called by the court officer to stand up when the trial chamber entered the courtroom at the first hearing, the accused refused to do so.the court delivered to the accused the audio-recordings and the transcripts from the hearings they had not attended in order to allow them to agree with their defence attorneys on their defence strategy.” 7.  in the context of that trial, the court of bosnia and herzegovina (“the state court”) summoned the applicant, who belonged to the same religious community, to appear as a witness on 10 september 2012. he appeared, as summoned, but refused to remove his skullcap, notwithstanding an order from the president of the trial chamber to do so.in view of that, the court has acquainted the witness with the provisions of rule 20 of the house rules of the judicial institutions of bosnia and herzegovina and the obligations of the parties in the judicial institutions, which ban visitors from entering these buildings in clothing that is not in accordance with the generally accepted dress codes within the professional environment of the judicial institutions.bearing in mind the frequency, seriousness and gravity of this type of breach of order in the courtroom and its damaging consequences, the court has decided to punish the witness by imposing the maximum fine of bam 10,000. such a severe penalty should be a message to all the parties in the courtroom that contempt of court is unacceptable.the court must be respected and the level of respect for the court is the same as for the state of bosnia and herzegovina.” 8.  on 11 october 2012 an appeals chamber of the same court reduced the fine to bam 3,000 and upheld the rest of the first-instance decision.while the witness showed a high level of determination in disrespecting the court (he again failed to remove his skullcap after a pause of ten minutes given to him to reflect) and this fact definitely affected the amount of the fine, the act itself (failure to remove headgear) is not the most serious case of contempt of court which would justify the maximum fine.42.  accordingly, as concerns the issue of whether the state court, in adopting the challenged ruling, acted in accordance with the law, the constitutional court observes that the provision of article 242 § 3 of the code of criminal procedure provides that the judge or the presiding judge may order that a party to the proceedings who disrupts order in a courtroom or disobeys court orders be removed from the courtroom and be fined in an amount of up to bam 10,000. the constitutional court also observes that the cited provision, on which the state court relied, does not prescribe a list of all types of conduct which may be regarded as disruption of order in a courtroom, but rather each court, in the circumstances of a given case, decides whether some type of conduct may be considered disruptive or not, which falls within the scope of that court’s margin of discretion (see the constitutional court decision no.bearing in mind all the aforementioned, the constitutional court holds, in the circumstances of this particular case, that the state court, using the margin of discretion referred to in article 242 § 3 of the code of criminal procedure, acted in accordance with the law, and that, contrary to the appellant’s opinion, the interference, which was of a limited nature, was lawful.considering the position of the european court that in democratic societies in which several religions coexist (as is the case of bosnia and herzegovina) it may be necessary to place restrictions on the freedom of religion (kokkinakis, cited above), in the context of the obligation of an independent judicial institution to support the values that bring people closer, and not those that separate them, the constitutional court holds that the restriction in the present case, which was of a temporary nature, aspired to achieve legitimate aims.46.  finally, as to the question whether the decision was necessary in a democratic society in order to achieve one of the legitimate aims under article 9 of the european convention, the constitutional court reiterates that, according to the settled case-law of the european court, the contracting states have a certain margin of appreciation in assessing the existence and extent of the need for interference, but this margin is subject to european supervision, embracing both the law and the decisions applying it, even those given by independent courts (dahlab, cited above).furthermore, under the well-established case-law of the european court, the court is called upon to establish whether the measures undertaken at the national level were justified in principle – that is, whether the reasons given by the national authorities to justify them were ‘relevant and sufficient’ and whether the measures were proportionate to the legitimate aim pursued (the sunday times, cited above, § 50[2]).the constitutional court further notes that the first-instance decision imposed a fine in the amount of bam 10,000, but that the second-instance decision reduced the fine to bam 3,000. the appeals chamber held that the fine set in the first-instance decision was excessive, and taking into consideration all the circumstances of the case, it concluded that a fine in the amount of bam 3,000 was appropriate.therefore, in view of the above and the circumstances of this particular case, the constitutional court holds that the impugned restriction did not constitute an excessive burden for the appellant, that the measure undertaken by the state court pursued legitimate aims within the meaning of article 9 of the european convention, and that there was a reasonable relationship of proportionality between the restriction and the legitimate aim pursued.48.  accordingly, the constitutional court concludes that the impugned decision did not breach the appellant’s right to manifest his religion under article ii § 3 (g) of the constitution of bosnia and herzegovina and article 9 of the european convention.” 11.  two out of the eight judges of the constitutional court appended dissenting opinions.
4.  the applicants complained of a breach of their property rights through the actions of russian military forces in chechnya in 2000 and the failure of the competent domestic authorities to provide them with effective remedies in respect of those breaches.13.  on 19 june 2001 an investigator of the urus-martan district prosecutor’s office (hereinafter “the district prosecutor’s office”) asked the ministry of justice to inform him of the current location of major iv., who was no longer stationed in chechnya.on the strength of the above, on 27 february 2006 the town court confirmed the applicant’s ownership of the vehicle in question.24.  by a decision dated 21 september 2006 the urus-martan town court transferred the applicant’s claim for damages to the basmanny district court of moscow, the city in which the federal treasury was situated.the applicant appealed, and on 4 july 2006 the supreme court of chechnya quashed the decision of 21 september 2006 and remitted the case to the urus-martan town court for fresh consideration.25.  on 21 december 2006 the urus-martan town court considered the substance of the case and concluded that the evidence submitted by the applicant and adduced during the pending criminal investigation had failed to establish conclusively the implication of state agents in the crime.26.  the applicant appealed, and on 30 january 2007 the supreme court of chechnya quashed the judgment of 21 december 2006 and again remitted the case to the urus-martan town court for fresh consideration.(a)  destruction of the applicant’s lorry 29.  in the evening of 14 october 2000 the applicant, his wife and aunt travelled in the applicant’s kamaz 53-20 lorry from the village of starye atagi to the chiri-yurt district of grozny, chechnya.the applicant immediately informed the local police, the head of the local administration of starye atagi and the local military commander’s office.33.  on the same day a senior inspector of the state traffic police of the grozny district department of the interior (овд грозненского района чеченской республики) concluded that the applicant’s kamaz lorry had been destroyed by fire as a result of being fired at and could not be repaired.the value of the lorry was put by the applicant at rub 280,000. it does not appear that the investigation progressed beyond the facts communicated by the applicant.37.  on 8 may 2008 the grozny district court refused to consider the applicant’s complaint concerning the ineffectiveness of the investigation, since on 1 may 2008 the latest decision to adjourn the investigation had been quashed.the applicant appealed, and on 19 december 2006 the supreme court of chechnya quashed the district court’s decision and remitted the case to the district court.the supreme court pointed out that the case-file material in respect of the pending criminal case, the applicant’s submissions and the evidence produced all pointed to the ministry of defence as the possible tortfeasor.it considered that the district court had failed to elucidate the circumstances of the events in question and to inform the ministry of defence of the hearing of 15 november 2006.
the minister replied, inter alia, that there was no proof that an alimta-based treatment was more efficient than other chemotherapy-based treatments, including that offered in denmark; that the combination of vinorelbine and cisplatin, which was used at copenhagen university hospital, resulted in a one-year survival rate of 50% and a median lifetime of 12 months, which was exactly the survival rate from using the combination of alimta and cisplatin, but that there had been no direct comparison of the two treatments; and that there was no internationally accepted standard chemotherapy for the treatment of pleural mesothelioma cancer, but that several single and combined treatments were used.15.  subsequent to the broadcast on 24 september 2008 of the television programme, on 27 october 2008 copenhagen university hospital and s instituted defamation proceedings before the copenhagen city court (københavns byret) against the director of dr and the two applicants, maintaining that the latter, in the programme in question, had made direct and indirect accusations, covered by article 267 of the penal code (straffeloven), against copenhagen university hospital and s, of malpractice regarding certain patients suffering from pleural mesothelioma cancer, allegedly resulting in the patients’ unnecessary death and shortening of life, in the interest of s’s professional prestige and private finances.therefore no trial had been performed of vinorelbine ... he had provided the information included in professor m’s memorandum of 23 september 2008 ...he had talked to [the first applicant] several times and had spent a lot of time and energy on explaining cancer therapy... he had also lost confidence in [the first applicant]...” h stated, among other things: “ ...the approval of alimta by the danish medicines agency for the treatment of mesothelioma only means that a marketing authorisation has been granted for the drug, which means that advertisement of the product is permitted.no matter that [the applicants] are deemed to have been aware of the above circumstances following their comprehensive research of the matter, it was said in the programme that, for dying patients, [s and copenhagen university hospital] had prescribed a “non-approved chemotherapy regimen” not approved for the diagnosis or which was not “the correct chemotherapy”, and that [s and copenhagen university hospital] used an “experimental drug”, the “worst-case scenario being that patients would die earlier than if they had been treated with an approved substance”, or that it would have “fatal consequences”.since no account was given in the programme of the above-mentioned trials and approval process and the terminology applied for that process, the court finds that it would seem to a non-professional viewer that alimta was the only effective drug for mesothelioma, particularly because the programme linked the treatment of two patients with vinorelbine to their death, whereas the prospect of several more years to live was held out to the one patient who had been given alimta therapy in germany.according to the information on [the applicants’] knowledge after their comprehensive research of the matter, the court finds no basis for exempting them from punishment or remitting the penalty under article 269 of the penal code, compare also article 10 of the convention.... [the applicants] are furthermore jointly and severally liable for paying legal costs of dkk 62,250.” 19.  on appeal, on 10 june 2011 the judgment was upheld by the high court of eastern denmark (østre landsret) with the following reasoning: “in the introduction to the programme ‘when the doctor knows best’ a narrator states, among other things: ‘a danish doctor is entering a medical congress to show his research results.could it have something to do with the prestige which is implicit in having research articles published?’ - ‘we do not know whether it is prestige that impels s.’ - ‘thus, s will not acknowledge what leading experts agree on; [namely] that alimta is the only medication whose effect is substantiated.’ - ‘here it turns out that s has received more than dkk 800,000 over the last five and a half years from the company f. that is the company behind the test medication vinorelbine.the narrator says, inter alia: ‘tj, who was part of s’s tests with vinorelbine, died on 4 january 2008.’ with these statements, [the applicants] not only passed on assertions by patients, relatives and experts, but also took a stand, so that the programme undisputedly gave the viewers the impression that malpractice has occurred at copenhagen university hospital, in that s has deliberately used medication (vinorelbine), which is not approved for treatment of pleural mesothelioma cancer, and whose effect has not been substantiated, that the medication in question was part of a test, and that the test medication has resulted in patients dying or having their lives shortened.against this background, in the programme, the applicants, as producer of the programme and as chief sub-editor, have made an allegation against copenhagen university hospital and s of malpractice and of nourishing irrelevant considerations to the detriment of the lives and health of patients.the applicants have not attempted to establish the truth of the allegation, but have submitted that the allegation shall be unpunishable by virtue of article 269 (1) of the penal code as they acted in lawful protection of an obvious public interest or the interest of others or, in the alternative, that punishment should be remitted under article 269 (2) of the penal code because they were justified in regarding the allegations as true.on the basis of the information in the case, including the research material that the applicants possessed before the broadcast of the programme, in particular the emails from [the medical doctor from grosshandorf hospital in germany and the professor from switzerland], the replies by the minister for internal affairs and health to various questions [posed by members of parliament], and the memorandum of 11 june 2008 produced by copenhagen university hospital [about pleural mesothelioma cancer], it can be established that vinorelbine in combination with cisplatin or carboplatin was standard treatment at copenhagen university hospital, that the european union on 20 september 2004 approved the marketing of alimta in connection with cisplatin for treatment of inoperable patients with pleural mesothelioma cancer, that there was no substantiation or basis for believing that an alimta-based treatment was more efficient than the treatment offered by copenhagen university hospital, that some patients at copenhagen university hospital, who were already about to receive vinorelbine as standard treatment, were chosen and offered the same medicine as part of a test [it is not known for what], and that s did not make any private financial profit from these tests.against this background, including the fact that the word ‘approved’ was not explained during the programme, namely the difference between medication approved for treatment and [medication] approved for marketing, and by consistently using the word “test medication”, even though only one patient in the programme participated in tests, [the applicants] made allegations which were based on an incorrect factual basis, of which they must have been aware via the research material.the aim of the programme – to make a critical assessment of the treatment of patients with pleural mesothelioma cancer offered by copenhagen university hospital and the responsible consultant – is a legitimate part of the press’s role as ‘public watchdog’, but it cannot justify an allegation, which is built on a factually incorrect basis, and thus a wrong premise.in fixing the amount, the high court took into account the scope and duration of the case.” 20.  on 27 october 2011 the appeals permission board (procesbevillingsnævnet) refused the applicants’ request for leave to appeal to the supreme court (højesteret).
9.  in the late afternoon of 17 august 2015 the applicants were driven in the toyota towards the bulgarian-serbian border near the village of rabrovo, which is about fifteen kilometres south of bregovo, twenty-five kilometres west of the town of vidin, and about two kilometres from the border.the preparation of the documents relating to the applicants’ arrest then took another hour, and the written declarations that they had been acquainted with their rights were stamped as having been signed at 9 p.m. the applicants could not have therefore been placed in their cell earlier than 10 p.m. 12.  upon their arrival at the border police’s detention facility in vidin, the applicants were searched.two of the mattresses are on the floor, one is on the single bed, and one is on the bottom bunk of one of the bunk beds.the third and fourth applicants can be seen sitting on one of the bunk beds, whereas the fifth applicant (the toddler) can at first be seen sitting on the floor beside the door and then being picked up and carried around by the first applicant.apart from the five applicants, three other people can be seen in the cell: a middle‑aged woman lying on the single bed, a boy (perhaps two or three years old), and the man shooting the video.one is in .mpg format and bears a time stamp according to which it was last modified at 5.36 p.m. on 17 september ‎2015; and the other is in .mp4 format and bears a time stamp according to which it was last modified at 3.27 p.m. on 15 december 2015. the footage in both files is identical, except that: (a) the faces of the applicants in the first one have been pixelated (whereas in the second they have not); (b) the running time of the first video is one minute and twenty-one seconds (whereas that of the second is one minute and thirty-two seconds, as it continues for another ten seconds); and (c) in the first file the footage is horizontal whereas in the second it is rotated to the right at a ninety-degree angle.17.  the applicants explained that the above-mentioned dates and times corresponded with when they had copied the video files in switzerland, and that they had in fact recorded the original video on 18 august 2015, at about noon.since they had taken the sim cards out of the mobile telephone several times in the course of their journey and then re-inserted them, the telephone had not indicated the correct time and date, making it impossible to pinpoint the exact date and time when the video had been recorded.18.  in a letter to the government agent, an official from the migration directorate of the ministry of internal affairs in sofia, having compared the video footage with the photographs in the applicants’ migration files, stated that he could confirm that the applicants were indeed the people featured in the video.23.  according to the applicants, after the interview the second applicant asked the guards to give her back her bag, so that she could prepare a baby bottle for her toddler (the fifth applicant), and the guards did so.when hearing that the applicants had not had anything to eat or drink since their arrest, the nurse who came with the ambulance argued with the guards and took the second applicant and her youngest child, the fifth applicant, to a hospital in vidin, where the second applicant was examined by a gynaecologist between 8.05 p.m. and 8.35 p.m., and the fifth applicant was examined by a paediatrician between 8.20 p.m. and 8.40 p.m. two or three hours later they were taken back to the detention facility.26.  according to the applicants, at that point the guards told them that they would give them food if they paid for it; the guards then took money from their bags and gave them two loaves of bread, a yoghurt, four bottles of coca-cola, one kilogram of tomatoes, one kilogram of cucumbers, one kilogram of bananas, and a small piece of paté.in support of their assertion, the government submitted a table setting out the prescribed daily rations for adult and minor detained migrants and a report, drawn up by the head of the bregovo border police department on 1 september 2015, which listed the names of all migrants – including the applicants – which had been detained in the department’s detention facility in vidin during the month of august 2015 and provided with food there.according to the government, that happened much earlier that day, at about 6 a.m. or 7 a.m., since the relevant records showed that the applicants had been placed in the detention facility in sofia at 2.45 p.m., and the normal travel time between the two facilities was about six or seven hours.31.  in the meantime, the applicants made their way to switzerland, where they likewise sought international protection on 8 september 2015. on 8 january 2016 the swiss authorities decided not to examine their applications but rather to transfer them back to bulgaria under regulation (eu) no 604/2013 establishing the criteria and mechanisms for determining the member state responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the member states by a third‑country national or a stateless person (“the dublin iii regulation”), which also applies to switzerland (see a.s. v. switzerland, no.
on 25 july 2003 he was released and police supervision was imposed instead, under which he was obliged not to leave his home district without the authorisation of the investigation authorities, and to report to the local police department twice a week.8.  on 27 november 2003 a bill of indictment was served on the applicant and his two co-accused (d.e.on 2 december 2003 a judge of the riga regional court (rīgas apgabaltiesa) accepted the criminal case for trial.9.  on 1 august 2005 the hearing was adjourned for an indefinite period owing to d.e.’s poor state of health and the fact that the applicant’s defence lawyer was on vacation.in the light of the new rules, on 22 february 2006 the hearing was adjourned because one of the judges of the riga regional court had had to recuse herself from the trial.11.  on 31 july 2006 the hearing was adjourned because the prosecutor and the applicant’s defence lawyer were due to go away on holiday.12.  on 13 november 2006 the hearing was adjourned once again owing to d.e.’s poor state of health.on 15 november 2006 a judge from the riga regional court requested the hospital in which d.e.on the same day the riga regional court ordered that d.e.15.  on 27 september 2007 the riga regional court scheduled the next hearing for 27 december 2007. on 18 october 2007 d.e.’s lawyer requested that that hearing be rescheduled in order to accommodate his taking planned holidays.the court dismissed that request, noting that six hearings had already been adjourned and that further delays in the proceedings could not be allowed.16.  on 27 december 2007 the hearing was adjourned, as the prosecution needed to replace the charge against the applicant with a more lenient one.17.  on 11 january 2008 the riga regional court started to hear the parties’ arguments regarding the merits of the case.19.  on 30 december 2008 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law, arguing, inter alia, that his right to a trial within a reasonable time had been breached.20.  by a final decision of 26 january 2009 the senate of the supreme court (augstākās tiesas senāts) refused the applicant leave to appeal on points of law, noting, inter alia, that the applicant’s “reference to violations of certain laws and international legal provisions was formalistic.”
the present cases concern restitution proceedings in which the applicants sought that the plots of land, which, at present, form part of a campsite on the shore of lake ohrid, be restored to their possession.on 15 september 2003 the ministry of finance’s restitution commission (“the restitution commission”) granted the applicants’ claims and awarded them compensation, the form of which was to be determined by a separate decision.7.  on 4 december 2003 the applicants appealed, arguing that, inter alia, the land was undeveloped and could be restored to their possession.were the urban plan to be implemented in the future, the land could be expropriated anew.8.  on 31 may 2005 the the second-instance administrative-procedure commission in the area of denationalisation (комисија за решавање во управна постапка во втор степен од областа на денационализацијата – “the second-instance commission”) dismissed the applicants’ appeal finding no grounds to depart from the established facts and the reasons given by the restitution commission.relying on section 10 of the restitution act (see paragraph 15 below), the second-instance commission held that the land in question was of public interest (јавен интерес) and could not be restored to the applicants’ possession, but that compensation should be awarded instead.9.  on 21 september 2005 the applicants lodged an administrative-dispute claim with the supreme court reiterating that the land within the campsite was undeveloped and could therefore be restored to their possession.44-530/1 of 7 march 2006 in which the second-instance commission had accepted a similar claim and ordered that a neighbouring plot of land located within the same campsite had been restored to possession of the claimants.in that case, the second-instance commission had held, unlike in the applicants’ case, that access paths and supporting infrastructure had not been sufficient for the land in question to be regarded as developed.10.  on 7 february 2008 the administrative court, which had in the meantime become competent to decide administrative-dispute claims, dismissed the applicants’ claim and upheld the findings of the administrative authorities.11.  on 28 november 2003 the restitution commission upheld the applicants’ restitution claim and awarded them compensation in state bonds.relying on an on-site inspection of 13 may 2002 and a certificate of 15 september 2002 issued by the competent ministry, it established that the plot in question was located within the boundaries of the campsite; that it had been designated as a public green zone and that pedestrian paths and other similar infrastructure were planned for construction.12.  an appeal by the applicants of 7 april 2004 was dismissed by the second-instance commission on 15 november 2005. the latter held that, inter alia, the findings of the restitution commission had been based on section 10 of the restitution act.13.  the applicants lodged an administrative-dispute claim in which, alike the applicants in application no.14.  on 21 april 2008 the administrative court dismissed the applicants’ claim, finding no grounds to depart from the established facts and the reasoning given by the administrative authorities.
11.  on the basis of an international arrest warrant issued by the mitrovica district court (kosovo) on 26 november 2010 and 6 may 2011, the applicant was apprehended and taken into detention pending extradition by a decision of the vienna regional criminal court (straflandesgericht wien – hereinafter “the criminal court”) of 15 january 2016. on 20 january 2016 the ministry of justice of kosovo requested the applicant’s extradition.it held that during the extradition proceedings, the court was not called on to examine whether the applicant was guilty or innocent, but merely to assess whether there was enough evidence to raise suspicions against him, which according to the documents submitted by the kosovo authorities was the case.none of the evidence offered by the applicant had been capable of dispelling these suspicions immediately and without doubt, as would have been required by section 33(2) of the extradition and legal aid act (auslieferungs- und rechtshilfegesetz – hereinafter “the extradition act”).furthermore, in case of extradition to a member state of the convention, the responsibility of the extraditing state was limited, as the person concerned could seek protection against a violation of the convention in the receiving state.concerning the conditions of detention, the court held that the report on kosovo by the committee for the prevention of torture (hereinafter “the cpt”) of 2011 (see paragraph 30 below) did not state that ill-treatment was the rule in kosovo prisons, but that there were merely sporadic incidents of violence.in relation to the material conditions of detention in mitrovica detention centre, where the applicant alleged he would most likely be held if extradited, the court of appeal again quoted the above-mentioned cpt report of 2011, where it was found that inmates were able to move freely within that facility during the day and could exercise outside on a daily basis for three and a half hours, and that fitness and computer rooms have recently been installed.17.  on 20 june 2016 the applicant requested that the court indicate to the austrian government to stay his extradition to kosovo under rule 39 of the rules of court.19.  on 17 june 2016 the applicant lodged applications for the reopening (wiederaufnahme) of the extradition proceedings and a stay of the extradition with the criminal court.it held that in accordance with section 33(2) of the extradition act, the applicant had failed to adduce evidence which would have been capable of immediately dispelling the suspicion against him raised in the extradition request.21.  on 18 july 2016 the applicant lodged an application for a renewal (erneuerung) of the extradition proceedings with the supreme court under article 363a of the code of criminal procedure (strafprozessordnung – hereinafter “the ccp”), requesting suspensive effect at the same time.it found that the new evidence the applicant had produced in the proceedings before it were a matter for the pending reopening proceedings, not for requesting a renewal of the extradition proceedings.in relation to the alleged violations of articles 2 and 3 of the convention in the event of his extradition, the supreme court found that mere allegations referencing general reports on the human rights situation were not capable of substantiating a real and immediate risk to the applicant under these provisions.the court found that the applicant had failed to produce objective evidence which would have indicated a real and immediate risk of treatment contrary to article 3 of the convention if extradited to kosovo and therefore would have warranted a reopening of the extradition proceedings.the court of appeal reiterated that it was in any event for the kosovo courts to evaluate the evidence against the applicant.lastly, the court of appeal found that despite not being a state party to the convention or the council of europe, article 22 of the constitution of kosovo granted the convention direct effect under and superiority to national law, therefore domestic law equally offered protection from violations of the convention.
7.  the result of the assessment was negative and the applicant was not included in the contingent to be sent to the international mission.8.  the applicant complained of the negative result of his psychological assessment to the head of the institute, but was informed, in a letter dated 1 february 2002, that a check-up had shown that the assessment had been objective and correct.in an explanatory note sent to the head of the institute in relation to that check-up the psychologist who had carried out the assessment explained that during his interview with the applicant he had informed the latter of the results of the assessment in a “clement manner”, and that the applicant had been able to pose questions and to comment.10.  despite having formally retired, after the expiry of the statutory time-limit of one year the applicant was allowed to undergo a fresh psychological assessment at the institute, in relation to the preparation of a new international police mission.11.  the applicant complained of this outcome to the minister of the interior and other bodies, such as the parliamentary commission on internal security and public order and the president of the republic.the human resources department of the ministry of the interior informed him, in a letter dated 29 january 2003, that the refusals to include him in the international contingents had been lawful.12.  on 12 february 2003 the applicant applied under the protection of personal data act (see paragraph 22 below) to receive access to the documents contained in his personnel file at the ministry of the interior.13.  in the subsequent administrative and judicial proceedings, as described below, the competent national authorities did not refer to any individual documents or a category of documents, but instead referred generally to the information sought by the applicant as “personal data” contained in his personnel file.14.  an initial refusal to allow him access to the file, signed by the head of the ministry’s human-resources department and dated 2 april 2003, was quashed on 17 november 2003 by the sofia city court, as it had not been ordered by the competent body, namely the minister of the interior.he relied in general terms on the provisions of section 34(3) of the protection of personal data act and section 182(7) of the ministry of the interior act, as in force at the time (see paragraphs 22 and 25 below).16.  this refusal was quashed by a three-member panel of the supreme administrative court on 29 july 2005, on the grounds that it had not been reasoned, as it had merely referred to the provisions restricting access to personal data without explaining how they had been relevant to the circumstances of the case and without accounting for the applicant’s own right to access to data concerning him.17.  in a new decision dated 17 october 2006, the minister of the interior refused the applicant access to his personnel file at the ministry.the minister relied once again on section 34(3) of the protection of personal data act, as well as on section 161 of the ministry of the interior act of 2006 (see paragraphs 22 and 26 below).he argued that the minister of the interior had not duly taken into account his right to access to information, that there were no legal grounds to consider the information referred to in the decision as classified, and that in any event, seeing that the applicant had left the ministry in 2002 and that the relevant time-limits for keeping classified documents representing official secrets had expired, any such documents in his file had had in the meantime to be declassified.it endorsed the three-member panel’s reasoning, adding that the declassification of documents could only occur after an express decision of the competent official, despite the expiry of the relevant time-limits.
according to the certificates of ownership provided by the department of lands and surveys of the republic of cyprus, the applicant is the sole owner of four plots of land and owns a 9/16 share of the fifth plot.12.  in february 2017 the applicant obtained a new valuation report from the land registration office of the republic of cyprus which assessed the value of the property in question, including economic loss and interest accrued since 1997 (when the applicant became owner of the property) to december 2016, at eur 2,088,366 in total.14.  in her affidavit the applicant attested that the property in question had been transferred to her after 1974 by her aunt, who had owned it since before 1974. the affidavit also attested that there were no mortgages, liabilities or restrictions on the property in question, that the applicant lived in south cyprus in a house owned by a turkish cypriot, and that she was paying rent to the republic of cyprus.the file also contained the applicant’s identity documents (british passport and cypriot identity card), certificates from the republic of cyprus land registry and surveys department concerning the ownership and legal status of the applicant’s plots of land (indicating no mortgages, liabilities or other restrictions), and a document issued by the relevant cypriot authority showing that the applicant lived in a house owned by a turkish cypriot and had been billed 270 cypriot pounds (cyp) by way of rent for the period 1 april 2003 to 30 june 2004.it relied on an affidavit by the “trnc” director of the land registry and surveys department, who explained that their records showed that one of the registered owners of the property in question was chrystollou nicola stavrinou (the applicant’s aunt), that maria nicola stavrinou (the applicant’s mother) was the owner of part of one of the plots of land, and that the applicant had failed to demonstrate that she was the legal heir of the two registered owners.17.  a directions hearing before the ipc took place on 25 may 2010. the applicant’s representative stated that they had received the attorney general’s opinion only on the day of the hearing and thus asked for an adjournment in order to prepare their case.she submitted that she had in the meantime become the sole owner of the plot of which she had previously owned a 5/6 share and that in october 2011 she had obtained a valuation report indicating that the value of her properties was eur 2,690,962 (see paragraph 8 above).21.  at a preliminary hearing on 18 june 2012, after the attorney general’s representative stated that he had no objections with regard to the amendment of the applicant’s claim; the president of the ipc accepted the amendment and instructed the applicant to submit her amended claim and the attorney general’s office to submit an opinion in that regard.in particular, the applicant submitted certificates issued by the head of the local community (mukhtar) explaining that there were inconsistencies in the spelling of the applicant’s aunt’s name in different documents.27.  at a preliminary hearing on 25 april 2013 the “trnc” representatives asked the applicant to submit certificates from the mukhtar showing that the names andriani joannou, andriani ioannou and andriani georgiou antoniou all referred to the applicant, and further certificates showing that her aunt had been variously known as chrystollou nicola stavrinou, chrystolleuo nicola stavriou, chrystolleui nicolou stavriou, nikola hristallu (nicola hrystallou), hristalla nicola and hrystallou nicola (nikola), and that her mother had been variously known as maria nicola stavrinou, maria stavrinou, maria georgiou and maria georgios, and that their antecedent nikolas stavrinou (nicolas stavrinou), had also been known as nicola stavrinou and nicola stavrinu.29.  at a preliminary hearing on 24 october 2013, at which the applicant was also present, the “trnc” representatives argued that the mukhtar’s certificates were incomplete and that the names maria nicola (nicolas, nikola, nikolas) stavrinou, for the applicant’s mother, and chrystolleui nicolou stavriou, for the applicant’s aunt, should be added.32.  a further examination of the case before the ipc took place on 1 march 2016. the president and members of the ipc questioned the applicant’s representative with regard to the instructions he had received from the applicant concerning the case.36.  at a hearing on 28 september 2016 the ipc accepted the applicant’s turkish cypriot representatives’ withdrawal from the case and decided that the applicant should be contacted directly during the future course of the proceedings.38.  a further meeting for the examination of the case, at which the applicant was personally present, was held on 2 march 2017. the “trnc” representatives argued that the applicant should provide further documents showing the exact dates of birth of her mother and her aunt as well as the respective death certificates.the president of the ipc instructed the applicant that the opinions expressed by the “trnc” representatives did not represent the official position of the ipc and that the matter would be decided after the examination of all the circumstances of the case.
according to the medical report, the applicant had the following injuries: (i) an abrasion measuring 1.2 by 0.2 cm on the bridge of the nose, (ii) a bruise measuring 2 cm by 2 cm in the area of the right cheekbone, (iii) a bruise measuring 2.5 by 1 cm on a finger of the left hand, and (iv) a bruise measuring 2.5 by 2 cm on the left side of the lumbar region.18.  in the most recent refusal of 23 december 2005 to institute criminal proceedings for lack of the elements of a crime in the actions of the police officers, the investigator established the facts as follows, relying on the police officers’ statements.having examined the applicant’s hospital records, the expert concluded in a report of 13 april 2007 that the applicant’s injuries, notably brain contusion, traumatic perforation of the right eardrum, bruises on the face, abrasions on the head, torso and limbs and swelling in the lumbar region, could have been sustained on 31 march 2007 by impacts from hard, blunt objects.43.  after his release from the police station, at 3.20 p.m. on 26 march 2007 the applicant was examined by a doctor at diveyevo hospital, who recorded bruises on the interior of the left calf (in the upper and middle parts), an abrasion on the front of the left shin, a bruise on the left ankle, a bruise on the right knee, a bruise on the left elbow, and an abrasion on the left hand.the applicant had two bruises on the interior of the left calf (in the upper and middle parts) measuring 7 by 3 cm and 10 by 5 cm, a 1.5 by 0.5 cm bruise on the front of the left shin, a 2 by 1 cm bruise on the left ankle, and a 3 by 1.5 cm bruise on the left elbow.after 10 p.m. on 24 march 2007 k. and two police trainees had approached the applicant and rebuked him for using foul language; he had ignored their commands and continued swearing; k. had ordered that he go with them to the police station but he had refused; k. took him by the sleeve and led him to the police car; they took the applicant to the police station.relying on statements by k. and other police officers, who had denied any violence against the applicant, the investigator held that the applicant could have received the injuries when getting into the police car before being taken to the police station on 24 march 2007. the investigator’s decision was declared lawful and well‑founded in the sarov town court’s decision of 16 january 2009, upheld by the nizhniy novgorod regional court on 13 march 2009.52.  according to records drawn up by v. between 12.30 a.m. and 1.50 a.m.: (i) the applicant was suspended from driving because he had signs of alcohol intoxication (alcohol on his breath, red eyes and slurred speech); (ii) he had been ordered to undergo a medical examination to determine whether he had been in a state of alcohol intoxication, but he had refused to do so; (iii) his car had been impounded; and (iv) the applicant had been found to have committed an administrative offence by refusing to undergo a medical examination at the request of the police.65.  according to the records drawn up by officer b. between 6.50 a.m. and 9.20 a.m. on 8 february 2008: (i) the applicant was suspended from driving because he had signs of alcohol intoxication (alcohol on his breath, red eyes and trembling fingers); (ii) he was ordered to undergo a medical examination for detecting alcohol intoxication, but refused to do so; (iii) his car was impounded; and (iv) the applicant was found to have committed an administrative offence by refusing to undergo a medical examination at the request of the police.on the same day he was examined by a dentist who recorded that the upper front tooth on the right was missing, the crown of the next tooth to the right was broken, and that the two lower front teeth were loose as a result of a traumatic subluxation.70.  an investigator obtained an opinion of a forensic-medical expert from the novocheboksarsk division of the chuvashia republic forensic-medical bureau, who considered that the applicant’s injuries could have been received within twenty-four hours of the applicant’s medical examination on 8 february 2008, as a result of an impact from a hard blunt object, for example as a result of hitting a wall as regards the injuries to the front teeth, lip and face.72.  the most recent refusal to institute criminal proceedings for lack of the elements of a crime in the police officers’ actions was taken by an investigator on 5 november 2009. he cited the police officers’ statements that the applicant had tried to run away, they had therefore handcuffed him in order to take him to the police station, where the applicant himself had struck his face against a wall.relying on the police officers’ statements, the investigator concluded that the applicant had inflicted the injuries on himself by striking his face against a wall at the police station, and that the abrasions on his neck and wrists had been a result of the lawful use of force by the police officers in the course of his arrest.according to the applicant, in the police car he was slapped in the face several times, and at the police station the police officers repeatedly punched him in the head and other parts of the body and kicked him in the chest.the expert concluded that the bruising and fracture of the nose (which had resulted in short-term health problems lasting up to three weeks, that is to say minor harm to the applicant’s health), the bruising in the area of both eyes and the cheek bones and the bleeding to the sclera of both eyes could have been sustained on 28 may 2008 as a result of impacts from hard blunt objects.
8.  in august 1998 the country suffered a financial crisis, the rouble fell, and the bank defaulted.in december 1998 the applicant accepted the bank’s offer to settle and close his account in return for the balance in depreciated roubles.by the time the money reached the applicant in march 1999, the rouble had depreciated further.10.  in may 2000 the bank and its creditors negotiated a group settlement of the pre-october 1999 debt and had it approved by the courts.the settlement discharged the bank from fines, penalties, default interest, and damages arising under legislation, contracts with clients, and court decisions.11.  in december 2001 the applicant sued the bank for the loss caused by the exchange-rate fluctuations between the day he had accepted the bank’s offer and the day the money had arrived.the bank objected to that claim on the ground that it had extinguished its obligations by repaying the deposit to the applicant.on 17 april 2002 the golovinskiy district court of moscow awarded the applicant 77,603.50 russian roubles (rub)[1].13.  on 17 june 2003, on the application of the bank, the district court terminated the enforcement of its judgment in view of the group settlement.the district court said: considering the nature of the legal relationship at issue, the court takes into account the fact that the enforcement proceedings have been instituted with the purpose of collecting from [russian credit] the liabilities that had come into existence before 18 october 1999 inclusive and, under the ... terms of the friendly settlement, are related to [the bank’s] restructured liabilities subject to novation on the terms of the friendly settlement approved by a [court decision] that had defined the procedure and terms of the extinction of the liabilities.pursuant to section 23 § 2 of the federal law on enforcement proceedings, the conclusion of a friendly settlement between a creditor and a debtor constitutes a ground for the termination of the enforcement proceedings, and therefore the [bank’s] application shall be granted and the [enforcement proceedings] shall be terminated.14.  in july 2003, in reply to the applicant’s query, the bank’s external administrator informed the applicant that his deposit had not been on the books and that under the terms of the group settlement his judgment debt could not be paid.15.  on 14 august 2003 the moscow city court upheld the district court’s decision, finding that the applicant’s individual claim was to be settled with the group claim.the city court said: when terminating the [enforcement] proceedings the [district court] has referred to the provisions of section 439 of the code of civil procedure and reached the conclusion that the terms of the said friendly settlement regarding the restructuring of the credit obligations of [russian credit] extended also to [the applicant].the [city court] agrees with the said conclusion of the [district court] as based on the provisions of the law and confirmed by the circumstances of the present case.
their initials, dates of birth, application numbers and the other details of their cases are set out in the appendix.at the time of lodging their applications the applicants were detained at detention centres for foreign nationals run by the federal migration service (hereinafter “the fms”) in different towns in russia.9.   on various dates between 2012 and 2016 the applicants came to russia on various visas and did not leave when the period of their stay had expired.they were apprehended by the police and/or officers of the fms in various regions in russia for breaching the applicable immigration regulations, and placed in detention centres for foreigners (see the appendix for the applicants’ dates of detention and details of the relevant proceedings).the domestic courts in the respective regions examined their cases and found the applicants guilty of breaching various immigration regulations.some of the applicants lodged appeals, but they were rejected by the domestic courts, whereas other applicants eventually had their expulsion orders quashed by the appeal courts.one of the applicants did not appeal against his expulsion order (see the appendix for the details of individual cases) 10.  all the applicants sought to obtain refugee status and/or temporary asylum in russia.some of the applicants voluntarily withdrew their requests and others’ requests were rejected, first by the fms and then by the domestic courts which examined the appeals against the fms’s refusals.11.  according to the information provided by their lawyers, while the proceedings before the court were ongoing, six of the applicants (m.s.a., r.k., h.r., b.z., s.w.and r.k. were detained in a detention centre for foreign nationals run by the fms in krasnoye selo, in the leningrad region.13.  according to their submissions, the centre was based in an eight-storey building with windows covered with grills; five of the storeys were designed to accommodate 176 people in total.the centre was severely overcrowded during the whole period of the applicants’ detention.food was delivered to the centre in containers and served cold in the cells.and r.k. were detained was only lit by one light bulb, and the detainees were not allowed to switch on the light after 10 p.m. 17.  the applicants and other inmates could move around on that storey to get to sanitary facilities, but they were not allowed to leave the storey or enter other detainees’ cells.the storey was under the control of a dozen “chosen” inmates who, with the tacit consent of the centre’s administration, dictated their rules to others and created an atmosphere of fear, violence and extortion.
6.  the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in adana.7.  on 11 july 2000 the adana magistrate’s court ordered the detention of the applicant in absentia.8.  on 20 july 2000 the applicant was questioned by the gendarmerie in the absence of his lawyer.in his statement, the applicant gave a detailed description about his involvement in an illegal organisation and the activities in which he had taken part.subsequently, he was brought before the public prosecutor at the adana state security court.during the interview, the applicant stated, again in the absence of a lawyer, that his statements made to the gendarmerie had been correct.9.  on 15 september 2000 the investigating judge at the mardin magistrate’s court ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention, again in the absence of a lawyer.10.  on 24 october 2000 the public prosecutor lodged an indictment before the adana state security court, charging the applicant under section 125 of the former criminal code with carrying out activities with the aim of bringing about the secession of part of the national territory.11.  on 25 october 2005 the adana assize court convicted the applicant as charged.12.  on 26 april 2006 the court of cassation quashed the conviction.13.  on 6 november 2007 the adana assize court found that, inter alia, on the basis of the applicant’s statements to the gendarmerie and the public prosecutor, the applicant had committed the offence under section 125 of the former criminal code and sentenced him to life imprisonment.14.  on 12 november 2008 the court of cassation upheld the conviction.
4.  the applicants were born in 1982 and 1981 respectively.5.  on 22 april 2006 upon receipt of intelligence reports that the youth branch of the pkk would be holding a meeting in the premises of a cooperative, the police officers, under the orders of the magistrates’ court, conducted a search in the premises of the co-operative of which the applicants were members.the police seized several documents and cds that contained propaganda materials related to the youth branch of the pkk.6.  on the same day the applicants were taken into custody on suspicion of being members of a terrorist organisation.7.  on 24 april 2006 the urfa magistrates’ court ordered the applicants’ detention on remand.8.  on 27 april 2006 and 28 april 2006, respectively, the applicants filed objections against their pre-trial detention.the courts rejected their request on the basis of the case-file, without holding a hearing.9.  during the pre-trial stage, the magistrates’ court continued to examine, by virtue of article 108 of law no.5271, the necessity of applicants’ continued detention every thirty days on the basis of the case file, without holding an oral hearing.the applicants also filed objections against their continued pre-trial detention, namely on 15 june, 12 july, 17 july, 1 august and 17 october 2006. all these objections were examined on the basis of the case file and were rejected by the domestic courts.10.  on 10 october 2006 the diyarbakır public prosecutor filed an indictment with the diyarbakır assize court charging the applicants, along with twenty three other persons, with aiding and abetting a terrorist organisation under article 314 of the criminal code (law no.11.  on 30 november 2006 the diyarbakır assize court held its first hearing and the applicants appeared before the court.on the same day, the applicants were released pending trial.12.  on 4 november 2008 the diyarbakır assize court acquitted the applicants of the charges against them.in the absence of an appeal, this judgment became final on 12 november 2008.
4.  the applicant was born in 1939 and lives in ankara.5.  the applicant is the owner of an apartment in ankara.on an unspecified date, the applicant brought a case before the ankara administrative court against the çankaya municipality and the ankara metropolitan municipality for the annulment of the construction permit pertaining to a neighboring building which was being built opposite his apartment.6.  on 14 december 1999 the ankara administrative court accepted the applicant’s request and revoked the construction permit based on a breach of height restrictions.according to this judgment, the building in question was constructed 1.48 meters higher than the norm that was laid down in the zoning plan in force.7.  on 17 february 2000 the çankaya municipal executive committee (belediye encümeni) ordered the demolition of the illegally constructed part of the building in order to comply with the administrative court’s judgment.however, it did not implement the said decision.8.  on 19 november 2001 the supreme administrative court upheld the administrative court’s judgment.9.  in the meantime, on 3 august 2001 the çankaya municipal council (belediye meclisi) amended the zoning plan and sent its decision to the ankara metropolitan municipality for approval.10.  on 26 october 2001 the ankara metropolitan municipality withheld its approval, holding that the zoning plan had been amended with the aim of legalizing the previously revoked building permit and thereby avoiding the demolition of the illegal construction.11.  on 5 december 2001 the çankaya municipal council insisted in its previous decision and the amended zoning plan thus came into force.12.  subsequently on 31 december 2001 the applicant brought a case before the ankara administrative court for the annulment of the çankaya municipal council’s decision of 5 december 2001.13.  on 31 march 2003 the ankara administrative court annulled the said decision for, inter alia, encouraging unlicensed construction practices.14.  on 21 february 2005 the supreme administrative court upheld the administrative court’s decision and on 18 october 2005 it rejected the çankaya municipality’s rectification request.this decision was served on the applicant on 13 december 2005.
10.  according to the applicant, on 30 august 2006 (see below) he learnt that in october or november 2005 z., a deputy district prosecutor, had given g., the sister of the murder victim, access to the file concerning the criminal charges against the applicant.she stated that she had had access to the file and had then told d., the applicant’s relative, about his hiv status to prove that the applicant was not a good person.12.  between september 2006 and 2010 the applicant unsuccessfully sought the institution of criminal proceedings against g. for the disclosure of private information, which was an offence under article 137 § 1 of the criminal code (see paragraph 38 below).it appears that the applicant also sought the institution of criminal proceedings against z. in relation to the disclosure of private information involving the use of an official position and abuse of power (article 137 § 2 and article 286 of the criminal code; see also paragraph 15 below).13.  a pre-investigation inquiry was carried out for the offence allegedly committed by g. 14.  in december 2006 z., the deputy district prosecutor, wrote to the applicant indicating that g. had not been granted victim status, and that the investigator in charge of the case had not provided her with access to the file during the preliminary investigation.15.  in december 2006 the regional prosecutor’s office informed the applicant that g. had been granted victim status and had studied the case file in august 2006, she had not applied for victim status before that time, and there were no grounds for any pre-investigation inquiry in respect of z. it is unclear whether the applicant took any further action as regards his criminal complaint against z.17.  on 25 november 2008 the district court refused to carry out judicial review of the refusal dated 9 february 2008. the regional court then considered that the applicant was entitled to judicial review and ordered the district court to re-examine the issue.in the resumed proceedings, on 13 february 2009 the district court noted that the applicant no longer wished to pursue the judicial complaint, and discontinued it.18.  in the meantime, on 23 january 2009 an investigator had issued a new refusal to prosecute with reference to the expiry of the two-year time‑limit for prosecution of an offence under article 137 of the criminal code.19.  on 28 september 2009 the district court confirmed the refusal to prosecute dated 23 january 2009. the judge noted (apparently with reference to 2007) that for some time the institution of criminal proceedings had been refused because “at the time no written statement could be obtained from [the applicant] in relation to his complaint”.this had prompted the supervising prosecutor to set aside, among other things, the refusals to prosecute dated 1 october and 26 november 2007 and 9 february 2008. the prosecutor had acted promptly by taking decisions on 5 october and 29 december 2007 and on 30 december 2008. following each decision, law-enforcement officers had taken measures to interview the applicant (apparently by asking staff at his remand centre to interview him), but “no statement had been received from him”.20.  on 17 march 2010 the regional court upheld the judgment of 28 september 2009. the appeal court stated that, while the fact of the dissemination of the applicant’s medical data by g. had been established, she could not be prosecuted, owing to the expiry of the time-limit for prosecution.for instance, on 15 february 2006 the prisons department of the sverdlovsk region dismissed one of his complaints, whilst indicating that the actual number of detainees in the remand centre exceeded the design capacity of this detention facility.by a letter of 13 march 2006 the administration of the remand centre informed the applicant that the actual capacity of cells was such as to afford each detainee 2.5 square metres of space, which was a temporary measure related to the overpopulation problem.34.  by a letter of 2 december 2008 the prosecutor’s office of the sverdlovsk region informed the applicant that, following an inspection, it could be not confirmed that the cell toilets were not separated from the main area.
6.  according to the indictment, on 15 october 2010 ms k., who had not been previously known to the applicant, invited him and mr a. to the apartment of mr x. in the apartment they found mr x. lying on the floor in a state of heavy alcoholic intoxication.prior to the interview, the investigator had received permission to interview ms k. from the head doctor of the medical facility and satisfied herself as to the witness’s ability to testify, relying on the opinion of the doctor treating her.on the day of the attack, she had witnessed the applicant entering the apartment with mr a. and immediately starting to violently kick mr x., who had been lying on the floor.on 29 october 2010 during questioning, he stated that the applicant’s insistence on obtaining x.’s passport had been induced by the desire to coerce the latter to sell his apartment and to share the proceeds.the witnesses either attested to the reputation or character of the victim and the accused, or provided hearsay and circumstantial evidence on the events prior and subsequent to the alleged crime.17.  on 10 february 2011 at the request of the defence the district court issued a subpoena ordering the bailiffs to ensure ms k.’s presence at the next hearing.ms d. stated that the witness had been “rational”, had given coherent testimony, had correctly recounted the events and, according to the doctor treating her at the time, had been capable of answering questions.20.  during the hearing the trial court was notified over the phone that the applicant had been undergoing in-patient treatment for alcohol dependency since 22 january 2011. the prosecutor’s request that ms k.’s pre-trial statements be read out in court was denied and the hearing was adjourned until further information on the witness’s health had been received from the doctors.22.  on the same day during the hearing, the prosecutor, referring to the above-mentioned letter, repeatedly requested that ms k.’s pre-trial statements be read out in court on account of her in-patient treatment, the fact that her presence at trial could not be ensured, and because the date of her discharge from the clinic was unclear.the trial court also considered the following documentary evidence presented by the prosecution: (a) crime scene inspection records; (b) the confession of mr a. and verification records; (c) records of identification procedures; and (d) reports of the medical examiner and forensic experts on the victim’s injuries and the cause of death.he further stated that in any event, the reading out of her testimony had been unlawful under article 281 of the code of criminal procedure as interpreted by the supreme court of the russian federation, and in violation of the applicant’s right to examine witnesses under article 6 § 3 (d) of the convention.in respect of the reliability of the testimony and its reading out, it stated: “... the statements of ms k. made during the pre-trial investigation were read out under article 281 of the code of criminal procedure ... the court does not accept mr zadumov’s argument that [according to the medical records] the mental state of ms k. casts doubt on her ability to correctly perceive and recount the events and that [her questioning during treatment in a psychoneurology facility] also casts doubt on the veracity and reliability of her testimony ... the medical records referred to by the defence do not suggest that ms k. has any psychiatric disorder.in respect of ms k.’s statements the regional court stated: “... the involvement of mr zadumov [the applicant] in the committed crime is steadfastly confirmed by the testimony of ms k. [the appeal court] like the trial court finds no grounds to doubt the testimony of this witness, because it is coherent, detailed, logical and authentic.[from] the information provided by ms k. on the victim’s state before and after the infliction of bodily injuries by mr a. and mr zadumov, the sequence of events is consistent with [expert evidence and the testimony of other witnesses and the co-accused].[the appeal court] cannot consider justified the arguments of the defence that criminal procedure legislation had been breached by the reading out of ms k.’s pre‑trial statements, [since her presence at hearings was impossible as she was undergoing treatment in a clinic].”
10.  in an indictment filed on 15 november 2005 in the united states (hereinafter, “the us”) district court for the eastern district of new york, the applicant was charged with one count of conspiracy to import one or more kilograms of heroin, a schedule i controlled substance, into the united states in violation of title 21, united states code, sections 952(a), 960(a)(1), 960(b)(1)(a), and 963, and title 18, united states code, sections 3551 et seq.on 19 december 2014 the plenary of the criminal section of the audiencia nacional ruled against the applicant, arguing that the object and purpose of annulment proceedings was not to serve as a second appeal instance against an extradition decision, but to correct possible violations of a fundamental right committed in a decision which was not subject to appeal.while the united states is not, therefore, obligated to provide the assurance requested, in consideration of the request of the spanish court and given the intentions of the u.s. prosecutor, the united states is prepared in this particular case to inform the government of spain as follows: should lopez elorza be convicted of either of the charges in the indictment filed on 15 november 2005 for which extradition is sought, he will not be subject to an unalterable sentence of life imprisonment because, if a life sentence is imposed, he may seek review of his sentence on appeal and he may subsequently seek relief from his sentence in the form of a petition for a pardon or commutation to a lesser sentence ...” 17.  on 19 january 2015 the note verbale was communicated to the interested parties.he also sought the recusal of three judges who were members of the bench which had initially issued the decision of 24 february 2015. lastly, he lodged an application for the general recusal of all the judges of the audiencia nacional who “had been invited by the united states of america on holiday trips” which had been paid for by that country.20.  on 25 march 2015 the audiencia nacional issued a decision stating the following: “first - we will examine in the first place the plea for a referral to the plenary formation of this court of the decision about the sufficiency of the assurances given by the u.s. government concerning the possibility for two life sentences to be imposed on the extradited person.this chamber, given that the president of this court has duly empowered it to decide about this matter, considers that the referral is not necessary as the assurances given are correct and sufficient, and furthermore show compliance with the ecthr case-law in the trabelsi vs belgium case referred to by the appellant .... therefore, if the assurances given by the u.s. government are the following: “should lopez elorza be convicted of either of the charges in the indictment filed on 15 november 2005, he will not be subject to an unalterable sentence of life imprisonment, he may seek review of his sentence on appeal and he may subsequently seek relief from his sentence in the form of a petition for a pardon or commutation to a lesser sentence;” we can conclude that the warranty expresses the actual existing legal means for the revision of a sentence of life imprisonment in a way that shows that this punishment is not irreducible during the whole life-span of the person, complying with what the ecthr has requested in order to consider that there has been no violation of article 3 of the convention.that is why there is no need to refer a decision on this matter to the plenary formation of this court.” 21.  additionally, the audiencia nacional agreed on opening a procedure aimed at addressing the issue of the recusals requested by the applicant through a full report, at the same time ordering the suspension of the extradition proceedings until the recusal proceedings had been terminated.40014/10, 13 november 2014)], lodged by a french citizen... taking into consideration the above-mentioned reasoning, the court decides to dismiss the súplica appeals referred to in the present ruling, maintaining the order of imprisonment for andrés lópez elorza, in view of his extradition to the united states of america”.in particular, it found that the part of the amparo appeal concerning the validity of the assurances given by the us authorities and about a possible violation of the applicant’s right not to be subjected to inhuman or degrading treatment had been lodged too late as the alleged violations stemmed from the decision of 25 march 2015, thus the 30-day time‑limit established in section 44(2) of the organic law on the constitutional court no.in particular, the report noted the following: “before any trial, lopez elorza could, with the advice of his lawyer, decide to give up the right to a trial and plead guilty to the charges in the indictment, with or without the agreement of the prosecution.lopez elorza may seek to reach an agreement with the prosecution wherein he would plead guilty in exchange for certain favorable actions, such as an agreement to allow him to plead guilty to fewer than all the charges in the indictment (with the remainder of the charges to be dismissed at sentencing), or even to lesser charges, or in exchange for the government’s promise to affirmatively recommend to the court that a particular lesser sentence be imposed.thus, if lopez elorza were willing and able to provide substantial assistance to the united states in the investigation or prosecution of another person who had committed a crime, a plea agreement might include a promise by the government attorneys, in exchange for his guilty plea, to file a motion with the court asking that lopez elorza’s cooperation be taken into account and permitting the court to impose a lower sentence that it might otherwise impose.specifically, under title 18, united states code, section 3553(a), in determining the particular sentence imposed on a defendant, the court shall consider: (1) the nature and circumstances of the offense and the history and characteristics of the defendant; (2) the need for the sentence imposed to promote respect for the law, punishment for the offense, deter the defendant or others from committing similar criminal conduct, and the need to protect the public; (3) the kinds of sentences available; (4) the applicable guideline range; (5) the need to provide the defendant with educational or vocational training, medical care, or other correctional treatment; (6) the need to avoid unwarranted sentence disparities; and (7) the need to provide restitution to the victims of the offense(s).39.  concerning the applicant’s right to invalidate or reduce his sentence, the government stated that the applicant would have the right under us law to lodge an appeal with the court of appeals, asking for a reversal of his conviction “based on an error in the proceedings”.the report also stated that even after the applicant had exhausted his rights at trial and on appeal, he could under us law file “a motion in the trial court claiming that his life sentence was imposed ‘in violation of the constitution or the laws of the united states’, or that the court was without jurisdiction to impose such sentence, or that the sentence was in excess of the maximum authorized by law, or is otherwise subject to collateral attack”.
it was clear from the audio recordings submitted by the applicant, as analysed by a psychologist, that the applicant had attempted to manipulate the children and to force them to make a choice between the parents.given that i. had never prevented the applicant from seeing the children, the applicant would be able to visit them as often as he liked, while the children would continue living in the environment familiar to them.however, given that the children had not yet reached an age at which they were able to form their own opinions on the matter, as they were still highly impressionable and changeable, the childcare authority considered that it was possible for the children to continue living with their mother.19.  on 6 may 2013 the oktyabrskiy district court rejected the applicant’s application for a residence order and maintained the residence order in favour of i. it found it established that i. was unemployed and that the applicant had a permanent job.the applicant further relied on the expert report of 19 january 2012 (see paragraph 11 above) from which it was apparent that the children had a stronger attachment to their father than to their mother, that any situations involving their mother were stressful for them and that the mother’s methods of upbringing were detrimental to the children’s psychological development.the applicant submitted audio recordings of many conversations he had had with the children between march 2012 and september 2013. the children invariably stated that they wanted to live with the applicant, complained that their mother shouted at them and whipped them with a belt, and protested, crying, that they did not want to return living with her.in such circumstances, and taking into account the children’s age, their established way of life, the satisfactory living conditions of both parents and the opinion of the childcare authorities’ on the case, the decision to maintain the residence order in favour of the mother was in the best interests of the children.the regional court further dismissed the applicant’s complaint that the district court had not assessed the family situation with sufficient thoroughness because it had not questioned the children and had refused to admit the expert report of 19 january 2012 as evidence.35.  on an unspecified date i. applied to the leninskiy district court of vladimir for a judicial authorisation for the children to travel to germany during the approaching school summer holidays, complaining that the applicant had refused to give such an authorisation.37.  on 6 may 2015 the leninskiy district court authorised the children’s trip abroad for the period from 1 june to 31 august 2015. the court found it established that i. intended to travel to germany together with v. and n. during the summer school holidays.on 16 december 2015 the oktyabrskiy district court rejected his complaint, finding that the bailiffs had taken measures to enforce the contact order but enforcement had been impossible through no fault of the bailiffs service, specifically because i. and the children had been living in germany.44.  meanwhile, the bailiffs asked the oktyabrskiy district court for a suspension of the enforcement proceedings on the grounds that i. and the children were abroad and it was therefore impossible to take any coercive measures against her.45.  the applicant also submitted numerous requests to various russian authorities, including in january 2016 to the ministry of education and science of the russian federation, for assistance in recovering his children and in enforcing the contact order of 6 may 2013. in december 2015 he complained of the authorities’ inaction to the leninskiy district court.46.  according to the government, in april 2016 the bailiffs service advised the applicant to apply for recognition and enforcement of the contact order to the competent german authorities, via the ministry of education and science of the russian federation, in accordance with the convention of 19 october 1996 on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition, enforcement and co-operation in respect of parental responsibility and measures for the protection of children.on 24 may 2016 the leninskiy district court refused the applicant’s application for an interim order, finding that he had not proved that the failure to take interim measures might complicate or make impossible the execution of the forthcoming judgment.
4.  the applicant was born in 1946 and lives in čačak.5.  on 7 september 2005 the applicant instituted civil proceedings before the court of first instance (osnovni sud) in kotor seeking redress regarding various contractual issues.6.  on 4 december 2008 the court of first instance in kotor ruled in favour of the applicant.7.  on 17 november 2009 the high court (viši sud) in podgorica upheld this judgment on appeal.8.  on 20 may 2010 the supreme court quashed the previous judgments and ordered a re-trial.9.  on 12 august 2011 the court of first instance in kotor ruled against the applicant.this judgment was upheld by the high court in podgorica and the supreme court on 6 april 2012 and 12 september 2012 respectively.10.  the supreme court’s judgment was served on the applicant on 20 october 2012.11.  the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal on 28 november 2012.12.  on 30 june 2015 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s appeal.this decision was served on the applicant on 25 september 2015.
5.  on 26 april 2004 the oktyabrskiy district court of samara (“the oktyabrskiy district court”) ordered, inter alia, the management of the state unitary enterprise “16th military plant” (“the company”) to provide the applicants with a suitable dwelling, while keeping their names on the list of persons awaiting housing.7.  on 28 may 2004 the department of the bailiffs’ service for oktyabrskiy district of samara opened the enforcement proceedings.8.  on 22 december 2004 the enforcement proceedings were terminated as the company had no available residential accommodation.9.  on 1 october 2007, due to the reorganisation of the company (see paragraph 16 below), the enforcement file was sent to the department of the bailiffs’ service for the engelsskiy district of saratov region.10.  on 21 april 2008 the bailiffs ruled that it was impossible to enforce the judgment in the part relating to the housing, as the new debtor, fgup 9 tsarz (see paragraph 16 below), had no available accommodation.11.  on 26 august 2009 the engelsskiy district court of saratov region, following the bailiffs’ application, replaced the debtor in the enforcement proceedings from fgup 9 tsarz to oao 9 tsarz (see paragraph 17 below).12.  on 14 october 2009 the oktyabrskiy district court clarified the judgment of 26 april 2004 stating that the applicants should be provided with an apartment in samara.13.  several times in 2004-2011 the parties applied to the oktyabrskiy district court for changing the mode of enforcement of the judgment.each time the courts rejected the applications finding that a payment of the amount representing the cost of an apartment would be equal to modifying the original judgment.14.  the judgment of 26 april 2004 remained unenforced.15.  the company was incorporated as a municipal unitary enterprise.according to its articles of association, the company’s aim was to produce goods and render services for the ministry of defense of russia, as well as for meeting other public needs and making a profit.16.  under the order of the federal agency for state property management dated 22 september 2005 the company was joined to fgup 9 tsarz (fgup 9 tsentralnyy avtomobilnyy remontnyy zavod – фгуп 9 царз or фгуп 9 центральный автомобильный ремонтный завод).the reorganisation was completed on 13 february 2007, and the latter company became the universal successor of the company.17.  in accordance with the decree of the president of russia of 15 september 2008 and the decree of the russian government of 22 november 2008, fgup 9 tsarz was further reorganized into oao 9 tsarz, a publicly-traded private open joint-stock company incorporated under the laws of russia.
they lived in hakkari (the first applicant), bingöl (the second applicant), istanbul (the third, fourth, fifth and eighth applicants), diyarbakır (the sixth applicant) and muş (the seventh applicant) at the time their applications were lodged with the court.8.  on 14 february 2002, relying either on regulation 9(d) or on regulation 10(e) of the disciplinary regulations of higher education institutions, the administrative board of istanbul university, after having heard defence submissions from some of the applicants, either suspended them from the university for a period of two semesters (mr çölgeçen and mr salim) or expelled them from the university (mr bek, mr çalışkan, ms işık, mr ay, mr uçak and mr turğay).10.  the applicants, upon notification of the disciplinary sanctions in question, lodged separate actions with the istanbul administrative court, requesting a stay of execution of the disciplinary decisions, with a view to their subsequent annulment.11.  on 9 may 2002 and on 27 june 2002 (in respect of the fifth applicant) the istanbul administrative court suspended the execution of the applicants’ disciplinary sanctions on the grounds that, inter alia, the sanctions in question were unlawful and that, therefore, their application would cause irreparable damage to the applicants.13.  on 12 and 19 december 2002 the istanbul administrative court examined the merits of the cases and annulled the disciplinary sanctions against the applicants on the ground that they were unlawful.in its decisions the court held, inter alia, that following the stay of execution of the disciplinary sanctions the university administration had permitted the students to take repeat exams in july, compensating for the exams which they had been unable to sit in the spring semester and that therefore the conditions for awarding non-pecuniary damage had not been met.18.  by a letter dated 25 march 2011 the office of the dean of the faculty of literature of istanbul university submitted the following information to the government for the purposes of the present proceedings: –  mr mehmet halit çölgeçen, who was studying to become a librarian, graduated on 14 july 2006; –  mr übeyt salim, who was studying russian language and literature, graduated on 11 october 2004; –  mr mürsel bek, who was studying to become a teacher of turkish language, graduated on 13 june 2003; –  mr yavuz uçak, who was studying to become a primary school teacher, graduated on 4 june 2003; –  mr mustafa çalışkan, who was studying to become a primary school mathematics teacher, graduated on 11 july 2006; –  mr münür ay, who was studying geography, failed to finish his studies within the required time-limit and he was removed from the university register on 18 february 2008; –  ms ruken buket işık, who was studying english language and literature, graduated on 9 february 2007; –  mr ali turğay, who was studying turkish language and literature, graduated on 27 july 2006. according to the dean of the faculty of literature of istanbul university, mr bek and mr uçak graduated from the university within the minimum time allowed (4 years).20.  article 74 of the turkish constitution reads, in so far as relevant, as follows: “citizens and foreigners resident in turkey, with the condition of observing the principle of reciprocity, have the right to apply in writing to the competent authorities and to the grand national assembly of turkey with regard to requests and complaints concerning themselves or the public ...” 21.  at the material time, regulation 9(d) of the disciplinary regulations of higher education institutions provided that a person who engaged in activities which gave rise to polarisation on the basis of language, race, religion or denomination was to be suspended from the institution in question for either half or a whole semester.23.  persons who have sustained damage as a result of an administrative act may also lodge an application with the superior authority of the relevant administrative body and request the annulment, withdrawal or alteration of the impugned act (section 11 of the administrative procedure act).the persons concerned may then bring an action before the administrative courts requesting the annulment of the administrative act and compensation for the damage they have sustained (section 12 of the administrative procedure act).2577 of 6 january 1982), those who have suffered damage on account of a wrongful act by the administration may bring compensation proceedings against the latter within a year from the date on which they learned of the impugned act and, in any event, within five years from the commission of that act.26.  at the time of the events in question domestic law did not provide for the teaching of the kurdish language at any levels of education in public or private institutions.the title of the law in question was changed to “the law on foreign language education and teaching and the learning of turkish citizens’ different languages and dialects”.28.  by decisions dated 25 june 2012, 7 september 2012 and 23 january 2014, the board of education and training of the ministry of education added “living languages and dialects (kurdish language)” to the weekly timetable of primary and secondary schools as an elective course.29.  on 5 july 2014 the regulation on foreign language education and training issued by the ministry of education was amended so as to provide for the possibility of education and training in a language or dialect that is traditionally used by citizens of turkey in their daily lives in private schools.
6.  in 1996 v.d., the applicant’s future husband and his parents living in corporate housing (“flat a”) owned by “k.t.”, a state company (hereinafter “the k.t.along with the applicant, he was registered by the local authority as a co-tenant of flat a on the grounds that both of them had become members of the original tenants’ family.11.  according to the government, the applicant and her son also moved into flat b at the material time.company lodged a claim in the kalush town court, seeking, in particular, to evict the applicant and her son from flat a. it argued that there was no legal basis for them to remain in the property, which had been reallocated to a new tenant (r.).16.  on 25 july 2006 the court dismissed the claim for the eviction of the applicant and her son.it found, in particular, that the applicant had lawfully moved into flat a as a member of the original tenants’ family and so had acquired all the rights of a social tenant, within the meaning of article 64 of the housing code (1983).18.  on 14 september 2006 the ivano-frankivsk regional court of appeal quashed the judgment of 25 july 2006 and ordered the applicant’s and her son’s eviction “without provision of any other accommodation”.notably, according to articles 55 and 99 of the housing code, the applicant (together with her son) – having settled in flat a as a member of the original tenants’ family – was bound by the duty of the original tenants to vacate the flat.there was therefore no legal basis for the applicant’s and her son’s continued residency in flat a, and this fact constituted a sufficient basis for their eviction without the provision of any other housing.under article 55 of the housing code, notwithstanding the transfer of the property to the municipality, the k.t.21.  on 15 december 2006 the applicant requested the kalush court to postpone her eviction, in particular, because she had no other accommodation and her salary was too small for her to rent private-sector housing.22.  on 21 december 2006, while the applicant’s request was pending consideration, the state bailiffs arrived at flat a and had the applicant vacate it and surrender the keys.24.  on 29 december 2006 the kalush court allowed the applicant’s request for her and her son’s eviction to be postponed; it postponed their eviction for three months, referring to her indigent status and the interests of a minor child.25.  according to the applicant, after her eviction she had to seek emergency refuge in the home of a colleague and subsequently rented odd accommodations at various places.26.  the government contested this account, insisting that the lease agreements were fictitious and the applicant had de facto lived in flat b permanently since 2004 without proper registration.
59.  an appeal by the applicants was rejected by a decision of the rome court of appeal, filed in the relevant registry on 13 july 2006. the court of appeal noted that such registration could not take place, given that their marriage lacked one of the essential requisites to amount to the institution of marriage in the domestic order, namely the spouses being of different sexes.moreover, the court of cassation noted that persons of the same sex living together in a stable relationship had the right to respect for their private and family life under article 8 of the convention; therefore, even if they did not have the right to marry or to register a validly contracted marriage abroad, in the exercise of the right to freely live with the inviolable status of a couple, they could bring actions before the relevant courts to claim, in specific situations related to their fundamental rights, treatment which was uniform with that afforded by law to married couples.in the absence of any such connecting criteria, italian law shall apply.” article 17 “the following provisions are without prejudice to the prevalence of italian laws which in view of their object and scope shall be applied notwithstanding reference to the foreign law.” article 18 “legal certificates released abroad shall not be registered in italy if they are against public order.” article 27 “capacity to enter into marriage and other conditions required to enter into marriage are regulated by the national law of each spouse at the time of the marriage, this without prejudice to the unmarried status (stato libero) of any of the spouses, obtained as a result of an italian judgment or one which has been recognised in italy.” article 28 “a marriage is valid, in relation to form, if it is considered as such by the law of the country where it is celebrated or by the national law of at least one of the spouses at the time of the marriage or by the law of the common state of residence at the time of the marriage.” article 29 “i) personal relations between spouses are regulated by the national law common to both parties.ii) personal relations between spouses who have different nationalities or several nationalities common to both are regulated by the law of the state where their matrimonial life is mostly spent.” article 65 “foreign documents concerning the status of individuals and the existence of family relations are recognised under italian law if released by public authority of the state whose law is recognised by the present law ... unless those documents violate the public order...” 67.  title vi of the first book of the civil code deals with marriage, and is divided into six chapters (which are again divided into sections).its articles 115 and 130, in so far as relevant, read as follows: article 115 “a citizen is subject to the provisions of section one [conditions to contract marriage] of this chapter even when contracting marriage in a foreign state according to the form applicable in such foreign state ...” article 130 “nobody is entitled to claim the title of spouse and the legal consequences of marriage unless a certified copy of the celebration as recorded in the family registers is presented.” article 131 “a factual reality reflecting the recognition by society of a civil status, which is in conformity with the marriage deed, sanctions any defect of form present in the marriage deed.” 68.  other pertinent provisions of the civil code read, in so far as relevant, as follows: article 167 “each or both spouses may by public deed, or a natural third person may by means of a will, create a patrimonial fund for the needs of the family, assigning selected property, real estates or other goods which are recorded in the official italian registers, or bonds.” article 230 bis “1.a family business is a business in which the spouse, relatives within the third degree, and in-laws within the second degree, work.” article 408 “... a guardian in the event of incapacity may be chosen by the interested person, by means of a public deed or an authenticated private deed.” article 540 “the surviving spouse is entitled to half of the entire estate of the deceased, subject to the provisions of article 542 if there are surviving children.irrespective of whether there are any siblings or parents of the deceased, the surviving spouse is entitled to live in the family house and to use its furniture, whether it is their common possession or solely belongs to the deceased.” article 1321 “a contract is an agreement between two or more parties with the intent to establish, regulate or extinguish a patrimonial relationship between them.” article 1372 “obligations arising from contracts have the force of law between the contracting parties ... they have no effects on third parties unless so provided by law.” 69.  registration of civil status acquired abroad is provided for by the decree of the president of the republic no.72.  in the italian legal order marriage registration does not produce any ulterior legal effects (non ha natura costitutiva); it serves the purpose of acknowledgment in the public domain (significato certificativo, efficacia dichiarativa) in so far as it gives publicity to a deed or act which is already valid on the basis of the locus regit actum principle (the rule providing that, when a legal transaction which complies with the formalities required by the law of the country where it is carried out is also valid in the country where it is to be given effect).73.  extracts from relevant judgments read as follows: decision of 3 april 2009 of the venice tribunal “the difference of sex constitutes an indispensable prerequisite, fundamental to marriage, to such an extent that the opposite hypothesis, namely that of persons of the same sex, is legally inexistent and certainly extraneous to the definition of marriage, at least in the light of the current legal framework.” rome court of appeal decision of 13 july 2006 and treviso tribunal decision of 19 may 2010 “[marriage between two persons of the same sex] may not be registered in the italian civil status registry because it does not fulfil one of the essential requisites necessary for marriage in the internal order, namely the difference of sex of the spouses.” constitutional court judgment no.89.  following decisions of some mayors (including the mayors of bologna, naples, rome and milan) to register same‑sex marriages validly contracted abroad, by a circular issued on 7 october 2014 by the ministry of internal affairs, addressed to the prefects of the republic, the government commissioners of the provinces of bolzano and trento, and the president of the regional government of val d’aosta, the following instruction was issued: “where mayors have issued directives concerning the registration of same-sex marriages issued abroad, and in the event that these directives have been enforced, you are requested to formally invite such mayors to withdraw such directives and cancel any such registrations which have already taken effect.218 of 31 may 1995 provided that the subjective conditions for the validity of a marriage are to be regulated by the national law of each spouse to be, and that a marriage is valid, in respect of its form, if it is considered to be valid according to the law of the place where it has been celebrated or the national law of at least one of the spouses.the difference in sex of the spouses to be was the first condition for the validity of a marriage according to the relevant articles of the civil code, and in line with the long cultural and legal tradition of the institution of marriage.its article 2 contains the following definition: “ ‘family member’ means: (a) the spouse (b) the partner with whom the union citizen has contracted a registered partnership, on the basis of the legislation of a member state, if the legislation of the host member state treats registered partnerships as equivalent to marriage in accordance with the conditions laid down in the relevant legislation of the host member state.(c) the direct descendants who are under the age of 21 or are dependants and those of the spouse or partner as defined in point (b) (d) the dependent direct relative in the ascending line and those of the spouse or partner as defined in point (b);” 109.  according to the european commission «communication from the commission to the european parliament and the council on guidance for better transposition and application of directive 2004/38/ec on the right of citizens of the union and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states» com(2009) 313 final (pg.113.  according to information available to the court (dated july 2015), concerning the practice of twenty-seven member states which did not at the time provide for same sex-marriage (andorra, armenia, austria, azerbaijan, bosnia and herzegovina, bulgaria, croatia, the czech republic, estonia, finland, germany, greece, ireland, lithuania, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, malta, moldova, monaco, montenegro, poland, romania, russia, serbia, slovenia, switzerland, turkey and ukraine), concerning the registration of same-sex marriages contracted abroad, the following situation emerges: all of these member states, with the exception of andorra, malta, as well as estonia (following a court ruling of 2016), refuse to allow same-sex couples to register domestically a same‑sex marriage validly contracted abroad.
6.  the applicant, at the relevant time a judge of the radomyshl district court (“the district court”), was convicted of abuse of office for having exploited a certain mr i. as a worker on the renovation of his father’s house under the following circumstances.in april 2007 the applicant, having sentenced i. to fifteen days’ imprisonment for disorderly conduct, had the site manager for the house renovation, mr sh., check i. out of the police detention facility (“the facility”) where the latter was serving his sentence and take him to the construction site where he was to work under sh.’s direction.stated that the applicant had employed him to work on his father’s house, that in april 2007 i. had worked on the site on terms he had negotiated with the applicant and that in november i. had worked while serving his fifteen-day sentence.the file contains a report of the same date, signed by sh., to the effect that he had watched the video recording of his interview and had no comment to make.had taken him out of the detention facility several times and he had worked on the applicant’s construction site: he had refused to build a fence and had done some other work on the site.10.  on 12 september 2008 i. made a notarised statement to the effect that his statement incriminating the applicant had been given “under the influence of psychological violence and trickery” (з застосуванням щодо мене психологічного насильства та обману) and that in fact he had worked willingly and for remuneration.in addition to repeating various elements of his statement of 23 january 2008, he said that although the house where he had worked formally belonged to the applicant’s father, it was the applicant himself who had organised the work.had been the construction site manager on the renovation of his father’s house but argued that it had been his father who had been concerned by those works and that the applicant himself had had minimal contact with sh.15.  b., the head of the detention facility, testified that in late october or early november 2007 the applicant had told him that i. had stolen some things from his construction site and had asked b. to bring i. to him.sometime afterwards the applicant called the station to discuss the release of prisoners and spoke to the commanding officer of the station who gave permission for release of prisoners.20.  on 3 july 2009 the trial court, noting that i. had failed to appear despite the fact that summonses had been duly sent to him, ordered the police to escort i. to the next court hearing on 10 july 2009.22.  on 24 july 2009 the trial court asked the zhytomyr regional prosecutor to establish the whereabouts of i. and sh., and to escort them to the hearing scheduled for 17 september 2009. the prosecutor in turn asked the security service for assistance in establishing the whereabouts of those two individuals.in convicting the applicant, the court relied on: (a)  i.’s statements, including the one video-recorded, and sh.’s statement; (b)  evidence presented by the co-defendant g. and witnesses b., s. and p. (see paragraphs 14 to 18 above); (c)  evidence that the applicant had had regular telephone contacts with sh.the applicant questioned the trial court’s decision to trust the statements given by i., a drunk who had a prior conviction for murder and who had failed to remember the content of the notarised statement he had signed just weeks before, which showed that he was susceptible to signing anything presented to him by the investigator.at the close of the hearing the court ordered that references to sh.’s statement be struck from the judgment, since he had not signed his pre-trial statement and thus his statement was inadmissible.
on the premises the investigators found, among other items, the following: contracts for three mobile phones in the names of three of the applicants’ acquaintances and corresponding to the numbers identified at the home of b.b., who had rung the numbers before and after each attack; a receipt for the rental of a post-office box in the name of fares eliass with the applicant’s fingerprints on it; letters and statements from the fis; a statement saying that only the gia was entitled to conduct the jihad; a letter from the gia to the french president calling on him to convert to islam; a letter commenting on the attacks carried out in france; copies of press articles on anti-terrorism mentioning the names of judges and members of the intelligence service; a piece of paper on which “notre dame 33‑1‑43‑54-46-12” was written, corresponding to the telephone number of the western union branch at 4 rue du cloître notre dame in paris; and a receipt dated 21 july 1995 issued by a branch of thomas cook in london for a sum of 5,000 pounds sterling (gbp).], alias abou abderhamane amine, in organising and carrying out the gia’s activities in europe; - ... was tasked with sending money to gia members still in france to enable them to fund and carry out attacks; - ... was in contact with numerous persons involved in and convicted of criminal conspiracy with a view to a terrorist enterprise.” 19.  in a judgment of 29 march 2006 accompanied by over thirty pages of reasoning, the criminal court first of all set out the facts with regard to the “political/religious background”, the emergence of the fis and then the gia, the “background to the attacks” in 1995 – which it listed and described as attributable in all likelihood to the gia – and the “context surrounding rachid ramda”.the court further noted that the applicant had transferred gbp 5,000 on 16 october 1995, two days before the attack of 17 october 1995. this was established by the statements of the british police officers tasked with keeping the applicant under surveillance and of the staff of the western union branch where the transfer had been made, and also by the discovery of the applicant’s fingerprints on the transfer slip kept by the western union branch.furthermore, in response to the public prosecutor’s submissions concerning the applicant’s role in disseminating gia propaganda, the first-instance court also considered the various items of factual evidence before it, and in particular the wealth of correspondence and propaganda documents relating to the gia’s views and actions that had been found during the searches of the various premises used by the applicant, as well as the statements by a gia member confirming the applicant’s role as a member of the team publishing the magazine al ansar, which was the gia outlet used in particular to claim responsibility for attacks.the court of appeal went on to list the eight attacks carried out between 25 july and 17 october 1995. with particular reference to the evidence of the existence of an information hub based in london which the applicant had allegedly managed, it found this to be established on the basis of the telephone calls made on the day after the killing of the imam s. in paris; two days before the attack on the saint-michel suburban rail station; on the day of that attack and the day after the attempted attack on the paris‑lyon high-speed railway line at cailloux-sur-fontaines; on 12 september 1995, a few days after the attack of 3 september on boulevard richard lenoir in paris, the attempted attack of 4 september on place charles vallin in paris and the attack of 7 september in rue jean-claude vivand in villeurbanne; the day after the shooting at the col de maleval and the arrest of three people; five days before the attack of 6 october and two days after it; on 16 october 1995, in other words just before the attack of 17 october; and, finally, on 1 november 1995, immediately after a telephone conversation between b.b.at the rivoli branch of the rivaud bank under the false name of a. benabbas, and which matched an entry in a.t.’s accounts book marked “36,800 francs, lyseo” and b.b.’s statements; the payment by the applicant of gbp 5,000 and 50,000 french francs (frf), as shown by an entry in a.t.’s accounts book which mentioned funds sent by “walid”, a false name used by the applicant or the first name of one of his acquaintances who could be contacted in order to reach him; statements from several individuals concerning services offered in return for payment, fundraising, the sending of substantial sums of money, a transfer of eur 4,000 to m. and the existence of a receipt for gbp 100.25.  lastly, the court of appeal noted a series of facts demonstrating, firstly, that the applicant had been “the main contact person ... in organising and carrying out the gia’s activities in europe”, as was clear in particular from a telephone conversation of 2 december 1995, from the statements of a witness who was a gia member, and from the detailed content of several documents seized in london (press statements, authorisations to conduct the jihad, documents on the management of funds, articles and handwritten notes on the activities of islamist groups in europe and anti-terrorist activities, notes on military weapons and the handling of explosives, and so on); secondly, that he had been “the gia’s main propaganda agent outside algeria”, with “his role on the magazine al ansaar” (particularly in the light of documents seized at the applicant’s london address, namely a note on how to make the magazine more dynamic, a letter explaining the means of distributing it, a piece of computer equipment which the applicant would have been unable to afford, letters from readers and gia sympathisers, a large number of magazines detailing the gia’s ideas and violent actions, a substantial amount of correspondence relating to algerian and islamic issues, some testimonies, and a list of post-office boxes in numerous countries, used by the magazine’s subscribers); thirdly, that he had been at the centre of “the london cell which revolved around [him and which] also served as a rallying point for young recruits passing through”, as demonstrated by the personal histories of four of them; and fourthly, that he had been a leader with “a strategic role in the gia’s external organisation”, as demonstrated by his links to members and correspondents of other islamist terrorist groups worldwide.... [the applicant] knowingly played a decisive role, by means of the material acts referred to by the criminal court and by this court above, in the achievement of the gia’s goal, participating from london in the implementation of the group’s external structure, and played a vital role within the organisation whose aim was to prepare, assist in and carry out the attacks which took place.” 27.  in a judgment of 14 march 2007 the court of cassation dismissed an appeal on points of law by the applicant.on 16 and 22 october and 1 november 1995; a receipt for an exchange transaction performed on 16 october 1885 at 3.50 p.m. (paris time) for an amount of frf 36,800 had been discovered at b.b.’s home, together with a notice of transfer of frf 38,000 from an english branch of western union, and the checks carried out established that the applicant had gone into a londis shop in wembley containing a western union office at 2.34 p.m. on 16 october 1995 and had re-emerged at 3.26 p.m. (london time); the applicant’s fingerprints had been found on the transfer slip kept by the western union office in the londis shop; the words “lyeso – ff 36,600” had been found in the credit column of b.b.’s accounts and the words “west union” and “west-union bank” had also been entered by b.b.in a document logging the details of the 17 october attack; the applicant had possessed the details of the western union branch in rue du cloître in the notre-dame district of paris; an exchange receipt dated 21 july 1995, for an amount of gbp 5,000 exchanged at a rate of 7.5%, had been found at the applicant’s home, with the number of a public payphone in corbeil-essonnes used by a.t. written on the back, and an entry had been made in the credit column of b.b.’s accounts for the sum of “5,000 pounds sterling from [w.], converted at a rate of 7.5%”; a sum of gbp 6,945 had been sent on 20 july 1995; between 20 and 25 july 1995 the sum of frf 300 had been entered as expenditure for the purchase of a “gb ticket”, demonstrating that the funds, after being exchanged in england, had been transported to paris in the days leading up to the attack at the saint‑michel suburban rail station; and a letter from british telecom had been found, addressed to “walid” at 122 hamlet gardens, the applicant’s address.34.  lastly, in its judgment of 27 november 2001 the investigation division also noted that it was clear from these different elements that the applicant had sent funds to the perpetrators of the attacks, not just in relation to the campaign of attacks as a whole but also for use directly in carrying out the attack of 6 october 1995. with regard to the latter, it noted that the instructions issued by the gia concerning the campaigns, which had been accompanied by advice on the manufacture of explosives, had been transmitted via the applicant, who had also funded all the operational arrangements put in place in france in order to ensure the success of the attacks, and that the recipients had been required to report to him on how the money had been used.7 and the judgment in sergey zolotukhin v. russia, delivered by the grand chamber of the court on 10 february 2009, they argued that the material acts which the assize court was called on to examine were the same as those of which the applicant had previously been convicted by the paris court of appeal in its final judgment of 18 december 2006. in counsel’s view, the material acts alleged in the assize court proceedings, namely the transfer of funds to the perpetrators of the attacks, the transmission of instructions to the same perpetrators, and the monitoring of the preparation and carrying-out of the attacks, had also been alleged in the criminal court proceedings.in finding the offence of criminal conspiracy to be made out – a separate offence that is provided for and punishable under article 450-1 of the criminal code – the courts considered all the elements apt to substantiate the accused’s involvement in the conspiracy, which was aimed at organising, developing and ensuring the continuation of a movement that was bent on imposing its cause, in particular by using clandestine methods and material and intellectual resources (recruitment of and regular contact with activists, dissemination of information on the gia’s activities and views, fundraising, seeking donations of weapons and various items of equipment, etc.twenty-six related to the circumstances surrounding the attack of 25 july 1995, eighteen to the events surrounding the attack of 6 october 1995 and nineteen to the attack of 17 october 1995. the questions gave precise details of the various alleged acts and where and when they had been committed, and listed the names of dozens of victims of killings and attempted killings, mutilation or permanent disability, injuries resulting in unfitness for work of up to eight days or more, and victims of damage to their property.accordingly, and given that steps were taken to ensure the prior investigation of the charges contained in the indictment, the free exercise of the rights of the defence, and the public and adversarial nature of the proceedings, the requirements laid down by the statutory and convention provisions relied on were satisfied.” 44.  as to the ground of appeal concerning a breach of the ne bis in idem principle on account of the applicant’s final conviction by the paris court of appeal on 18 december 2006 on the basis of identical facts, the court of cassation held that criminal conspiracy was a separate offence from the crimes prepared or committed by its members and also from the offences characterised by certain material acts that embodied it.
to refer the patient for outpatient treatment was not appropriate and sufficient from a clinical viewpoint in so far as, in order to prevent a recurrence of the colitis caused by clostridium difficile ..., the patient should have remained in hospital under close medical supervision ... ... hence, the doctor in question did not act with the necessary care and diligence, thereby incurring disciplinary liability on account of his negligent conduct in the medical assistance provided ... in d. ward of the chvng’s medical department between 25 january and 3 february 1998. the medical opinions make no criticisms of the assistance provided in the gastroenterology department of santo antónio general hospital in oporto ...” 48.  in the light of this report the inspector general made an order on 26 july 2006 for the opening of disciplinary proceedings against dr j.v.3.  the procedure has been undermined to an incalculable extent by the fact that no autopsy was performed, although an autopsy is mandatory (mandatória) in cases of this type in order to shed light on the chain of events.” in its report the panel further held as follows: “the inhuman conditions described in this process, as regards how the patient was treated, are another example of the situation encountered on a daily basis in our hospitals; a reflection of the appalling structural and operational conditions which require urgent analysis and change.4.  no ent procedures were performed during any of the patient’s subsequent stays in vila nova de gaia hospital or in santo antónio hospital.” 56.  in an order of 28 december 2001 the regional disciplinary council for the north region decided, after having examined the conclusions of the different specialist panels, to take no further action on the applicant’s complaint, on the ground that there was no evidence of misconduct or medical negligence.57.  the disciplinary council observed the following: (i)  meningitis was a complication that could arise in between 0.6% and 1% of cases following a nasal polypectomy; the figures were liable to be higher for a repeat operation, as in the case in question; (ii)  the applicant’s husband had received appropriate treatment during his various hospital stays; (iii)  the patient’s bacterial meningitis (pseudomonas) had been treated properly; (iv)  although the infectious-diseases panel had suggested that the presence of a specialist in that discipline might have enabled a diagnosis to be made sooner, this had not been a decisive factor in the development of the clinical situation; (v)  the perforation of the duodenal ulcer had been the cause of the peritonitis.this had been difficult to diagnose in view of the patient’s serious clinical condition, a fact acknowledged by the gastroenterology and general-surgery panels; (vi)  although the infectious-diseases panel had considered that too long a period had elapsed between the diagnosis of the perforated duodenal ulcer and surgery, the time taken to prepare for the operation had been justified since the patient had been suffering from intestinal disease and had severe anaemia, sepsis and a fluid and electrolyte imbalance, as noted by the general-surgery panel.during the trial the court heard evidence from the applicant, the accused, eight doctors who had been involved in treating the applicant’s husband in the chvng and in santo antónio hospital, and the five medical experts appointed in the context of the proceedings before the igs.in fact, it resulted from acute anaemia caused by intestinal bleeding from a duodenal ulcer; ... the decisions to discharge the patient on 13 and 23 december 1997 were appropriate, given that, in the former case, the problem of bacterial meningitis had been resolved, [the patient] had completed the course of antibiotics, he no longer had any symptoms or fever, had a slightly increased white-blood cell count, a falling neutrophil count and normal sedimentation rate, and was not complaining ... and, in the latter case, that is to say, the patient’s hospitalisation from 18 to 23 december 1997, the patient was not complaining of abdominal pain, diarrhoea or bleeding ... with the result that it was possible to continue treating his ulcer with a dietary regime while monitoring him on an outpatient basis ... when the patient was admitted to santo antónio hospital, laboratory tests were carried out for clostridium difficile.for that reason, he was placed on artificial ventilation and vasoactive drugs and fluids were administered ..., together with hydrocortisone to deal with possible acute adrenal insufficiency (falência supra-renal aguda), and broad-spectrum antibiotics; ... in this medical context the patient’s prospects of survival were very uncertain, in view of the septic shock and multiple organ dysfunction; ... a simple abdominal x-ray and an abdominal and pelvic ultrasound scan were therefore requested, which did not reveal a perforation of the intestine.” 67.  in the district court’s view, it had not been demonstrated that the care provided to the applicant’s husband during his stay in hospital from 25 january to 3 february 1998 had not been in accordance with good medical practice, or that he should have been kept in hospital for longer.it held: “...there was no evidence to show that the treatment administered by the accused for the clostridium difficile infection was incomplete, that the patient was discharged prematurely on 3 february 1998 or, in sum, that the accused was responsible for the death of the patient on 8 march 1998.” 68.  the applicant did not appeal against that judgment.she alleged, inter alia, (i)  that her husband’s meningitis had been caused by pseudomonas cepacia bacteria which, she alleged, had been present in the operating theatre during the nasal polypectomy; (ii)  that the meningitis had been diagnosed too late, allowing the illness to become serious; (iii)  that the administering of excessive doses of medication and the lack of a suitable prophylactic had caused the duodenal ulcer which had led to her husband’s death.74.  during the three hearings the court heard evidence from the following witnesses: (i)  eleven doctors who had been involved in treating the applicant’s husband during his various stays in the chvng and santo antónio hospital; (ii)  the general practitioner of the applicant’s husband; (iii)  two doctors who were friends of the family; (iv)  the inspector who had written the final report on completion of the investigation within the igs; and (v)  the medical experts in gastroenterology and internal medicine whose reports had formed the basis for the last igs decision.taking into account the medical records of the applicant’s husband and the various statements made by the witnesses who had given evidence, the court considered it established, inter alia, (i)  that a polypectomy was a straightforward surgical operation which posed minimal risk and that the patient had been informed accordingly; (ii)  that the operating theatre had been aseptic and sterilised at the time of the polypectomy; (iii)  that the origin of the bacterium linked to the patient’s meningitis had not been proven.the court dismissed the possibility of a hospital-acquired infection, pointing out that in that case the prescribed treatment would have had no effect; (iv)  that the medication prescribed in the chvng and santo antónio hospital could cause intestinal problems and hence could give rise to colitis; (v)  that the applicant’s husband had been treated with drugs to protect his stomach in the chvng; (vi)  that the gastroduodenal perforation had not been detected until the operation was being performed; and (vii)  that the applicant’s husband had died from septicaemia caused by peritonitis resulting from a perforated viscus.... on 6 march 1998 ... nothing had made it possible to predict the gastroduodenal perforation ... the tests carried out that day ... did not confirm the existence of any duodenal perforation such that the situation had to be kept under review; ... it was not until 7 march 1998 that the patient’s acute abdominal syndrome was diagnosed, calling for urgent surgery ... it was only during the operation that the patient was found to be suffering from a duodenal perforation; ... the perforation had occurred 24 hours before surgery.” 77.  the judgment concluded as follows: “ ... in view of the facts that have been established, it is not possible to determine at what point the defendants, by their actions or omissions, breached the rules of good medical practice ... it is considered established that [mr fernandes’s] death was caused by sepsis due to peritonitis resulting from the perforation of his duodenal ulcer... no doubts persisted regarding the diagnosis of meningitis, the procedure adopted, the sequence of treatment and the resolution of the problem, as all the various after‑effects were duly explained.the supreme administrative court summed up its judgment as follows: “the lower court considered, in sum, that it had not been possible to identify the nature and origin of the bacterium that caused the meningitis and that it had not been demonstrated that the illnesses subsequent to [the patient’s] treatment and recovery from that illness ... had been the consequence of incorrect diagnosis or treatment.
5.  the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in nizhniy novgorod.6.  on 25 october 2002 the military court of the vladikavkaz garrison (“the military court”) ordered, inter alia, the head of the respondent military institute to re-calculate the period of the applicant’s service, applying the favourable terms of such calculation for a specified period of service.8.  on 3 march 2003 the military court issued a writ of execution.on 4 august 2003 the bailiffs’ service instituted the enforcement proceedings.9.  on 19 september 2003 the enforcement proceedings were terminated and the writ of execution was returned to the applicant, as the debt could not be recovered.10.  on 13 november 2003 the head of the respondent military institute issued order no.463 requiring to make payments in accordance with the judgment of 25 october 2002. however, no calculations or payments were made at that time.11.  on 4 february 2005 the applicant submitted the writ of execution to the federal treasury.12.  on 18 may 2005 the writ was returned to the applicant on the ground that the judgment obliged an official of an organisation to take certain actions rather than ordered to recover payments from a budgetary organisation.thus, the writ of execution was to be submitted to the bailiffs’ service.13.  on an unspecified date in 2005 the applicant submitted the writ of execution to the bailiffs’ service.14.  on 14 april 2006 the writ of execution was returned to the applicant from the bailiffs’ service without enforcement.the bailiffs explained that for the applicant to be able to receive the payments under the judgment, he should obtain a writ of execution stating the sum of the debt to be recovered.after that, the writ could be submitted to the federal treasury for enforcement.463, the defendant military institute calculated the amounts due to the applicant as follows: the compensation for the supplementary ration for the period from october 1998 until march 2000 –11,341.85 russian roubles (rub); allowance for special regime of the service in 1998-2002 – rub 2,720.1; and special allowance – rub 327,000. in total: rub 341,061.95.
the government submitted that the first applicant had been placed in division 6 following an order from the head of security at the prison, and that, according to documents submitted to the court, on 1 august 2007 the applicant had been given the option to move to a less secure division, but had refused.he had also been asked, following communication of the complaint to the respondent government, whether he had a problem with the window in his cell and the reply had been in the negative.as far as the use of the toilet was concerned, the government admitted that division 3 did not have a combined flushing and wc system and that the inmates had to flush the toilets manually using buckets that were provided in all cells and could be filled from the wall-mounted taps.23.  the government submitted that, when specifically asked by the prison authorities whether he had ever lodged a request to be transferred to a newer part of the prison, the second applicant replied that he had never made such a request and that he did not want to be transferred.28.  the government denied that the building was infested by rats and cockroaches, pointing out that pest control treatment had been carried out sixteen times at the prison since 2013 (certificates confirming the application of pest control in specific areas of the prison, including division 3, were submitted to the court).31.  as to the second applicant’s claim concerning passive smoking, the government submitted that the second applicant resided in a single cell and had access to fresh air in the adjoining yard for most of the day.in particular he noted that, cumulatively, he had been held in the correctional facility since 13 july 2009 and, since that date, had been forced to live in a cell subject to the following hardships: without adequate drinking water; without clothing to keep him warm throughout winter; being dependent on charitable institutions to obtain clothing; the cell contained a significant quantity of asbestos that was causing him physical harm; the cell was infested with rats and cockroaches; the corradino correctional facility lacked adequate sanitary facilities; the cell only had one small window which could not be opened as it was too high up; during winter he was only given one thin blanket although the facility was cold and it was therefore difficult to sleep; all detainees were allowed to smoke wherever and whenever they wanted and, as a consequence, inmates who, like the applicant, are non-smokers, were being subjected to passive smoking; these conditions amounted to a breach of article 3 of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and article 36 of the constitution of malta.as regards the structural complaints submitted by the second applicant, the maintenance official submitted the following evidence in summarised form: 36.  the division in which the complainant was held consists of sixty cells, one of which is not currently in use; complainant is housed in a cell on his own; his particular cell is a normal one with a standard window and adequate light – being built the way it is for security reasons – and the lighting in the cell is appropriate; when the cells are open, inmates may freely walk in and out of them whenever they want, except when “under report” (that is to say confined to quarters); the complainant had access to open spaces from 2.00 p.m. to 5.00 p.m. just like all other inmates and when so authorised; the correctional facility conducts a yearly analysis of the water supply to check that it is fit for human consumption, and the most recent report (that of 2015), conducted by a private laboratory, concluded that the water supply is good for drinking and meets the standard for human consumption; the facility provides potable water from the mains for the inmates and that water is supplied free of charge; inmates are allowed to buy bottled water; when inmates enter the facility they are given blankets, sheets, pillows and a mattress; upon request, they are also given extra blankets, however, the complainant had never registered any such request; as regards any infestation of rats and cockroaches, the maintenance official presented a report submitted by a private company on these issues (such inspection is carried out yearly) stating that three rodent control visits were carried out in 2014 and the last visit showed that “everything was under control”.it considered that he had failed to submit the evidence that was deemed legally necessary to prove his case − the complainant had merely alleged the existence of the various shortcomings referred to above, but had failed to submit the relevant evidence to substantiate his allegations.38.  on the specific issues raised, the court found as follows: water supply: the water services corporation submitted adequate proof that the water supply used in the correctional facility was potable, fit for human consumption and conformed to the legal notice on water intended for human consumption regulation, 2009, after being microbiologically analysed to this end.even given the above breach of the statutory limit, the complainant’s allegation is not substantiated as he could make use of viable alternatives to overcome the issue, either consuming warm potable water or buying bottled water from the gratuity money given to him by the facility’s authorities; 39.  blankets and clothing: it sufficiently results that, upon entering the correctional facility, inmates are issued with a residential kit consisting of blankets, sheets, pillows and a mattress; if required, inmates may ask their division officer for more blankets.furthermore, upon examining the medical records presented in the case file of the proceedings, no medical or physical deterioration was recorded in the health of the complainant as a result of the passive smoking analysed herein 43.  cell window and consequent availability of adequate light: the cell at issue is a normal division cell furnished with a standard window and occupied only by the complainant.54.  in reply to the second and third applicants’ claims, the government submitted that the window in the cell could be opened using a tool provided by the authorities or by standing on the bed or on a chair or stool.according to the government the third applicant had covered one of the wall vents with a sheet of paper, thereby restricting the amount of ventilation, and the aperture in the cell door had been covered with a piece of cardboard from inside the cell.nevertheless, as can be seen from documentation submitted to the court, the secretary of the malta community chest fund (mccf) informed the applicant that the mccf board had decided to grant him the full cost of treatment upon presentation of the original receipts.
6.  the applicant was born in 1977 and at the time that he lodged the application with the court was serving a sentence of eight years’ imprisonment in the corradino correctional facility, malta.regarding the period of solitary confinement, the applicant claimed that he had been held on the second floor of the building and had not been allowed to see anyone or to use the communal areas.later, he had refused to consult the prison psychiatrist because he no longer trusted the prison staff and did not want to be sent to a psychiatric hospital since the facilities there were allegedly worse than those in the prison.15.  according to the government the applicant was admitted to the medical infirmary of the prison at 4.15 p.m. on 12 july 2013 and a referral to the emergency department of the state hospital was made at 5 p.m. the referral note issued by the doctor indicated that the applicant had swelling in the face, a bruise on one loin, and severe swelling with limited movement in his right ankle.on the same day he was also admitted to hospital and returned to cell 8 in division 6 on 14 july 2013. the case summary drawn up on 14 july – before his discharge ‑ and submitted to the court showed that all the medical investigations had been concluded and the results received prior to his discharge from hospital.according to the case summary the ankle x‑ray revealed a fracture and there was subluxation of the right foot; there was a head injury, specifically a fracture of the orbit and of the maxillary sinus; there were no signs of injury or fluid collection in the internal organs; an ophthalmic review had been carried out and the patient had been discharged from that department as well as from the orthopaedic ward where he had undergone tests and treatment for his bone injuries.records also showed that a nurse had visited division 6 to attend to the applicant on 15 july – the note in the register reads as follows: “nurse c. and s. came to division 6 at about 11.35 am to visit fernando soto in his cell”.the chief security officer had ordered that the applicant should not meet the other inmate involved in the argument and that the applicant’s cell be opened for seven hours a day until further instructions.the applicant was finally transferred to division 3 on 22 october 2013. according to the government, the applicant had never been kept in solitary confinement, nor had the inmate involved in the argument with the applicant been accommodated in any of the above-mentioned divisions while the applicant was there, except for a short stay in division 6.17.  according to the government the first request for psychological services made by the applicant had been in april 2014. according to the documents submitted, thereafter he was seen monthly by the psychologist until april 2015 and later three or four times per month until his release in 2016 (from november 2015 onwards he had been seen by a counselling trainee).the government submitted that although the applicant had a past history of being suicidal, there was no record that he had attempted suicide during the period he was detained in division 6. the report prepared by the senior psychologist in prison (dated 27 april 2015) noted that the applicant attended his sessions regularly and was making progress.the applicant was also referred to the ophthalmology department on 5 august 2013. further referrals to hospital were made by the prison medical doctor, but the government claimed they were unrelated to the injuries suffered as a result of the incident on 12 july 2013. one such referral was made on 13 june 2014. an outpatient service appointment record given to the applicant listed appointments scheduled for 18 november 2014 and 6 february 2014 at the medical outpatients’ clinic, which the applicant also attended.the government submitted pictures dated 2016 showing that the ceiling in cell 154 was in good condition and that the current resident was carrying out some works and removing paint from the ceiling, exposing the stone underneath.according to certification dated 2015 that has been submitted to the court, water in the prison (no specific location was indicated in the reports) had been certified by the public health laboratory as being fit for consumption, although the mains supply and the other divisions (including no.25.  from the records of the correspondence sent by the applicant held at the prison authorities and submitted by the government, it is apparent that the applicant sent registered letters to the court on 12 february, 1 april and 3 june 2014 and an unregistered letter on 6 may 2015. no further requests were made by the applicant to send any communication to the court, although letters were sent by the applicant to other addresses on 3 september, 22 september and 7 october 2015, and on 4 february and 6 march 2016.
he was questioned twice, on 18 august and 24 august 2009, by the swiss authorities responsible for asylum and migration (until 31 december 2014 the authority was called the bundesamt für migration, but it was renamed with effect from 1 january 2015 as the staatssekretariat für migration, sem – hereafter “the asylum authorities”).8.  during the hearings the applicant stated that he had attended a number of demonstrations in connection with the presidential election in 2009. he had been arrested during one such demonstration on 15 june 2009 in i. he was subsequently placed in prison, where he was severely tortured every day.after twenty-two days in prison, he was scheduled to appear in court on 6 july 2009. he was placed in a bus with about thirty-five other people but managed to escape during a disturbance caused by one of the other detainees when disembarking from the bus.after his escape, the authorities had sent a court summons to his home and, when he had failed to appear, the court had sentenced him in absentia to thirty-six months’ imprisonment.in support of his account, the applicant submitted copies of his identity card, a court summons of 9 july 2009 and a judgment of 21 july 2009. he explained that the judgment had been sent to his home and that a neighbour had given it to him prior to his departure.moreover, the alleged conduct of the iranian authorities in sending a court summons to the applicant’s home after his escape, rather than going there to arrest him on the spot, was not credible, nor was his submission that the judgment of 21 july 2009 had been sent to his home and given to a neighbour prior to his departure.13.  during the hearing, the applicant stated that he had first had contact with a catholic church in switzerland in 2011 and then with the pentecostal church from early 2013. the members of the latter had gradually become his family.they also doubted that the applicant’s conversion was genuine and lasting, noting, in particular, that it had occurred after the applicant’s first asylum application had been rejected, that the baptism had taken place in a house church rather than a church recognised by the state, and that the applicant did not base his conversion on the key aspects of christianity, but on the personal relationships he had formed with members of his church community.it considered that a person could only face a real risk of ill-treatment upon return to iran if that person’s christian faith had been manifested in switzerland in such a way as to make it visible to the outside and if it could be assumed that his or her family and acquaintances in iran would learn about that active manifestation of faith, even if it was short of proselytising.he relied on the risks presented by the iranian authorities and non-state actors on account of his conversion and active membership of a christian community in switzerland, as well as his participation in a demonstration in berne in august 2015 against human rights violations and the persecution of christians by the iranian authorities.it was not necessary to examine the matter again as the applicant had not put forward any arguments that could give rise to an assessment that was different from that of the federal administrative court in its judgment of 14 may 2014.19.  it was true that the iranian authorities took an interest in the activities of their citizens abroad, but such monitoring was focused on people who stood out from the large number of iranians critical of the government and who were perceived as a serious threat by the authorities because of their political or religious activities.the personality of the individuals concerned, the form of their appearances in public and the content of their public statements were relevant parameters in that regard.the asylum authorities considered that mere participation in a demonstration against the iranian government, without the applicant acting in a particular manner or holding a special function, was not sufficient for him to be perceived as a concrete threat by the iranian authorities.citing the criteria contained in the federal administrative court’s judgment of 14 may 2014, the state secretariat for migration did not contest, per se, the fact that the applicant was part of a christian circle in switzerland.
at around 1 p.m., according to the record, for the purpose of verifying his identity; this verification was completed and he was released at 1.30 p.m. it is also apparent from the evidential material that between 4.15 and 4.45 p.m. the applicant’s husband was in an office, apparently on the fifth floor, where he was interviewed by investigator r. according to the material in the case file record, the applicant’s husband stated during the interview that he and v. had left the house of victim g. after drinking vodka together.the criminal investigation was opened against unspecified officers, and was then assigned to investigator r. 21.  the investigator interviewed paramedic a., who stated that upon arrival at the police station he and his colleagues had been taken to a detention cell; one of the officers explained to him that during a routine check of cells they had had difficulty opening the door of one of the cells and had discovered that it was blocked by the body of an unconscious detainee with a jacket tied around his neck; he had not seen any injuries on the visible part of the body, only on the neck.26.  on 20 june 2003 the district prosecutor ordered that the investigation was to be continued in order to examine the instructions relating to the placement of detainees in designated rooms or cells, to determine who exactly had placed the victim in the cell or investigation room, and who had opened the doors.28.  on 23 august 2003 investigator r. issued a decision discontinuing the criminal investigation in terms that were similar to the decision of 3 may 2003. on 12 september 2003 the district prosecutor stated that the requirements made on 22 july 2003 had not been complied with, and that the investigation must be continued.in particular, it was important to clarify whether the officer had seen the victim in the state of strangulation, what was the body’s position, where the “noose” had been and who had removed it, and (ii) it was necessary to interview v. who allegedly heard the victim screaming, to interview the victim’s next of kin in relation to the circumstances in which the victim had been apprehended and taken to the police station, and in particular to interview the victim’s wife, who had allegedly seen signs of bleeding around the victim’s wrists resulting from the use of handcuffs.officer f. stated during his interview that around 11 p.m. on 13 september 2002 he had gone out to the balcony on the fifth floor for a smoke and had seen the victim sitting on the floor with his back to the railing; his neck had been encircled by a jacket, with a part of it being fixed to the railing.medical expert va. was interviewed in this connection and confirmed that it would have been possible for the hanging and the strangulation marks to have been created in the circumstances described by f. interviews were carried out with those police officers at the police station who had talked to the victim on 13 september 2002. they stated that ... the victim had been interviewed by the investigator; no questioning had been carried out prior to that ... according to the expert reports and va.’s statement during an interview, the strangulation mark could have been caused by the pressure of a soft “noose” such as might be left, for instance, by a jacket.mr v. stated that around 8 p.m. he had been kept in one of the rooms on the fifth floor; he had heard the victim in a neighbouring room speaking indistinctly; there had been no screaming or any suspicious noise ... in view of the above, all possible investigative measures have been completed ... it is not possible to carry out expert examination of samples collected from the balcony or the jacket because [they] were lost ... according to an additional medical report by an expert, a strangulation mark is produced by the pressure of some kind of “noose” on the neck; one can speak about the pressure by a soft “noose”, for instance made by a jacket such as the one given to the expert; in normal circumstances a gas mask the size of a person’s head would not exert excessive pressure on the neck and would not leave a strangulation mark ... according to a further expert report dated 13 september 2010, the absence of macroscopic indications of mechanical asphyxiation in the available material means the cause of death cannot be determined, in particular whether it could have resulted from asphyxia following a hanging or the blocking of the airflow by an object ... furthermore, there were four forensic reports dated 14 december 2002, 17 january 2003, 4 december 2003 and 5 december 2004. none of them indicated any other bodily injuries.the available medical documents do not specify whether the victim had any bodily injuries when admitted for treatment to the hospital.” 39.  the applicant brought civil proceedings claiming 1,500,000 russian roubles (rub) by way of compensation in connection with the unlawful arrest and detention of her late husband in the police station and his subsequent death following his ill-treatment at the police station.retracing the procedural history of the pre-investigation inquiry and the criminal investigation, the court held as follows: “the court has established that mr khayrullin’s body was discovered at the police station after he had been taken there for questioning as a witness and that he had been unlawfully placed in an investigation room of the police station.in contrast to this finding, according to the decision of 10 december 2002 setting aside the refusal to prosecute, it was noted that the victim had been discovered on the balcony on the fifth floor.neither of the above decisions contains any explanation about the change in the circumstances in which the victim had been discovered ... at the same time, the refusal to prosecute dated 10 december 2003 clearly indicates as an established fact that mr khayrullin had attempted suicide at the balcony of the fifth floor ... it is apparent from the available material that a criminal investigation was opened under article 286 of the criminal code in respect of unidentified officials; this legal classification has not been changed since 2002; the investigation is ongoing.this conclusion is based on the facts established in the present case, irrespective of the prosecutor’s office’s findings regarding the place where the body was discovered; the circumstances relating to his presence in the police station (that is his being taken there for questioning as a witness) remain unchanged ... the court therefore finds it established that on 13 september 2002 mr khayrullin sustained injuries in the police station, entailing his death ... the court considers that the grave consequences (mr khayrullin’s death) ensued as a result of unlawful actions on the part of public officials at the police station ... as stated by the european court in the case of sheydayev v. russia (application no.where a person was placed in custody in good health and had injuries when released, the national authorities must provide a plausible explanation for the injuries ... the court accepts the claimant’s argument that the harm was caused by unlawful actions on the part of public officials at the police station ... thus, the court finds it appropriate to grant the claim in respect of non-pecuniary damage ... the matters relating to the unlawful arrest and the ineffective investigation cannot form a basis for compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damage ... the court has not established that the mere arrest of mr khayrullin on 13 september 2002 entailed a violation of the claimant’s non-material rights or interests; any eventual violation might relate to mr khayrullin ... the court considers that the suspension and resumption of the criminal investigation are legitimate procedural actions and thus, even if multiple, do not entail a conclusion of unlawfulness on the part of public officials ... the prosecution period for the offence under article 286 of the criminal code has not yet expired.the appellate court held as follows: “when granting the claims in relation to the injuries sustained by the victim, the trial court rightly proceeded from the understanding that the injuries had been sustained in the police station on 13 september 2002 because the case file materials confirmed that public officials had committed actions exceeding their powers ... thus, as a result of actions on the part of public officials, the claimant had sustained psychological suffering on account of the death of a person close to her ... when dismissing the remainder of the claim, the trial court rightly proceeded from the understanding that there was no evidence that the claimant had sustained psychological suffering on account of the ineffective investigation ... the investigation is ongoing; at present there is no criminal court judgment in respect of the officials at the police station.
7.  the prime minister’s assassination prompted the serbian government to declare a state of emergency and introduce measures in accordance with the state of emergency act 1991 (zakon o merama za slučaj vanrednog stanja, official gazette of the republic of serbia, no.23.  on 18 may 2004 the applicant’s mother lodged a complaint with the inspector general’s service of the ministry of the interior (generalni inspektorat ministarstva unutrašnjih poslova), alleging that her son had been tortured by members of the special anti-terrorist unit and police officers working for the narcotics department of the criminal police directorate (odeljenje za suzbijanje narkomanije uprave kriminalističke policije, also known as the fourth department) in belgrade.26.  on 16 march 2006 the inspector general’s service interviewed d.s., the deputy district public prosecutor (zamenik okružnog javnog tužioca) in belgrade, who stated that in april 2003 he had been at the police station during the applicant’s questioning.gave the names of several of the police officers involved and stated that he had not seen any injuries on the applicant.both claimed that they had not participated in the immediate arrest, but had entered the apartment after the members of the special anti-terrorist unit had already arrested the applicant and his friends.29.  on 28 september 2006 the chief of the fourth department of the criminal police directorate in belgrade (načelnik četvrtog odeljenja ukp sup), z.k., gave a statement to the sector for the internal control of the police.31.  on 1 july 2007 the applicant lodged a criminal complaint with the first municipal public prosecutor’s office (prvo opštinsko javno tužilaštvo – “the prosecutor’s office”) against a number of the unknown perpetrators as well as against three police officers identified only by surname.32.  on 20 july 2007 the prosecutor’s office opened an official inquiry with requests for the police to provide evidence and the names of those involved in the applicant’s arrest and questioning, and an investigative judge to question the applicant.33.  on 30 november 2007 the sector for the internal control of the police identified three police officers, v.m., s.p., and z.k., in connection with the applicant’s arrest and questioning.34.  at the same time the case against the unidentified police officers remained open because, according to the prosecutor’s office, “it transpired from the evidence gathered that krsmanović đorđe had sustained injuries while in detention” (iz prikupljenih dokaza utvrđeno je da je krsmanović đorđe zadobio povrede u periodu dok mu je bio određen pritvor).he complained principally about the lack of an effective investigation into the events under articles 21, 25, 27, 29, 32, 33 and 36 of the constitution and articles 3, 6, 13 and 14 of the convention.on 23 july 2013 his constitutional appeal was rejected by the constitutional court, whose decision was served on the applicant on 11 september 2013. the court primarily considered the applicant’s complaints under article 6 of the convention and found them to be manifestly ill-founded.as to the applicant’s complaint under article 3 of the convention, the constitutional court found it to be outside its temporal jurisdiction in view of the date of entry into force of the constitution itself.in respect of the other complaints, the constitutional court held, inter alia, that: “it is not enough to allege a violation of one’s rights in a constitutional appeal or list the constitutional rights that are considered to be violated and reasons for their violations based on the appellant’s subjective estimation or evaluation, but to put each mentioned reason into a direct relationship with the allegedly violated constitutional right, and a violation or denial of a certain constitutional right has to be caused by an act or action that occurred before the entry into force of the constitution.this also implies that specific and detailed reasons of the alleged violation of the constitutional right have to be specified in the constitutional appeal, because only a causal link presented in such manner may compel the court to find a violation or denial of a certain right.”
5.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the applicant, may be summarised as follows.6.  the applicant was kept in solnechnogorsk police’s temporary detention centre in overcrowded cells from 2 to 10 october 2003; 20 to 24 october 2003; 17 to 21 november 2003; 21 to 28 november 2003; 22 to 29 december 2003; 26 to 30 january 2004; 2 and 3 february 2004; 31 march to 2 april 2004 and then on several occasions between april and 22 july 2004. he had to relieve himself in a bucket in the presence of other detainees and it was very difficult to breathe in the cells.7.  the applicant made numerous journeys in 2003-2004 between volokolamsk remand centre and the temporary detention centre in solnechnogorsk, which took three to four hours in an overcrowded van, which was cold in the winter and stuffy in the summer.8.  on 11 july 2005 the applicant sued the state for compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damage caused by the allegedly appalling conditions of his detention in the temporary detention centre.11.  on 19 december 2005 the applicant was informed that the text of the judgment had been available since 5 december 2005.12.  on an unspecified date the court sent a summons to an appeal hearing which had been scheduled for 30 january 2006. however, the applicant did not receive the summons as it contained an error in the address, which was written as “2, vishnevskaya street” instead of “2, vishnevaya street”.13.  on 30 january 2006 the moscow regional court upheld the decision of 14 november 2005 in the applicant’s absence.14.  in reply to an enquiry from the applicant about the date of the appeal hearing, he was informed on 1 february 2006 that it had been held on 30 january 2006.15.  in december 1992 the municipality allowed the applicant and his son, a minor at the time, to obtain ownership of the flat in solnechnogorsk in which they were living by way of privatisation.16.  after reaching the age of majority, the son sued the father, asserting his right to the flat and seeking an annulment of the above-mentioned certificate.17.  in support of his claim the plaintiff submitted a copy of the housing register, and certificates from his school and kindergarten.18.  the applicant sought to prove that at the material time the plaintiff had lived in a flat in another town, taganrog, and tried to obtain certificates of his moving in and out of the privatised flat.19.  on 4 may 2005 the solnechnogorsk town court of the moscow region granted the plaintiff’s claim.it held that the housing law provided that minors living with a tenant in a flat leased under a social lease agreement enjoyed the same rights as the tenant as of the privatisation date.furthermore, under the privatisation law then in force, a privatisation agreement had to contain a reference to the minors who enjoyed the right to use the premises in question.
4.  the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in čurug.5.  on 2 august 2002 the applicant and one of his colleagues (hereinafter “the plaintiffs”) instituted civil proceedings against their employer seeking payment of salary arrears and other employment-related benefits.6.  on 8 february 2013, after two remittals the first instance court in novi sad, specifically its detached section in bečej, ruled partly in favour of the plaintiffs, ordering their employer to pay each of them specified sums in respect of salary arrears.the remainder of their claims was rejected.7.  on 15 april 2013 the court of appeal in novi sad reversed a part of the above judgment, while upholding the remainder.this judgment was served on the plaintiffs on 6 june 2013.8.  on 29 january 2014 the supreme court dismissed the plaintiffs’ appeal on points of law as the value of their respective claims was below the statutory threshold allowing for this remedy.9.  on 9 april 2013 the plaintiffs lodged the constitutional appeal, complaining of a violation of the right to a hearing within a reasonable time in the impugned proceedings.by its decision of 9 december 2015, the constitutional court found a violation of their right to a hearing within a reasonable time and awarded each of them eur 800 in respect of the non‑pecuniary damage suffered.
and his son m.y., filed a complaint with the bursa public prosecutor’s office, claiming that they had been threatened by members of a criminal organisation, including the applicant, who had acted under his boss, o.k., and that they had had to give them a substantial amount of money and property as a result.7.  on 20 march 2001 the public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court requested the bursa security directorate to investigate the matter within the context of an investigation concerning a bigger criminal organisation.the report drawn up after that examination noted the names of several persons who had also been arrested as part of the same investigation and indicated that no injury could be found on any of them.in his application form, the applicant maintained that the doctor had taken account of his submissions and examined his genitals, but had not been able to find any traces of the electric shocks administered to him.after having explained in detail the composition and acts of a criminal organisation, the public prosecutor indicated that the applicant was a member of another organisation, which had threatened and extracted money from i̇.y., a member of the first one.in his recapitulation of the events, the public prosecutor mentioned a certain a.v.o., who he claimed to have been involved in the money transactions at issue and to have been threatened by that second criminal organisation.stated in the absence of the applicant (who was unrepresented) that he had asked for help from the applicant’s boss, o.k., to sell some of his property in order to pay his debts and that he had paid him a certain amount in return.17.  at the second hearing, held on 6 december 2001, the applicant stated before the court that the indictment had not been served on him and that he had not fully understood the charges against him.he stated that the telephones of two of the accused had been intercepted and that the conversations between them and with the applicant had revealed that the latter had threatened i̇.y.he further indicated that the unfolding of the events had been corroborated by the statements of all of the accused, but that they had all denied having threatened i̇.y.finally, relying on the telephone recordings and the statements of the other accused, the public prosecutor proposed that the applicant should be found guilty as charged.20.  subsequently, the applicant submitted his statements to the court, requesting the examination of two witnesses, a.v.o., who had been mentioned in the public prosecutor’s written opinion, and a certain i̇.d.21.  at the hearing on 3 september 2002 the istanbul state security court rejected the request, finding that the examination of the witnesses called by the applicant would have no effect on the outcome of the proceedings.22.  the applicant appealed against the judgment, arguing that the court had failed to hear any witnesses on his behalf and that it had restricted his right to defend himself during the course of the proceedings, in that it had not taken account of any of his submissions.24.  the applicant was not represented by a lawyer at any stage of the proceedings, including the appeal proceedings before the court of cassation.
11.  at the request of the applicant, on 5 may 2008 the board of forensic experts of the ministry of justice – having examined him – drew up a medical report (“the 5 may 2008 medical report”), which diagnosed the applicant as suffering from the following: arteritis, occlusion of the arteries in the right shin, stenosis of the arteries in the left shin, artery deficiency in the right lower limb (at stage iv of the disease), necrosis of tissue in the right big toe, cardiac ischaemia, second-degree angina pectoris, second‑degree arterial hypertension, second-degree cardiac insufficiency, and low‑activity chronic hepatitis c. the experts concluded that from a cardiological point of view the applicant’s condition was potentially serious.12.  on 20 may 2008 the applicant’s lawyers complained to the director of the prisons department of the ministry of justice (“the prisons department”) that their client, who had been in the prison hospital since 25 january 2008, had been sent to tbilisi prison no.on the basis of the results of the test the examining doctor concluded that the microcirculation in the lower limbs of the applicant (particularly in the right foot) was very low.19.  on the basis of the 5 may 2008 medical report (see paragraph 11 above), and in view of the fact that his treatment at the prison hospital was producing no results, on 14 may 2008 the applicant applied to the tbilisi city court for his sentence to be suspended on health grounds (under article 607 § 1 (a) of the code of criminal procedure – “the ccp”).a representative of the prisons department opposed the application on the grounds that the prison hospital had “a medical service capable of treating the applicant” and that “if necessary he [would] be transferred to a specialist clinic”.one of the experts who had produced the above-mentioned report confirmed to the court judge that the applicant was seriously ill. however, as he had no knowledge of the medical facilities at the prison hospital, he said he could not judge whether it was appropriate to keep the applicant there.20.  on 11 june 2008 the tbilisi city court dismissed the applicant’s request, on the grounds that the prison hospital had a medical service capable of providing the necessary treatment and that the applicant, who was being looked after by specialist doctors, would be transferred to a specialist clinic if necessary.21.  on 18 june 2008 the applicant’s lawyer submitted to the court his comments on the record of the hearing of 11 june 2008. the record of the hearing, according to those comments, did not refer to the expert’s opinion in respect of the risk to the applicant’s life.22.  the applicant appealed against the decision of 11 june 2008, pointing out that, according to the medical experts who had examined him, the treatment at the prison hospital had produced no results and that, if he was not properly treated, the question of the amputation of various parts of his right lower limb could arise.23.  at a hearing before the court of appeal on 4 september 2008 the applicant’s lawyers requested that the representative of the prisons department be debarred from joining the proceedings as a party, in accordance with article 617 § 4 of the ccp.25.  the applicant’s doctor – a surgeon who was a member of the prison hospital’s permanent staff – also gave evidence before the court of appeal, explaining the diagnosis and confirming that his patient was seriously ill, with the arterial disease having reached the fourth and final stage.26.  the vascular specialist – a doctor at the prison hospital – said that he had examined the applicant in december 2007 and found that the gangrene had already affected the big toe of the right foot.the results of the tc po2 test had shown that the oxygen tension in the right foot stood at level 2 in the lying-down position and at level 21 in the sitting position (the normal level being 60-70; an indicator of 30 was necessary if the wound could be expected to heal properly).27.  in his final address the applicant’s lawyer drew the court of appeal’s attention to the fact that, despite the presence of gangrene as early as december 2007, the applicant had been sent to prison no.with regard to his arteries, the applicant suffered from buerger’s disease, occlusion of the arteries in the right tibia, stenosis of the arteries in the left tibia, chronic arterial deficiency in the right lower limb at the fourth stage of the disease and gangrene of the tissue in the right big toe.
7.  in february and march 2000 the domestic authorities instituted two sets of criminal proceedings for tax evasion and abuse of office by the management of the applicant bank.the relevant extract reads: “‘it is a matter of honour for the general prosecutor’s office and the state tax administration to bring the story of slovyanskyy bank to its logical conclusion,’ said the president of ukraine during his speech at the session ... he stated that the chairs of the bank had turned it into a source of uncontrolled personal income.‘such money‑makers have powerful patrons, and there is great pressure on the investigation,’ stated the president.” 9.  on 29 june 2000 the national bank of ukraine (“the nbu”) suspended the applicant bank’s licence for some of its operations, considering that its financial position had deteriorated sharply and that it had been performing risky operations which threatened its solvency.10.  in july 2000 an investigator from the tax police of the state tax administration, acting in the course of the criminal proceedings, ordered an attachment of the applicant bank’s securities.11.  on 18 september 2000 the nbu put the applicant bank under temporary administration, which involved suspending the functions of some of the bank’s managers.12.  on 11 january 2001 the nbu issued a resolution “on the liquidation of slovyanskyy commercial joint-stock bank” by which, among other things, (1) the applicant bank’s operating licence was revoked in full; (2) the powers of the board, the council and the general shareholders’ meetings were terminated; and (3) the applicant bank was ordered to be liquidated.by the same resolution the nbu approved the composition of a liquidation commission for the bank, consisting of eleven officials from the regional departments of the nbu and two members of staff from the local tax office.13.  on 5 march 2001 the first applicant, who was in detention at the time, brought a claim under the rules of chapter 31-a of the code of civil procedure of 1963 with the pechersky district court of kyiv, challenging the nbu’s decision.he maintained that the impugned resolution was unlawful and that the nbu had decided to liquidate the applicant bank owing to its failure to fulfil its financial obligations, whereas that failure had been caused by the nbu itself and the tax authorities.the court held that the nbu had been competent to adopt the impugned resolution, that the measures taken had been lawful and that they had been made necessary by gross violations of banking legislation by the applicant bank and its difficult financial position.it held that the nbu’s resolution of 11 january 2001 had not concerned the first applicant and it had not been established during the determination of the claim that his rights and freedoms had been violated.18.  on 21 april 2005 the supreme court of ukraine quashed the decisions of 26 june 2001 and 5 july 2002 and terminated the proceedings, considering that the claim was inadmissible.feldman brought a claim as a shareholder of slovyanskyy bank, however he did not request the protection of his own rights and freedoms but, in fact, acted in the interests of slovyanskyy bank, without being duly authorised [bold text in the original].according to articles 1 and 12 of the code of commercial proceedings, disputes between a subject of entrepreneurial activities and enterprises, institutions and organisations concerning the protection of their rights and freedoms, and their disputes concerning the declaration of legal acts as invalid, should be examined by the commercial courts.given that a shareholder is not entitled to apply to a court for the examination of such a dispute and that this case is not to be examined in accordance with civil procedure, the decisions adopted in this case should be quashed and the proceedings should be terminated, in accordance with article 136 § 2 (1) and article 227 § 1 of the code of civil procedure ...” 19.  the liquidation process of the applicant bank was completed on 30 november 2012. the bank was removed from the legal entities official database on 4 august 2014.
5.  the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in melitopol.6.  between 2004 and 2006 the applicant was head of melitopol city council’s disadvantaged persons’ welfare centre (центр по обслуговуванню одиноких, непрацездатних та малозабезпечених громадян управління праці, соціального захисту та житлових субсидій мелітопольської міської ради – “the centre”).on 21 april 2006 she was dismissed as part of a reorganisation of the centre.another person was subsequently appointed to a position similar to the one previously occupied by the applicant.7.  in may 2006 the applicant instituted civil proceedings in the melitopolskyy local court (“the melitopolskyy court”) seeking reinstatement, salary arrears and compensation for non-pecuniary damage.on 24 october 2006 the court rejected the applicant’s claim.it found that the centre had offered the applicant another position but that she had rejected this proposal, and that a more experienced person had been appointed as the head of the centre.following an appeal by the applicant, on 7 december 2006 the zaporizhzhya regional court of appeal upheld the decision of 24 october 2006. the applicant lodged a further appeal, and on 22 august 2007 the supreme court of ukraine quashed these decisions and remitted the case to the first-instance court for fresh consideration.it held that the case was to be considered under the administrative justice procedure since it concerned a public-service dispute.8.  accordingly, the applicant instituted administrative proceedings before the melitopolskyy court, which, on 21 february 2008, again found against her for reasons similar to those listed in its decision of 24 october 2006. the applicant appealed, and on 16 july 2008 the dnipropetrovsk administrative court of appeal quashed this decision and terminated the proceedings on the grounds that it fell to be examined under the civil justice procedure as the applicant was not a public servant.on 2 march 2011 the higher administrative court of ukraine upheld this decision.on 14 april 2011 the same court rejected the applicant’s request for leave to appeal to the supreme court of ukraine against the decision of 2 march 2011.9.  on 28 march 2011 the applicant again lodged a civil claim seeking reinstatement, salary arrears and compensation for non-pecuniary damage.on 4 august 2011 the melitopolskyy court refused to examine the merits of the applicant’s civil claim as the applicant had sought to have adjourned previous court hearings in respect of her case on numerous occasions without good reason.on 5 october 2011 the zaporizhzhya regional court of appeal upheld the decision of the first-instance court.
according to the search report, signed by the applicant and by her appointed lawyer without any objections, the search started at 6.15 a.m. and lasted until 2 p.m. 8.  immediately after the search and in accordance with the provisions of articles 265-266 of the romanian criminal code of procedure (hereinafter rccp, see paragraph 33 below), namely on the basis of an order to appear before the investigation body, the applicant was taken by police officers to the bucharest police headquarters.9.  according to the record drawn up at the time, the enforcement of the order to appear was executed between 2.10 p.m. and 2.40 p.m., when the applicant arrived at the police station.10.  the order to appear had been issued by the prosecutor on 3 december 2014. it mentioned that “in the interests of the investigation ongoing in the above-mentioned criminal file [number] concerning money laundering and fiscal fraud, the questioning of [the applicant’s name and identification data] in her capacity of suspect is necessary.the criminal investigation bodies (...) will bring the suspect to the police headquarters on 4 december 2014 for the purpose of making a statement [before the investigating authorities].” 11.  the documents on file show that between 8.40 a.m. on 4 december 2014 and 3 a.m. the next day, the investigating authorities, namely five prosecutors and six judicial police officers, conducted interviews in respect of fourteen witnesses and twenty-five suspects and/or defendants in connection with the criminal investigation involving the applicant.12.  according to the register kept by the police to record third parties entering the police station on a daily basis, the applicant’s appointed lawyer, mr r.-m.s., entered the premises of the police headquarters at 4.10 p.m. the applicant contended that up until that time, her lawyer had been prevented from joining her because he had not submitted a written mandate proving that he lawfully represented her (see also paragraph 22 in fine, below).14.  at an unspecified time before 7.32 p.m., a prosecutor informed the applicant that she was a suspect in an ongoing criminal investigation, and was to be charged with complicity in fiscal fraud; the applicant was also informed of the rights and obligations she had in that capacity.the same argument was backed, according to the government, by the conclusions of the medical investigations, which attested to the fact that no urgent need for medical care had been identified in her case (see paragraph 16 below).21.  in the first complaint, it is claimed that the order to appear became effective on 4 december 2014 at 6.20 a.m., and that the applicant was de facto remanded in custody as of 2.20 p.m. it is argued that the applicant’s deprivation of liberty throughout that interval was unlawful and unjustified, aimed solely at obtaining statements from her under duress.22.  in the second complaint it is claimed that on 4 december 2014, as of 12.00 p.m. when the search of her home ended, the applicant’s liberty to move around was restricted, as proved by the fact that she had been accompanied by police officers not only to the police station but also to the hospital, where she had been taken under escort to obtain medical assistance.the applicant mentioned that her lawyer had not been allowed to accompany her or to assist her because he did not have a written mandate, even though the lack of such a document was objectively justified by the circumstances in which she had been taken to the police station.23.  the prosecutor dismissed both complaints on the same day, holding that the measure to remand the applicant in custody was lawful, necessary and proportional to the gravity of the charge.he stated that the order to appear became effective after the house search had been performed, the presence of the applicant during the search being necessary in relation to its conduct and thus outside the limits of such an order.the prosecutor further considered that the time interval during which the applicant was under medical surveillance could not be included within the eight-hour time-limit set out by article 265 § 12, as that was an incident excluding the responsibility of the investigating authorities.the limitation of her lawyer’s access to the criminal file had been justified by the necessity to get to the truth and to obtain from the applicant a genuine statement, uninfluenced by those already given by the other suspects or witnesses.25.  by an interlocutory judgment delivered on 6 december 2014, the bucharest county court allowed the prosecutor’s request and ordered the applicant’s detention until 3 january 2015. an appeal lodged against this was dismissed by the bucharest court of appeal on 15 december 2014. her pre-trial detention was extended for another thirty days by a decision of the bucharest county court issued on 29 january 2015, upheld on appeal.
a representative from the utena district environmental protection department of the ministry of the environment (hereinafter “the utena environmental protection department”) had no objections to the establishment of the legal fact.the utena environmental protection department stated that the construction of a building had to comply with the law on construction; the existing flora had to be preserved and the method of waste collection had to be decided on.on 10 may 2011 the authorities estimated the distance between the house and the lake at 27 metres, and between the terrace of the house and the lake at 24.5 metres.15.  on 5 august 2011 the prosecutor’s office started court proceedings and asked the domestic courts to revoke the recommendation to grant the first applicant building permission; to annul the building permit and oblige the applicants to demolish the building at the expense of the established guilty parties, that is the applicants, the molėtai municipality, and the utena environmental protection department.the court further held that the applicants had built the building lawfully, there was no evidence as to any negative consequences of the construction for the environment or the public interest.the court also observed that in the applicants’ case it would be unreasonable and unjust to apply the measure established in the civil code – to oblige the applicants to demolish the buildings (see paragraph 29 below).the building permit had obviously been issued to the first applicant unlawfully and, in the appellate court’s view, the latter had asked the court to establish a legal fact for the sole purpose of constructing a house.the court thus ordered the first applicant to demolish the buildings at the expense of the applicants, the molėtai municipality and the utena environmental protection department.the applicants claimed that the appellate court had breached the principle of lex retro non agit by assessing the documents, issued in 2005, in view of the ruling of the constitutional court of 2006. they also claimed that the appellate court had breached their legitimate expectations to execute their proprietary interests in accordance with the domestic regulation in force at the time.the court held that although the applicants referred to the regulation of construction on private land (see paragraph 49 below, hereinafter the “regulation”), none of the provisions of that regulation could be interpreted as allowing construction of the buildings in question.as regards the removal of the consequences of illegal construction, the court held that it was crucial to assess the consequences of the illegal construction for the environment and the public interest, the consequences of the demolition of the buildings, the possibility of restoring the environment to its state before the illegal construction, and whether the persons who had acquired property rights had acted in good faith.as to the applicants’ argument that the appellate court had breached the principle of legitimate expectations, the court held that the construction in question had been prohibited by the relevant domestic legislation in force at the time.even if the applicants had misinterpreted the provisions of the regulation, the constitutional court had found the regulation to be inconsistent with the law, and, by extension, with the constitution on 14 march 2006, only three months after the building permit had been issued to the first applicant.22.  on an unspecified date the applicants applied to the utena district court to overrule the bailiff’s refusal to suspend the execution of the judgment and to suspend it until the case had been examined at the european court of human rights.the court held that if the national court’s order to demolish the building was executed, the possibility of reopening the proceedings after a positive outcome for the applicants in the european court of human rights would become complicated.
in april 2008 the prosecutor lodged a claim with the varėna district court and asked it to annul part of the decision of 23 may 1996 (see paragraph 6 above) restoring the property rights of the applicants’ father in respect of 0.4863 hectares of land, and the relevant part of the succession document issued to the applicants.12.  on 21 april 2009 the varėna district court allowed the prosecutor’s application, indicated that the part of the decision of 23 may 1996 regarding the 0.4863 hectares had to be annulled, and held that a plot of land of 0.51 hectares had to be demarcated for j.p. the applicants’ property rights would be protected by giving them an equivalent plot of land in another area.the court further held that the plot of land that j.p. had been using had been formed back in 2001 when the buildings had belonged to v.g., and that the applicants had signed the documents and agreed with the borders of the plot under the buildings.15.  the applicants submitted an appeal on points of law, and on 19 april 2010 the supreme court sent the case back to the court of appeal for fresh examination, stating that the lower courts had not examined the factual circumstances regarding how big the plot of land had to be in order for the buildings to be used.the supreme court also held that the vilnius regional court should assess the fact that no plot of land under the buildings had been demarcated at the time the applicants’ father’s property rights had been restored.the court considered that the person who had measured the land for the applicants had not marked the house in that area, and had not taken any actions to find out who the owner of the house was; therefore, he was the person who had made a mistake.18.  the applicants appealed, and on 24 july 2013 the vilnius regional court upheld the decision of the varėna district court of 20 february 2012. the court held that, although the applicants claimed that j.p.’s house was not a residential building and thus no land for residential purposes could exist, the data from the register of immovable property and the purchase agreements showed that the building was a residential building.20.  on 27 january 2014 the national land service sent a letter to the applicants explaining that the legal registration in respect of their plot of land of 0.4863 hectares had been annulled following the decisions of the domestic courts, and asked them to choose the means by which they wanted their property rights in respect of the plot of land of 0.4863 hectares to be restored.the national land service also explained that the purchase agreement in respect of j.p.’s buildings was valid, and that, in accordance with the decisions of the domestic courts, j.p. was entitled to use the plot of land under the buildings.23.  in september 2014 the national land service replied to a request by one of the applicants in july 2014 for an explanation of the actions of the varėna division of the national land service and compensation in respect of pecuniary damage.24.  in june 2014 j.p. was included into the list of candidates to buy a plot of land of 0.51 hectares and on 18 november 2015, after some measurements had been carried out, the plot of land of 0.5082 hectares was sold to j.p. 25.  in march 2015 the national land service replied to a complaint by one of the applicants about the restoration of her father’s property rights.among many other things, the applicant asked for: the process of amending the borders of their plot of land to be terminated; j.p. to be prohibited from constructing buildings and growing plants; his property to be kept on the plot of land at issue; an opportunity to buy the plot of land that had been taken from them; and an easement under j.p.’s buildings to be established.in may 2015 the varėna division of the national land service explained that the applicants’ property rights to the plot of land of 0.4863 hectares had been annulled in accordance with the decisions of the domestic courts (see paragraphs 17-19 above).the preliminary estimate as to the value of the plot was also indicated as being eur 217. it appears that the applicants did not reply to this letter, nor did they submit a request for monetary compensation, but the national land service calculated the compensation at eur 433 after having adjusted it in line with the inflation index, and on 12 july 2017 invited the applicants to come and discuss the restoration of their property rights.the national land service decided to hold a meeting as planned on 25 july 2017, and issued a decision to restore the applicants’ property rights to the 0.4863 hectares of land by paying them monetary compensation of eur 433.60. one of the applicants collected the decision on 8 september 2017. the decision was not appealed against.
7.  on 21 december 2011 the šiauliai district court held that the first applicant was the lawful owner of the house and that z.b.11.  in october 2012 the first applicant asked the bailiff to ensure that the police were present during the forced eviction; to ensure that the access to the house was not impeded by the dog; the first applicant also asked the bailiff to get the information from the children’s rights protection service because z.b.the first applicant also asked the police to oblige the residents of the house to terminate their unlawful actions; to oblige them to remove their dog from the area; to warn the unlawful residents of the house of their responsibility for material damage and to fine them.lodged a complaint against the bailiff, also asking the court to apply interim measures – to suspend the eviction proceedings owing to g.b.’s illness and the presence of his minor granddaughter in the house.submitted a separate complaint against the decision of the šiauliai district court (see paragraph 15 above), complaining that the court had made a purely formalistic assessment of his minor granddaughter’s living arrangements in the house and that it had not commented on the fact that the bailiff had ignored his wife’s illness.had been avoiding the eviction but stated that he had tried to defend the first applicant’s interests by suggesting to the latter to apply to the šiauliai district court so that it broadened the list of persons to be evicted.the court held that when the execution actions had been protracted, the interests of a creditor had been breached, and thus the main role in the execution proceedings had been played by the bailiff.the court held that the bailiff had failed to perform the execution of the eviction properly and that he had had no grounds to suspend or postpone the execution.the court thus annulled the bailiff’s order of 16 april 2013 to suspend the eviction and the order of 2 may 2013 by which the bailiff dismissed the first applicant’s complaint (see paragraphs 18 and 21 above).the next day, the bailiff drew up a document by which the second applicant was assigned as the property manager of the goods that had been left in the house and that had been seized.if he or she failed to collect the property within three months from the date when it had been transferred to the property manager, it could be sold and the income given to the debtor.in the present case, the second applicant had become the property manager on 18 november 2013 (see paragraph 28 above), the property seizure act had been drawn up on 19 november 2013, and the property had to be taken by z.b.was also instructed to lodge any such complaint against the bailiff under the out-of-court settlement procedure or a claim with the court before the deadline of 17 december 2014 and to pay the applicable court fees.against the bailiff, the second applicant and third parties regarding the annulment of the negative consequences caused by the unlawful actions of the bailiff and compensation for non-pecuniary damage.lodged an application for interim measures, asking to prohibit the use of the house and other buildings in the garden and complaining of the result of the auction – the first applicant purchasing the house (see paragraph 5 above) – and asking for the result of the auction and the purchase agreement to be annulled.
the purpose of the hidden cameras was to record and control possible employee thefts and they were zoomed in on the checkout counters, which covered the area behind the cash desk.during those meetings the applicants admitted their involvement in the thefts in the presence of the union representative and the company’s legal representative.13.  in the framework of the proceedings both applicants objected to the use of the covert video surveillance, arguing that it had breached their right to protection of their privacy.the main evidence supporting the fairness of their dismissals was the recordings resulting from the covert surveillance, as well as the witness statements of co-workers dismissed for their involvement in the thefts, the shop manager, the union representative and the company’s legal representative.15.  the employment tribunal found in both judgments – as regards these two applicants in particular – that the use of covert video surveillance in the workplace without prior notice had been in accordance with article 20 of the labour regulations (estatuto de los trabajadores), which allowed an employer to use monitoring and surveillance measures which he or she deemed appropriate to verify that an employee was fulfilling his or her employment duties, as long as the employer respected “human dignity”.following this case-law, the employment tribunal, having regard to the evidence before it, found that the employer had had sufficient grounds to conclude that the applicants’ conduct amounted to a “breach of contractual good faith and abuse of trust” and thus declared both dismissals fair in conformity with article 54.2.d of the labour regulations.on 28 january and 24 february 2011 the court upheld both first-instance judgments, referring to the constitutional court’s case-law and endorsing the employment tribunal’s finding that the defendant party had been authorised to carry out the covert video surveillance of the cash desks.while acknowledging that it was possible that the employer could face an administrative sanction for not informing its employees and the staff committee in advance of the installation of the cameras, that fact alone had no relevance from a constitutional point of view, since from that perspective the covert video surveillance had been justified (in that there had been reasonable suspicions of theft), appropriate to the legitimate aim pursued, necessary and proportionate.according to the employer, the security cameras had caught the third applicant scanning items from the grocery baskets of customers and co-workers and afterwards voiding the receipts.they claimed that the consent they had given was not valid, since they had been under duress at the time they had signed the settlement agreements (a company representative had allegedly threatened to bring criminal proceedings against them if they did not sign the agreements).in particular, it addressed their allegation of invalid consent, finding that there was no evidence proving the existence of any kind of duress or intention to commit a crime (dolo) at the time the applicants had signed the settlement agreements.the court concluded that the applicants had signed the settlement agreements freely and voluntarily with the clear purpose of avoiding criminal proceedings for the alleged thefts they had been accused of (and to which they had already confessed).further evidence as to the lack of any threat or coercion was the fact that other employees in the same situation as the applicants (such as the first and second applicants) had refused to sign the settlement agreements.as the signing of the settlement agreements rendered their dismissals fair, the use and analysis of the impugned videos as evidence in the proceedings was deemed unnecessary.22.  the applicants appealed before the high court of justice of catalonia on 16 march 2010. on 24 february 2011 it upheld the first-instance judgment and endorsed the employment tribunal’s finding that the settlement agreement signed by the applicants was valid.
6.  in a judgment of 27 may 2005 the criminal court of the canton of basle urban (“the criminal court”) found the applicant guilty, on account of acts committed between 2000 and 2004, of robbery, endangering life, assault with a dangerous object causing multiple bodily injuries, multiple acts of coercion, multiple offences of receiving stolen goods, and offences under federal legislation on drugs, road traffic and weapons.7.  in a judgment of 12 january 2007 the court of appeal of the canton of basle urban (“the court of appeal”) dismissed an appeal by the applicant, essentially upholding the first-instance judgment.8.  in a letter dated 4 july 2007, addressed to the intercantonal commission for the assessment of the dangerousness of offenders in the cantons of solothurn, basle urban and basle rural (“the intercantonal commission”), the applicant asked for the conditions of his sentence to be relaxed.11.  in a report dated 10 november 2008 the intercantonal commission found that the applicant represented a danger to the public, and recommended that no adjustments to the conditions of his sentence be ordered and that the appropriate court be asked to review whether the conditions for an (outpatient) therapeutic measure in conjunction with the sentence (vollzugsbegleitende therapeutische massnahme) were satisfied (article 63 of the criminal code).14.  on 30 june 2010, in an additional report to the expert report of 24 september 2008, after examining the applicant in person, professor a.e., a psychiatrist and psychotherapist, concluded that it was unlikely that an institutional therapeutic measure would serve any useful purpose, given that the applicant was not showing any motivation to change his attitude towards the offences he had committed and was incapable of developing empathy.15.  on 7 july 2010, referring to the above-mentioned additional psychiatric report, the post-sentencing authority of the canton of basle urban (“the post-sentencing authority”) asked the court of appeal to review whether, following its judgment of 12 january 2007, the conditions for ordering subsequent indefinite detention, or possibly an institutional therapeutic measure, were satisfied (articles 64 and 59 of the criminal code respectively, taken together with article 65; see paragraph 24 below).16.  on 17 december 2010 the governor and the sentence supervision officer of bostadel prison produced a report on the progress of the applicant’s detention, in which they noted that there was no obstacle to a gradual relaxation of the conditions of his sentence until his release on parole.and the applicant’s representative that day, the court of appeal ordered the applicant’s subsequent indefinite detention under article 65 § 2 of the criminal code, in its version in force since 1 january 2007. at the hearing that day, the applicant and his lawyer had had the opportunity to put questions to a.e.19.  in a judgment of 22 august 2012 the court of appeal ordered an institutional therapeutic measure, in accordance with article 65 § 1 of the criminal code, at the same time suspending the execution of the part of the sentence remaining to be served (“der restvollzug ... wird aufgeschoben ...”).21.  in a judgment of 28 may 2013 the federal court dismissed an appeal by the applicant against the judgment of 22 august 2012, observing that the subsequent ordering of an institutional therapeutic measure was compatible with the convention, from the standpoint of articles 5 and 7 and of article 4 of protocol no.more specifically, the federal court acknowledged that the law governing measures for offenders other than sentences (articles 56-65 of the criminal code) applied retrospectively to criminal acts committed before the entry into force of the relevant law on 1 january 2007 (paragraph 2, sub-paragraph 1, of the transitional provisions of the 13 december 2002 amendment to the criminal code).the federal court left open the question of the application of the principle of non-retrospective application to institutional therapeutic measures ordered subsequently, pointing out that although such measures were to be regarded as a penalty within the meaning of article 7 of the convention, the fact that such a measure had been ordered subsequently in the applicant’s case had not resulted in a heavier penalty being imposed on him than the one applicable under the law in force when the criminal acts had been committed, seeing that the measures provided for under the former law (article 43 of the criminal code, in force until 31 december 2006) had been at least as strict as those applicable under the new law; that being so, there had been no breach of the principle of non-retrospective application in the present case.regarding article 5 § 1 (a) of the convention, the federal court noted that although a subsequent order for an institutional therapeutic measure was inherently at variance with the binding nature of the principal judgment, there had to be a sufficient causal link between the judgment and the measure for the subsequent detention ordered in the context of review proceedings to comply with that convention provision.7 to the convention provided for a number of exceptions to that principle, the federal court observed that the review conducted in the present case for the purposes of ordering a subsequent institutional therapeutic measure on the basis of the applicant’s serious mental illness, which had already been present but had not been detected at the time of the initial judgment, did not constitute a second penalty in respect of him.in response to the applicant’s argument that the expert medical opinions no longer reflected his current psychiatric condition, the federal court pointed out that the extremely detailed expert opinion of 24 september 2008 had been supplemented by the report of 30 june 2010 and corroborated by the expert’s oral statements at the hearing on 6 may 2011 concerning the diagnosis and the risk of reoffending.
10.  on 12 march 2004 the vilnius county administration informed the vilnius municipality that the property rights of the applicant’s husband would be restored and that he was a candidate to receive a plot of land measuring 0.1638 hectares in natura.11.  in august 2006 the authorities replied to the applicant husband’s letter asking why only a plot of land of 0.1007 hectares instead of 0.1638 hectares had been formed near the house, and stated that the plot of land 0.1007 hectares where the premises had been situated, would be divided for several co-owners of the premises and the rest of the land would be returned to the applicant’s husband by the means he chose.13.  on 27 march 2009 the applicant’s son, as the representative of the applicant, asked the authorities to restore the property rights of his father to the plot of land of 0.1171 hectares by paying compensation in securities.14.  on 9 april 2009 the property rights of the applicant’s husband were restored in natura to 0.0467 hectares of land and it was provided that compensation of approximately 1,642 euros (eur) would be paid in securities for the remaining 0.1181 hectares of land.on 24 july 2009 this decision was changed and it was decided to restore the applicant’s husband’s property rights to a plot of land of 0.0362 hectares in natura and to pay compensation in securities for the plot of land of 0.1286 hectares, amounting to approximately eur 1,788.15.  in october 2009 the applicant lodged a complaint with the vilnius regional administrative court, claiming that the compensation in securities, established by the national authorities, was unjust, and asking to have the value of the plot of land measuring 0.1286 hectares recalculated.however, the calculation of the municipality provided that the market value of the plot was approximately eur 786,029 and the market value of the plot as calculated by the centre of registers was approximately eur 750,313. the court stated that in comparison with these numbers, the value of the plot of land provided by the vilnius county administration (see paragraph 14 above) was 327.5 times lower, and it could not conform to the principle of equal value.moreover, in accordance with the methodology approved by the government, the calculation was the same for plots of land in the city centre and outside the city.17.  in april 2013 the national land service informed the applicant that the relevant laws had been changed and that she could change the form of restoration of the property rights to 0.1286 hectares of land.instead of securities she could choose one of the following: to be assigned a new plot of land of equivalent value to the one held previously; to have the liabilities to the state legally voided; to be assigned a new plot of land for individual construction; to receive monetary compensation.19.  after the matter had been resolved by the constitutional court (see paragraph 35 below), the vilnius regional administrative court rejected the applicant’s claim on 4 november 2013. the court analysed the domestic regulation regarding the calculation of the value of the land and observed that this matter had been referred to the constitutional court, which held that the methodology approved by the government setting down the principles of calculation of the value of the land was in accordance with the law.the court further observed that the authorities had suggested the applicant choose other means to have her property rights restored (see paragraph 17 above), and that in september 2013 it had been decided to include the applicant on the list of persons to receive a plot of land for construction of an individual house.the decision the applicant complained of, that is to say the calculation of the compensation to be paid in securities, had not been of legal importance to the applicant because the law on the restoration of citizens’ ownership rights to existing real property had been changed and it had become impossible to restore the property rights in securities.the court also emphasised the argument of the constitutional court that, in calculating the compensation, it was justified to pay heed not only to the market value of the property but also to its value at the time of nationalisation and to the changes in the quality and the value of property.the court held that the applicant had lodged the complaint on 4 november 2009; it had been accepted by the vilnius regional administrative court on 17 november 2009. on 10 february 2010 the vilnius regional administrative court had decided to apply to the constitutional court, which had adopted its decision on 11 september 2013. the proceedings in the administrative case had recommenced on 16 september 2013 and the decision had been adopted on 4 november 2013. given the complexity of the case and referral of the matter to the constitutional court, the length of proceedings had not breached the reasonable time requirement.
during the migration agency’s examination of the request, the applicant applied for asylum, claiming that he was in need of international protection.however, he claimed that the swedish security service would inform the moroccan authorities of the reasons for his arrest and expulsion and other moroccans in sweden might also submit such information.9.  on 22 april 2016 the migration agency granted the security services’ request to expel the applicant and, at the same time, rejected the applicant’s demand for asylum and international protection.10.  as concerned the applicant’s situation, the migration agency found no reasons to question the security service’s assessment of the applicant.the agency observed that the applicant had submitted that he was not sought in morocco, that he had not been involved in any legal proceedings there and that the moroccan authorities had never subjected him to any acts of persecution in the past.11.  as concerned the risk upon return because it was the security service which had requested the expulsion, the migration agency found that the applicant had not made out that he risked persecution upon return on this ground.it took into account that no objective evidence suggested that the moroccan authorities were aware of his case and that the legislation had regard to the possible risks of being labelled a terrorist and had been designed to avoid such risks.12.  the migration agency concluded that, even taking into account the applicant’s submissions, it shared the security service’s assessment and considered that there were grounds to expel the applicant with reference to section 1, paragraph 2, of the special controls of aliens act (lagen [1991:572] om särskild utlänningskontroll).13.  the applicant appealed to the government, submitting that the security service’s assessment had been accepted by the migration agency without a careful examination, rendering the proceedings unfair and partial.14.  the migration agency forwarded the appeal to the migration court of appeal (migrationsöverdomstolen) in accordance with section 3 of the special controls of aliens act.the agency maintained its stance and stated, inter alia, that the applicant had not made it probable that he was of interest to the moroccan authorities and there was no concrete information indicating that they should be aware of what had happened to him in sweden.15.  on 22 june 2016, after having held an oral hearing, the appellate court shared the reasoning of the migration agency and decided to recommend that the government uphold the agency’s decision.it found, inter alia, that there was nothing to support that the applicant at that point in time was known by the moroccan authorities and of interest to them.in view of what was known about the applicant’s former activities and other circumstances, the government concluded that it was reasonable to fear that the applicant would commit or participate in committing a terrorist offence which warranted his expulsion in accordance with the special controls of aliens act.17.  on 22 september 2016, following the interim measure indicated by the court, the government decided to stay the enforcement of the expulsion order until further notice.
6.  the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in larnaca.7.  following his dismissal from cyprus airways ltd as a trainee pilot, the applicant on 26 june 1998 brought a civil action before the district court of nicosia for wrongful dismissal and defamation (civil action no.7562/98).the defendant company was represented by a law firm.8.  on 29 december 2006 the court dismissed the action.9.  on 9 february 2007 the applicant lodged an appeal with the supreme court (appeal no.43/07).the appeal was tried by a bench of three judges.10.  the hearing of the appeal was held on 11 march 2007. on that date the managing partner of the above-mentioned law firm, mr p.g.p., appeared for the defendant company and addressed the supreme court.up until that date, other lawyers from the firm had appeared before the appeal bench on behalf of the defendant company.11.  on 21 april 2010 the supreme court dismissed the appeal unanimously.12.  the applicant submitted that after the judgment of the supreme court was given, he discovered that the son of one of the judges sitting on the bench, judge a.k., and the daughter of mr p.g.p., were married and that both worked at the latter’s law firm.the lawyer representing him in the domestic proceedings had not requested the exemption of the judge in question because he had not had sufficient knowledge of the relevant facts at the time.the applicant had also not instructed his lawyer to do so as he had found out about this fact only after the appeal proceedings had ended.
4.  the applicant was born in 1974 and at the time of lodging his application he was serving his prison sentence in the bolu f-type prison.5.  on 25 january 2008 the applicant wrote a letter to the ministry of justice, in which he had praised the imprisoned leader of the pkk, abdullah öcalan by using the honorific “sayın”, meaning esteemed.6.  pursuant to the regulations on the administration of penitentiary institutions and the execution of sentences, the applicant was found guilty of breaching a prison order by the bolu f-type prison disciplinary board (referred hereafter as “the board”).7.  on 1 february 2008 the applicant was sentenced to 11 days’ solitary confinement on the orders of the board, on account of his statements in the above-mentioned letter.8.  on 26 february 2008 the bolu enforcement judge rejected the applicant’s objection.9.  on 11 march 2008 the bolu assize court upheld the judgment of 26 february 2008.
4.  the applicant was born in 1989.5.  on 27 december 2010 the applicant was arrested on drug-related charges and placed in custody.6.  on 14 december 2012 the case was submitted for trial to the voronezh regional court.7.  on 11 july 2013 the court returned the case to the deputy prosecutor general for remedying certain procedural defects.8.  on 20 september 2013 the investigations department of the federal drug control service received the case file and forwarded it to its regional branch in st petersburg.9.  on 1 november 2013 an investigator asked the st petersburg city court to extend the applicant’s detention for a further four months, until 31 march 2014. on 8 november 2013 the city court granted the application.the applicant filed an appeal.he pointed out that the maximum statutory time period for keeping him in pre-trial detention had expired a long time ago and that any further extensions had been unlawful.10.  on 27 november 2013 the st petersburg city court rejected his appeal in a summary fashion, without examining his arguments in detail.
6.  on 5 november 2009 the youth wing of the swiss people’s party (junge schweizerische volkspartei) held a demonstration in the train station square in the town of frauenfeld concerning a public initiative to support the prohibition of the building of minarets in switzerland.after the event the party published a report on its website, including the following excerpts: “in his speech in front of the thurgau government building [thurgauer regierungsgebäude], b.k., the president of the local branch of the young swiss people’s party [“the jsvp”], emphasised that it was time to stop the expansion of islam.a symbolic sign, such as the prohibition of minarets, would therefore be an expression of the preservation of one’s own identity.” 7.  in response, the applicant posted an entry on its website in the section called “chronology – verbal racism”, entitled “frauenfeld tg, 5 november 2009”, including the following extract: “according to the report of the event, b.k., the president of the local branch of the young swiss people’s party, emphasised that it was time to stop the expansion of islam.the applicant organisation replied that the title of the internet entry had to be considered as a value judgment, which could only lead to an infringement of personality rights if it entailed an unnecessarily hurtful and insulting attack on the person concerned.it held that the publication of the impugned article on the applicant’s website had been justified since it had related to a political discussion on a matter of public interest.not only in the context of the criminal offence of racial discrimination (article 261bis of the criminal code) but more generally, the term in question is, in the eyes of the average reader, capable of deliberately debasing the person whose comments have been classified as ‘verbally racist’, accusing him or her of behaviour which is frowned upon by society in the form of an act which is, at the very least, questionable in constitutional terms (cf.the appellant referred to the respondent’s speech at the public demonstration of 5 november 2009 on its website ... freely accessible on the internet, commenting on the term ‘verbal racism’.4.1. the case-law on press statements, on which the appellant relies, distinguishes between statements of facts on the one hand and value judgments on the other, and can be summarised as follows: ... 4.2. the appellant assigned the respondent’s statements to the section entitled ‘verbal racism’ ... that was a mixed value judgment.4.3. the term ‘racism’ is understood as ‘a doctrine’ which states that ‘certain races or nations are superior to others in terms of their cultural capacity’, and, on the other hand, a ‘certain attitude, manner of thinking and acting towards people of (certain) other races or nations’ (cf.racism begins where the difference amounts simultaneously to denigration of the victims and where the highlighting of differences is ultimately only a means to represent the victims negatively and to show disregard for their dignity.4.4. the statements that led the appellant to conclude that there had been ‘verbal racism’ are the core phrases ‘it is time to stop the spread of islam ... the swiss guiding culture (“schweizerische leitkultur”), based on christianity, cannot let itself be repressed by other cultures ... a symbolic sign, such as the prohibition of minarets, is therefore an expression of the preservation of one’s own identity’.4.4.1. in his public speech, the respondent expressed his opinion on the prohibition of minarets, which, in the opinion of the high court, would not be compatible with freedom of religion and non-discrimination.4.4.2. on the whole, it cannot be said that the comments made by the respondent, as understood by the average listener, could be described as ‘verbally racist’.4.4.3. that assessment cannot be altered by the fact that in the general interest of informing the public, there is an increased degree of publicity and a reduced level of protection for personality rights for people who engage in a political debate, such as the respondent in the campaign for the minaret initiative (see bge 105 ii 161 e. 3b p. 165, 107 ii 1 e. 3b p. 5).that special framework allows for the assessment of breaches of honour on a somewhat different scale, but it can neither justify the dissemination of untruths nor the publication of value judgments that do not appear to be justified with regard to the underlying facts.”
4.  the applicant was born in 1981 and lives in sochi.5.  on 27 november 2010 the applicant, a police captain, was arrested for soliciting a bribe.he was taken into custody and his detention was extended on several occasions.on 4 july 2011 the case was submitted for trial in the tsentralnyy district court of sochi.6.  on 8 july 2011 the district court determined that the case was not ready for trial and returned the file to the prosecutor.by the same decision, it extended the applicant’s detention until 10 august 2011.7.  on 9 august 2011 the director of the iz-23/2 remand prison where the applicant was held reported to the sochi prosecutor and to the president of the tsentralnyy district court that, in the absence of an order extending the applicant’s detention beyond 10 august, he would need to be released on that date.on the same date the sochi prosecutor replied to him that there were no grounds for releasing the applicant because the date for hearing the prosecutor’s appeal against the district court’s order of 8 july had been fixed for 17 august.the applicant was not released on 10 august.he complained about his unlawful detention to the head of the investigations committee and the regional head of the ministry of the interior but did not receive any reply.8.  on 17 august 2011 the krasnodar regional court quashed the district court’s order on appeal.as regards the custodial measure, it held that no extension had been necessary because by virtue of article 255 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure the applicant could be held in custody for an initial six-month period starting from the date on which the case had been submitted for trial.
7.  on 2 october 2009 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of raping k., who was employed at the vasileostrovskiy district court in st petersburg as an assistant to judge n., and who also was the daughter of that court’s former president, judge k., who carried on working as a judge at that time.he rejected a challenge for bias which the applicant’s lawyer raised in respect of the entire composition of the district court because of a link between the alleged victim and the judges of that court.on 26 october 2009 the st petersburg city court upheld the detention order on appeal, rejecting a challenge by the applicant as unsubstantiated.9.  on 30 november 2009 a deputy president of the city court referred an application by an investigator for an extension order to the oktyabrskiy district court for consideration.the district court granted the application on the following day.however, on 31 march 2010 the supreme court of russia determined that the decision to refer the application to another district court had been invalid, because the city court’s deputy president had decided on the change of venue of his own initiative without hearing what the defendant’s opinion on that issue was.10.  on 30 december 2009 a further extension was granted by the president of the vasileostrovskiy district court, judge sh., who again rejected a challenge for bias by the applicant.by a separate decision of the same date, it upheld the rejection of the challenge in respect of judge sh.: “the available material indicates that the court considered the challenge for bias in accordance with the established procedure, and upon review of the parties’ arguments found no grounds for the challenge; the stated grounds fall outside of the scope of article 61 of the code of criminal procedure, as they do not indicate the presiding judge’s interest in any predetermined outcome of the case ... in addition, when considering the challenge in respect of the presiding judge, the court had regard to the opinion of the prosecutor, who declared at the hearing on 30 december 2009 that there were no legal grounds for allowing the challenge ... in particular because the hearing did not touch upon the defendant’s guilt; it was not an examination of the merits of the case, but a hearing [on the remand matter].” 11.  on 27 january and 27 february 2010 extension orders were issued by judges of the kalininskiy district court, which had territorial jurisdiction over the area where the applicant was detained.12.  on 11 march 2010 the case against the applicant was referred to the vasileostrovskiy district court for trial and allocated to its president, judge sh.allowed the applicant’s challenge for bias in respect of the entire composition of that court, holding as follows: “it has been established that the injured party in the criminal proceedings [k.] works as an assistant to the vasileostrovskiy district court’s judge [n.], and that her father [judge k.] is a judge of the vasileostrovskiy district court.and all the judges of the vasileostrovskiy district court are, either directly or indirectly, interested in the outcome of the criminal case.in order to ensure an impartial examination of the criminal case, the challenge ... must be allowed and the case referred to the president of the st petersburg city court for determination of the territorial jurisdiction.” 13.  continuing the same decision, judge sh.extended the applicant’s detention until 12 may 2010. on the last day of the extended period the presidium of the city court, by way of supervisory review, quashed the decision of 23 march in part in relation to the detention matter, on the grounds that an extension could not have been granted by a judge who had recused himself.14.  on 15 april 2010 a deputy president of the city court determined that the trial would be held in the petrogradskiy district court.
under the relevant legislation they were obliged to let their flats to tenants while charging no more than the maximum amount of rent fixed by the state.the legislation precluded them from unilaterally terminating the leases or selling the flats in question to anyone other than the respective tenants.the particulars of the flats affected by the rent control are set out in appendices 10 ‑ 17 (columns a ‑ f).9.  the situation of the applicants is structurally and contextually the same as that of the applicants in bittó and others v. slovakia (no.30255/09, 28 january 2014 (merits) and 7 july 2015 (just satisfaction)), and subsequently decided cases concerning the rent-control scheme in slovakia (see krahulec v. slovakia, no.46609/13, 9892/14, 27 june 2017).10.  two residential building at 27 panenská st. and 14 konventná st. in bratislava were acquired in 2002 by a religious organisation with legal personality, cirkevný zbor evanjelickej cirkvi augsburského vyznania na slovensku bratislava (hereinafter “the bratislava evangelical church”).11.  the property in question was conveyed by the bratislava evangelical church to the old town evangelical church by way of donation on 6 february 2013. on 15 february 2013 the previous owner ceased legally to exist and was legally succeeded by the old town evangelical church and the other two entities.12.  on 22 february 2012 the old town evangelical church gave formal notices of termination of their lease to the two tenants residing in flat no.by law, these tenants had under certain circumstances the right to claim that the municipality provide them with a substitute flat on the termination of their lease.13.  on 6 august 2013 the old town evangelical church applied to the bratislava i district court for an eviction order against the occupants of this flat who had failed to vacate it by the expiry of the twelve‑month notice period.as the occupants eventually vacated the flat on 25 february 2015, the old town evangelical church withdrew its action and the proceedings in respect of it were discontinued on 9 march 2015. until the vacation of the flat, the occupants had paid the old town evangelical church compensation in an amount equal to the regulated rent.5 and 12 within the same building owing to rebuilding of the original flats.m. 15.  a similar situation arose in the residential building on 33 pražská st. in bratislava where in 2014 the tenant residing in flat no.9, and in the residential building located on 15 vrbovská cesta st. in piešťany, where the tenant living in the flat no.
6.  on 11 december 2011 one of the applicant’s neighbours called the police to complain about the fact that the applicant had stored personal items in the common space of their apartment building.noting the escalation of events, the applicant’s partner, g.c., searched for his identification papers and handed them all to the police officers: identity card, pension benefits slip and a certificate that he had been a fighter in the 1989 revolution.the doctor drafted a medical report dated 16 december 2011; a copy of the report was given to the applicant on 4 january 2012. it noted that the applicant had borne traces of violence on his wrists, arms and legs as a consequence of having been hit with a hard object; that he had complained of chest pains; and that the injuries could have dated from 12 december 2011 and had needed four to five days of medical care.17.  these investigators heard evidence from the two police officers, from the officer on duty on the day of the events and from the neighbour’s husband (see below).18.  on 11 september 2012 the investigating police officers heard evidence from the neighbour’s husband, who declared that when the applicant, “known as a mentally ill person”, had refused, in inappropriate and disrespectful language, to present his identification papers and had attempted to return to his apartment, the police officers had immobilised him on the ground and handcuffed him, without ill-treating him in the process.19.  the officer on duty declared on 3 october 2012 that he had not spoken at all to the applicant on the night in question and had only seen him when the police officers had brought him in to establish his identity; those same officers had subsequently advised him to leave the police station – the officer on duty stated that he had seen the applicant again when he was leaving the building.he added that as he had been very busy in his office he had seen the applicant only for a couple of seconds, and had thus not been in a position to see whether the applicant had been injured.20.  lastly, the two police officers gave their statements on respectively 4 and 5 october 2012. one of the officers declared that at the time of the events in question, the applicant had been under the influence of alcohol, because he had smelled of alcohol and had displayed a defiant attitude towards the police officers.both officers mentioned in very similar terms that when asked to present his identification papers, the applicant had tried to evade the measure (“se sustrage măsurii legitimării”) and had attempted to re-enter his apartment by using physical force; for this reason, they had proceeded to handcuff him and had taken him to the police station.on the basis of the evidence in the file, attesting, inter alia, to the fact that the applicant was known as a person who engaged in violent behaviour and who was frequently under the influence of alcohol, the prosecutor decided that the injuries suffered by the applicant had been superficial and that the use of force had been proportionate and necessary in order to immobilise him and take him to the police station, as provided for by articles 26 § 1 (2) and article 31 § 1 a) and b) of law no.the prosecutor’s decision was upheld on 22 march 2013 by the head of the above-mentioned prosecutor’s office, who considered that the police intervention had been rendered necessary by the applicant’s violent behaviour and had not been excessive, as demonstrated by the fact that the injuries suffered had been insignificant.he mainly argued that the investigation had been superficial, and that the conclusions of the investigation had been based exclusively on the statements given by the two police officers who had behaved aggressively towards him, while his partner, for instance, had never been heard.he also contested the proportionality of the police reaction, pointing out that he had merely refused orally to show his identification and that the police officers could not claim or prove that they had sustained any traces of violence during that intervention.it further held that the applicant’s minor lesions had been caused when he had fallen at the moment of his being immobilised by the police, which had been necessary because of the applicant’s verbal and physical resistance.the court considered that the applicant had not been kept unlawfully in the police station but had been released as soon as his identity had been established, and that the consequences of the police intervention had not been serious enough to constitute the crime of torture, as alleged by the applicant.
5.  the first applicant, habibe i̇ncin, is the wife of kerim i̇ncin; the second to seventh applicants are his children; the eighth applicant is his mother and the remaining seven applicants are the siblings of kerim i̇ncin.7.  in the petition the lawyer representing the applicants stated that the applicant hazım i̇ncin had recently returned to turkey from iraq and wanted to lodge an official complaint concerning the killing of his father.in their petition the two applicants also gave the prosecutor the names of a number of people who they alleged had witnessed the incident in question.they asked the prosecutor to carry out an investigation, to identify and question all the eyewitnesses, to exhume the body of kerim i̇ncin and to find and punish those responsible for the killing.in the course of the investigation, between 2005 and 2006 the prosecutor questioned the applicants and other members of their family.during the same period the prosecutor also identified, summoned and questioned a large number of witnesses and members of the military who had lived or worked in the region at the time of the events but who, in the years that had elapsed since the killing, had moved to different parts of the country.a number of witnesses told the prosecutor that they had seen kerim i̇ncin being taken away from the village by the soldiers and added that shortly afterwards a large-scale military operation had been conducted in the area and they had heard that kerim i̇ncin had been killed in the course of that operation.the prosecutor was informed in reply that it was not a good idea to do so because the security forces conducted spontaneous operations in the area during the summer months.12.  the prosecutor continued to request security updates from the military until 2009 and sent approximately twenty letters requesting that the military inform him as soon as it was possible to visit the village.in respect of the requests made during winter months the military informed the prosecutor that it would not be safe to go to the area because of adverse weather conditions.13.  finally, on 11 june 2009 the prosecutor informed the military of his intention to go to the cemetery on 18 june 2009 and instructed the military to take the necessary security measures for his planned visit.15.  on 25 march 2010 the prosecutor took a decision not to prosecute ten of the suspects who had been working as members of the military at the time of the events, for lack of evidence.− who had been the commander of the geçimli military station where kerim i̇ncin had allegedly been taken at the time of the events − with the offence of murder.16.  the trial before the hakkari assize court started on 12 april 2010. the two applicants who had introduced the complaint with the prosecutor on 22 march 2005 (see paragraph 6 above), namely halima i̇ncin and hazım i̇ncin, joined the criminal proceedings as interveners.17.  at the request of the court, the government stated that, in accordance with the applicable statute of limitations, the criminal proceedings against y.k.
on an unspecified date in 2003 the prosecutor attached to the buftea district court initiated a criminal investigation in respect of the applicant and two other individuals, m.c.i.– who was employed at voluntari city hall – had, at the request of the applicant, antedated the registration of six applications for title submitted by m.c.i.changed the statements she had made initially before the prosecutor and stated that the applicant had only called her and asked her to help m.c.i.14.  the district court changed the legal classification of the offence with which the applicant had been charged to inciting intellectual forgery.had given contradictory statements to the prosecutor and to the court with respect to the applicant’s role in the commission of the offence.it held that the statement given to the prosecutor, but not maintained before the court – according to which the applicant had asked her to antedate the registration of the applications – was not corroborated by the other pieces of evidence adduced before it.the applicant was therefore acquitted on the grounds of not having committed the offence with which he had been charged.16.  an appeal against this decision was lodged by the prosecutor’s office but was dismissed as unfounded by the bucharest county court on 16 december 2005. the applicant, co-defendant n.g.it upheld the decision of the first­instance court, emphasising that there was no evidence that the applicant had asked n.g.17.  the prosecutor lodged an appeal on points of law, pointing to fundamental factual errors in the decisions of the two lower courts regarding the applicant’s acquittal and claiming that the court had made a superficial assessment of the evidence in the file.19.  on 24 february 2006 the bucharest court of appeal heard submissions from the prosecutor and counsel for the defence and allowed the applicant to address it at the end of the hearing (ultimul cuvânt al inculpatului).20.  by a final decision of 3 march 2006, the bucharest court of appeal allowed the appeal on points of law lodged by the prosecutor’s office, quashing the two previous decisions.however, it did not question the applicant, the co-defendant n.g., or the witnesses, instead merely citing some of the statements they had made before the prosecutor and the first-instance court.to the prosecutor on 19 february and 23 july 2004 and before the district court on 11 march 2005, and to the statements given by the applicant on 27 february and 11 august 2004. having reassessed the facts without rehearing any evidence, it arrived at the conclusion that the applicant had incited n.g.22.  the final written decision containing the court’s reasoning became available on 20 march 2006. the applicant alleged that he had been served with a copy of the decision later but he was not able to state any date.
7.  the background to the refusal to register ilinden at issue in this case has been set out in detail in the judgments in the following cases: stankov and the united macedonian organisation ilinden v. bulgaria, nos.8.  on 19 september 2010 ninety-eight members of ilinden held a founding meeting at which they resolved to form the organisation and apply to register it, adopted articles of association, and elected individuals to the organisation’s constituent bodies.10.  in the course of the proceedings, the court several times asked the applicants to rectify deficiencies in the registration papers.it noted that it had on several occasions instructed the applicants to rectify deficiencies in the registration papers, the latest such instruction having been given on 29 november 2011. the applicants’ subsequent filing of papers on 5 january 2012 had, however, failed to deal satisfactorily with the court’s concerns.the applicants had not clearly set out the competences of the association’s constituent bodies and had not made it clear which of the several copies of the articles of association filed with the court, in which differences appeared, had been the ones adopted at the founding meeting.for instance, in clause 2 of its articles of association, ilinden proclaimed itself as successor to “the national liberation struggle of the macedonian nation”, and in clause 3 stated that it would “express and protect the civic, political, national, social and economic rights of macedonians living in bulgaria”.clause 4 spoke of the protection of macedonians subjected to racial and ethnic assimilation by the bulgarian state’s nationalistic policies and demanded that pirin macedonia be given cultural autonomy, that the assimilation of macedonians be stopped, and that macedonian identity, religion, language, traditions and heritage, allegedly being subjected to ethnocide by the bulgarian authorities, be protected.clause 5 said that ilinden would strive to free macedonians from the sense of fear engendered by the bulgarian state’s policy of discrimination and assimilation and to outlaw bulgarian racism against macedonians.according to the sofia court of appeal, the lower court had been correct to find these aims contrary to the unity of the nation.they overtly pitted one group of citizens against another and engendered national and ethnic hatred, contrary to article 44 § 2 of the constitution (see paragraph 22 below) 14.  at the end of its decision, the sofia court of appeal said that it was amenable to appeal on points of law before the supreme court of cassation.15.  on 4 june 2012 the applicants lodged such an appeal, reiterating their earlier arguments and submitting that the refusal to register ilinden had been in breach of their right to freedom of conscience and association and that it had penalised them for advocating views contrary to those held by the majority of the population.it held that under the applicable provisions of the 1952 code of civil procedure, as construed in a binding interpretative decision in 2001 (see paragraph 24 below), appellate decisions upholding refusals to register a non-governmental organisation had been amenable to appeal on points of law.however, that was not the case under the 2007 code of civil procedure, which had come into effect on 1 march 2008. the court analysed in detail the relevant provisions of the new code and found that, when properly construed in the light of its overall scheme and the provisions governing similar registration proceedings, the rules governing the manner of appealing against a refusal to register a non-governmental organisation were to be construed as permitting an appeal to a court of appeal against a first-instance decision refusing registration but precluding an appeal on points of law against the court of appeal’s decision.it noted that the appeal had been lodged within the applicable one-week time-limit under article 275 § 1 of the 2007 code, which ran from the date of serving of the decision.however, it went on to hold that the appeal was unfounded, and that no appeal on points of law lay against the sofia court of appeal’s decision.
5.  the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in yerevan.he is a former minister of foreign affairs and at the material time he headed a political movement called “civil disobedience”.6.  on 5 may 2007 criminal proceedings were instituted under article 190 § 3 (1) of the criminal code (money laundering) in respect of the applicant.7.  on 7 may 2007 the applicant was arrested and on 10 may 2007 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan ordered the applicant’s detention for a period of two months, upon an application by the investigator, taking into account the nature and the dangerousness of the imputed offence and the fact that the applicant, if remaining at large, could abscond and obstruct the investigation by exerting unlawful influence on the persons involved in the proceedings.the applicant objected to that application, arguing that the investigator had failed to submit any well‑founded arguments in support of the allegation that he would abscond or obstruct justice, whereas he had no previous convictions, was known to be of good character, had a permanent place of residence and stable social life, and was a well-known public figure.the district court’s decision stated that it could be contested before the criminal court of appeal within fifteen days.9.  on 24 may 2007 the criminal court of appeal decided to uphold the decision of the district court, finding that the nature and the dangerousness of the imputed offence, the particular circumstances of the case and the possible investigative measures to be carried out gave sufficient reasons to believe that the applicant could obstruct the investigation.10.  on 2 july 2007 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan extended the applicant’s detention by two months, upon an application by the investigator, finding that the applicant, if remaining at large, could obstruct the investigation, abscond, exert unlawful influence on the persons involved in the proceedings and commit another offence.the district court’s decision stated that it could be contested before the criminal court of appeal.11.  on 3 july and 3 september 2007 the applicant lodged an appeal, raising arguments similar to those previously raised.12.  on 24 july 2007 the criminal court of appeal decided to uphold the decision of the district court, finding that the nature and the dangerousness of the imputed offence, the particular circumstances and complexity of the case; the investigative measures to be carried out and the applicant’s behaviour, namely his refusal to give any testimony, which was a factor slowing down the investigation, gave sufficient reasons to believe that the applicant could obstruct the investigation by exerting unlawful influence on the persons involved in the proceedings and also abscond.13.  on 31 august 2007 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan extended the applicant’s detention by two months, upon an application of the investigator, on the same grounds as before.the district court’s decision stated that it could be contested before the criminal court of appeal.14.  on 3 september 2007 the applicant lodged an appeal, raising arguments similar to those previously raised 15.  on 6 september 2007 the investigator decided to replace the applicant’s detention with a written undertaking not to leave his residence and to release him in view of the fact that the investigative measures would take some time and it was no longer necessary to keep the applicant in detention.16.  on 17 september 2007 the criminal court of appeal decided to leave the applicant’s appeal of 3 september 2007 unexamined in view of the fact that he had been released.
7.  the background to the banning of the two rallies at issue in the present case has been set out in detail in the judgments in the following cases: stankov and the united macedonian organisation ilinden v. bulgaria, nos.he is the brother of mr yordan kostadinov ivanov, who was one of the applicants in united macedonian organisation ilinden and ivanov, united macedonian organisation ilinden and others, united macedonian organisation ilinden and ivanov (no.9.  on 15 september 2006 the applicant, acting on behalf of the unregistered organisation the macedonian initiative committee, notified blagoevgrad’s mayor that the committee intended to stage a rally at 4 p.m. on 30 september 2006 in macedonia square to commemorate the eighty-second anniversary of “the day of the genocide of macedonians in bulgaria – 12 september 1924”.the rally would consist of the laying of wreaths and flowers and the reading of a short address.10.  the same day the mayor replied to the applicant that the rally could not proceed as the municipality had planned an event in macedonia square for the same date – a concert marking the day of music.12.  in a final decision of 19 september 2006, the blagoevgrad district court held that the application was admissible and that the mayor’s decision was amenable to judicial review.14.  an earlier attempt by the united macedonian organisation ilinden (“ilinden”), an unregistered association based in south-western bulgaria, in an area known as the pirin region or the geographic region of pirin macedonia, to organise a similar rally on 11 or 12 september 2006 had also been fruitless.on 28 august 2007 ilinden notified the mayor of blagoevgrad of its intention to stage a rally on macedonia square, in front of gotse delchev’s monument, at 4.30 p.m. on 12 september 2007. the event, which was to mark the anniversary of ‘the genocide against the macedonians’, would consist of the laying of a wreath and flowers on the monument and a short speech.moreover, the municipality had planned an event on macedonia square for the same date, a children’s holiday under the name ‘hello, school’, to mark the beginning of the school year, which made the holding of the rally impossible.in a decision of 30 august 2007 the blagoevgrad administrative court found that under the 1990 meetings and marches act, which was lex specialis in relation to the general rules of administrative procedure, the court competent to examine an application for judicial review of a mayor’s decision to ban a rally was the district court.it held that, while the lack of registration did not amount to sufficient grounds to prohibit the rally, the fact that another event, likely to draw a number of people, many of whom were children, was due to take place on the same date in macedonia square was enough to justify the ban.when a number of members and supporters of ilinden gathered in front of the american university in blagoevgrad at about 5 p.m., they were stopped by the police and a number of them were arrested.95.  on 22 october 2007 the deputy mayor of blagoevgrad imposed administrative punishments (fines of 200 bulgarian levs (102.26 euros) each) on [mr yordan kostadinov ivanov] and on a number of members of ilinden for having taken part in a banned rally, in breach of a public-order regulation issued by the blagoevgrad municipal council.in others it held that although the mayor’s ban on the rally planned for 12 september 2007 was legally binding, the actions of the members of ilinden on that date had not amounted to the staging of a rally, as they had been too few and had not tried to wave banners and make speeches, but merely to lay flowers on gotse delchev’s monument.the court went on to say that every person, regardless of their political convictions, had the right to honour the memory of national heroes in peace.” 16.  it was the applicant who acted on behalf of ilinden in its dealings with blagoevgrad’s mayor and the courts in relation to that rally.
by the same decision, the mayor authorised the local authority of kentron district to conclude the lease agreement with the applicant.1785-a, the kentron district authorities suggested that the applicant address her enquiries to the mayor of yerevan, while on 1 may and 6 september 2007 the latter suggested that the applicant address her enquiries to the kentron district authorities.11.  on 30 july 2008 the administrative court granted the applicant’s claim and obliged the mayor of yerevan to conclude the agreement specified in decision no.13.  on 24 september 2008 the department for the enforcement of judicial acts (“the deja”) instituted enforcement proceedings against the city of yerevan, obliging it to conclude the land-lease agreement with the applicant within ten days.15.  on 2 march, 23 april, 3 and 31 july, 23 november, 23 december 2009, 17 and 18 march and 7 april 2010, upon the applicant’s enquiries concerning the enforcement of the judgment of 30 july 2008, bailiffs informed the applicant that the enforcement of the judgment of 30 july 2008 was in progress and that she would be informed of the results.16.  on 16 june 2010 the applicant initiated proceedings in the administrative court against the deja, requesting that the court oblige it to enforce the judgment of 30 july 2008.the decision of the administrative court of 22 june 2010 was upheld in the final instance by the court of cassation on 25 august 2010.18.  on 21 october and 4 november 2010, following an enquiry by the applicant, the bailiff responded that the enforcement was in progress and that the applicant would be informed of the results.21.  on 4 august 2011, relying on section 41(1)(8) of the enforcement of judicial acts act, the deja decided to discontinue the proceedings on the grounds that enforcement of the judgment of 30 july 2008 had become impossible.it reasoned that, by a letter of 17 june 2009 addressed to the applicant, the mayor of yerevan had suggested that the applicant approach the department of management of immovable property of the yerevan mayor’s office for the implementation of the judgment of 30 july 2008, but the applicant had failed to do so.22.  on 27 february 2012 the applicant instituted proceedings in the administrative court against the deja, seeking to declare the decision of 4 august 2011 null and void, as well as to oblige the deja to enforce the judgment of 30 july 2008.24.  on 14 may 2012 the applicant initiated proceedings in the administrative court against the deja, seeking to oblige it to enforce the judgment of 30 july 2008.26.  on 18 july 2013 the applicant initiated proceedings in the administrative court seeking, inter alia, that the deja reopen the proceedings discontinued on 4 august 2011. on 4 december 2013 the administrative court rejected the applicant’s claim, reasoning that, for the proceedings which had been discontinued on the grounds of impossibility, there were no legal grounds for reopening.27.  on 3 march 2014 the applicant initiated proceedings in the administrative court against the deja, seeking that the decision of the deja of 10 february 2014 refusing to initiate new proceedings be declared invalid, and that the deja be obliged to initiate new proceedings.as to the applicant’s second claim, the administrative court terminated the proceedings in that regard on the basis of the lack of jurisdiction.
6.  the background to the refusal to register ilinden at issue in this case has been set out in detail in the judgments in the following cases: stankov and the united macedonian organisation ilinden v. bulgaria, nos.the court went on to note that ilinden’s articles of association stated that it would strive for, inter alia, the introduction of the macedonian language in schools, the protection of the right of macedonians to refute propaganda about their history and culture, and the protection of macedonian cultural heritage, which was being “subjected to ethnocide by bulgarian cultural institutions”.according to the articles of association, ilinden was a “macedonian organisation based on a macedonian ethnic foundation and origin within the boundaries of bulgaria”, and it “would remind [people] of the terror perpetrated by bulgaria, of the thousands of macedonians killed, of the violence, the prisons and the deprivation of basic human rights and freedoms of macedonians after 1913, which amounted to crimes under international law”.moreover, the statements, combined with the existence, albeit brief, of a political party called the united macedonian organisation ilinden-pirin, whose re-registration had recently been refused, and with the existence of organisations bearing the same or similar names, led to the conclusion that the intention was to mislead society and to obtain the registration of an organisation pursuing political aims (see paragraphs 18-20 below), or an organisation directed against the unity of the nation.but since by law in registration proceedings the court had to examine the reality of the matter rather than carry out a mere formal check, it had to have regard not just to the aims set out in the articles of association, but to the entirety of the articles, and on that basis ascertain the founders’ real aims and intentions.the court also had to bear in mind the traditions which the association purported to represent and the historical figures with which it identified, the past activities, if known, of its founders, leaders and supporters, as well as the positions they had advocated.in doing so, and thus balancing the rights of the founders of the association against the rights of others and the public interest, the court could rely not only on the material in the case file but also on facts which were publicly known and of which it could therefore take judicial notice.14.  in ilinden’s case, it had been common knowledge, sufficiently publicised in both bulgarian and foreign media, that since 1990 some of its founders, leaders and supporters had in a persistent manner openly challenged both those who had opposed their views and the state authorities, which had led to a string of breaches of public order – clashes between ilinden’s supporters and their opponents on account of the views expressed by the former about macedonian history – reported in the media.seen against that background, the declaration in ilinden’s articles of association that people of any ethnicity could become members did not reflect the reality of the situation, which was that the organisation had been conceived as one based purely on macedonian ethnicity.the court had to also take into account the complex ethnic and religious situation in some neighbouring countries, as well as the severe migrant crisis affecting all of europe and bulgaria in particular, as a front-line state of the european union.firstly, the pursuit of its real aims, seen against the backdrop of the heightened sensitivities of the population in pirin macedonia, where it was based, could have led to serious tensions and breaches of public order caused by, or involving, supporters of the organisation, as had happened in the past.all were entitled to believe that they were not citizens of a state which had committed international crimes, that they did not engage, in their capacity as bulgarian citizens, in propaganda and manipulation of the history and culture of a neighbouring country and that they were not citizens of a state whose institutions had subjected the cultural heritage of part of its population to ethnocide.she went on to say that the registration regime was not to be used to hinder the exercise of the fundamental right to associate with others, and that the case called for the direct application of article 11 of the convention, which was part of bulgarian law.she then noted how that article had been construed by the european court of human rights in several cases, including united macedonian organisation ilinden-pirin and others and united macedonian organisation ilinden and others (both cited above), and stated that, in her view, the fact that an association advocated a form of minority consciousness could not justify a restriction of its rights under that article.on 22 february 2016 the judge-rapporteur of the sofia court of appeal, who under the relevant rules of procedure had to check the appeal’s admissibility before forwarding it to the supreme court of cassation, sent it back to the appellants.
2. on 23 february 2009 the head of the service decided to terminate the applicant’s employment.6.  on 2 april 2009 the applicant initiated proceedings in the administrative court against the service seeking to 1) have the decision of 23 february 2009 annulled; 2) be reinstated in her previous position; and 3) recover her average salary starting from the moment of her dismissal until her reinstatement to the previous position.in particular, it annulled the decision of 23 february 2009, ordered the service to reinstate her to her previous position and to pay her her average monthly salary starting from 23 february 2009 until her reinstatement.it reasoned its decision, inter alia, by stating that while the service had been under an obligation to offer the applicant another position within the service before deciding to dismiss her, it had failed to do so, even though such a position had existed in the service at the material time.9.  on 29 november 2009 the service paid the applicant 1,197,748 armenian drams (amd) (approximately 2,131 euros (eur) at the material time) as compensation for her unemployment during the period from 23 february to 29 november 2009.11.  on 25 february 2010 the department for the enforcement of judicial acts (“the deja”) initiated enforcement proceedings.on the same day the deja gave a decision obliging the service to comply with the writ of execution of 11 december 2009 within two weeks.12.  it appears that no further actions were taken by the deja and the service in relation to the enforcement of the judgment of 17 september 2009 between the period of 25 february 2010 and 18 july 2011.13.  on 18 july 2011 the bailiff decided to discontinue the enforcement proceedings on the basis of section 41(1)(8) of the enforcement of judicial acts act.the bailiff reasoned that the service had already paid the applicant amd 1,197,748 while the reinstatement of the applicant in her previous position in the service was impossible because that position was no longer vacant.15.  on 1 june 2012 the bailiff granted the applicant’s request and decided to resume the enforcement proceedings.on the same day the bailiff gave a decision on obliging the service to take certain actions.in particular, the bailiff obliged the service to 1) annul the decision of the head of the service of 23 february 2009; 2) reinstate the applicant to her previous position; and 3) pay her her average monthly salary for the period between her dismissal and her reinstatement to the previous position.16.  on 2 july 2012 the bailiff decided once again to terminate the enforcement proceedings on the basis of section 41(1)(8) of the enforcement of judicial acts act.in particular, the bailiff reasoned that the service had already paid the applicant amd 1,197,748 as ordered by the judgment of 17 september 2009 while the reinstatement of the applicant in her previous position in the service was impossible because division no.
5.  on 14 january 2010 the applicant lodged a request with the ministry of justice (“the ministry”) in order to be recognised as having the same status as a person who had passed the bar examination (изедначување со правата на лицата кои положиле правосуден испит).6.  on 11 april 2012 the ministry rejected her request, holding that she did not meet the relevant criteria to obtain such recognition.in particular, the ministry found that although she was a professor of law at a university, she did not hold a bachelor’s degree in law (дипломиран правник на правен факултет).the ministry further found that the bachelor’s degree which she had obtained had been awarded by the faculty of security and social defence (факултет за безбедност и општествена самозаштита), and not by a faculty of law, as required.7.  on 10 may 2012 the applicant brought an action with the administrative court (управен суд), challenging the refusal.she argued that as a university professor at a faculty of law she met the relevant criteria.8.  on 30 may 2013 the administrative court dismissed the applicant’s action.it held that regardless of her current status, she did not meet the criteria to obtain the desired recognition under domestic law.in particular, it established that the applicant did not hold a bachelor’s degree in law, which was a condition for the recognition she sought.she argued that she met the relevant criteria and that the lower court had failed to properly interpret the procedural and substantive law in the case.10.  on an unspecified date, the ministry submitted observations to the higher administrative court concerning the applicant’s case.the ministry stated in the observations that the right to obtain recognition as having the same status as a person who had passed the bar examination was dependent on having a bachelor’s degree issued by a faculty of law.the applicant did not possess such a degree and had therefore failed to meet the criteria under domestic law.11.  on 30 january 2014 the higher administrative court dismissed the applicant’s appeal, reiterating in full the reasons provided by the administrative court.it restated that the recognition sought by the applicant was dependent on her having a bachelor’s degree issued by a faculty of law, a condition which she had failed to meet.
5.  the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in kocaeli.6.  following a dispute with a private third party, the applicant initiated compensation proceedings.7.  on 12 march 2009 the tuzla civil court of general jurisdiction granted the applicant compensation, amounting to 386,464.75 turkish liras (try) (approximately 174,000 euros (eur)).in the operative part of the judgment, the court indicated that the defendant party had to pay try 16,000 (approximately eur 7,400) for court fees pursuant to the law on charges.the court registry accordingly sent a payment order to the defendant party.however, no payment was made.8.  on 18 may 2009 the applicant submitted a petition to the registry of the first instance court, requesting that the judgment be served on her in order to commence enforcement proceedings.on the same day, the court rejected the request on the ground that it was impossible under section 28(1) (a) of the law on charges (law no.492) to serve a copy of the judgment unless the court costs that should have been born by the defendant party had been discharged.9.  at the time when the application was introduced, the applicant had therefore been unable to bring enforcement proceedings in order to have the above-mentioned judgment executed unless she herself was willing to pay the court fees that the defendant party had failed to pay.10.  following the introduction of the present application with the court, the domestic legislation was amended (see paragraphs 11-13 below), and subsequently the judgment in question was served on the applicant.in the absence of an appeal, the judgment became final on 17 october 2012. on 5 march 2013 the applicant initiated enforcement proceedings against her debtor.on 10 april 2013 the applicant further requested the enforcement office to place a lien on the debtor’s property.according to the documents in the file, as of 14 april 2017 the debt, which is still not enforced, amounts to try 812,648.94 (approximately eur 193,500) including the initial amount of compensation awarded by the domestic court plus interest running at statutory rate.
it ordered the company to revoke its dismissal decision and to pay the applicant pecuniary damages in the form of all her salary entitlements from 17 october 2003 until the pronouncement of the final judgment, updated and index-linked.9.  on 15 november 2004 the timiș county court validated the judgment (învestire cu formulă executorie), pursuant to article 374 of the romanian code of civil procedure (hereinafter “the rccp”), as in force at the time (see paragraph 37 below).12.  according to a report of 11 february 2005 issued by the bailiff, the bailiff and the applicant’s lawyer visited the company’s premises.as the company’s legal representative was not present, the bailiff granted the company a further five days in which to execute the final judgment of their own accord.during those proceedings and at the company’s request, on 24 february 2005 the timișoara district court ordered the suspension of the enforcement proceedings until a final judgment was given; the suspension was made subject to payment of a deposit of 4,000,000 romanian lei (rol), namely approximately 90 euros (eur).15.  in a judgment of 18 may 2005 the timișoara district court dismissed the applicant’s request, holding that she had not proved the existence of any imminent damage, so as to justify the urgency of the request.the court held that the procedural requirements had not been thoroughly complied with in so far as the bailiff had failed to serve the company with a copy of the enforceable judgment.18.  the company lodged another request seeking to obtain the annulment of the restriction order (anularea măsurii de poprire) issued by the bailiff in respect of its bank accounts.on 21 april 2005 the timișoara district court allowed the request, in so far as the restriction order had been issued subsequent to the suspension of the enforcement proceedings ordered by the court (see paragraph 13 above).21.  in so far as this was the last exchange of information between the applicant and the bailiff concerning the impugned enforcement procedure, and in view of the obligations imposed by law on the creditor, who was required to play a constantly active role throughout the enforcement procedure, on 28 may 2007 the bailiff issued an official report, noting that, under article 389 of the rccp as in force at the time, the procedure had become time-barred (“perimarea executării”; see paragraph 38 below).22.  on 5 may 2005 the applicant lodged a complaint before the timișoara district court seeking to obtain a court order for immediate enforcement of the judgment, pursuant to article 5803 of the rccp as in force at the time (see paragraph 40 below).the court held that the coercive fine had the nature of a civil penalty aimed at securing the enforcement of a personal obligation which could not be otherwise executed, as provided for by article 5803. however, the payment of the company’s debt could be enforced with the assistance of a bailiff; therefore the applicant’s complaint was ill-founded.25.  on 12 july 2005 the applicant complained to the minister of justice about the outcome of the judgment of 2 june 2005 (see paragraph 16 above).34.  on 10 october 2014 one of the shareholders asked the companies registration office to strike the company off the register.the request was granted on the same day, and the companies registration office decided that the decision would be published in the romanian official journal.
5.  the applicants, whose names are listed in the appendix, are turkish nationals.6.  on 17 and 18 july 2008, each of the applicants sent a letter to the halfeti (şanlıurfa) public prosecutor`s office which contained the following passage: "if using the word of “sayın” (esteemed) is an offense, then i also say “sayın abdullah öcalan”, i commit this offense and denounce myself."7.  on 19 september 2008, the public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment with the halfeti magistrates’ court in criminal matters against the applicants.they were charged with praising an offence and offender, prescribed by article 215 of the criminal code (law no.5237), on account of their statements in the above mentioned letters.8.  on 9 march 2009 the halfeti magistrates’ court in criminal matters found the applicants guilty of praising the imprisoned leader of the pkk, an illegal armed organisation, on account of their statements in the aforementioned letters and accordingly, sentenced them each to two months and fifteen days’ imprisonment.in accordance with article 50 of the criminal code, this prison sentence was commuted to a fine of 1,500 turkish liras (try).9.  the applicants appealed against this judgment.on 20 june 2012 the court of cassation, holding that the amount of the fine that had been imposed on the applicants did not attain the minimum requisite level, dismissed the appeal request.
4.  the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in chisinau.5.  at the material time, the applicant was a student and was undertaking an unpaid internship at a law firm.6.  on 23 october 2008 criminal proceedings were initiated against t., a lawyer with whom the applicant worked, on charges of trading in influence.in particular, t. was accused of receiving 10,500 euros (eur) from d. to pass on to the judges examining a criminal case against a relative of d.’s in order to obtain his acquittal or a more lenient sentence.7.  on 30 october 2008 the police lodged with an investigating judge a request for a warrant to search the applicant’s apartment.the request was granted; the decision to issue the warrant read as follows: “the criminal investigation against t. was initiated on 23 october 2008 ... in the course of the investigation it has been established that from march until september 2008, t. extorted and received from d. in several instalments the amount of eur 10,500, [to be given to] the judges who examined d.’s relative’s case, in order to obtain his acquittal or a more lenient sentence.on 24 october 2008 t. was caught in flagrante receiving 3,800 us dollars (usd) from d., allegedly for influencing the prosecutor not to appeal against the [subsequent] judgment [acquitting the accused].the evidence in the file and the material obtained through the operational investigation allow the well-founded assumption that at [the applicant’s] home, situated at [address], can be found eur 10,500 received from d. and relevant documents, decides to order a search of [the applicant’s] residence, situated at [address], with the aim of finding and seizing eur 10,500 received from d. and documents concerning the criminal case.” 8.  on the same day, a prosecutor lodged a request with the buiucani district court for a warrant to be issued for the search of the applicant’s apartment.his request took the form of a verbatim copy of the police decision.also on the same day the buiucani district investigating judge issued a decision authorising the search.the decision read as follows: “the present criminal proceedings were initiated on 23 october 2008 ... against t. after hearing the prosecutor and examining the material, and taking in consideration the fact that that material had been obtained in [a manner] in compliance with the law, the court finds that the request for the authorisation of the search is well founded and should be upheld.on the basis of articles 41, 125, 301, 305 and 306 of the code of criminal procedure, the court: ... 9.  on 10 december 2008 the police searched the applicant’s apartment in the presence of her elderly mother [but not the applicant].10.  on 21 august 2009 the applicant lodged a request for access to the evidence which had been presented to the judge to justify the search.on 3 september 2009 the buiucani district investigating judge replied that the case file was held at the [premises of] the investigating authority and that access could only be granted pursuant to the law.11.  it appears from the material in the case file that the criminal proceedings against t. ended with the latter’s acquittal.
4.  the applicant was born in 1960 and at the time of lodging his application he was serving his prison sentence in the bolu f-type prison.5.  on 3 december 2007 the applicant wrote a letter to the ministry of justice, in which he had praised the imprisoned leader of the pkk, abdullah öcalan by using the honorific “sayın”, meaning esteemed.6.  pursuant to the regulations on the administration of penitentiary institutions and the execution of sentences, the applicant was found guilty of breaching prison order by the bolu f- type prison disciplinary board (referred hereafter as “the board”).7.  on 12 december 2007 the applicant was sentenced to 11 days’ solitary confinement on the orders of the board, on account of his statements in the above mentioned letter.8.  on 25 december 2007 the bolu enforcement judge rejected the applicant`s objection.9.  on 15 january 2008 the bolu assize court upheld the judgment of 25 december 2007.
the applicant continued by saying: “that this was just senseless extensive talking without any meaning, full of contradictions, is supported by the fact that the expert did not link his mental constructs with any concrete mental disorder, not least with the personality disorder in which he had proclaimed himself to be the expert.” 8.  the applicant then went on to say that none of the tests could lead to a finding of the narcissist characteristics mentioned by expert j.r. and that, in any case, narcissism was not part of the valid method of diagnosis.the applicant argued, inter alia, that the date of the murder could not have been 15 august 2002 as established by expert, j.b. (see paragraph 6 above), which meant that his client could have not committed it; that the public prosecutor had not submitted the results of the lie-detector test which would have allegedly exculpated his client and the court had refused to obtain them from the croatian authorities; and that his client had not been psychologically capable of committing the alleged crime.12.  on 19 march 2004 the ljubljana district court issued a decision, fining the applicant 150,000 slovenian tolars (sit – approximately 625 euros (eur)) for contempt of court for his statements given at the hearing of 12 march 2004 regarding the expert witnesses, namely for making the following remarks, the translation of which has not been disputed by the parties: “senseless talking” (neosmišljeno nakladanje), “mental constructs” (umotvori), “professional weakness” (strokovna šibkost) of the experts and saying that “the psychiatrist used psychological methods which he absolutely did not understand” (psihiater si je pomagal s psihološkimi metodami, ki jih absolutno ne razume) and that “the psychologist [applied] outdated psychological methods from the stone age of psychology and unscientific psychodynamic concepts” (psiholog z zastarelimi psihološkimi metodami iz kamene psihološke dobe ter neznanstvenim psihodinamskim konceptom) (see paragraphs 7 to 9 above).as regards the level of the fine imposed on the applicant, the court noted that it reflected the nature and seriousness of the offensive statements and the fact that he was a lawyer with many years’ experience of representation in court proceedings.... certainly it has to be taken into account that the freedom of expression of a lawyer in his capacity as defence counsel in criminal proceedings serves the purpose of the defendant’s right to a defence ... the circumstance that a defence counsel in judicial proceedings exercises his right to freedom of expression because and only because he represents a client is of primary importance for the review of the admissibility of the interference with the right of a defence counsel determined in the first paragraph of article 39 of the constitution [freedom of expression], but this cannot entail that because of this circumstance the constitutional court would not review whether the courts’ decisions on punishing the defence counsel violated his right to freedom of expression.the echr protects the freedom of expression in the first paragraph of article 10... ... 12. the duty of the courts in general and the court deciding on the merits of the case is to direct proceedings in such a manner so as to ensure the proper conduct of the parties and above all the fairness of the trial – rather than to examine in a subsequent trial the appropriateness of the party’s statements in the courtroom however, this does not entail that the defence counsel’s freedom of expression in criminal proceedings should be unlimited.if he does cross them, it is proper that the court protects other values, i.e. confidence in the judiciary and the good reputation and authority of the judiciary, which ensures that the public respects the courts and has confidence that the courts are able to perform the role they have in a state governed by the rule of law.protecting the authority of the judiciary includes the notion that the courts are the proper forum for the settlement of legal disputes and for the determination of a person’s guilt or innocence regarding a criminal charge, whereby it is important that the public at large have respect for and confidence in the courts’ capacity to fulfil that function.u-i-145/03 that the institution of a punishment for insulting submissions is not the primary way to ensure the good reputation and authority of the judiciary, it is, however, an additional (and subordinate) tool which ensures the protection of the good reputation of the courts in situations in which confidence in the work of the judiciary is undermined by degrading criticism and [generalised], and from the viewpoint of the protection of rights in an individual case, unnecessary attacks on the work of the courts....the constitutional court did not have to address the question whether by using the above-mentioned expressions the complainant had fulfilled all the statutorily determined elements of the criminal offence determined in article 169 of the penal code, as this was not the subject of the challenged judicial decisions.furthermore, proper attention had not been given in the reasoning to the nature of the proceedings, which had been criminal not civil, the target, which had been the experts and not the court, and the seriousness of the criminal offence the client had been risking – an offence carrying a potential thirty-year prison sentence.the court found that the following remarks of the applicant, the translation of which has not been disputed by the parties, amounted to contempt of court (taken from the decision): “as regards the state prosecutor: ‘... it can be concluded that someone – a person who was aware of the exculpatory nature of this documentation for the defendant – hid this documentation ...’ ‘... it is permissible for a prosecutor to hide crucial evidence which could release the defendant from his liability ... as regards the expert psychologist ... [j.r.] ... : ‘... he had intentionally overlooked any information pointing to another possibility...’ ‘... on the other hand, i, as a layman, consider this to be a reflection of possible narcissism on the part of the expert himself ...’ as regards the forensic expert psychiatrist ... [v.r] ... : ‘... from the perspective of forensic ethics, by which the forensic expert is bound, such a way of working represents an intentional violation of those ethics, giving statements without any scientifically based value ...’ ‘... could be seen from the qualified (ab)use ((zlo)rabe) of the experiments, which the expert ...’ ‘... as he cannot have the slightest idea (ne more imeti najmanjšega pojma) as to how far normality extends and when pathology starts ...’ ‘... commenting on or describing handwriting analysis amounts to quackery (je na nivoju šarlatanstva) ...’ ‘... the psychiatrist either does not know all this or he is narcissistically ignoring it ...’ ‘... in this case we can talk of a typical abuse of a test, most likely a pirate version.in view of the fact that this abuse of the test took place in proceedings before a court – a judicial institution – this is almost grotesque ...’ ‘... the conclusion is almost dilettantish ...’ ‘... the expert did not show the slightest scientific doubt (niti trohe prisotnosti znanstvenega dvoma), but instead focused all his energy on defending his own infallibility, which is extremely inappropriate for any expert, and for one who is “accepting” the expert skills (“sprejemnika”izvedenske veščine) it is dangerous ...’ as regards the forensic expert ... [j.b.], the head of the forensic medicine institute: ‘... and when such negligence (malomarnost) by experts in preparing their opinions, resulting in a [thirty]-year prison sentence, justifiably upsets me ...’ ‘... that the negligence (šlamparija) of this expert is immense ...’ as regards the court: ‘... the judicial farce referred to is of course not over ...’” of the above, the second of the statements referring to the public prosecutor and the statements referring to expert j.b. were expressed orally at the ljubljana higher court’s session; the remainder were given in writing.as regards the level of the fine imposed on the applicant, the court noted that it reflected the nature and seriousness of the offensive statements, the fact that he was a lawyer with many years’ experience of representation in court proceedings and the fact that he had previously made similar offensive statements during the first-instance proceedings.the explanation to the corrigendum noted that after being requested by the state attorney to send information for the purposes of the proceedings before this court, the constitutional court upon looking into the file had discovered a clerical error, namely the omission to indicate in the decision sent to the applicant that judge j.z.
4.  the applicants were born in 1967, 1965 and 1972 respectively and at the time of lodging their applications they were serving their prison sentences in the muş e-type prison.5.  on 6 and 7 march 2006 each applicant sent a letter to the ministry of justice, referring to the imprisoned leader of the pkk, abdullah öcalan, by using the honorific “sayın”, meaning esteemed.6.  pursuant to the regulations on the administration of penitentiary institutions and the execution of sentences, the applicants were found guilty of breaching prison order by the erzurum h- type prison disciplinary board (referred hereafter as “the board”).7.  on 5 april 2006 the applicants were each sentenced to 12 days’ solitary confinement on the orders of the board, on account of the statements in the above mentioned letters.8.  on 17 april 2006 the erzurum enforcement judge rejected the applicants’ objections.9.  on 30 june 2006 the erzurum assize court upheld the judgment of 17 april 2006.10.  furthermore, on 4 july 2005 a disciplinary sanction was imposed on the first applicant, as he avoided visits and telephone calls to protest against the detention conditions of öcalan.he was accordingly banned from receiving visitors for 2 months.on 21 october 2005 and 14 november 2005, respectively, the erzurum enforcement court and the erzurum assize court rejected the first applicant’s appeal requests.
furthermore, in july 2000, at the applicant’s request, the municipality required the pub located in the basement of the applicant’s building to install a noise limiter.9.  in view of the fact that the levels of noise pollution did not decrease, the applicant decided to replace his windows with double glazing and to install air conditioning in order to alleviate the high temperatures caused by having the windows permanently closed in summer.12.  the applicant provided the court with two reports: the first one of 1 april 1998 prepared by the municipal service for the environment stated that: “prior to the entry into force of the declaration of an acoustically saturated zone, the levels of disturbance by noise during the night exceeded 65 decibels, mainly during the nights from thursdays to sundays from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. in the morning.13.  the second report was issued on 28 march 2000 by the same municipal service, which admitted that: “... it must be concluded that ... the limits established in article 30 § 2 of [the ordinance] are still being exceeded.” 14.  in order to sustain his arguments, the applicant also produced an expert report, produced by an applied physics professor, which was joined to his complaint.the report noted as follows: “the measured noise on the street and the noise perceived by neighbours in their homes, in the xuquer area of valencia – which is where the applicant lives – rise high total levels of ... 70 decibels ... those levels are clearly related to the presence of a concentration of the entertainment industry in that area (pubs and discotheques).the appointed expert reported that: “... the nocturnal noise altered necessarily the physiological sleep of mr cuenca and his family, [although it is not] possible to ascertain the intensity of the disturbance owing to the lack of corresponding sleep studies”.it found that there was no causal connection between the noise pollution and the alleged damage caused to the applicant, since there was no evidence proving that in his particular flat the level of noise pollution exceeded the established limits.20.  the applicant lodged an amparo appeal before the constitutional court, claiming that the state had violated his fundamental rights protected by articles 14 (equality before the law), 15 (right to life and to physical and moral integrity), 18 (inviolability of the home) and 24 (right to a fair trial) of the spanish constitution.the constitutional court stated that the judgment issued by the european court of human rights in the case of moreno gomez: “... justifie[d] entirely the reconsideration of the present amparo appeal, in order to ascertain the measure in which it might deal with an analogous case, and to examine whether the objects of analysis of the [strasbourg] court [had been] the same fundamental rights as in this amparo appeal”.he argued that the court had already addressed this issue in the case of moreno gómez, which had dealt with the exact same situation suffered by the applicant’s neighbour, and declared that spain had violated article 8 of the convention.the prosecutor considered that moreno gómez and the applicant’s case were similar in terms of the facts as well as in the object and the merits, which was in principle sufficient to deliver a judgment on the merits on the alleged violations of the right to private and family life and to inviolability of the home.23.  in a judgment of 29 september 2011, served on the applicant on 19 october 2011, the plenary of the constitutional court dismissed the amparo appeal, arguing that (1) both cases were not identical, (2) the applicant had not proved that in his particular case the noise at his flat was above the permitted level, (3) that the city council had indeed adopted specific measures to reduce noise pollution at the applicant’s neighbourhood and (4) that he had not proved that his health problems had been directly caused by noise pollution.in particular, the dissenting judges argued that the standard employed by the constitutional court to decide when the right to privacy and family life had been infringed should have been based on the case-law of the court and that prolonged exposure to a high levels of sound that could be qualified as avoidable and unbearable deserved the protection of the courts, given that it impeded him from living a normal life.they reiterated that according to the judgment delivered in the moreno gómez case (cited above), the assessment of a violation no longer depended on the evidence provided by the applicant about the seriousness of the noise pollution inside his home.instead, the decisive element was to be hereafter the location of the house in an excessively noisy area and it would be enough for the applicant to prove the excessive level of noise in the street.
the above-mentioned article read as follows: “this is what metin said [i surely have to watch [it]] to colleagues who were making their final preparations to observe the funerals of rıza boybaş and orhan özen – two revolutionary detainees who had been killed in ümraniye prison four days earlier – when he arrived at the newspaper office on 8 january 1996. this was an expression of his commitment and involvement in life with a great enthusiasm, which went beyond the mere love of his job.the barricade that stands in front of the reality that the people of turkey need stands in front of the journalist sometimes officially, sometimes unofficially and sometimes in the form of a gang.and above all, assuming that the protective ring around the former director of i̇stanbul security directorate, o.t., who issued the collective detention order which ended with the death of metin, and around vice-director k.b., who executed this order, would remain in place forever would represent nothing but a lack of faith in all these struggles (metin’in ölümüyle sonuçlanan toplu gözaltı emrini veren dönemin i̇stanbul emniyet müdürü o.t.is not one of the reasons why we are entering the third millennium with unsolved journalist murders the fact that those who occupy the seat and write the column of çetin emeç at hürriyet, and those who occupy the seat and write the column of abdi i̇pekçi at milliyet, and also the newspaper of the journalist i̇zzet kezer, did not make it their business to reveal the murderers and all those responsible in the first place?is there any solution other than coming after the “eliminators”, whilst “surely watching”, and removing them and their collaborators completely from our soil, in order to save ourselves from becoming a country in which gangs can behave as they please?” 8.  on 18 january 2000 the prosecutor at the istanbul state security court filed a bill of indictment with that court and charged the applicants with offences defined in section 6 § 1 of the prevention of terrorism act (law no.9.  in a petition dated 17 may 2000 the applicants’ lawyer argued in their defence submissions that the crime of disclosing the identities of public officials who are involved in the fight against terrorism is not committed merely by using the officials’ names in connection with a case in which they have been tried as accused.had been rendered targets for terrorist organisations: “... it is not possible to reach the light from the darkness without eliminating the eliminators ... and above all, supposing that the protective ring around the former director of i̇stanbul security directorate, o.t., who issued the collective detention order which ended with the death of metin, and around vice-director k.b., who executed this order, would remain in place forever would represent nothing but a lack of faith in all these struggles.they stated first of all that the article in question had been written on the fourth anniversary of the killing of journalist metin göktepe, who had been beaten to death by the police in 1996 whilst in custody.the applicants argued that the purpose of the article had been to raise concern over the fact that some high-ranking officials had not been tried and that those accused in metin göktepe’s trial had still not been convicted, four years after the death of metin göktepe.the names of the two officials had therefore been mentioned in the article because of their involvement in the above‑mentioned events and not because of their role in the fight against terrorism.the applicants further submitted that the names of the officials had already appeared in the public domain and that the officials, being the director and the vice-director of istanbul security directorate, were already known to the public and thus not in a position to complain about the disclosure of their identities.12.  as regards the content of the article, the applicants observed that the writer of the article had defended the rule of law and the notion of justice and had not incited people to violence or advocated terrorism.13.  the applicants emphasised that the sentence “and above all, assuming that the protective ring around the former director of i̇stanbul security directorate, o.t., who issued the collective detention order which ended with the death of metin, and around vice-director k.b., who executed this order, would remain in place forever, would represent nothing but a lack of faith in all these struggles” had been a reference to the fact that no permission had been given under law no.14.  they observed that, with the sentence “...it is not possible to reach the light from the darkness without eliminating the eliminators” the writer of the article had highlighted the challenges faced by journalists in their struggle to seek justice.15.  lastly, they asserted that with the expression “coming after” the writer had obviously referred to the aftermath of metin göktepe’s trial which contributed significantly to the punishment of the accused police officers.
4.  the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in erzincan.5.  the applicant was a civil servant in the erzincan provincial directorate of environment and forestry, and at the time of the events he was a member of the local branch of a trade union affiliated to kesk (kamu emekçileri sendikaları konfederasyonu – confederation of public employees’ trade unions).6.  on 27 november 2004 and 12 december 2004 respectively, the applicant participated in a press statement and a demonstration organised by his trade union.7.  subsequently, a disciplinary investigation was initiated against the applicant for his participation in the above mentioned trade union activities.8.  on 31 august 2005 a disciplinary sanction in the form of a reduction in salary was imposed on the applicant for having participated in trade union activities.9.  on 27 october 2005 the applicant filed a petition with the sivas administrative court and requested the annulment of the disciplinary sanction that had been imposed on him.10.  on 18 may 2006 the sivas administrative court dismissed the applicant’s request, considering that the administrative decision was in accordance with law and there were no grounds for its annulment.11.  on 20 october 2008 the supreme administrative court upheld the judgment of the sivas administrative court.
10.  on 24 july 2009, following a criminal investigation into the delivery of the above authorisation, the directorate for the investigation of organised crime and terrorism attached to the prosecutor general’s office of romania (diicot) closed the s. clinic, seized all the genetic material found there, including the applicants’ embryos, and transferred it to the mina minovici institute of forensic medicine (“the ifm”).as with other patients of the clinic, the applicants were neither informed of the seizure, which they learned about from the media, nor consulted about the transfer of the seized embryos from the s. clinic to the ifm.17.  the applicants joined the criminal proceedings instituted against the administrative board of the s. clinic and the doctors practising within or in cooperation with it, and sought damages under domestic tort provisions for not being able to use the embryos.in an interlocutory judgment of 29 november 2010 the applicants’ action was dismissed for lack of victim status on the grounds that the ifm’s refusal to allow them to recover the embryos had no link with the crimes allegedly committed by the accused.19.  in november 2010 they brought an action before the bucharest court of appeal against the transplant agency and the ministry of health, seeking to obtain the agency’s authorisation to transfer their embryos to an authorised clinic, in romania or abroad, where mrs nedescu could try again to become pregnant.22.  at a hearing on 22 march 2011 the applicants asked the court of appeal to order the transfer of the embryos from the ifm to a private clinic of their choice located in sibiu, the p. clinic, which was authorised to carry out assisted reproduction and act as a genetic material storage bank.it found that the transplant agency’s refusal to allow the transfer of the embryos had been lawful since neither the s. clinic nor the ifm had been accredited or authorised to function as genetic material banks and the transfer of genetic material could only be performed between institutions authorised to function as such storage banks.the transfer of the embryos to the new custodian took place on 19 october 2011. according to a report drafted by the judicial authorities on that occasion, ms a.m., the doctor from p.s.hospital who took delivery of the embryos, drew up a disclaimer to the effect that the genetic material listed in the inventory accompanying the embryos had been received without any prior checks of the vials, that it had not been possible for her to check each individual item owing to the absence of the embryologist who had participated in the initial freezing and that the procedures in use at that time were different from those used by the first custodian.26.  on 20 december 2011 the high court of cassation and justice allowed the appeal against the judgment of 22 march 2011 and ordered the transplant agency to implement the prosecutor’s decision to return the embryos by allowing their transfer from the ifm to an authorised clinic or hospital of the applicants’ choice in romania or abroad.it found, firstly, that the transplant agency, which was organised as a structure within the ministry of health, had been duly informed about the investigating authorities’ decision to deposit the material seized at the s. clinic with the ifm, and that, secondly, the ministry of health had signed the record drawn up at the end of the procedure for moving the embryos to the ifm, together with the investigating authorities.it held that in so far as the transplant agency’s task was to coordinate the activities of procuring, processing, preserving, storing, approving and distributing human tissue and cells in romania, there had been no legal grounds for it to interfere with the implementation of the prosecutor’s decision to return the embryos to the applicants.furthermore, the hospital did not only have the task of implementing diicot’s decision to allow the applicants to remove the embryos and ensure respect for the conditions that the removal be made in the presence of an embryologist and include the provision of a container with liquid nitrogen.5. the representative also stated that the existing embryos could be transferred to the mother at the hospital but that the hospital’s own doctors would not carry out the procedure as they could not assume any responsibility owing to the quality of the embryos.33.  following the criminal investigation of the s. clinic (see paragraph 10 above), the high court of cassation on 21 october 2014 found its managers, owner and the then director of the transplant agency guilty of association for the purposes of creating a criminal group.
on 29 june 2009 she instituted proceedings before ennis district court under the guardianship of infants act of 1964, seeking declaration that the habitual residence of the child was in ireland and that the child was to return to ireland on 15 august 2009.13.  in september 2009 the applicant applied to the polish ministry of justice – designated as the central authority under the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction (“the hague convention”) – for assistance in securing the return of the child.20.  on 22 june 2010 the gdańsk court of appeal quashed the decision of the gdańsk regional court of 4 december 2009. the court decided that the irish court had ruled on parental responsibility and that judgment could not be reconciled with the subsequent judgment of the polish court of 18 december 2009 dismissing the applicant’s claim for the child’s return under the hague convention.secondly, the court explained that the purpose of a ruling under the hague convention was the prompt return of a child to the country of his or her habitual residence.23.  on 28 february 2012 the gdańsk court of appeal refused to declare that the order of 15 september 2009 was enforceable on the grounds that the high court of ireland had made a new custody order on 9 september 2011 (see paragraph 27 below).the report also stated that firm arrangements should be put in place by the court for the time that a was to spend in her mother’s care and for the father’s access during those times since, if there was room for parental discretion, the time allocated was likely to be reduced.27.  on 9 september 2011 the high court of ireland gave a judgment superseding the order of 15 september 2009. the court decided to grant joint custody to both parents, but still ordered the child’s return to ireland by 2 november 2011. the court decided that a should finish the school year in ireland and start the next one, from september 2012, in poland.29.  in october 2011 the applicant lodged an application with the polish ministry of justice to enforce the judgment of the high court of ireland of 9 september 2011 and for the return of the child to her.32.  on 23 january 2012 the irish department of justice, equality and law reform received a letter from the polish ministry of justice stating that the applicant’s application for the compulsory removal of her daughter and her return to ireland had been sent to the gdańsk district court that day.33.  on 25 january 2012 the irish family liaison judge for the european judicial network (ejn) sent a letter to the polish family liaison judge for the european judicial network, urging poland to execute the high court of ireland’s custody decision of 9 september 2011. noting that m.k.39.  on 7 september 2012 the malbork district court discontinued proceedings for the compulsory execution of the decision by the irish court of 9 september 2011. the court considered that the applicant’s right to demand a’s return to ireland had effectively expired on 31 august 2012 and that, as of that day, there was no executory title which could provide grounds for proceedings to be carried out effectively.the terms of the agreement stated that the applicant would have sole custody of a for the following year, pending review by the court in july 2014. it also set out m.k.’s access rights, which provided that during his visits to ireland he would have to give two weeks’ notice to the applicant and could see the child on saturdays from 1.30 p.m. to 7 p.m. and on sundays from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. access during the school holidays would take place in ireland, but could be for longer periods and on weekdays.48.  on 6 may 2013 the gdańsk regional court quashed the decision of the malbork district court of 11 february 2013. the court decided that in accordance with the decision of the gdańsk regional court in its decision of 4 july 2011 (see paragraph 52 below) a’s place of residence was with her father in malbork.the court stated that in spite of the divorce proceedings in poland the applicant had also gone to court in ireland concerning a, thus giving rise to feelings of uncertainty in the child and the fear that she would be taken to ireland against her will.53.  on 17 october 2013 the irish liaison judge for the ejn wrote to the polish liaison judge informing him of the custody proceedings in ireland, the agreement of 24 june 2013 made by the parties in relation to custody and access rights and the order of 25 june 2013 of the high court of ireland giving effect to that agreement.
4.  the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in smolyan.5.  in two final judgments of 28 february 2005 and 8 may 2006 the supreme court of cassation awarded the applicant pecuniary damages in respect of breach of contract for construction works which she had carried out.the awarded damages comprised bgn 52,784 for the principal amount, plus bgn 17,685 in default interest and bgn 5,433 in costs and expenses, or a total amount of bgn 75,902.93, the equivalent to 38,000 euros (eur).the damages were awarded to the applicant against the national centre for recreation, rehabilitation and sport – ministry of education and science (“the centre”, a state body subsidised by the ministry of education and science and exercising certain functions delegated by the ministry).6.  by an order of 25 may 2005 the minister of education closed down the centre and ordered that its remaining property be managed by the ministry of education.the ministry then established a state-owned joint‑stock company with part of the centre’s property, including the real estate in which the applicant had carried out the construction works.7.  on 13 may 2005 and 15 march 2007 the applicant was issued with two writs of enforcement for the amounts awarded in the final judgments of 2005 and 2006 (see paragraph 5 above) and on 6 february 2008 she presented the writs to the ministry of education asking it to pay.8.  the ministry replied in writing that it was not the successor to the centre and did not owe payment to the applicant.in october 2009 the applicant reiterated her request but received a similar reply by the ministry.the ministry also pointed out that payment could not be sought from the state-owned joint-stock company either as it had a legal personality separate from that of the ministry.by a letter of 23 september 2010, the minister provided a similar explanation to the applicant.9.  the applicant brought judicial review proceedings challenging the minister’s refusal.in a final decision of 8 april 2011 the supreme administrative court rejected the appeal as inadmissible.10.  as of 19 march 2015, the date of the applicant’s last communication to the court, no change in the above circumstances had been reported.
5.  the applicant was a journalist and worked for the bizim yol newspaper at the time of the events described below.6.  following the publication of a series of articles criticising the activities of the ministry of labour and social security (“the ministry”) written by the applicant, the head of the ministry’s administration, r.a., contacted the applicant and asked for a meeting.r.a. also threatened him saying that he should not forget the case of b.h., a journalist who had been heavily beaten in may 2006. however, when r.a. realised that the applicant would continue to write articles about the ministry’s activities, he proposed him money in exchange for stopping writing the articles.during the meeting when the applicant received 3,500 united states dollars from r.a., agents of the ministry of national security (“the mns”) intervened and arrested him.10.  on the same day the nasimi district court ordered the applicant’s detention pending trial for a period of three months.the judge substantiated the necessity for this measure as follows: “taking into account the possibility of the accused’s absconding from the investigation, and the character and gravity of the crime attributed to him, i consider it necessary to apply the preventive measure of remand in custody in respect of him.” 11.  on 27 july 2007 the applicant appealed against the detention order, claiming that there was no risk of his absconding or obstructing the investigation and that the court had failed to take his personal situation into consideration.the relevant part of the decision reads as follows: “the first-instance court, when deciding to apply the preventive measure of remand in custody in respect of mushfig huseynov, has correctly taken into account the character and degree of public dangerousness of the committed crime, the possibility of his absconding from the investigation, and the fact that the sanction provided for the commission of this act is over two years’ imprisonment.therefore, there is no ground for granting the appeal and quashing the impugned decision.” 13.  on 17 october 2007 the prosecutor in charge of the criminal case lodged an application with the court asking for an extension of the applicant’s pre-trial detention for a period of three months.14.  on 19 october 2007 the nasimi district court granted the prosecutor’s request by extending the applicant’s detention pending trial by three months, until 24 january 2008. the court substantiated the need for the extension by the necessity of additional time to carry out further investigative actions, as well as by the seriousness of the charge and the likelihood that if released he might abscond.it appears from the court decision and the transcript of the court hearing of 19 october 2007 that the hearing was held in the absence of the applicant and his lawyer.the applicant did not make any mention of his and his lawyer’s absence from the hearing of 19 october 2007 in his appeal.16.  on 31 october 2007 the baku court of appeal dismissed the appeal, finding that the nasimi district court’s decision of 19 october 2007 was justified.it appears from the appellate court’s decision and the transcript of the court hearing of 31 october 2007 that the hearing was held in the absence of the applicant, but in the presence of his lawyer.it appears from the transcript of the broadcast that the programme began with a narrated section, the transcript of which reads as follows in its relevant part: “although in the republic of azerbaijan, which has chosen to take a democratic development path, all the legislative guarantees and comprehensive conditions have been established for freedom of speech and of the press, it is still possible to encounter members of the press who violate the requirements, established by the mass media act, prohibiting abuse of the freedom of the press and performance of unlawful actions incompatible with journalistic ethics.one of these undesirable members of the mass media is the editor of the bizim yol newspaper, huseynov mushfiq tofig oglu – who was accused of having committed serious and especially serious crimes and was convicted of libel and defamation under articles 147.2 and 148 of the criminal code of the republic of azerbaijan by the nasimi district court’s judgment of 25 april 2006 – [he] did not draw conclusions from that and committed an even more serious crime, bribe-taking ...” 22.  the programme then showed the video recordings, filmed by the law-enforcement authorities, of the meeting and dialogue between the applicant and r.a., and of the applicant’s arrest by the agents of the mns when he was taking money from r.a. at the end of the programme the narrator stated that the criminal investigation was ongoing and that the public would be informed of further developments.
5.  the applicant was born in 1938 and lives in sofia.6.  the sofia municipal council approved the exchange of a municipal flat for a smaller flat owned and occupied by the applicant in december 2005. however, the mayor of sofia did not issue the necessary order and did not sign a contract for the exchange, as provided in the applicable rules.the applicant brought judicial review proceedings challenging the mayor’s tacit refusal to act.the sofia administrative court quashed the mayor’s tacit refusal in a judgment of 1 april 2010 and instructed the mayor to issue an order for the exchange of the flats.that part of the judgment became final and enforceable on 19 may 2010.7.  by a decision of 25 march 2010 the sofia municipal council revoked its december 2005 decision approving the exchange of the two properties.the applicant lodged a challenge against that 25 march 2010 decision.in a final judgment of 7 march 2011 the supreme administrative court declared the council’s decision of 25 march 2010 null and void.8.  on 18 april 2011 the mayor issued a decision explicitly refusing to issue an order for the exchange of the two flats.following an application by the applicant for judicial review, on 30 march 2012 the supreme administrative court declared that decision null and void as having been issued in breach of the judgment of the sofia administrative court of 1 april 2010. the court also instructed the mayor to issue an order for the conclusion of the exchange agreement.9.  the mayor ordered the flat exchange on 6 march 2013 and the applicant signed a contract for the exchange on 25 june 2013.
– in paragraph i of article l. 232-5 of the code, sub-paragraphs 1 to 13 shall be replaced by the following provisions: (1) it shall define an annual programme of tests; ... (3)  in the case of athletes subject to the whereabouts requirement referred to in article l. 232-15, it shall carry out tests subject to the conditions laid down in articles l. 232-12 to l. 232-16: (a)  during sporting events organised by federations approved or licensed by the federations to which powers have been delegated; (b)  during the international sporting events defined in article l. 230-2 with the agreement of the competent international body or, failing that, the world anti-doping agency; (c)  during periods of training in preparation for the sporting events referred to in article l. 230-3; (d)  independently of the sporting events referred to in article l. 230-3 and the periods of training in preparation for them; ...” 9.  article 6 of the order (article l. 232-13-1 of the sports code, see paragraph 63 below) provided, in particular, that individualised anti-doping testing of athletes included in the testing pool could be carried out at training and sporting venues, but also “at any location chosen with the athlete’s agreement at which the test can be carried out in compliance with the athlete’s right to respect for his or her privacy, including, at his or her request, at home.” 10.  article 7 of the order added the following: “article l. 232-15 of the code shall read as follows: the athletes in the testing pool, designated for a period of one year by the french anti-doping agency, shall be required to provide accurate and up-to-date information on their whereabouts for the purposes of conducting the tests referred to in article l. 232-5. the athletes concerned shall be: (1)   those whose names are on the list of elite athletes or the list of promising young athletes (espoir) within the meaning of the present code, or athletes whose names have featured on one of those lists for at least one of the past three years; (2)  professional athletes who are licensed by the approved federations or who have been engaged in professional sport for at least one of the past three years; (3) athletes who have been the subject of a disciplinary sanction on the basis of articles l. 232-9, l. 232-10 or l. 232-17 during the past three years.furthermore, athletes belonging to the ‘testing pool’ are not in the same situation as persons in other professions and may therefore be made subject to special doping control measures without the principle of equality being breached.” 13.  in their initial and additional observations of 22 october 2013 and 17 february 2014 the government provided the court with the following information concerning the situation of the individual applicants with regard to the impugned legislation.(b)  a further four (mr busselier, mr ternel, mr kiour and mr haon) had been included in the testing pool in 2009 or 2010 and had been retained for another twelve months from 23 september 2010. in a letter dated 23 september 2010 to the president of the national handball league and the president of the french handball federation, forwarding the updated list of athletes in the testing pool, the president of the afld pointed out that the athletes in question were required to declare their whereabouts every day in accordance with decision no.18.  in additional observations of 5 december 2013 mr da silva’s lawyer informed the court that his client had appealed in the following terms to the president of the afld against the decision to retain him in the testing pool for an eighteen-month period from 26 september 2013: “... i was first included in the testing pool on 20 september 2010, in other words a full three years ago, and you have just retained my name on the list until 2015 at least, making a total of five years!357097) to the effect that the director of testing did not have power to decide on the inclusion of an athlete in the testing pool (see paragraph 60 below), the afld board, in order to prevent a legal vacuum that might adversely affect the implementation of checks on athletes’ whereabouts, approved the applicant’s inclusion in the testing pool.this argument has to be dismissed on the grounds that the provisions of the sports code concerning the whereabouts requirement must be read in the light of the ‘principles’ established by the world anti-doping code ... article 2.4 of the world anti-doping code lays down the principle of checks on whereabouts and possible sanctions for violations of the resulting requirements in the event of three failures to comply ‘within a twelve-month period’.moreover, limiting inclusion in the pool to a non-renewable one-year period could render the whereabouts checks ineffective; this is clearly not what the legislature intended.” 32.  on 28 december 2012 and 28 may 2013 the applicant lodged an application with the conseil d’état for judicial review of the afld’s decisions of 27 september 2012 and 28 march 2013. she argued, in particular, that the rules on whereabouts and the unannounced testing of athletes in the testing pool were contrary to article 8 of the convention, and complained of being made subject to these rules for several years.33.  in the meantime, in a memorial of 11 march 2013, the applicant requested the conseil d’état to refer the following question to the constitutional council for a preliminary ruling on constitutionality with regard to the whereabouts requirement: “do the provisions of articles l. 232-5-3 and l. 232-15 of the sports code establishing rules on the whereabouts and unannounced testing of athletes in the testing pool infringe the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the constitution, in the light of article 34 of the constitution, articles 2 and 4 of the declaration of the rights of man and of the citizen (freedom of movement, respect for private life and inviolability of the home), article 66 of the constitution (‘no one may be detained arbitrarily.with regard to the alleged violation of the right to respect for private and family life, the conseil d’état found as follows: “... firstly, the aforementioned provisions of the sports code relating to the obligations of athletes in the ‘testing pool’ do not infringe the right to freedom of movement or the equivalent right under article 2 of protocol no.... seventhly, although the provisions of l. 232-15 of the sports code, which provide that inclusion in the ‘testing pool’ is ‘for a period of one year’, require the [afld] to review periodically the composition of the testing pool, in order to ensure that the athletes are not subjected for unduly long periods and without specific reasons to the constraints linked to the requirement to provide accurate and up-to-date information on their whereabouts, those provisions do not have the purpose or effect of prohibiting the agency from designating athletes who have already been included in the ‘testing pool’.... aware that public authorities and the voluntary sports organisations have complementary responsibilities to combat doping in sport, notably to ensure the proper conduct, on the basis of the principle of fair play, of sports events and to protect the health of those that take part in them.” 42.  point 3 of article 7 of the council of europe convention, entitled “co-operation with sports organisations on measures to be taken by them”, reads as follows: “moreover, the parties shall encourage their sports organisations: (a) to introduce, on an effective scale, doping controls not only at, but also without advance warning at any appropriate time outside, competitions, such controls to be conducted in a way which is equitable for all sportsmen and sportswomen and which include testing and retesting of persons selected, where appropriate, on a random basis ...” 43.  an additional protocol to the council of europe convention was opened for signature on 12 september 2002 and entered into force on 1 april 2004. its aim is to ensure the mutual recognition of doping controls and to reinforce the application of the convention by means of a binding monitoring mechanism.49.  in its wording at the time of the events, article 10.3.3 of the wadc, entitled “sanctions on individuals”, provided as follows: “for violations of article 2.4 (whereabouts filing failures and/or missed tests), the period of ineligibility shall be at a minimum one (1) year and at a maximum two (2) years based on the athlete’s degree of fault.” 50.  article 14.3, entitled “athletes whereabouts information” provided at the relevant time that the international federation and the national anti‑doping organisation were to coordinate the identification of athletes and the collecting of current location information and submit them to wada.... after extensive consultation with stakeholders with substantial whereabouts experience, the view was taken that the best way to maximize the chances of finding the athlete at any time, while providing a reasonable and appropriate mitigation of ‘24/7’ missed test liability, was to combine the best elements of each system, i.e. requiring disclosure of whereabouts information on a ‘24/7’ basis, while limiting exposure to a missed test to a 60-minute time slot ...]” under heading 11.3 (“whereabouts filing requirements”), clause 11.3.1 stated that the athletes concerned had to provide the international federation or the national anti-doping organisation with the following information: a complete mailing address; details of any disability; specific confirmation of their consent to the sharing of their whereabouts information with other organisations having authority to test them; for each day during the following quarter, the full address of the place where they would be residing (for example, home, temporary lodgings, hotel, and so on); and for each day during the following quarter, the name and address of each location where they would train, work or conduct any other regular activity (for instance, school), as well as the usual time-frames for such regular activities.under heading 11.4 (“availability for testing”), clause 11.4.1 provided as follows: “11.4.1 an athlete in a registered testing pool must specifically be present and available for testing on any given day in the relevant quarter for the 60-minute time slot specified for that day in his/her whereabouts filing, at the location that the athlete has specified for that time slot in such filing.” 53.  the international convention against doping in sport, adopted under the auspices of unesco (hereafter “the unesco convention”) came into force on 1 february 2007. the preamble to this convention reads as follows: “... conscious that sport should play an important role in the protection of health, ... concerned by the use of doping by athletes in sport and the consequences thereof for their health, the principle of fair play, the elimination of cheating and the future of sport, ... mindful also of the influence that elite athletes have on youth, ... aware that public authorities and the organizations responsible for sport have complementary responsibilities to prevent and combat doping in sport, notably to ensure the proper conduct, on the basis of the principle of fair play, of sports events and to protect the health of those that take part in them, ... recognizing that the elimination of doping in sport is dependent in part upon progressive harmonization of anti-doping standards and practices in sport and cooperation at the national and global levels, ...” 54.  as the wadc is not binding on states because the instruments adopted by wada are governed by private law, it was decided to draw up an international convention in order to provide an internationally recognised legal framework allowing states to incorporate the code into their domestic legislation.it states that “[i]n order to coordinate the implementation, at the national and international levels, of the fight against doping in sport, states parties commit themselves to the principles of the code as the basis for the measures provided for in article 5 of this convention.” articles 3 and 5 provide that states undertake to “adopt appropriate measures at the national and international levels which are consistent with the principles of the code” and that “such measures may include legislation, regulation, policies or administrative practices”.
6.  dr b received the result of the first test on 5 september 2000. he spoke by phone with the applicant, telling her that the tumour was very unsatisfactory.prior to that conversation, the applicant was under the belief that the operation in 1982 had removed almost the entire tumour.it appears there were no side effects following the injections of october and november 2000. at the end of the year the applicant was unwell, and was hospitalised in early january 2001 suffering from vomiting, diarrhoea, severe exhaustion, headaches, cramps and muscular spasms in her arms and legs.her case in negligence was that dr b had failed in his duty of care towards her in the prescribing of the drug and the monitoring of its administration to her.she further argued that her consent to the treatment was vitiated for lack of sufficient information, or for misinformation, about her condition and the appropriateness of the medication proposed to her.10.  the applicant’s statement of claim was served on the defendants in october 2004. dr b entered his defence in february 2005, seeking further and better particulars from the applicant, which the applicant’s solicitor provided in june 2005. the hospital entered its defence in june 2005, and also sought further and better particulars.the judge preferred the evidence given by the witnesses appearing on behalf of the defence, deeming their qualifications to be more relevant to this specialised area than those of the experts retained by the applicant.the doctor’s decision to place the applicant directly on the long-acting form of the drug was supported by the expert opinion given on his behalf.the judge did not accept that dr b had failed to monitor adequately the effects of the drug on the applicant during the months that she received it.likewise, he rejected the claim that the doctor had failed in his duty of care in the manner in which he had explained the proposed course of treatment to the applicant and the possible side effects.15.  on the question of consent, the judge considered that while the applicant had misunderstood the exact state of her tumour, this was not to be blamed upon dr b, who had fulfilled his legal duty by giving her accurate and appropriate information about her condition.the appeal was filed on 1 july 2010. it remained pending before the supreme court until it was transferred to the newly-established court of appeal on 29 october 2014. the hearing of the appeal took place on 30 july 2015.first, regarding the treatment of the applicant with the particular drug, it saw no basis to criticise the findings of the trial judge.his preference for the evidence of the defendants’ experts was rationally grounded, and his rejection of the applicant’s criticisms of dr b was based on careful consideration of the evidence.18.  second, on the issue of consent, the court of appeal reviewed the evidence about what dr b knew of the applicant’s understanding of her condition.
4.  the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in kyustendil.5.  in a judgment of 15 august 2004 the sofia district court awarded the applicant bgn 2,120.28 (about 1,100 euros (eur)) in damages, plus the legal interest for the period starting on 11 february 2003 until full payment, and bgn 200 in costs and expenses, against the national centre for recreation, rehabilitation and sport (“the centre”).the centre was a state body subsidised by the ministry of education.it exercised certain functions entrusted by the ministry.the damages were awarded for loss of salary following the applicant’s unlawful dismissal from work.the judgment became final on 11 february 2008.6.  in the meantime, on 25 may 2005 the minister of education ordered that the centre be closed down and its remaining property be managed by the ministry of education.the ministry then established a state-owned joint-stock company with part of the centre’s property.7.  on 26 november 2008 the applicant was issued with a writ of enforcement for the amount awarded against the centre in the final judgment of 11 february 2008 (see paragraph 5 above).on 18 march 2009 he filed a request with the minister for education for payment of that amount.8.  the ministry of education replied in may 2009 that neither the ministry, nor the state-owned joint-stock company, was the successor of the centre and that the amount claimed was not due by them.9.  as of 23 march 2015, the date of the applicant’s last communication to the court, no change in the above circumstances had been recorded.
9.  during the ensuing criminal proceedings, the espiye criminal court of first instance heard statements from the applicant, the parents of x., the psychiatrist who had interviewed the girl after the incident, and the teachers and personnel at the public education centre and the neighbouring primary school, including the teacher e.u., who was the sole eyewitness to the incident.e.u., on the other hand, testified before the trial court that as she opened the door of the classroom in question, she saw the applicant sitting on a desk in the dark with his legs apart, hugging x. who was sitting on his lap, facing the blackboard.s.p., who worked in the same primary school and was also the uncle of x.’s mother, asserted before the court that although he had never witnessed any suspicious behaviour on the part of the applicant, he had heard a colleague, i̇.k., say that the applicant had engaged in indecent behaviour towards some pupils at the school where he had worked previously.15.  on the basis of all the evidence before it, on 18 december 2008 the espiye criminal court of first instance ordered the applicant’s acquittal, holding that it was not possible to establish beyond all reasonable doubt that he had committed the sexual acts forming the basis of the charge.18.  the disciplinary investigation was carried out by two inspectors who took statements from x.’s father, from m.k., the manager of the public education centre, from b.a., a teacher at the primary school, from a.t., the principal of the primary school, and from the applicant, who was being held in detention in relation to the criminal proceedings at the time.the inspectors also took two separate statements from the sole eyewitness, the teacher e.u., under oath and took into account a report from the guidance counsellors of the primary school regarding the psychological and physical development of the minor x. that report, dated 7 january 2003, described the physical and social developmental attributes of the girl as weak and very timid, respectively.19.  the investigation report which was issued at the end of the disciplinary investigation on 3 april 2006 found the allegations of harassment against the applicant to be well-founded and recommended the dismissal of the applicant from the civil service on the grounds that his conduct constituted “shameful and disgraceful conduct incompatible with the civil service” as provided under section 125 § e (g) of law no.she explained that the following facts ‒ in particular, the room being dark as a result of the lights having been turned off, the applicant sitting at the desk right next to the door with his legs open with the minor on his lap and the desk in front having been pushed further away, coupled with the fact that he had been caressing the body of the minor and holding her tight around her waist ‒ had led her to conclude that [the applicant] had been attempting to harass her.21.  on 5 july 2006 the supreme disciplinary council issued the following decision in relation to the applicant, in so far as relevant: “upon examination of the file ... and of the defence statement duly taken [from the applicant], the following has been decided: on the basis of the information and documents in the file, the veracity of the act [harassment of x.]23.  on 3 july 2007 the ordu administrative court dismissed the applicant’s objection on the following grounds: “the case concerns the dismissal of the [applicant,], who worked as a caretaker, on the basis of the allegations that he harassed [x.]section 131 of the same law also provides that the commencement of criminal proceedings against a civil servant shall not suspend disciplinary proceedings arising out of the same facts and that acquittal or conviction in the criminal proceedings shall not prevent the execution of disciplinary sanctions.” [...] although it has been argued that the sole eyewitness’s version of the events cannot be taken as a conclusive basis on which to deem that the applicant committed the act imputed to him, on the basis of the evidence in the case-file and in consideration of the position in which the applicant was found in the classroom, as well as the fact that the classroom’s door had been shut and the lights had been turned off and the room was therefore dark as it was also very early in the morning and it was raining [...], having further regard to the statement by the principal of the neighbouring primary school, a.t., during the criminal proceedings acknowledging that the applicant had apologised to him after the incident and that he had also heard rumours about the applicant’s similar indecent behaviour in other schools where he had previously worked, the applicant’s argument has not been found to be credible.he argued firstly that, in circumstances where the act forming the basis of criminal and disciplinary investigations was one and the same, the criminal proceedings would be better placed to shed light on the circumstances and to arrive at an accurate conclusion regarding the facts than would be those of the disciplinary bodies, whose findings would be at best hypothetical.he pointed out that the administrative court had ignored the presence of another pupil in the classroom at the time of the incident, as well as his explanation that the door had been shut as a result of the draught from the open window.28.  on 27 may 2013, that is to say after lodging his complaint with the court, the applicant brought proceedings against the ministry of education and requested the reopening of the proceedings concerning his dismissal from the civil service.the applicant relied on the espiye criminal court of first instance’s final judgment of 18 december 2008, which acquitted him of the charges of sexual abuse, sexual assault and the unlawful detention of a minor, and argued before the ordu administrative court that his right to the presumption of innocence had been violated in the course of the dismissal proceedings because he had been dismissed on the basis of allegations that he had committed offences in respect of which the criminal proceedings had not yet become final.
7.  on 30 september 1998 police officers at the istanbul security headquarters took a statement from the applicant in the absence of a lawyer, as a result of the restriction stemming from law no.9.  on the same day, the applicant was questioned by the investigating judge in the absence of a lawyer.he confirmed the statement he had made to the public prosecutor, but withdrew the one he had made to the police.10.  on 7 october 1998 the public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul state security court, charging the applicant under article 125 of the former turkish criminal code with being involved in separatist activities against the republic of turkey.the criminal proceedings commenced before the istanbul state security court, the bench of which included a military judge.11.  on 12 october 1998 the istanbul state security court held a preparatory hearing and decided that the first hearing would take place on 16 december 1998.13.  on 8 march 1999 the trial court, noting the absence of the accused, decided to adjourn the hearing.14.  at the hearing held on 2 june 1999, the applicant gave evidence in person and stated that he had been forced to sign his previous statements.the applicant retracted those statements while maintaining that he had not been involved in any of the offences attributed to him.15.  while the criminal proceedings against the applicant were pending, on 18 june 1999 the constitution was amended and the military judge sitting on the bench of the istanbul state security court was replaced by a civilian judge.17.  on 25 april 2001 the public prosecutor read out his observations on the merits (esas hakkında mütalaa) and requested that the applicant be convicted and sentenced under article 125 of the former criminal code.at the same hearing, the applicant’s lawyer requested time to submit the applicant’s defence submissions.18.   on 29 august 2001 the applicant’s lawyer made his defence submissions in relation to the merits of the case.on the same day the istanbul state security court convicted the applicant and sentenced him to thirty years’ imprisonment, pursuant to article 125 of the former criminal code.the first-instance court based its decision on several items of evidence, such as the applicant’s statements to the police, the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, documents relating to the organisation which had been found and seized in the course of police operations, and the statements of some co-defendants.
the referendum was initiated by the government and posed the following question: “do you want the european union to be entitled to order the mandatory settlement of non-hungarian citizens in hungary without parliament’s consent?” 7. in the course of the campaign several opposition parties called on voters to boycott the referendum or to cast invalid ballots that would not count in the final tally but could still be interpreted as rejecting the idea of the referendum.9.  in a decision of 30 september 2016 the national election commission found that the application infringed the principles of fairness of elections, voting secrecy, and the proper exercise of rights (rendeltetésszerű joggyakorlás), and ordered the applicant organisation to refrain from further breaches of section 2(1)(a) and (e) of act no.the kúria overturned the remainder of the commission’s decision on the infringement of the secrecy of the electoral process and on the discrediting of the work of the electoral bodies.12.  meanwhile, on 3 october 2016 the same private individual lodged a new complaint with the national election commission, in the light of the fact that the applicant political party had activated the “cast-an-invalid-vote app” on 2 october, the day of the referendum.the complainant maintained that by operating the mobile telephone application and by encouraging voters to make use of it, the applicant political party had infringed the principles governing the bona fide and proper exercise of rights, and also the principles of fairness and secrecy of elections.13.  in a decision of 7 october 2016 the national election commission reiterated its previous finding that taking photographs of ballot papers had infringed the principle of the secrecy of voters’ ballots, the fairness of elections, and the proper exercise of rights, and fined the political party 832,500 hungarian forints (huf – approximately 2,700 euros (eur)).15.  by a decision of 18 october 2016 the kúria upheld the commission’s decision as to the finding of an infringement of the principle of the proper exercise of rights.it explained that the purpose of the ballot papers had been for voters to express their opinion on the referendum question, and any other use of them had constituted a violation of the principle of the proper exercise of rights.the kúria overturned the remainder of the commission’s decision as to a violation of the fairness and voting secrecy and the principle of the bona fide exercise of rights.it reiterated its previous finding that the identity of the individual voters had not been revealed, and emphasised that the conduct of the applicant political party had had no impact on the fairness of the referendum.the decision of the kúria declared the applicant’s conduct unlawful and obliged it to pay a fine, it was the applicant who lodged the petition for review with the kúria, thus it was individually concerned in the present case...by making the mobile phone application available the applicant reacted to the spreading of social media communication.by developing the mobile phone application the applicant wanted to enable voters to share photos of ballot papers (or in case of those who absented from the referendum photos of the activities undertaken instead of voting) and other messages in an anonymous way and exercise their right to freedom of expression in a way that the content of the vote could not be linked to the voter.the conduct of voters taking photos of ballot papers and sharing it with others is an expression of an opinion in public matters and constitutes a conduct falling under the freedom of expression of opinions, and in particular, the most protected aspect of it, a discussion on matters of public interest.thus, the applicant’s activity, providing a forum for voters to express an opinion is also protected by the article ix (1) of the fundamental law...in the applicant’s opinion, the decision of the the kúria, by invoking voters’ right to freedom of expression, restrained in fact, the applicant’s own conduct of exercising its right to freedom of expression without any constitutional reason.” the applicant further submitted that, as established by the kúria, the mobile phone application had not infringed the secrecy and fairness of the voting procedure and it had also not been capable of doing so, since the content of the ballot papers could not be linked to the voters.it reiterated the kúria’s finding that although the case related to the freedom of expression of voters, this had not been infringed by the decision of the election commission, which had only found that the method used – that is to say uploading photographs to a mobile application – had not been in compliance with the obligation to exercise voting rights in accordance with their purpose.
16.  on 15 november 2002 the ankara public prosecutor filed an indictment with the ankara criminal court of first instance, charging the applicant and s.a. with abuse of public authority and the unlawful use of a public vehicle under article 240 of the former turkish criminal code and section 16 of the law on vehicles (law no.in the light of the conclusion that there had been no indication of a criminal offence committed by the police officers, the court then held that the applicant and s.a. could not be deemed to have committed the separate offence of the unlawful use of a public vehicle.25.  an investigation report dated 6 june 2002, prepared by the police investigator, concluded that the applicant had committed the offence of rape, while s.a. was guilty of the offence of conduct unbecoming and incompatible with the civil service and therefore recommended that the applicant be sanctioned with a deferral of advancement to a higher rank for a period of twenty-four months.noting that the applicant’s appraisal scores had only been average for the years 1999 and 2000, and taking account of the shameful nature of the act he had committed, it found that the applicant could not be given a penalty that was less severe than the one decided on.the relevant parts of the decision read as follows: “... the victim complained to the police and confirmed the event by giving the licence plate number of the vehicle and accurately describing the officer as wearing glasses and holding a police radio in his hand.[d]espite the fact that the vaginal examination of the victim did not reveal the presence of any active or passive semen, the victim’s statement that she was menstruating on the night in question and the forensic evidence finding traces of both the applicant’s and s.k.’s dna on the applicant’s underwear and the two napkins found in s.a.’s apartment containing the applicant’s dna, point to the conclusion that the applicant must have ejaculated prematurely before sexual intercourse.he has therefore committed the offence of ‘sexual assault’ and he furthermore used his position as a police officer by calling the victim a ‘suspect’ in order to lure her into the police car ... criminal proceedings are pending against the applicant on charges of abuse of authority under article 240 of the turkish criminal code.... it has been decided unanimously to dismiss the accused from the police force, in accordance with section 8(6) and (7) of the disciplinary regulation of the security forces on the grounds that it has been proven that he has committed the offence of sexual assault and of using his position as a police officer for personal ... advantage.” 27.  on an unspecified date the applicant objected to the supreme disciplinary council’s decision before the ankara administrative court.after examination of the file, it appears that the case concerns the applicant’s dismissal from the police force on the basis of a disciplinary investigation which established that he had intercourse with a woman without her consent on the pretext of calling her a suspect .., by asking her to get into a police car so that he could verify her identity at the police station, although in the end he took her to a piece of empty land and had intercourse with her without her consent.on the basis of the case file, statements, the forensic report and other information, the veracity of the accusation is reinforced and therefore the decision to dismiss the applicant is in accordance with the law.” 29.  on 13 march 2006 the supreme administrative court dismissed the applicant’s appeal by a majority by endorsing the reasons provided by the ankara administrative court.one judge out of the five expressed a dissenting opinion, reasoning that the applicant had been acquitted of the charges in the parallel criminal proceedings, including of rape, and that therefore the disciplinary decision to dismiss him from the police force on those grounds could no longer be upheld.the dissenting judge further argued that the courts should have reclassified the applicant’s conduct as conduct that was incompatible with the reputation and trust inherent in the functions of an official and sanctioned him with the corresponding penalty of the deferral of moving to a higher rank for a period of sixteen months.30.  on 23 june 2006 the applicant submitted a request to rectify the decision of 13 march 2006, arguing in the main that the fact that he had been acquitted in the criminal proceedings and had been found innocent of the allegations of rape had not been taken into account in the supreme administrative court’s decision.32.  in their observations the government submitted that on 26 november 2008 the applicant had brought proceedings against the ministry of the interior and had requested that the reopening of the proceedings for his dismissal from the police force.according to the government, the administrative court held that “the decision of the assize court was available on the dates the supreme administrative court examined the applicant’s appellate review and request for rectification of the decision, and that accordingly the court in question made an assessment of the decision rendered by the assize court”.
8.  on an unspecified date in 2008 an article was published in a daily newspaper, blikk, based on an interview with the applicant, revealing that she wanted to have a child who would be a blood relative of both her and her late husband and have the same intellect and attitude as him.9.  following some talks with the applicant, on 26 march 2008 helyi téma, at the material time the biggest weekly journal, republished the same story, adding that the late poet’s grandson had dismissed the idea of having a child with the applicant’s sister.the front page of the newspaper contained a photograph of the applicant with her late husband and the headline “trampling on the memory of faludy.10.  subsequently, in reaction to a complaint by the applicant, the newspaper published an additional article on the book under publication; however, it did not appear on the front page as the applicant’s had presumably wished.11.  dissatisfied, the applicant lodged a civil action against the publisher of the weekly newspaper under article 78 of the (old) civil code, alleging a violation of her personality rights, in particular her right to reputation.12.  according to the witnesses who gave evidence before the first-instance court, the applicant had been truly saddened by the way the article had presented her family plans, especially that her statements had been hurtful to the memory of her late husband.in a judgment of 5 april 2009 the budapest regional court granted an injunction against any further infringement, ordered a public apology and obliged the publisher to pay the applicant huf 600,000 (eur 2,000) in respect of non-pecuniary damage.“..the private life of the plaintiff and her late spouse was previously at the centre of media attention ... györgy faludy and the plaintiff have already shocked public opinion with the declaration of their love.therefore, when the country just began to digest and accept his relationship with fanny, the poet accepted an offer from penthouse magazine, which has since closed down, agreeing to be presented in the magazine in high-quality erotic pictures with his lover ... [the plaintiff] had even been subject of numerous hurtful and degrading remarks and attacks during györgy faludy’s life.the media echoed that opinion, doubting her true feelings towards her husband, and some of the publications stressed that theirs was a marriage of convenience ... they planned to adopt a child during the poet’s lifetime, but since that plan failed, györgy faludy came up with the idea of having a child through his son, but since his son was terminally ill, that plan could not go ahead either.based on the witness statements and the role the plaintiff’s late husband played in public life, the court concluded that the applicant’s idea about childbearing was not contrary to the thinking of györgy faludy...” 13.  the regional court added that both the applicant and her late husband had unusual, provocative personalities and ways of thinking, and the statement according to which she had infringed her late husband’s memory did not correspond to reality and was unjustifiably hurtful.the court concluded that the statement that the applicant did everything for the limelight had not infringed her personality rights, whereas the statement that she had trampled on her husband’s memory had infringed her right to reputation and dignity (33.p.22.472/2009/16.).the court reiterated the constitutional court’s case-law on the different fundamental rights at stake, pointing out that even shocking, disturbing or inaccurate opinions were protected by the right to freedom of expression and were not susceptible of proof.according to the court, the main issue at stake was whether, in the light of the applicant’s own conduct “diverging from the widely‑accepted social and ethical norms”, the statement could be regarded as unreasonably hurtful and humiliating.in a judgment of 12 september 2012, the kúria endorsed the finding of the second-instance court that the headline did not constitute a statement of fact but a value judgment concerning the unusual manner in which the applicant intended to start a family.
the operation was codenamed “storm” (oluja) and took place from 4 to 7 august 1995. before the military action, the vast majority of the population of krajina fled croatia.8.  the applicants and p.m. (born in 1942), who was the husband of one of the applicants and the father of the others, lived in razbojište, near the larger village of krupa, on the territory of krajina.according to the government, he was armed and was killed in an exchange of fire with the croatian army in the broader area of krupa.the process was conducted under the auspices of the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia (međunarodni kazneni sud za bivšu jugoslaviju) and the county state attorney’s office in zadar.434 was also dug up and an identity card was found in the name of p.m. the remains were examined at the institute for forensic medicine in zagreb (zavod za sudsku medicinu i kriminalistiku) and on 15 october 2002 an autopsy report was issued which concluded that the cause of death had been three wounds from shelling.on 24 november 2003 the third applicant identified the remains as those of her father, p.m. 11.  the police opened an investigation into the circumstances of p.m.’s death after the applicants on 5 september 2005 brought a claim for damages with the state attorney’s office in connection with his killing (see paragraph 20 below).he also said that during operation storm five people from the settlement called milići, part of the village of žegar, had been killed, including p.m. they had all been members of the paramilitary forces and had been armed.15.  on 26 august 2015 the zadar police informed the zadar county state attorney’s office that five persons had been killed in the settlement of milići during operation storm, one of whom was p.m., who had died on 5 august 1995.16.  on 14 september 2015 the police interviewed v.g., a captain in the croatian army during operation storm, who had been in command of the zadar military police third company of the 72nd battalion, who said that he had never been to žegar and had never heard of anyone being killed there.19.  on 22 january 2016 the zadar county state attorney’s office informed its counterpart in split county that it had not been able to confirm the allegations made in the anonymous letter of 11 august 2015 as there was no indication that twelve elderly people had been killed in the “milića” cave.however, five members of the serbian paramilitary forces had been killed during operation storm, including p.m. enquiries had therefore been stopped since the information given in the anonymous letter had proved to be unreliable.20.  on 5 september 2005 the applicants submitted a claim for damages with the state attorney’s office in connection with the killing of p.m. the request was refused.the claim was dismissed on 30 march 2010 on the grounds that it had not been established how p.m. had been killed and that the applicants had not proved that his killing had amounted to a terrorist act for which the state was liable.it had also not been established that he had been killed by members of the croatian army or police in areas where there had been no operations related to the war.during the proceedings information was obtained from the archives of the ministry of defence showing that the croatian army had entered the area in question on 6 august 1995, whereas p.m. had been killed on 5 august 1995. the first-instance court also accepted the statement of the witness o.m., who said that the village of žegar had been shelled on 5 august 1995. the first-instance judgment was upheld by the zagreb county court on 21 september 2010. on 10 june 2014 the supreme court upheld the lower courts’ judgments in respect of the ruling that the applicants’ claim had become statute-barred.
6.  the applicant signed a contract with the then bulgarian ministry of agriculture and forests (hereafter “the ministry”) on 15 july 2004. according to the terms of the contract the applicant undertook to act as a legal representative for the ministry in a case before the international court of arbitration in paris, for which the ministry was to pay him 58,100 bulgarian levs (bgn, about eur 29,600).8.  the proceedings before the international court of arbitration in paris ended on 28 november 2005. on 19 december 2005 the applicant asked the ministry to pay him the balance due, but the ministry failed to reply.on 23 february 2006 the court issued the writ on the basis of the contract of 15 july 2004 for the amount of bgn 29,631, comprising bgn 29,050 due on the basis of the contract and bgn 581 for costs related to the enforcement proceedings, plus the legal interest rate for the period from 1 february 2006 until full payment.9.  on 24 february 2006, in compliance with article 399 of the 1952 code, a notary acting for the applicant served the original writ of enforcement on the ministry and requested that the institution pay.instead, on 26 july 2006 the ministry brought a civil claim against him in court, seeking damages for his failure to carry out the duties ensuing from the contract of 15 july 2004. the amounts sought in damages were 568,897.90 united states dollars (usd) and bgn 29,500 (approximately eur 15,000), the latter explicitly referred to as corresponding to the first half of the fee due to the applicant which had been paid to him by the ministry upon signing the contract.in addition, the ministry sought bgn 4,648 (about eur 2,300) by way of penalty, representing 8% of the total amount of bgn 58,100 (about eur 29,600) due to the applicant in fees; that penalty had been provided for in the contract in case the applicant were to default on his contractual obligations.in its claim before the court the ministry made no mention of the balance of the fee it owed the applicant on conclusion of the contract of 2004; a sum subject to a writ of enforcement and served on the ministry earlier in 2006.the court found that although the ministry had indeed incurred losses in the amount of usd 568,897.90 in the context of the arbitration proceedings in paris, those losses had not been the result of the applicant’s conduct.the court found further that, because the applicant had complied with his contractual obligations, the payment he had received, corresponding to the first half of the agreed fee, had been owed and duly paid to him by the ministry.as regards the first half of the fee paid to the applicant, in particular, the court observed that the ministry had not claimed that the contract it had concluded with the applicant had been cancelled and found that the first half of the fee paid could not be considered as damages.the court held, however, that the applicant owed the ministry the amount of bgn 4,648 (about eur 2,300) by way of penalty because during the arbitration proceedings he had omitted to transmit to the ministry a request by the arbitrator that the original of a document be submitted to the latter.the penalty agreed in the contract between the ministry and the applicant was payable in the event of the failure of the applicant to comply with his obligations and the ministry did not need to prove that it had incurred any loss as a result of the applicant’s conduct.since the ministry’s claim did not mention the balance of the fee due to the applicant, at no point did the court examine in that judgment whether the second half of the payment of the legal fee agreed in the contract was due to him following its conclusion.15.  on 12 july 2011 the applicant again asked the ministry, through a duly served notarial request, to pay to him the amount of bgn 57,964.81, which represented bgn 29,050 (the principal amount, corresponding to the balance of the fee due to him), bgn 12,874.58 (default penalty agreed in the contract in case of the ministry’s failure to fulfil its contractual obligations), bgn 20,143.23 (legal interest rate) and bgn 581 (costs and expenses), minus the 8% default penalty in the amount of bgn 4,648 which the sofia court of appeal had ordered the applicant to pay to the ministry in its judgment.16.  on 15 july 2011 the ministry replied that its debts were to be paid from its annual budget and, in the event of the non-availability of funds, money for outstanding debts was to be included at the latest in the following year’s budget.
8.  on 20 july 2012 the munich ii regional court, after taking evidence at seventeen days of hearing, issued a decision limiting the prosecution to charges concerning four incidents which had taken place between 19 and 25 august 2007. the court provisionally discontinued the proceedings in respect of all the other offences the applicant had been charged with (see paragraph 7 above), in accordance with article 154 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 17 below), in view of the penalty the applicant could expect for the four remaining incidents.9.  in a judgment delivered on the same day, the regional court convicted the applicant of four counts of coercion to engage in sexual activity, committed between 19 and 25 august 2007, and sentenced him to six years’ imprisonment.10.  in its findings of fact, the regional court stated that between january 2001 and october 2007 the applicant had forced p., aged between 29 and 35 at the relevant time and suffering from a moderate mental disorder and an autistic and speech disorder, to satisfy him manually or orally on at least fifty further occasions (out of the at least 300 offences the applicant had initially been charged with, see paragraph 7 above).the court had regard to p.’s extensive description of different incidents, which happened either in the house the applicant and p. were both living in or in the applicant’s car.from 19 to 25 august 2007, when the applicant’s wife and son were on holiday, the applicant had forced p. to satisfy him orally at least twice and to satisfy him manually on two further occasions in their house or in the basement boiler room.11.  the regional court explained that it had restricted the conviction to the four events that had taken place between 19 and 25 august 2007. it had discontinued the proceedings in respect of the at least 300 further charges under article 154 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure but was convinced that in at least fifty cases there had been incidents comparable to the four of which the applicant was formally convicted.12.  in the impugned passages of the judgment, the regional court found as follows: “the chamber is convinced on the basis of the credible statement by the injured party that in addition to the four cases between january 2001 and october 2007 on which judgment was passed, at least 50 other comparable cases occurred.the injured party herself said that the applicant had coerced her to perform sexual acts from as early as 2001. from 2003, the frequency of these incidents had increased and the applicant had demanded sexual gratification from her approximately every 1½ weeks.even if one were to disregard the years 2001 and 2002 and august and october 2007 in favour of the applicant and also to presume that from 2003 onwards, such incidents occurred only once a month there are 56 cases.... on the other hand, the chamber considers as an aggravating element that it is convinced that, in addition to the four incidents in august 2007 which the accused has been convicted of, there have been at least 50 comparable incidents since january 2001. a conviction for those events was only made impossible by the victim’s incapacity to substantiate them in terms of the time and the place where they happened in a manner making it possible to define them as procedural offences (offences in the procedural sense).as it could no longer be determined with certainty in which cases the accused, by his threats, made the victim satisfy him orally or manually, the chamber will proceed on the basis that there were 50 further cases of manual satisfaction.” (“die kammer ist aufgrund der glaubhaften aussage der geschädigten davon überzeugt, dass es neben den vier abgeurteilten taten im zeitraum januar 2001 bis oktober 2007 zu mindestens 50 weiteren, vergleichbaren fällen kam.da sich nicht mehr mit sicherheit aufklären ließ, in welchen fällen der angeklagte die geschädigte durch seine drohung zu einer oralen und in welchen zu einer manuellen befriedigung brachte, geht die kammer insoweit von 50 weiteren fällen der manuellen befriedigung aus.”) 13.  in an appeal on points of law to the federal court of justice, the applicant complained that the regional court had breached the presumption of innocence guaranteed by article 6 § 2 of the convention by taking fifty unproven incidents into account as an aggravating factor meriting a more severe sentence, despite the fact that the proceedings in relation to them had been discontinued under article 154 of the code of criminal procedure.14.  the federal public prosecutor general argued that the regional court had been entitled to take account of the sexual offences committed previously by the applicant as an aggravating element as part of his previous history (vorleben) and thus as one of the elements in setting his sentence under article 46 § 2 of the criminal code (see paragraph 18 below).16.  in a decision of 16 may 2013, which was served on the applicant’s lawyer on 28 may 2013, the federal constitutional court, without giving reasons, declined to consider a constitutional complaint by the applicant, in which he had again complained of a breach of the presumption of innocence (file no.2 bvr 575/13).
8.  in december 2008 the state-owned joint-stock company naftogaz ukrayiny (hereinafter referred to as “naftogaz”), which was involved in several serious disputes before the arbitration institute of the stockholm chamber of commerce, decided to extend the legal services agreement which it had concluded with magisters ltd in 2002 and which was about to expire.11.  on 24 june 2009 the prosecutor general’s office (“the pgo”) opened a criminal case under article 366 § 2 of the criminal code (“the cc”; see paragraph 40 below) in respect of alleged forgery of the letter of 23 february 2009 by unspecified officials at the ministry of justice.13.  on 5 august 2010 the pgo faxed the applicant “an invitation” to go to its offices at 10 a.m. the following day for questioning about “possible abuse of office and forgery by officials of the ministry of justice”.15.  on 20 december 2010 the pgo instructed the kyiv city police to establish the applicant’s whereabouts and to hand him a summons for questioning at 10 a.m. on 22 december 2010. the letter noted that the applicant had not been present at his address as established by the investigation.16.  also on 20 december 2010 the pgo enquired with the state border service regarding the applicant’s trips abroad in 2009 and 2010. according to the information it received on 21 december 2010, the applicant had left ukraine more than thirty times during the period in question.17.  on 21 december 2010 an official of the kyiv city police wrote to the pgo that its information about the applicant’s address was outdated (he had sold the flat in 2003 and had not lived there since).in describing the applicant’s actus reus, the prosecutor found that he had bypassed the registry of the ministry of justice when accepting the request from naftogaz and issuing his letter in reply; that his conclusion about the existence of exceptional conditions for naftogaz not to pursue a bidding procedure had been in contradiction with the applicable legal provisions; and that he had had no right to put that conclusion on official ministry of justice paper.21.  in the afternoon of 22 december 2010, the applicant appeared before the investigator and after being questioned was arrested at 4.50 p.m. under articles 106 and 115 of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccp”; see paragraph 41 below).according to the official report, the applicant had been arrested on the grounds that “eyewitnesses, including victims, directly identified [him] as the one who had committed the offence”.the arrest report had the following description of the facts giving rise to the prosecution: “... during the period from 5 to 27 february 2009 [the applicant], exceeding his official powers, issued an expert conclusion with knowingly false information, as a result of which considerable damage, amounting to 1,697,600 [ukrainian] hryvnias [equal to about 152,000 euros at the time] was caused to [naftogaz].the applicant signed it with a remark that he considered his arrest as unlawful given that he had complied with the investigator’s summons in accordance with the ccp and that there was no risk of him hindering the establishment of the truth as he was no longer a civil servant.the necessity of that preventive measure was explained as follows: “having regard to [the applicant’s] role in the commission of the offence and his causing serious damage to state interests, his age, state of health, family and financial situation, and other circumstances characterising him, the investigation has grounds to believe that [the applicant] will try to influence the witnesses in this case given his extensive networks in law-enforcement bodies and among judicial authorities.therefore, the application of any other preventive measure in respect of the accused ... will not be able to ensure his proper procedural conduct and the fulfilment of procedural decisions...” 26.  on the same day the pecherskyy court found that the case file did not contain sufficient information about the applicant in order to take a decision on the investigator’s application.30.  on 13 january 2011 the court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal and upheld the findings and reasoning of the pecherskyy court’s decision of 30 december 2010. there was no reference in the ruling to the application by the bar association president.35.  as known from public available material, some media outlets linked the applicant’s release to a private meeting between his father-in-law as the president of the supreme court and the president of ukraine a day earlier, on 14 february 2011. the applicant publicly denied those rumours.
29.  previously, on 6 february 2006 the applicant had requested the enforcement of the district court’s interim measure of 16 november 2005 that placed the child with the applicant (see paragraph 10 above).31.  in reply to a related complaint, on 4 may 2012 the applicant was informed that, in the view of the hungarian court bailiffs chamber, the officer concerned was not responsible for the shortcomings of the enforcement proceedings since h.b.42.  the relevant provisions of the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction which entered into force on 1 july 1986 with regard to hungary state as follows: “the states signatory to the present convention, firmly convinced that the interests of children are of paramount importance in matters relating to their custody, desiring to protect children internationally from the harmful effects of their wrongful removal or retention and to establish procedures to ensure their prompt return to the state of their habitual residence, as well as to secure protection for rights of access, have resolved to conclude a convention to this effect, and have agreed upon the following provisions – ... article 1 the objects of the present convention are – a) to secure the prompt return of children wrongfully removed to or retained in any contracting state; and b) to ensure that rights of custody and of access under the law of one contracting state are effectively respected in the other contracting states.... article 3 the removal or the retention of a child is to be considered wrongful where – a) it is in breach of rights of custody attributed to a person, an institution or any other body, either jointly or alone, under the law of the state in which the child was habitually resident immediately before the removal or retention; and b) at the time of removal or retention those rights were actually exercised, either jointly or alone, or would have been so exercised but for the removal or retention.article 5 for the purposes of this convention – a) ‘rights of custody’ shall include rights relating to the care of the person of the child and, in particular, the right to determine the child’s place of residence; b) ‘rights of access’ shall include the right to take a child for a limited period of time to a place other than the child’s habitual residence.if the judicial or administrative authority concerned has not reached a decision within six weeks from the date of commencement of the proceedings, the applicant or the central authority of the requested state, on its own initiative or if asked by the central authority of the requesting state, shall have the right to request a statement of the reasons for the delay.... article 12 where a child has been wrongfully removed or retained in terms of article 3 and, at the date of the commencement of the proceedings before the judicial or administrative authority of the contracting state where the child is, a period of less than one year has elapsed from the date of the wrongful removal or retention, the authority concerned shall order the return of the child forthwith.the judicial or administrative authority, even where the proceedings have been commenced after the expiration of the period of one year referred to in the preceding paragraph, shall also order the return of the child, unless it is demonstrated that the child is now settled in its new environment.where the judicial or administrative authority in the requested state has reason to believe that the child has been taken to another state, it may stay the proceedings or dismiss the application for the return of the child.article 13 notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding article, the judicial or administrative authority of the requested state is not bound to order the return of the child if the person, institution or other body which opposes its return establishes that – a) the person, institution or other body having the care of the person of the child was not actually exercising the custody rights at the time of removal or retention, or had consented to or subsequently acquiesced in the removal or retention; or b) there is a grave risk that his or her return would expose the child to physical or psychological harm or otherwise place the child in an intolerable situation.in considering the circumstances referred to in this article, the judicial and administrative authorities shall take into account the information relating to the social background of the child provided by the central authority or other competent authority of the child’s habitual residence.article 14 in ascertaining whether there has been a wrongful removal or retention within the meaning of article 3, the judicial or administrative authorities of the requested state may take notice directly of the law of, and of judicial or administrative decisions, formally recognised or not in the state of the habitual residence of the child, without recourse to the specific procedures for the proof of that law or for the recognition of foreign decisions which would otherwise be applicable.... article 16 after receiving notice of a wrongful removal or retention of a child in the sense of article 3, the judicial or administrative authorities of the contracting state to which the child has been removed or in which it has been retained shall not decide on the merits of rights of custody until it has been determined that the child is not to be returned under this convention or unless an application under this convention is not lodged within a reasonable time following receipt of the notice.article 17 the sole fact that a decision relating to custody has been given in or is entitled to recognition in the requested state shall not be a ground for refusing to return a child under this convention, but the judicial or administrative authorities of the requested state may take account of the reasons for that decision in applying this convention.article 20 the return of the child under the provisions of article 12 may be refused if this would not be permitted by the fundamental principles of the requested state relating to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms....”
the event had been approved by the city authorities in the form of a march followed by a meeting at bolotnaya square which was supposed to end at 7.30 p.m. the march was peaceful and held without any disruptions, but when the marchers arrived at bolotnaya square it became apparent that barriers installed by the police had narrowed the entrance to the meeting venue, allegedly restricting the space allocated for the meeting.8.  on the same day the moscow city department of the investigative committee of the russian federation opened criminal proceedings to investigate suspected acts of mass disorder and violence against the police (articles 212 § 2 and 318 § 1 of the criminal code).11.  on 9 june 2012 the basmannyy district court of moscow ordered that the applicant be placed in pre-trial detention until 8 august 2012. it referred to the gravity of the charges and stated that if at liberty the applicant could co-ordinate his position with accomplices, who had yet to be discovered and whose identities were still being established by the investigation.the court concluded that those circumstances gave sufficient reasons to believe that the applicant was likely to flee to avoid the investigation and trial, continue his criminal activity, destroy evidence or otherwise obstruct the investigation of the criminal case, which was still at an initial stage.on the same day the district court granted the investigator’s application and extended the applicant’s detention until 6 november 2012. it considered that the circumstances justifying the detention order had not changed.16.  on 30 october 2012 the basmannyy district court granted an extension of the applicant’s detention until 6 march 2013, essentially on the same grounds as earlier, noting that the circumstances justifying the detention order had not changed.along with the gravity of the charges, the court based its decision on its findings that “the reasons which initially warranted the detention have not changed” and that “no other measures of restraint would secure the aims and goals of the judicial proceedings”.it ordered their detention until 24 february 2014 on the grounds of the gravity of the charges and the nature of the offences imputable to them.23.  the applicant’s description of the conditions of detention during his transfer from the remand prison to court and back and the government’s submissions in that regard were identical to those in the case of yaroslav belousov (cited above, §§ 69-73).24.  as regards the conditions of detention in the convoy room of the moscow city court, the applicant submitted that it was poorly lit and that access to the toilet was limited to once an hour.it held, in particular, as follows: “between 4 p.m. and 8 p.m. on 6 may 2012 ... at bolotnaya square ... unidentified persons ... called those present [at the venue] to move outside the agreed meeting venue, to defy the lawful orders of the police ..., to use violence ... which led to mass disorder accompanied by the use of violence against public officials in connection with the performance of their duties [and] the destruction of property.on the same day at 5 p.m. at the latest [the defendants] acquired the criminal intent to participate in mass disorder and to use violence against ... police officers ... thus, in furtherance of this criminal intent, at an unidentified time and place ... [the applicant] ... put on a mask to conceal his face so that he could not be recognised and brought to responsibility for committing unlawful acts ... ... between 5 p.m. and 6.30 p.m. [the applicant] ... repeatedly shouted anti‑government slogans.moreover ... the participants of the acts of mass disorder threw chunks of tarmac, stones, sticks and other objects at the police ... which hit them on various parts of their body, and [the defendants] ... [who] participated in the acts of mass disorder ... implemented their criminal intent to use violence against public officials ... applied physical force which was not a danger to the life or health of those [officials] ... [the applicant] used violence against police officer [k.] which did not endanger his life or health... [the applicant] ... from 5 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. ... put on a mask to conceal his face ... and threw at least three pieces of tarmac ... at police officers in a targeted manner ... one of the pieces ... which measured 15 cm by 15 cm ... hit the police officer [k.] on the right hand ... which caused him pain.... [the applicant] pleaded not guilty and testified that ... he had decided to attend the public gathering on 6 may 2012 ... after the security check he put on a mask with eye holes because he wanted to avoid being recognised by members of the opposition ... when a stampede occurred, he tried to leave the venue but could not get out of the crowd ... at some point ... [the applicant] saw three police officers with truncheons heading in his direction.... the court finds that [the applicant’s] guilt is established by the following evidence: ... a medical expert opinion stating that ... k. had a broken finger which could have been caused ... on 6 may 2012 ... the recovery process would take more than 21 days ... ... the court considers the [defendants’] arguments that they were protecting somebody from police officers or happened to be the victims of the police’s use of force as farfetched and aimed at the mitigation of their responsibility ... 30.  the applicant was sentenced to three years and six months’ imprisonment, calculated on the basis of a three-year prison term under article 212 § 2 of the criminal code, partly concurrent with a term of one year and four months under article 318 § 1 of the criminal code.
7.  on 9 september 1995 the applicant was arrested and taken into police custody on suspicion of membership of an illegal organisation.8.  on the same day the public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court prolonged the applicant’s detention in police custody for a period of up to 15 days.9.  on 13 september 1995 the applicant’s statements were taken by the police in the absence of a lawyer.10.  on 14 september 1995 the applicant participated in a reconstruction of the events (yer gösterme) with another suspect k.a., organised by the police in the absence of a lawyer.according to a report, drafted by police officers and signed by the applicant and k.a., both of the accused gave the details of the murder which they had committed.11.  on 22 september 1995 the applicant was examined by a doctor from the istanbul forensic institute.according to the report, there were no traces of ill-treatment on the applicant’s body.in his statements to the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, the applicant denied his police statements alleging that they had been taken under duress.following his questioning, the investigating judge ordered the applicant’s detention on remand.13.  on 9 october 1995 a public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court filed an indictment with that court, charging the applicant with attempting to undermine the constitutional order, an offence prescribed by article 146 § 1 of the former criminal code.14.  on 7 december 1995 the applicant was heard by the trial court during the first hearing in the presence of his lawyer.the applicant denied all the charges against him and stated that his statements at the police had been taken under duress.16.  on 13 september 2007, relying on, inter alia, the applicant’s and his co-accused k. a.’s statements to the police, the istanbul assize court held that the applicant had committed the offence under article 146 § 1 of the criminal code and sentenced him to life-imprisonment.17.  on an unknown date the applicant’s lawyer appealed against the judgment of 13 september 2007.18.  on 1 december 2008 the court of cassation upheld the above judgment.
6.  the end of 2008 and the beginning of 2009 were marked by a dispute between ukraine and russia on the conditions for gas supplies, including the price paid by ukraine and the transit price charged by ukraine to russia.8.  on 19 january 2009 the chairmen of the boards of the respective countries’ gas companies, naftogaz ukrainy and gazprom of russia, formalised the terms of the agreement by signing a 2009-2019 gas supply contract.9.  on 20 january 2009 the first deputy chairman of the board of naftogaz ukrainy, d., and the deputy chairman of the board of gazprom signed a further contract regarding the terms of natural gas transit through the territory of ukraine.11.  on 26 february 2009 d. sent a letter to the applicant, requesting customs clearance for the 11 billion cubic metres of natural gas referred to in the contract of 20 january 2009 and the annulment of nineteen customs declarations stating that the gas had been imported for transit purposes.13.  on 27 february 2009 the applicant countersigned d.’s letter with the statement “to [k.] for execution taking into account the requirements of article 88 of the customs code of ukraine” (k. was chief of the regional customs office for power, and the legal provision in question set out the duties and responsibilities of customs applicants).the charge was related to his countersigning the letters for customs clearance for the gas imported by way of transit without verifying the lawfulness of those demands and so causing substantial damage to the prestige of the state and to rosukrenergo ag’s interests.25.  according to the government, the applicant and his lawyer studied the decision from 4.15 p.m. to 6.45 p.m. 26.  at 7.02 p.m. the investigator drew up a report on the applicant’s arrest with a general reference to articles 106 § 2 and 115 of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccp”, see paragraph 50 below).the investigator further stated that the applicant’s rights as a suspect had been explained to him at 6.30 p.m. the applicant wrote on the report that the arrest period had actually started at 3.43 p.m. 27.  at 8.05 p.m. on 23 june 2010 the applicant was questioned as a suspect.between the date of the initiation of the related proceedings against d. on 10 june and the applicant’s arrest on 23 june 2010, he had twice been abroad and had returned to ukraine of his own free will; he had duly reported for questioning as a witness as soon as he had been summoned; and he was willing to continue his cooperation with the authorities in good faith.the court noted, in particular: “... the particularly large amount of damage caused to rosukrenergo ag and the existence of serious consequences, manifested in the prestige of the state being undermined, indicate a high degree of danger to society from the crime, a primary ground for imposing on a. v. makarenko a preventive measure entailing his being remanded in custody.” 31.  the appellate court also concurred with the first-instance court’s finding that the applicant might take advantage of his social connections and wealth to influence the investigation if he remained at liberty.on 27 september and 12 october 2010 the shevchenkivskyy court and the court of appeal, respectively, rejected the applicant’s complaint, finding that the investigator had acted in accordance with the law.41.  on 22 october and 9 december 2010 and on 5 january, 7 february and 9 march 2011 the court of appeal extended the applicant’s detention by one month (the last extension was until 10 april 2011), given that further time was required for the applicant and his lawyers to study the case file, which consisted of forty-eight volumes.in all those rulings the appellate court noted that it had had regard to “the circumstances of the case, information as a whole about the character of the accused, the gravity of the offence ... and the absence of any grounds for changing the preventive measure [in his respect] to a more lenient one”.43.  on 13 april 2011 the applicant’s lawyer complained to the prosecutor general’s office that the term of his client’s detention ordered by the court had expired on 10 april 2011. he therefore requested the applicant’s immediate release.45.  on 26 april 2011 the pecherskyy court remitted the case to the prosecutor general’s office for further investigation given that meanwhile, on 11 april 2011, the latter had instituted criminal proceedings against former prime minister tymoshenko on suspicion of abuse of authority for signing the gas contracts in january 2009 (see paragraph 7 above).
according to the police records, the above statement was made at 5 p.m. however, as subsequently established (see paragraph 59 below), that was an error and the actual time of the statement was about 10 a.m. 10.  m. provided the police with a banknote of usd 100, two banknotes of usd 20 and one of usd 10. a detective officer put a special luminescent fluid on the banknotes and returned them to m. that act took place in the presence of two attesting witnesses and was documented in a report.11.  at about 1 p.m. on the same day m. entered the applicant’s office and emerged a few minutes later, indicating to the investigator and the attesting witnesses that she had given the usd 100 banknote to the applicant.the serial number of the usd 100 banknote seized from the applicant, as indicated in the report, differed by one letter (out of eleven characters) from the one noted in the report on marking the bill with the luminescent fluid drawn up earlier that day (see paragraph 10 above).the applicant had also clarified that she would be working in a different office from monday, 9 february 2004. while collecting her papers and belongings before leaving, the applicant had noticed that m. had thrown something on the table and had run out of the office.when questioned in her lawyer’s presence on the same day, the applicant admitted that on 7 february 2004 she had hinted to m. that the examination of her application was likely to take time and that the applicant would be prepared to speed up the procedure before the higher authority, which she had not intended to do in reality.27.  the applicant appealed, seeking the termination of the criminal proceedings against her owing to the absence of the constituent elements of a crime in her actions.in reaching that conclusion, the court referred to the fact that she was no longer registered as being resident in the kharkiv region and that the police had information that she had emigrated to russia.by the same ruling, the kyivskyy court ordered the prosecution authorities to ensure the mandatory presence of t. 35.  on 16 february 2006 the kyivskyy court found the applicant guilty of fraud and incitement to bribery and sentenced her to a fine of uah 5,000 (then equivalent to eur 830).it relied on the statements of m., the aggrieved party, made during the pre‑trial investigation, and those of the attesting witnesses, made by g. before the court and by t. during the pre-trial investigation.she argued that the first-instance court had not shown due diligence in finding and summoning m. the applicant also complained that the kyivskyy court had wrongly relied on her initial confession, which had been dictated to her by the police before the institution of criminal proceedings against her.the applicant also complained that her rights under article 6 § 3 (d) of the convention had been breached on account of her inability to cross-examine m. and t. 40.  on 18 october 2007 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law and upheld the lower courts’ decisions.51.  on 26 february 2013 the applicant lodged a claim against the state treasury, seeking compensation for non-pecuniary damage sustained as a result of her allegedly unlawful criminal prosecution from 27 march 2009 to 12 october 2012. she enclosed copies of the two rulings of those dates, by which the investigator had opened and had discontinued the criminal proceedings against her.she submitted, in particular, that “the [first‑instance] court had not given any legal assessment to the fact that the criminal proceedings against [her] had been instituted on 27 march 2009 and discontinued on 12 october 2012, and that all that time [she] had been under an undertaking not to abscond, which had been lifted by the ruling on the termination of the criminal proceedings of 12 october 2012, that being confirmed by [the investigator’s] letter of 22 june 2012” (see paragraph 45 above).she reiterated her earlier argument that no assessment had been given to the investigator’s refusals of her requests for leave to travel outside the kharkiv region in june 2012. this time the applicant enclosed a copy of the letter referred to.58.  on 17 april 2006 the applicant sought the institution of criminal proceedings against the police officers involved in the undercover operation of 7 february 2004. her main argument was that m.’s complaint had been registered only at about 5 p.m. that day, which had been after the completion of the police operation and thus had undermined its lawfulness.
4.  the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in istanbul.5.  on 20 january 2009 the applicant was arrested and taken into custody.6.  on 22 january 2009 the edirne magistrates’ court placed the applicant in detention on remand on suspicion of forming an organised criminal organisation to commit offences and illegal possession of firearms contrary to article 13 § 1 of law no.7. on 3 july 2009 the edirne public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment with the edirne assize court charging the applicant with membership of an organised criminal organisation as well as fraud and robbery.8.  on 8 july 2009 the edirne assize court held that it had no jurisdiction and referred the case file to the istanbul assize court.the court also ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention.9.  on 12 august 2009 the 9th chamber of the istanbul assize court held a preparatory hearing and ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention.10.  on 29 december 2009 the first hearing was held before the 9th chamber of the istanbul assize court.11.  on 4 may 2010 the istanbul assize court held another hearing and decided to prolong the applicant’s detention on remand.on 25 may 2010 his objection was dismissed by the 10th chamber of the istanbul assize court without holding an oral hearing.13.  by decisions dated 30 june 2010 and 8 july 2010 the 9th chamber of the istanbul assize court rejected the applicant’s requests for release without holding an oral hearing.14.  on 30 september 2010 the 9th chamber of the istanbul assize court held the third hearing in the proceedings and again prolonged the applicant’s detention.15.  on 11 october 2011 the 9th chamber of the istanbul assize held the seventh hearing in the proceedings and released the applicant from detention on remand.16.  at the time when he present application was lodged with the court, the proceedings against the applicant were still pending before the first‑instance court.the parties did not submit any further information concerning the outcome of the proceedings.
6.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.8.  on 14 october 2008 the high court (viši sud) in podgorica found x guilty and, inter alia, ordered him to pay the applicants 505.70 euros (eur) for the costs of legal representation, without specifying what exactly was covered by this amount.on 6 may 2009 the high court transmitted the applicants’ appeal to the court of appeal (apelacioni sud) in podgorica.11.  on 22 september 2009 the court of appeal ruled on the appeals lodged by the high state prosecutor and x. the applicants learned of this judgment on 27 may 2010 when checking the case-file at the high court.12.  on 28 may 2010 the applicants complained to the president of the supreme court that the court of appeal had failed to rule on their appeal.13.  on 7 june 2010 the president of the supreme court notified them that she had been informed by the high court president that the case file had been “at the court of appeal in order for it to rule on [their] appeal in respect of costs of criminal proceedings given that it had not been ruled upon by [its] judgment of 22 september 2009”.14.  on 24 october 2011 the applicants requested the president of the high court to transmit the case file to the court of appeal given that they had learnt that the file had been archived in the high court, contrary to what that court had said to the president of the supreme court.15.  on 11 january 2012 the applicants again complained to the president of the supreme court.16.  it would appear that the court of appeal has not ruled on the applicants’ appeal.17.  on 14 march 2011, in the absence of any ruling by the court of appeal, the applicants filed a compensation claim against the state.18.  on 17 june 2011 the court of first instance (osnovni sud) in podgorica rejected the claim (odbacuje se) finding that the high court had awarded them the costs, which judgment had become final in the meantime, and that the issue was thus res iudicata.20.  on 12 july 2012 the constitutional court (ustavni sud) dismissed the applicants’ constitutional appeal, considering that there was no violation of article 6 as res iudicata was indeed a procedural obstacle which prevented further proceedings.it further held that the applicants’ dissatisfaction with the costs awarded in the criminal proceedings did not mean that they could claim them by a regular civil claim (putem redovne građanske tužbe).21.  on 8 december 2011 the high court issued a decision ordering its finance department (računovodstvo) to pay the applicants’ representative the amount awarded by the high court on 14 october 2008. this decision became final on 5 january 2012, given that no appeal was lodged against it.22.  on 10 january 2017 the high court informed the agent’s office that the court of appeal had not ruled on the applicants’ appeal in respect of costs of criminal proceedings, but that the high court, after its judgment of 14 october 2008 had become final, had issued a decision on 8 december 2011 ordering that the applicants’ representative be paid the sum awarded thereby.
6.  at the time of the events the applicant was serving in the turkish army as a lieutenant-colonel.7.  on 8 may, 10 may and 11 may 2000, the applicant was interrogated by the military prosecutor within the context of a criminal investigation initiated against him for embezzlement.he was placed in detention on remand on the same day by the general staff military court.10.  on the same day, the applicant gave a power of attorney to a lawyer.12.  on 26 june 2000 the general staff military prosecutor filed a bill of indictment with the general staff military court charging the applicant with embezzlement under section 131 of military criminal code, involving in trade activities as a soldier under additional section 1 of military criminal code and breaching article 13 of the law no.the siblings of the applicant, şükrü aymelek and ulviye toprakkıran were also charged with the same bill of indictment with embezzlement and breaching article 13 of the law no.13.  on 29 may 2001 the general staff military prosecutor filed an additional bill of indictment and charged the accused with additional acts related to the crimes already stated in the first bill of indictment.14.  on 19 september 2001, the applicant submitted a petition with the prison authorities, complaining that he had not been able to see his brother şükrü aymelek, who was also detained in remand.15.  on 19 september 2002 the applicant was found guilty and sentenced to imprisonment for embezzlement and being involved in trade activities as a soldier by the general staff military court, composed of a military officer with no legal background and two military judges.16.  on 6 january 2003 the applicant appealed against the decision of the general staff military court.17.  on 2 april 2003 the military court of cassation quashed the judgment of 19 september 2002 on procedural grounds and on the merits.18.  on 17 december 2003 the general staff military court found the applicant guilty for embezzlement and being involved in trade activities as a soldier, but reduced his prison sentence.19.  on 2 june 2004 the military court of cassation upheld the decision of 17 december 2003.20.  on 13 january 2014 the applicant requested from the military court of cassation to reopen the criminal proceedings alleging that a witness who had not been heard, was ready to give statements before the court.21.  on 19 february 2014 rejected the applicant’s request for reopening of the criminal proceedings, on the grounds that the witness’ statements did not have any evidential value, which could warrant a lesser sentence or the acquittal of the applicant.
4.  the applicant was born in 1963 and at the time of lodging his application he was serving his prison sentence in the bolu f-type prison.5.  on 3 december 2007 the applicant wrote a letter to the ministry of justice, in which he had praised the imprisoned leader of the pkk, abdullah öcalan by using the honorific “sayın”, meaning esteemed.6.  pursuant to the regulations on the administration of penitentiary institutions and the execution of sentences, the applicant was found guilty of breaching prison order by the bolu f- type prison disciplinary board (referred hereafter as “the board”).7.  on 12 december 2007 the applicant was sentenced to 11 days’ solitary confinement on the orders of the board, on account of his statements in the above mentioned letter.8.  on 25 december 2007 the bolu enforcement judge rejected the applicant’s objection.9.  on 15 january 2008 the bolu assize court upheld the judgment of 25 december 2007.
5.  the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in adana.6.  on 16 february 2006 a gathering was held in adana on the anniversary of the arrest of abdullah öcalan, the leader of the pkk (kurdistan workers’ party), an illegal armed organisation.the protesters gathered in front of the building of the adana branch of the democratic society party (demokratik toplum partisi) (dtp), where a press statement was read out.being a member of the dtp, the applicant participated in the gathering.the police then entered the dtp building and arrested 223 people, including the applicant.the next day, the applicant was detained on remand.8.  on 10 march 2006 the adana public prosecutor charged the applicant and sixteen other people with membership of the pkk under articles 220 § 6 and 314 of the criminal code.the prosecutor alleged that the accused had participated in the public gathering in question in response to calls made by the pkk and had resisted the police officers, and that they had therefore acted on behalf of the pkk.10.  on 10 september 2008 the adana assize court convicted the applicant under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no.the assize court did not find it established that the applicant had attended the reading out of the press statement in response to calls made by the pkk or that she had injured any police officers.it therefore concluded that the applicant could not be convicted of membership of the pkk or resistance to the police.the court nonetheless considered that on 16 february 2006 the applicant had gone to the dtp building with a view to disseminating propaganda in support of the pkk and that she should therefore be convicted under section 7(2) of law no.11.  taking into account the applicant’s good behaviour during the trial and the absence of any previous criminal record, the court suspended the pronouncement of her conviction on condition that she did not commit another intentional offence for a period of five years, under article 231 of the code of criminal procedure (hükmün açıklanmasının geri bırakılması).12.  on 20 november 2008 the court dismissed an objection lodged by the applicant against the above-mentioned decision.the final decision was served on the applicant on 9 january 2009.
the event had been approved by the city authorities in the form of a march followed by a meeting at bolotnaya square, which was supposed to end at 7.30 p.m. the march was peaceful and held without any disruptions, but when the marchers arrived at bolotnaya square it became apparent that barriers installed by the police had narrowed the entrance to the meeting venue, allegedly restricting the space allocated for the meeting.8.  on the same day the moscow city department of the investigative committee of the russian federation opened criminal proceedings to investigate suspected acts of mass disorder and violence against the police (articles 212 § 2 and 318 § 1 of the criminal code).11.  on 27 july 2012 the basmannyy district court ordered that the applicant be placed in pre-trial detention until 26 september 2012. it referred to the gravity of the charges and information about the applicant’s character, including a report by moscow police’s chief of department at the centre for counter-extremism.the court concluded that those circumstances gave sufficient grounds to believe that the applicant was likely to flee to avoid the investigation and trial, destroy evidence or otherwise obstruct the investigation of the criminal case, which was still at an initial stage.on the same day the district court granted the investigator’s application and extended the applicant’s detention until 6 november 2012. it considered that the circumstances justifying the detention order had not changed.in particular, it dismissed an objection from the applicant to the use of the operational-search reports concerning his character and rejected his contesting of the alleged membership of any organisations of a destructive nature.along with the gravity of the charges, the court based its decision on the findings that “the reasons which initially warranted the detention have not changed” and that “no other measures of restraint would secure the aims and goals of the judicial proceedings”.it ordered their detention until 24 february 2014 on the grounds of the gravity of the charges and the nature of the offences imputable to them.24.  the applicant’s description of the conditions of detention during his transfer from the remand prison to court and back and the government’s submissions in that regard were identical to those in the case of yaroslav belousov (cited above, §§ 69-73).25.  as regards the conditions of detention in the convoy room of the moscow city court, the applicant submitted that it was poorly lit and that access to the toilet was limited to once an hour.it held, in particular, as follows: “between 4 p.m. and 8 p.m. on 6 may 2012 ... at bolotnaya square ... unidentified persons ... called those present [at the venue] to move outside the agreed meeting venue, to defy the lawful orders of the police ..., to use violence ... which led to mass disorder accompanied by the use of violence against public officials in connection with the performance of their duties [and] the destruction of property.on the same day at 5 p.m. at the latest [the defendants] acquired the criminal intent to participate in mass disorder and to use violence against ... police officers ... moreover ... the participants of the acts of mass disorder threw chunks of tarmac, stones, sticks and other objects at the police ... which hit them on various parts of their body, and [the defendants] ... [who] participated in the acts of mass disorder ... implemented their criminal intent to use violence against public officials ... applied physical force which was not a danger to the life or health of those [officials] ... [the applicant] ... who was wearing a surgical mask to hide his face, together with unidentified persons ... tried to liberate those arrested by the police for a breach of public order and pushed the police officers away ... ... [the applicant] used violence against police officer [t.] which did not endanger his life or health ... [the applicant] ... from 5 p.m. to 9.40 p.m. ... when unidentified participants of acts of mass disorder tried to break the police cordon, acting intentionally and using force, grabbed [t.’s] hand and then pulled it off the person whom [t.] was arresting, thus impeding his apprehension, which caused [t.] pain.[the applicant] pleaded not guilty and testified that ... he had decided to attend the public gathering on 6 may 2012 ... for the purposes of personal security he wore a surgical mask ... [the applicant] was at the bridge when a blockage occurred.there [the applicant] saw the mass beating of people by police officers and participants of the rally starting to bring forward metal barriers ... and to put them close to the police officers, trying to protect themselves from the latter.... the court considers the [defendants’] arguments that they were protecting somebody from police officers or happened to be victims of the police’s use of force as farfetched and aimed at the mitigation of their responsibility ...” 31.  the applicant was sentenced to three years and six months’ imprisonment, calculated on the basis of a three-year prison term under article  212 § 2 of the criminal code, partly concurrent with a term of one year and three months under article 318 § 1. the applicant’s pre-trial detention counted towards the prison sentence.
the event had been approved by the city authorities in the form of a march followed by a meeting at bolotnaya square which was supposed to end at 7.30 p.m. the march was peaceful and held without any disruptions, but when the marchers arrived at bolotnaya square it became apparent that barriers installed by the police had narrowed the entrance to the meeting venue, allegedly restricting the space allocated for the meeting.8.  on the same day the moscow city department of the investigative committee of the russian federation opened criminal proceedings to investigate suspected acts of mass disorder and violence against the police (articles 212 § 2 and 318 § 1 of the criminal code).10.  on 14 may 2012 the justice of the peace of the 100th court circuit of the yakimanka district of moscow found the applicant guilty of non‑compliance with a lawful order by a police officer, an offence under article 19.3 of the code of administrative offences.the justice of the peace established that after the meeting at bolotnaya square the applicant had shouted anti-government slogans, ignoring the lawful demands of the police to cease those acts.12.  on 30 may 2012 the basmannyy district court of moscow ordered that the applicant be placed in pre-trial detention until 6 july 2012. it referred to the gravity of the charges and stated that if he was at liberty the applicant could co-ordinate his position with accomplices whose identities were still being established by the investigation.he was accused, in particular, of active resistance to police officers and of participation in a group assault on a police officer whereby the applicant had allegedly pulled a protective helmet off the officer’s head and had punched and kicked him on the head and body.on the same day the district court granted the investigator’s application and extended the applicant’s detention until 6 november 2012. it relied on the gravity of the charges and information on the applicant’s character, which gave it sufficient grounds to presume that he might reoffend, threaten witnesses and other participants of the criminal proceedings, destroy evidence or otherwise obstruct the proper administration of justice.the classification of the offences remained unchanged but it was specified that the applicant had struck the police officer once on the head and had kicked him once on the body while he was lying on the ground.20.  on 1 march 2013 the basmannyy district court authorised a further extension of the applicant’s detention until 28 may 2013. the court relied on the gravity of the charges and the need to allow the defendants sufficient time to read the investigation case file.21.  on 23 april 2013 the moscow city court granted an extension of the applicant’s detention until 6 july 2013. the court noted that even though the applicant and his lawyer had already finished reading the case file, other defendants had not.along with the gravity of the charges, the court based its decision on the findings that “the reasons which initially warranted the detention have not changed” and that “no other measures of restraint would secure the aims and goals of the judicial proceedings”.it ordered their detention until 24 february 2014 on the grounds of the gravity of the charges and the nature of the offences imputable to them.it held, in particular, as follows: “between 4 p.m. and 8 p.m. on 6 may 2012 ... at bolotnaya square ... unidentified persons ... called those present [at the venue] to move outside the agreed meeting venue, to defy the lawful orders of the police ..., to use violence ... which led to mass disorder accompanied by the use of violence against public officials in connection with the performance of their duties [and] the destruction of property.on the same day at 5 p.m. at the latest [the defendants] acquired the criminal intent to participate in mass disorder and to use violence against ... police officers ... moreover ... the participants of the acts of mass disorder threw chunks of tarmac, stones, sticks and other objects at the police ... which hit them on various parts of their body, and [the defendants] ... [who] participated in the acts of mass disorder ... implemented their criminal intent to use violence against public officials ... applied physical force which was not a danger to the life or health of those [officials] ... thus, [the applicant] used violence against police officer [k.] which did not endanger his life or health ... ... between 5.10 p.m. and 8.20 p.m. ... unidentified participants of acts of mass disorder ... intentionally seized [k.] by his uniform and knocked him down, while [the applicant] together with other unidentified participants of acts of mass disorder, acting intentionally ... tore off [k.’s] anti-riot helmet ... and punched and kicked him several times on his head and body, meanwhile [the applicant] punched [k.’s] head at least once and at least once kicked [k.] on the body when the latter was lying on the ground.... ... the court considers the [defendants’] arguments that they were protecting somebody from the police officers or happened to be victims of the police’s use of force as farfetched and aimed at the mitigation of their responsibility ... ... no medical document which could prove the presence of injuries on the [applicant’s] body ... was provided to the court.” 31.  the applicant was sentenced to three years and seven months’ imprisonment, calculated on the basis of a three-year prison term under article 212 § 2 of the criminal code, partly concurrent with a term of one year and eight months under article 318 § 1 of the criminal code.
... it is recommended ... to have regard for the feelings of religious people, to take a more responsible attitude towards religion-related topics in advertising, and to stop the dissemination of the advertisements or change the characters depicted therein.” 12.  on 8 october 2012 the scrpa received a complaint from a law firm in kaunas concerning the advertisements.the degrading and distortion of religious symbols by purposely changing their meaning is contrary to public morals, especially when it is done in pursuit of commercial gain, and must therefore not be allowed, in line with article 4 of the law on advertising.” 17.  on 21 march 2013 the scrpa held a meeting in which representatives of the applicant company, the state inspectorate of non‑food products and the lithuanian bishops conference participated.it further stated: “when determining whether the use of religious symbols in the present case was contrary to public morals, [the scrpa] notes that religious people react very sensitively to any use of religious symbols or religious persons in advertising, especially when the chosen form of artistic expression is not acceptable to society – for example, the bodies of jesus and mary are adorned with tattoos.with that in mind, [the scrpa] notes that the inappropriate depiction of christ and mary in the advertisements in question encourages a frivolous attitude towards the ethical values of the christian faith, promotes a lifestyle which is incompatible with the principles of a religious person, and that way the persons of christ and mary are degraded as the sacred symbols of christianity ... in addition, the inappropriate depiction of christ and mary in the advertisements was not only likely to offend the feelings of religious people but actually offended them because [the scrpa] has received complaints about them ... and the lithuanian bishops conference has received a letter expressing dissatisfaction of the [nearly a hundred] religious individuals, which demonstrates that the feelings of religious people have been offended.when determining the penalty, it took into account several circumstances: the advertisements had been displayed in public places and must have reached a wide audience, and there had been complaints about them; at the same time, the advertisements had only been displayed for a few weeks and only in the city of vilnius; the applicant company had stopped displaying them after it had been warned by the authorities, and it had cooperated with the scrpa; it had been the first such violation committed by the applicant company.it argued that the persons and objects shown in the advertisements were not related to religious symbols: neither the characters themselves nor their clothes, positions or facial expressions were similar to the depiction of jesus christ and the virgin mary in religious art; the only physical similarity was the long hair of the man but every man with long hair could not be presumed to be a depiction of jesus.the court considered that the scrpa had correctly assessed all the relevant circumstances (see paragraphs 18 and 19 above), and concluded that “the form of advertising used by [the applicant company was] prohibited because it distort[ed] the main purpose of a religious symbol (an object of religion) respected by a religious community – that purpose being to refer to a deity or to holiness”.the court held: “the entirety of the evidence in the present case gives grounds to conclude that the advertisements displayed by [the applicant company] are clearly contrary to public morals, because religion, as a certain type of world view, unavoidably contributes to the moral development of the society; symbols of a religious nature occupy a significant place in the system of spiritual values of individuals and the society, and their inappropriate use demeans them [and] is contrary to universally accepted moral and ethical norms.the form of advertising [chosen by the applicant company] does not conform to good morals and to the principles of respecting the values of the christian faith and its sacred symbols, and [the advertisements] therefore breach article 4 § 2 (1) of the law on advertising.... in its appeal [the applicant company] alleges that there are no objective grounds to find that the advertisements offended the feelings of religious people ... it must be noted that the case file includes a letter by almost one hundred religious individuals, sent to the lithuanian bishops conference, expressing dissatisfaction with the advertisements in question.he considered that it was necessary to assess whether the decision of 25 april 2014 (see paragraph 25 above) had adequately addressed the applicant company’s arguments related to the permissible restrictions of freedom of expression, guaranteed by the constitution and various international legal instruments, and whether it had properly examined the necessity and proportionality of restricting that freedom, in line with the relevant case-law of the european court of human rights.28.  the court observed that the freedom of expression, guaranteed by the constitution, was not absolute and could be restricted (see paragraphs 31 and 42-44 below), and one of the permissible restrictions was provided in article 4 § 2 (1) of the law on advertising (see paragraph 34 below).the court considered that the decision of 25 april 2014 had not denied the essence of the applicant company’s right and had not been manifestly disproportionate because the fine had been close to the minimum provided in law (see paragraph 36 below), so there were no grounds to find that the law had been interpreted or applied incorrectly.295‑a), it stated that it was not possible to discern throughout europe a uniform conception of the significance of religion in society and that even within a single country such conceptions might vary; for that reason it was not possible to arrive at a comprehensive definition of what constituted a permissible interference with the exercise of the right to freedom of expression where such expression was directed against the religious feelings of others, and a certain margin of appreciation was therefore to be left to the national authorities in assessing the existence and extent of the necessity of such interference.the supreme administrative court considered that the panel which had adopted the decision of 25 april 2014 had taken into account the fact that catholicism was the religion of a very big part of the lithuanian population and that the use of its most important symbols in the advertisements, which distorted their meaning, offended the feelings of religious people.
1.  on 17 march 2007 the applicant requested the faculty to adapt the university premises in order to enable him to resume his studies for the 2007‑2008 academic year.it stated that the administration had been asked for leave to conduct redevelopment work on the doors to the building, but that that work could not be carried out in the short term.1 to the convention, he affirmed that it was the state’s duty to guarantee the citizens’ right to education, in line with the principle of equal opportunities.4.  the administration replied to that formal notice by letter of 10 september 2007. the latter stated that the redevelopment works mentioned should be considered in the light of compliance with the regulations on public property, which could take some time.the administration pointed out that the practical workshops were held on the ground floor of the building and posed no problems with regard to access, and that the applicant would consequently have no difficulty in attending the courses administered in the framework of those workshops.it explained that the only reason why the applicant’s participation in the practical workshops had previously been described as problematic (see paragraph 8 above) was that such workshops necessitated a considerable physical effort and that his particular situation required some thought regarding the type of assistance with which he could be provided.finally, the administration pointed out that since, in its view, the budget allocated by the state was limited, the redevelopment work necessitated by the applicant’s situation was subject to unavoidable budgetary and time constraints.5.  on 15 november 2007 the applicant filed with the elazığ administrative court an action for annulment of the university’s replies of 25 may and 10 september 2007 and to provide compensation for the pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage which he claimed he had sustained.furthermore, the relevant agencies had been contacted with a view to redeveloping the faculty building and a proposal had been made to include the works in an investment programme complying with the relevant regulations governing public property.1 to the convention, and that it was incumbent on the domestic authorities to take steps to enable him to exercise that right, with respect for the principle of equal opportunities.he added that it would be degrading for him to be placed in a situation of dependence on a third person because of his disability, citing the example of how the constant presence and assistance of a third person would invade his privacy.8.  on 13 october 2008 the faculty terminated its contracts with a number of students, including the applicant, on the grounds that they had not re-registered at the start of two successive academic years.2009/15546, published in the official gazette (“the og”) on 13 november 2009, closing down certain categories of institutions of higher education, including technical faculties, one of which was the technical faculty of fırat university, which was replaced by a new faculty of technology.in the reasoning of its judgment it stated, in particular, that the buildings in question had been erected in accordance with the regulations in force in 1988. the court took the view that although it was incumbent on the authorities to apply the technical guidelines set out in the legislation subsequently enacted for persons with disabilities, it could not be contended that the respondent authority had not followed those guidelines during the construction of a building erected in 1988, before the guidelines had come into force.lastly, the judgment mentioned that the authorities had informed the complainant that architectural measures would be adopted, depending on the available budget, and that a person would be appointed to assist him in attending the courses.
8.  on 11 january 1988 the applicants acquired the property from the above mentioned third party at the price of mtl 11,000 (approximately eur 25,600) in the full knowledge that the property was occupied under title of lease and that j.g.10.  however, the applicants were unable to find an apartment to rent in malta given that, at the time, owners were reluctant to lease property to maltese residents because of the rent laws in force.in consequence the applicants had to reside in their smaller apartment on the island of gozo and the first applicant was obliged to commute by boat on a daily basis to get to work.she refused and requested that she be recognised as a tenant in accordance with article 2 of chapter 158 of the laws of malta, as she had been residing in the property at the date of her father’s death.p.g., a seventy-year old pensioner, had a constant and considerable income (a monthly pension of 900 pounds sterling (gbp), and during her stay in malta she was letting her property in the uk at gbp 1,000 a month); she eventually sold her property in the uk for gbp 305,000. she went on to inherit various assets and sold them for a considerable sum.the amendments operated to bring rates of rent up to eur 185 per year where these were below that figure; however this increase did not apply to the applicants’ property, the rent of which was already more than eur 185. pursuant to the current law the rent applicable in the applicants’ case is increased every three years in accordance with the increase in the inflation index (capped at a 100%).1 to the convention as a result of the laws in force which allowed the tenant to enjoy a title of lease over their property and made it impossible for them to regain possession of it despite their own need for housing.the applicants asked the court to order the eviction of the tenant and the latter to pay for ordinary and extraordinary repairs, and to award damages for the loss sustained as a result of the low amount of rent received, and in connection with the disbursements they had to make for their own housing.1 to the convention as a result of the application of articles 2 and 12 of chapter 158 of the laws of malta and ordered that the tenant be evicted within four months of the date of judgment.it considered that the rent payable, namely eur 466 per year in accordance with the law was derisory, bearing in mind that such property had a rental market value of eur 3,000 per month – the court noted that while an architect’s valuation would have been preferable the latter sum appeared to be an appropriate rent.21.  by a judgment of 22 february 2013 the constitutional court reversed the first-instance judgment and found no violation of the said provision, and rejected the remainder of the applicants’ appeal.it considered that act xxii of 1979, which provided for the conversion of a temporary emphyteusis into a lease, had constituted interference with the applicants’ right of property as it had created a forced landlord-tenant relationship for an indeterminate time, during which they had not been able to use their own property and during which they had suffered financial losses as a result of the low amount of rent received, which had been established by law.however, the applicants, fully aware of the factual and legal situation, opted of their own free will to purchase the property and to enter into the existing agreement with j.g., whose emphyteusis had just been converted into a lease on 15 june 1987, and from whom they continued to receive rent.the court concluded that the applicants had not suffered any imposition in so far as they had willingly entered into that contract at a point where the law had been crystal clear as to the consequences which would ensue.in or around 2013 the applicants were given notice to vacate the property which they had been leasing as their ordinary residence since 1996 (see paragraph 11 above), as there were plans to demolish the property in 2014. at the time when they were renting this property, the second applicant’s mother had been one of five co-owners of the dwelling, and it appears that the second applicant has since become a co-owner.
on 27 february and 23 march 2007 he confirmed that he had been present at the scene at the time of the incident and that he had been shot in the upper leg.he also alleged that he himself had been the most likely target of the attack owing to his alleged involvement in the killing of the applicants’ brother, which had happened at the beginning of 2006. in that context, he had received threats that he would be killed.the latter asked not to have his identity revealed for the following reasons: “the people who committed the crime are violent and have a criminal record and that’s why i’m afraid of their threats; they are armed, convicted, i fear for my life and the life of my family, i fear reprisals.” 11.  on photographs shown in evidence, both witnesses identified one of the applicants as having fired on the café and dz.he also stated that after the incident mr ramiz asani had told him the following: “what you’ve seen and heard on television about the incident with m.m.’s car – i did it in revenge for the killing of my brother ...” 13.  on the same date, the investigating judge opened an investigation against the applicants and dz.15.  at the trial, the applicants, represented by two lawyers, unsuccessfully requested that evidence produced by the anonymous witnesses be rejected and that the written transcripts of their depositions be excluded from the case file.the examination was carried out at a hearing of 21 january 2008 in the presence of only the trial judge and the public prosecutor, as provided for in the criminal procedure act in force at the time (see paragraph 24 below).he alleged that he had been beaten by the police in order to tell the investigating judge that the applicants had bought the car (see paragraph 12 above).the record of the hearing did not specify that the applicants objected to the reading of the statement.he did not, however, allow an additional ballistic examination and refused to admit further evidence regarding the intensity of the street lighting at the scene at the relevant time (the applicants alleged that the street light had been too low to allow the anonymous witnesses to see the assailants).the applicants’ presence at the scene when the incident happened, as well as the development and dynamics of events, was established on the basis of the testimony of the anonymous witnesses “korab” and “vodno”, which the court regarded as credible and consistent despite “small differences which were due to the intensity of the shooting and fear for their lives”.21.  in public hearings held on 10 october 2008 and 25 september 2009 (latter judgment served on the applicant on 5 january 2010) respectively, the skopje court of appeal and the supreme court upheld the applicants’ conviction and the sentence imposed on them.they dismissed appeals lodged by the applicants in which they complained inter alia that the trial court had failed to admit evidence proposed by the defence, that their conviction could not be based solely on the statements of the anonymous witnesses, which had been unlawfully obtained, and that the trial court had not examined b.h.22.  the courts held that the evidence produced by the anonymous witnesses had been lawfully obtained and that the applicants’ opportunity to put written questions to them had secured their defence rights.as regards the evidence produced by b.h., the courts held that the trial court had tried to secure his attendance at the trial, but he had been unavailable for examination, as described in the police note.the higher courts also endorsed the trial court’s finding regarding the applicants’ motive for committing the crime, as established on the basis of the evidence produced by b.h.
4.  the applicant was born in 1976 and is serving a sentence of life imprisonment.5.  in december 2005 violent robberies were committed at two scrap metal collection points in odesa.in the course of the investigation, the police organised an ambush, which led to the applicant and his acquaintance, mr d., being arrested.as established by the domestic courts, before his arrest the applicant had pointed a gun at a police officer, who had knocked it out of his hands using a martial arts technique.the gun had been loaded and had had its safety catch released.6.  on an unspecified date the applicant had free legal counsel appointed for him for the pre-trial investigation and the proceedings before the first‑instance court.7.  on 4 september 2006 the odesa regional court of appeal, sitting as a court of first instance, found the applicant guilty of the illegal handling of arms, robbery with violence, intentional murder for profit and an attempt on the life of a law-enforcement officer.it relied, inter alia, on the statements of several eyewitnesses who had recognised the applicant.having regard to the fact that the applicant had previously been convicted of the intentional infliction of fatal injuries and that he had committed the crimes at issue while on probation following release in october 2005, the court sentenced him to life imprisonment.8.  the applicant, who was no longer legally represented, appealed in cassation.he complained, in particular, about the absence of free legal assistance at that stage of the proceedings.the applicant contended that the first-instance court had erred in its assessment of the facts of the case and their legal classification.9.  on 30 january 2007, following a hearing with the participation of mr d. (the other defendant) and his lawyer, as well as the prosecutor, but without the applicant or any representative from his side, the supreme court upheld the judgment of 4 september 2006.10.  on 11 june 2007 the applicant, who was not aware of the above ruling, requested that the supreme court ensure his presence at its hearing.11.  on 17 august 2007 a copy of the supreme court’s ruling of 30 january 2007 was sent to the applicant.
7.  on 23 april 2013 the prefect of rome informed the public prosecutor at the rome youth court (“the youth court”) of the police operation carried out on 19 april 2013 and of the presence of v.c., a minor, at the scene.11.  on 25 june 2013 the applicant’s mother informed the public prosecutor by telephone that the situation had not improved and that the applicant had been approached to pose for pornographic photographs.12.  on 2 july 2013 the public prosecutor informed the youth court that it was clear from the statements made by the parents and the applicant, who had admitted stopping school and using drugs, and from the psychiatrist’s diagnosis, that v.c.13.  on 24 july 2013 the youth court appointed a judge (giudice onorario) to hear evidence from the applicant, her parents and the social services, in order to learn more about her environment and take the appropriate measures to protect her.15.  the youth court gave notice to the applicant’s parents to appear before it on 21 october 2013. the parents gave evidence without the social services being present and stated that their daughter did not want to give evidence.16.  on 24 october 2013 the public prosecutor requested the judge to place the child in the care of the social services and in a specialist institution.17.  on 9 december 2013 the youth court, after hearing evidence from the parents and adding to the file the conversations which the applicant, who had refused to give evidence, had had on facebook, and taking into account the fact that the social services had not attended the hearing, decided that it was necessary to place the child in the care of the social services.21.  on 19 december 2013 the public prosecutor at the district court informed the public prosecutor at the youth court that a criminal investigation was in progress concerning two individuals for exploitation of the applicant for prostitution.the public prosecutor stressed that the arrest of the two suspects was imminent, and requested the prosecutor at the youth court to inform him of the measures taken to implement the youth court’s decision of 9 december 2013 (see paragraph 17 above), given that the applicant was due to give evidence at the ad hoc hearing (incidente probatorio) (see paragraph 51 below).28.  on 19 february 2014 the president of the youth court made an urgent request to the social services to inform her of the measures taken to assist the applicant.29.  on 25 february 2014, having received no information on the applicant’s situation, the youth court requested the competent social services departments to draw up a report on the measures taken to assist her.31.  on 17 march 2014 the department dealing with drug dependency issues informed the youth court that the applicant had not consented to her placement and that, in any event, a psychiatric expert opinion was required prior to placement.37.  on 19 december 2014 the karisma treatment centre informed the social services that the applicant’s problems persisted and that it did not have the necessary infrastructure to deal with them in view of the applicant’s drug addiction.the court found that the two defendants had put pressure on the applicant to engage in prostitution, had benefited from the applicant’s prostitution and had shared the proceeds.in its decision the court stated that the applicant had been the victim of sexual exploitation from august to december 2013 and that the defendants had been aware of her age.
the lawyer stated that the police officers had not allowed the parents to collect personal belongings from the flat but that, as far as he could recall, they had allowed the applicant to hand them some personal items from the flat.according to the applicant, the judge, having interpreted the mother’s response as “yes”, noted in the record of the hearing: “the child has someone to take care of her”.there is someone to take care of my child.” according to the court record of the hearing, the mother’s statement had been preceded by an intervention by the prosecutor, who had indicated that it was necessary to comply with the requirements of article 152 § 6 of the code of criminal procedure, so that if the family had no relatives or friends to care for the child, the municipality had to be informed with a view to placing her in a child-care centre, kindergarten or boarding facility (интернат).19.  on an appeal by the applicant’s parents, the varna court of appeal lifted the detention orders in two separate decisions on 17 december 2002. the applicant’s parents were released on bail and returned home to the applicant the same day.the court found that the criminal proceedings against the applicants’ parents were connected to the father’s political activities and that the extradition request had been made with the aim of persecuting and punishing him for his political beliefs.she directed her claim against the varna regional office of the ministry of the interior, the prosecution service, the ministry of justice and the supreme judicial council, and sought to establish the responsibility of the authorities that had left her unattended during her parents’ detention in december 2002, in breach of the child protection act.28.  in a decision of 27 march 2006 the court invited her to specify the grounds of her claim and to indicate the specific actions, the particular respondent and the type of damage caused to her.35.  the applicant’s parents’ lawyer, who had attended the hearings relating to their detention in 2002, testified on 22 february 2008 that he did not know what had happened to the applicant during her parents’ arrest; nor could he remember anything about the circumstances relating to the question and answer in court on 6 december 2002 concerning her care.36.  the varna regional court rejected the applicant’s claim on 27 july 2009, finding that it had not been proven that she had been left alone while her parents had been detained in december 2002. the court also held that, in the three days following the court hearing on 6 december 2002, the applicant’s mother had not sought to have the record of the hearing rectified, even though it was legally possible to do so.37.  furthermore, the court held that on 6 december 2002 the varna regional court had accepted that the mother had replied in the affirmative to the judge’s question regarding whether there had been anyone to care for the applicant.given that the mother had stated during the hearing on her detention that someone had been taking care of the child, the conditions set out in article 152 of the code of criminal procedure had not been met and, therefore, the institutions involved in the criminal proceedings had not been obliged to pursue steps towards taking the applicant into care.she again challenged the findings of the lower court about her mother’s reply during the court hearing on 6 december 2002. she also submitted that her mother had not been in a position to see the record of the hearing, given that she had been taken back immediately to the remand prison.she further asserted that the authorities had been under an obligation to verify at the time of the arrest on 4 december 2002 and immediately afterwards whether care had been available to her, and that in any event they should not have waited two days to enquire about her situation for the first time during the court hearing.40.  the appellate court confirmed the lower court’s decision on 10 december 2010. it found that, even if the applicant had been left alone after the arrest, responsibility for that could not be attributed to the police, the prosecuting authorities or the court, given that her mother had stated that there had been someone to take care of her.relevant international texts united nations convention on the rights of the child 1989 43.  this treaty (hereinafter “the un convention”), adopted by the general assembly of the united nations on 20 november 1989, has binding force under international law on the contracting states, including all of the member states of the council of europe.
7.  between 11 october 2005 and 24 march 2008 the ploieşti district court (hereinafter referred to as “the district court”) held more than fifteen hearings in the case in order to allow the parties to add evidence to the file.8.  on 21 december 2005 the district court ordered the applicant to inform it by 31 january 2006 of the home addresses of the other six plaintiffs on whose behalf he had brought the proceedings.9.  on 29 november 2006 the applicant informed the district court on behalf of himself and the other six plaintiffs of the cancellation of the legal representation contract they had signed with their initial legal representative.10.  on 24 march and 21 april 2008 the district court adjourned the proceedings on procedural grounds and in order to allow the applicant to add to the file the relevant documents proving that he and the other six plaintiffs were entitled to claim the land in question and that the applicant was authorised by the other plaintiffs to represent them.the court also noted that the proceedings would be suspended in accordance with the relevant civil procedure rules if the applicant failed to comply with the court’s request to add the requisite documents.11.  on 16 june 2008 the district court suspended the proceedings in accordance with article 242 § 1(2) of the former code of civil procedure (hereinafter referred to as the “ccp” – see paragraph 25 below) on the grounds that none of the parties had attended the hearing scheduled for that date.12.  on 26 january 2009 the district court amended of its own motion the decision of 16 june 2008. it held that some of the parties had in fact attended the hearing of 16 june 2008. however, the proceedings had had to be suspended on the grounds that, according to the available evidence, four of the other six plaintiffs had died prior to 2005 and the applicant had taken no steps to identify the heirs of the deceased parties in order to enable the court to summon them as parties to the proceedings.14.  on 8 october and 3 december 2009 the prahova county court (hereinafter referred to as the “the county court”) adjourned the aforementioned appeal proceedings brought by the applicant in order to allow the private company x to prepare its defence and the applicant to submit proof of the steps he had taken to identify the home addresses of the other six plaintiffs, and to serve a summons on the six plaintiffs by publishing it in a national newspaper.it held that there was no evidence in the file that four of the other plaintiffs had died or that the first-instance court had adjourned the proceedings in order to allow the applicant to submit proof of those deaths.16.  on 2 july 2010 the applicant asked the president of the district court to order that court to start the re-examination of the case.he complained that even though the county court had ordered the reopening of the proceedings in the case in february 2010, the district court had still not resumed the examination thereof.17.  on 14 october and 9 december 2010 and 3 march 2011 the district court adjourned the proceedings on procedural grounds to allow the plaintiffs’ legal representative to add documents to the file and to prepare his defence, and for the court to deliberate.moreover, the summonses sent by the court to the known foreign addresses of the other six plaintiffs provided by the applicant had either not been received by the recipients or had been returned because the intended recipients had been unknown at those addresses.since he was the one who had brought the proceedings, he had a duty to produce evidence in respect of the persons he was representing and was solely responsible for the way he had chosen to formulate his action before the court.22.  on 11 march 2013 the county court dismissed the extraordinary appeal for the annulment of the proceedings instituted by the applicant against the final judgment of 28 march 2012 as ill-founded.
11.  in september 2002 the klaipėda region department of environmental protection decided that the purpose of the use of the land, on account of its specific location, could only be changed if the projects were approved by those managing protected areas or with the approval of the ministry of environment.15.  the applicant company instituted court proceedings and complained that it had to pay the land tax but the vilnius regional administrative court on 30 april 2004 and the supreme administrative court on 17 september 2004 held that it had to pay the land tax because it had been using the land in question.the applicant company asked the authorities to amend the draft so that it included the issue of compensation for the buildings or included the buildings in the landscape management recreational zone.27.  on 4 july 2012 the applicant company lodged a complaint with the vilnius regional administrative court, urging it to revoke the part of the government resolution where it had been decided that the buildings at 21 miško street (the location of the applicant company’s buildings) would be demolished and to order the authorities to amend the management plan.the applicant company thought that when the government had approved the management plan, it had been implementing the function of public administration, and that that document had had a direct influence on the applicant company’s rights and obligations, and was thus an individual legal act that had to be examined before the administrative courts.on 28 november 2012 the supreme administrative court upheld the decision of the vilnius regional administrative court of 23 july 2012. it held that the applicant company had questioned the lawfulness of both the management plan and the development plan.the court explained that the applicant company could only raise the issue of the lawfulness of the government resolution in the context of an individual case regarding violation of its specific rights (by complaining against an individual legal act, by which the government resolution and the decisions of the management plan would be implemented).the applicant company’s request to organise the procedure to amend the management plan so that it included the land in question in the landscape management recreational zone was dismissed because the applicant company had failed to address the authorities or the courts after the approval of the management plan.35.  in the course of proceedings the applicant company submitted a draft friendly settlement agreement to be concluded by the state, proposing that the state compensate it for the removal of the buildings by providing the applicant company with lease rights to state-owned land measuring 0.7685 hectares in neringa with construction rights.as regards the referral to the constitutional court, the court held that the applicant company had mistakenly stated that the decision to remove the buildings had only been indicated in the management plan.the court stated that it was a commonly known fact that the applicant company’s buildings had been earmarked for removal at the time the purchase agreement had been concluded, and the applicant company, as a diligent legal entity, should have assessed the legal status of the buildings and the restrictions on their use.37.  in december 2016 the applicant company appealed and asked the supreme administrative court to refer the matter to the constitutional court; to overrule the decision of the authority in charge of the curonian spit national park of 30 december 2013; to order the authority to issue the applicant company with the planning permission required to carry out major repair work and to award it eur 48,489 in respect of pecuniary damage.the applicant company thus asked the commission to overrule the decision of the protected areas service of 20 june 2016 and to order it to amend the management plan in accordance with the applicant company’s proposals.the applicant company appealed against that decision, claiming that it had been formal and lacked reasoning, and that the commission had ignored the fact that the protected areas service’s reply of 20 june 2016 had indicated that it was amenable to appeal before the administrative courts or the commission (see paragraph 40 above).it held that the applicant company had been represented by professional lawyers and the mere fact that the protected areas service had erroneously indicated that its decisions were amenable to appeal did not discharge the applicant company of the obligation to follow the appeal procedure as laid down in domestic law (see paragraph 50 below).
the event had been approved by the city authorities in the form of a march followed by a meeting at bolotnaya square, which was supposed to end at 7.30 p.m. the march was peaceful and held without any disruptions, but when the marchers arrived at bolotnaya square it turned out that barriers installed by the police had narrowed the entrance to the meeting venue, allegedly restricting the space allocated for the meeting.8.  on the same day the moscow city department of the investigative committee of the russian federation opened criminal proceedings to investigate suspected acts of mass disorder and violence against the police (articles 212 § 2 and 318 § 1 of the criminal code).11.  on 10 june 2012 the applicant was detained on suspicion of participation in acts of mass disorder and committing violent acts against the police on 6 may 2012. on 11 june 2012 the basmannyy district court of moscow held a hearing on the investigating authorities’ request to detain the applicant pending the completion of the criminal investigation.12.  on 14 june 2012 the basmannyy district court ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention until 10 august 2012. it referred to the gravity of the charges and stated that the applicant’s state of health did not preclude his being detained.16.  on the same day the district court granted an extension of the applicant’s pre-trial detention until 6 november 2012. it relied on the reasons for and the nature of the crime which had been committed, which gave sufficient grounds to presume that the applicant might reoffend, influence and threaten witnesses and other participants of the criminal proceedings, destroy evidence or otherwise obstruct the proper administration of justice.on the same day the court extended the applicant’s detention until 6 march 2013. the court referred to the gravity of the charges and the nature of the offence imputed to the applicant, along with information about his personality, namely that he had no permanent employment or regular source of income and had negative reports from his place of residence.21.  on 1 march 2013 the basmannyy district court granted a new extension of the applicant’s detention, until 10 june 2013. it stressed the complexity of the case, reiterated the grounds given in the previous orders and noted that the circumstances that had justified the detention order had not changed.23.  on 16 may 2013 the moscow city court examined an appeal by the applicant against its decision of 23 april 2013 and reversed it on the grounds that the prosecutor’s office would have enough time to bring an indictment by 10 june 2013, adding that after that date the trial court could consider a new extension of the applicant’s pre-trial detention.along with the gravity of the charges, the court based its decision on the findings that “the reasons which had initially warranted the detention have not changed” and that “no other measures of restraint would secure the aims and goals of the judicial proceedings”.28.  on 11 september 2013 the ombudsman of the russian federation submitted a complaint to the presidium of the moscow city court about the extension of the applicant’s pre-trial detention and requested an alternative preventive measure for him.they also agreed that the size of the cells and the number of detainees had allowed the applicant four square metres of personal space and that the applicant had had an individual sleeping place in every cell.39.  according to the government, the cells were equipped with ventilation; the state of the sanitary facilities had been satisfactory; the cells had been cleaned and bedding changed once a week; the applicant had been entitled to one hour of outdoor exercise per day; and the cells had been disinfected and subjected to pest control monthly.47.  on 29 march and 19 april 2013 the public commission for the monitoring of detention facilities visited iz-77/5, and the applicant complained to them about the poor quality of his mattress and the deterioration of his eyesight.the medical wing of the remand prison has no ophthalmologist and he was taken for a consultation to the [city hospital] ... according to the chief physician of the medical wing ... [the applicant] had 10% sight in one eye and 20% sight in the other.59.  according to the government, the conditions in the cells at iz-77/2 were as follows: the toilet was separated by a solid partition from the rest of the cell, which provided the necessary privacy; the state of the sanitary facilities was satisfactory; the cells were disinfected and subjected to a pest control procedure once every three months or whenever necessary; the applicant had been entitled to one hour of outdoor exercise daily; the cell had been cleaned and the bedding changed weekly; the cells were equipped with forced ventilation and could be aired through a hinged window.
4.  the applicant was born in 1951 and lived in sarajevo.5.  by its decision of 3 august 2004, and at the recommendation of the sarajevo psychiatric clinic (the “psychiatric clinic”), the sarajevo municipal court instituted proceedings for the applicant’s placement in a psychiatric facility.6.  on 18 august 2004, the sarajevo municipal court decided to keep the applicant in the psychiatric clinic for a maximum of 45 days (counting from the date of his placement, that is 1 august 2004).7.  on 22 september 2004 the sarajevo canton social care centre (the “social care centre”) placed the applicant in the drin social care home (the “drin home”).8.  on 7 january 2005, the sarajevo municipal court deprived the applicant of his legal capacity.9.  on 10 march 2005 the social care centre placed the applicant under the guardianship of d.m., one of its employees.10.  by its decisions of 25 february 2010 and 25 december 2014, the social care centre decided that the applicant should remain in the drin home.11.  on 16 september 2015 the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina (“the constitutional court”) held that the applicant’s deprivation of liberty had not been “in accordance with a procedure prescribed by law” within the meaning of article 5 § 1 of the convention as he had been held in psychiatric detention without a decision of a competent civil court.it also found that article 5 § 4 of the convention had been breached because of the lack of judicial review of the lawfulness of the applicant’s detention.the constitutional court ordered the social care centre to take measures to ensure respect for the applicant’s rights under article 5 §§ 1 and 4 of the convention.12.  on 7 december 2015, the sarajevo municipal court restored the applicant’s legal capacity.13.  the applicant was released from the drin home on 14 december 2015.14.  at the applicant’s request, the social care centre again admitted him to the drin home, between 1 january 2016 and 31 march 2016.15.  the applicant requested an extension of his stay in social care, which request was granted on 1 april 2016. the applicant was thus placed in the social and health care home for persons with disabilities and other persons (the “social and health care home”).16.  the applicant died on 26 september 2016, while in the social and health care home.
10.  on 17 june 2014 the primorskiy district court of st petersburg (“the district court”) dismissed the applicant’s claims, having found that although she had lived in the flat since 1994, there were no grounds to acknowledge her property rights to that flat on account of usucaption.13.  in 2015 the administration of the primorskiy district of st petersburg (“the district administration”) brought court proceedings against the applicant, seeking her eviction from the flat.the administration claimed that the flat was an heirless estate and therefore the property rights to it had to be transferred to the administration.the district administration, as the new owner of the flat, had the right to seek the applicant’s eviction in accordance with article 304 of the civil code of the russian federation.14.  the applicant contested those claims on the following grounds: -  she and n. had been living in the flat since 1994 as husband and wife; -  she had shared a common household with n.; -  n. had let her live in the flat as his family member; -  she had been paying the charges for the flat; -  she had no other housing.the court found, with reference to article 31 of the housing code, that n. had let the applicant live in the flat as a family member, and until his death had shared a common household with her.16.  in its appeal against that judgment the district administration submitted that it had become the owner of the flat on 10 may 2013 following the death of the applicant’s partner.the district administration asked the appeal court to quash the judgment of 23 november 2015 and to issue a new decision granting its eviction claim against the applicant.17.  on 25 april 2016 the city court quashed the judgment of 23 november 2015 and ordered the applicant’s eviction from the flat.the city court held as follows: “... the owner of the flat in question, mr nikolayev a.a., who had let the defendant live in [the flat], died on 9 may 2013.20 at 11, marshal novikov street in st petersburg, which was a heirless estate, had been transferred to the city of st petersburg from the moment the inheritance had been opened, and in accordance with the law it belongs to social housing which is managed by the administration of the primorskiy district of st petersburg.however, following the death of the owner and the transfer of the property rights in respect of the flat to the city of st petersburg pursuant to article 292 of the civil code of the russian federation, the right of mrs valdgardt to use the contested flat had come to an end.taking into account that there are no legal grounds which would allow mrs valdgardt to continue living in the flat and also because the defendant had not vacated the flat voluntarily, the claims of the administration of the primorskiy district to evict the defendant from the residential premises should be granted ...” 18.  the applicant lodged a cassation appeal with the presidium of the city court.21.  on 22 august 2016 a judge of the supreme court of the russian federation refused to refer the applicant’s cassation appeal to the cassation court.24.  on an unspecified date the bailiffs service informed the applicant that if the writ of execution was not enforced by 8.30 a.m. on 26 july 2017, a forced eviction would be carried out at 9 a.m. on 26 july 2017 with the assistance of the police and bailiffs.
4.  the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in belebey, republic of bashkortostan.5.  in october 2007 the applicant and his family moved from uzbekistan to russia, apparently for the purpose of obtaining russian nationality as well as seeking medical treatment for the applicant’s drug addiction.6.  in december 2007 the uzbek authorities charged the applicant with large-scale drug-trafficking committed in october 2007 and issued a detention order and an international search warrant.7.  on 12 july 2008 the applicant was arrested in moscow and on 14 july 2008 the dragomilovskiy district court of moscow ordered the applicant’s detention pending extradition, without setting any time-limit.8.  on 9 december 2008 the russian prosecutor general’s office ordered the applicant’s extradition.9.  on 28 january 2009 the moscow city court confirmed the lawfulness of the applicant’s arrest and detention, and upheld the extradition.10.  in the meantime, on 4 march 2009 the supreme court of russia upheld the judgment of 28 january 2009.11.  on 10 august 2009 the applicant issued an authority form to lawyers to lodge an application with the court on his behalf.12.  on 21 august 2009 the extradition order was enforced and the applicant was transferred to uzbekistan.13.  on 28 august 2009 the applicant’s lawyers – who were apparently unaware of the extradition − requested an interim measure under rule 39 of the rules of court in order to stay the removal.on 1 september 2009 the court indicated the relevant measure to the russian government.14.  however, after the russian government had informed the court about the extradition on 21 august 2009, the interim measure was lifted on 7 october 2009.15.  the parties submitted no information on related events in uzbekistan.16.  on an unspecified date the applicant joined his family in russia.
however, according to the court findings in the criminal case against the applicant (see below), the applicant told ya.later, police officers seized the marked banknotes from v. in the presence of i. and l. 9.  on the same day criminal proceedings were instituted against the applicant for requesting a bribe.12.  on 17 may 2007 the komsomolskiy district court (“the district court”) authorised the applicant’s custody until 24 may 2007. the court held that there was no information about the applicant’s previous convictions, if any, or his family situation, state of health and so on; therefore the court “could not authorise a preventive measure, such as pre-trial detention”.his lawyer indicated that, when requesting that the applicant be remanded in custody, the prosecutor’s office had failed to comply with the court decision of 17 may 2007 (see paragraph 12 above), and had submitted only documents referring to the absence of previous convictions and the applicant’s satisfactory state of health.the lawyer further argued that the applicant had not committed any crime, there were no indications that he would abscond or hinder the investigation, his state of health was not satisfactory, and that council members and village inhabitants had signed a petition for his release.the relevant decision reads as follows: “on 16 january 2008 the komsomolskiy district court of kerson ... established: the criminal case concerning the accusation of [the applicant] under article 368 paragraph 2 of the criminal code of ukraine is pending before the komsomolskiy district court of kherson.the prosecutor requested that the preventive measure against [the applicant] be changed in view of the fact that [the applicant], using publications in ... newspaper, is putting pressure on witnesses in the case (k. and a.)in the hearing, the prosecutor further provided additional evidence to confirm the fact of [the applicant’s] putting pressure on i., a witness, and the victim, ya.having heard the prosecutor’s explanations, as well as [the applicant] and his lawyers, the court finds that the application has to be allowed on the following grounds.[the applicant] has no criminal record, has committed a serious crime linked to his professional activity as the head of khorol village council, is currently removed from his position and accordingly is not able to continue his criminal activity, [and] is well thought of at his place of work and place of residence.however, the court believes that [the applicant], acting through unidentified individuals, has taken steps aimed at obstructing the truth from being established in the case in the course of the court’s consideration of his case.thus, according to statements of 28 december 2007 made by the victim, ya., and i., a witness, unknown individuals acting on [the applicant’s] behalf, have put psychological pressure on them, trying to prevent their appearing at the hearing of 29 december 2007. the above-mentioned fact is evidence of a breach by [the applicant] of his undertakings.bearing in mind that the court proceedings in the criminal case are still ongoing, that k. and a., witnesses, have not yet been questioned, and that there may be a need for additional questioning of i., a witness, and ya., the victim, the court believes that the prosecutor’s application is well-founded and should be granted in order to prevent further possible pressure [being put] on the witnesses and the victim, and thus to eliminate obstacles to establishing the truth in the case ... given what has been stated above, ... the court rules to change the preventive measure in respect of [the applicant] ... ” 18.  on the same date the president of the district court rejected an application by the applicant’s lawyer for the judge who was dealing with the case to be withdrawn on the basis of bias.he held that the expression “has committed a serious crime” used by the court concerned “the classification of the offence of which the applicant was accused”, and did not mean that the court was biased.19.  on 23 january 2008 the kherson regional court of appeal refused the applicant leave to appeal against the decision of 16 january 2008 remanding him in pre-trial detention (see paragraph 17 above), since that decision was not open to appeal.
5.  on 12 december 2008 the timişoara finance inspectorate (hereinafter, “the t.f.i.”) instituted enforcement proceedings against the applicant company on the grounds that it had an outstanding tax liability for the year 2008 amounting to 237,128 romanian lei (ron).invoking article 275 of the romanian code of the civil procedure (hereinafter, “the ccp” – see paragraph 15 below), it also contended that as it had acknowledged its error at the first hearing in the proceedings it should not be ordered to pay the costs and expenses incurred by the applicant company.8.  by a judgment of 16 february 2009 the timişoara district court allowed the applicant company’s challenge concerning the t.f.i.’s decision to open enforcement proceedings and ordered the t.f.i.to pay the applicant ron 9,893; this sum represented respectively the fees of the applicant company’s lawyer (9,700 ron), stamp duty and trial tax (193 ron).had acknowledged its error at the first hearing it could not be exonerated from the payment of the costs and expenses incurred by the applicant company, as the challenge proceedings were the result of a mistake on its part.had started enforcement proceedings against the applicant company for a non-existent debt and that the latter had accordingly had to hire a lawyer and pay the trial fees in order to defend itself.the court also noted that the applicant company had submitted evidence to support its request for the reimbursement of the expenses it had incurred.lodged an appeal on points of law against the judgment of 16 february 2009. it claimed that the first-instance court had not observed the principle of adversarial proceedings and of equality of arms, as it had not had the opportunity to challenge the amount paid by the applicant company in lawyer’s fees, which in its opinion were too high.while holding that the lawyer’s fees corresponded to his input in the case, the court reiterated that the judge was entitled to increase or to reduce a lawyer’s fees, according the specific criteria set out by article 274 of the ccp (see paragraph 15 below).the court thus concluded that the judgment given by the timişoara district court was lawful and well-founded; it further awarded the applicant company the amount of 7,596 ron in legal costs in respect of the appeal proceedings.lodged with the timiş county court an application for the judgment of 12 august 2009 to be set aside (contestaţie în anulare – see paragraph 14 below) on the grounds that the county court had not examined all the arguments that it had raised in its appeal on points of law; the t.f.i.referred in particular to the fact that before the timişoara district court they were not given the possibility to bring their arguments concerning the amount requested by the applicant company and then awarded in legal costs and expenses by the first-instance court.12.  in a final judgment of 19 february 2010 the timiş county court, sitting in a different formation from that of 12 august 2009, allowed the request: it set aside the judgment of 12 august 2009 (see paragraph 10 above) and allowed the appeal lodged by the t.f.i.the county court held that the appellate court had not examined the arguments raised by the defendant in their appeal on points of law in relation to the manner in which the first instance court applied article 274 § 3 of the ccp (see paragraph 15 below); in particular, the first instance court had not allowed the parties to bring their arguments concerning the amount of the legal costs requested by the applicant company.13.  the county court then re-examined the amount paid by the applicant company in lawyer’s fees and considered that in relation to the lawyer’s input in the case, it was justified to reduce that amount from ron 9700 to ron 700. it also considered that the stamp duty and trial tax in the amount of 193 ron were not to be granted to the applicant company, in so far as this amount could be requested separately from the fiscal authorities, based on the law no.
such conduct may show that the subject matter of the proceedings is of lesser importance for the injured person and it may be taken into consideration under the criterion of the injured person’s conduct.... nonetheless, even if there are no such circumstances on the part of the injured person, it is not possible to wholly ignore the fact that the plaintiff has initiated a large number of judicial disputes.it puts him in a different position as regards the perception of the degree of damage caused by the excessive length of one of the disputes compared to the position of a person participating in only one or only a few judicial proceedings (compare, in similar terms, the european court of human rights inadmissibility decision in the case of havelka v. the czech republic, of 20 september 2011, applications nos.30 cdo 3340/2011, the supreme court added that if in the proceedings concerned the procedure under article 118 §§ 1 and 2 of the code of civil procedure (ccp) has been followed, the application of the possibility to increase compensation is limited by the rules for submitting new facts and modifying the initial action in the proceedings before the court of first instance; the same applies in similar fashion to appeal proceedings (see article 205a § 1 and article 2016 § 2 of the ccp).in the present case, the appellant raised a claim for compensation for the length of the compensation proceedings only in the course of the proceedings before the appellate court, in a submission of 11 april 2012 (file page 128) ... so it was an inadmissible new claim.” 11.  on 24 april 2014 the constitutional court (ústavní soud) dismissed a constitutional complaint (ústavní stížnost) by the applicant.on 7 february 2012 he filed a constitutional complaint, which was rejected as premature by the constitutional court on 29 may 2012. the supreme court dismissed his appeal on points of law on 11 november 2015, referring, inter alia, to a decision by the court on the same matter, which had found the complaint manifestly ill-founded (see žirovnický v. the czech republic (dec.), no.24.  on 12 december 2012 the prague municipal court upheld the judgment, finding that although the main proceedings had lasted an unreasonably long time the applicant could not be awarded compensation because of the lack of significance of the proceedings for him.31.  after several decisions on exemption from court fees, the appointment of a legal representative for the applicant and several attempts by the court to procure the related criminal case files, a hearing was held on 28 march 2008, following which the municipal court dismissed the action.it found that awarding him financial compensation would be against good morals, given the circumstances of the case, namely the applicant’s conduct in the main proceedings, the conduct of the courts, the importance of the subject matter of the proceedings for the applicant as well as his character, his relation towards the state and society and his lack of respect for the rights of others.having regard to the overall length of the main proceedings, the municipal court determined the sum to be awarded to the applicant (czk 108,000 – eur 4,000) and then adjusted it with regard to the length of the compensation proceedings (+20%), procedural difficulties in the main proceedings (-30%) and the importance of what had been at stake for him (-40%).48.  on 11 may 2009 the district court dismissed the action, considering that the overall length of the proceedings at issue had not been unreasonable despite one particular delay, particularly because the applicant had in fact known the result of the proceedings after the supreme administrative court’s first judgment of september 2006.50.  on 22 november 2011 the supreme court quashed the judgment and remitted the case to the municipal court, stating that the finding of a violation should have been set out in the operative part of the judgment.however, it found that the finding of a violation would provide adequate redress, given the lack of importance of what was at stake for the applicant and the fact that he must have known the result of the proceedings as soon as the supreme administrative court had issued its first judgment.54.  on 12 october 2004 the applicant brought an administrative action against the prison service (vězeňská služba) and the ministry of justice, challenging decisions on a disciplinary penalty (a reprimand) that had been imposed on him and the failure of the ministry of justice to decide on a complaint by him about a violation of regulations by prison service staff.55.  after exempting the applicant from court fees, appointing a lawyer to represent him and seeking necessary clarification of the action, on 19 october 2006 the prague municipal court found the action in respect of the disciplinary decisions inadmissible, severing the part of the action concerning the ministry of justice’s alleged failure to act.10 c 49/2008), a hearing was held on 22 september 2015. the district court dismissed the action on the same day, finding that the length of the main proceedings had been reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
while the applicant held the position of head of administration for all kindergartens in slavonski brod, z.b.at a certain point in time z.b., as an employee of a kindergarten in slavonski brod, was a subordinate of the applicant.7.  on 23 october 2008 the applicant held a press conference entitled “all victims of the human resources policy of the mayor of slavonski brod, m.d.”, where she alleged that the mayor of slavonski brod was involved in various irregularities in the employment of civil servants in local public institutions.as the manager of a kindergarten run by the municipality even though she had used invalid documents and held only citizenship of the former yugoslavia, and that together the mayor and z.b.instituted a private prosecution against the applicant in the slavonski brod municipal court (općinski sud u slavonskom bordu) on charges of defamation related to the above-mentioned statement.9.  during the proceedings the applicant contended that she had wanted to show all irregularities concerning the mayor’s employment of local civil servants, and that she had learnt that z.b.10.  on 21 may 2010 the slavonski brod municipal court acquitted the applicant on the grounds that the material obtained during the proceedings showed that z.b.had been registered in 1985 in the register of births of bosnia and herzegovina, which at the time had been one of the former yugoslav republics.she had been registered as a croatian citizen on 13 october 2008, whereas she had lodged her application for employment at the kindergarten on 12 february 2008. in the circumstances, the slavonski brod municipal court considered that the applicant demonstrated the veracity of her statements.11.  on 23 may 2011, upon an appeal by z.b., the slavonski brod county court (županijski sud u slavonskom brodu) quashed the first-instance judgment and ordered a retrial, on the grounds that not all of the relevant facts had been properly established.12.  after a retrial, on 26 january 2012 the slavonski brod municipal court found the applicant guilty of defamation for having said “[the mayor] appointed people who are using invalid documents to crucial positions, for example z.b., who unfortunately still has citizenship of the former yugoslavia” and “[the mayor], together with his manager [z.b.], fired a girl on the pretence that, as the child of a [croatian] war veteran, she had no right to preferential treatment with regard to employment”.the applicant was also ordered to pay the costs of the proceedings in the amount of 8,250 croatian kunas (hrk).14.  the applicant then lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske), complaining, inter alia, that her freedom of expression had been violated by the judgments of the lower courts.16.  the decision of the constitutional court was served on the applicant’s representative on 11 october 2012.
as to the risk of absconding, the judge took into account the statements of the suspects, including the fact that some of them had decided to remain silent, the gravity of the charges and the severity of the anticipated penalty, and concluded that there was a risk of the suspects absconding if they were released.having regard to the nature, character and type of offences that are being investigated, as well as the gravity of the charges, the level of criminal responsibility, the anticipated penalty ... the panel considers that there is a real risk of flight if the defendants are released ... the risk of flight is further reinforced by the financial circumstances of the defendants, given the fact that most of them do not have immovable property in their name ... the panel has taken into consideration the fact that most of the defendants have families and that they are parents, as well as that [some of the defendants, including ms e. ramkovska] have immovable property in their name, but these circumstances do not eliminate the risk of the defendants absconding and are insufficient to secure their attendance at the pre-trial proceedings.” 11.  the panel also considered that, if released, the suspects might interfere with the investigation.in this connection, it took note of the fact that the examination of prosecution witnesses had been scheduled for 21, 25 and 31 january 2011. the fact that some of the suspects (but not the applicants) had decided to remain silent was considered by the panel as a factor that heightened the risk of interference with the investigation.14.  on 4 february 2011 the skopje court of appeal (апелационен суд скопје, “the court of appeal”) dismissed the appeals of the applicants and the other suspects and upheld the court order.as regards the risk of interference with the investigation, the court of appeal held that the investigation had not yet been completed and the examination of the witnesses was ongoing.the court relied on the gravity of the charges and the severity of the penalty to justify detaining them on the grounds of the risk of their absconding.having regard to the nature, character and type of offences with which the accused are charged under the indictment; given that the accused committed the criminal offences as a well-organised and compact group consisting of organisers and members with assigned roles in taking the incriminated actions they are suspected of; having regard to the degree of danger for society and criminal responsibility; having regard to the type and severity of the anticipated penalty for the type of offences of which the accused are suspected, including the possibility of an effective prison sentence, the panel considers that there is a real risk of flight if the accused are released ... the risk of flight is increased if the behaviour of h.r., n.r., r.i. and r.c [other accused] is taken into consideration given that they remain unavailable to the law-enforcement authorities ... in the assessment of the risk of reoffending as a ground warranting further extension of the pre-trial detention, the panel took into account the nature and type of the offences with which the accused were charged ... and the fact that the defendants are accused of acting as a well-organised group, consisting of organisers and members, with assigned roles in the business structures of several companies, that acted over a prolonged period of time.the risk of reoffending is reinforced due to the circumstance that some of the criminal offences were committed as continuous crimes, which underlines the nature and character [of the accused], as well as their susceptibility to carry out criminal activities of this type over a prolonged period of time.the fact that the majority of the accused still occupy the same posts in the companies involved in the criminal proceedings, from which they took the incriminated actions of which they are accused in the criminal proceedings at hand, generates a risk of reoffending if the accused are released ...” 19.  on 28 march 2011 the applicants lodged appeals complaining that the court order violated their rights under article 5 of the convention, in that it did not provide concrete reasons for their detention.it relied on the gravity of the charges and the severity of the anticipated penalty as circumstances warranting further extension of the pre-trial detention of the applicants and the other accused.with regard to the risk of reoffending, the court of appeal took note of the fact that the defendants were accused of acting as an organised group over a prolonged period of time, with pre-defined roles, using the established business structure of companies in the respondent state and abroad.in the article the journalist wrote about the factual background of the case, the complaints communicated to the government and the questions asked by the court.30.  the caption under the title of the article read as follows: “the state offered a settlement to velija ramkovski – compensation for the long pre-trial detention and violation of the presumption of innocence in the ‘spider web’ affair, in relation to which he has complained before the european court [of human rights] – but he refused.faced with the fact that the state will lose the case, the government will change the legal provisions concerning pre-trial detention.” 31.  the last part of the article was entitled “ramkovski refuses settlement, the government changes the law” (“рамковски одбива спогодба, владата го менува законот”).- the government agent and the bureau for representation of the state before the court in strasbourg are preparing the observations to be sent to the court by the end of november – said the government agent, kostadin bogdanov.
7.  on 2 december 2014 the russian ministry of justice issued an exclusion order, declaring the applicant’s presence in russia undesirable and prohibiting his return to russia until 2020. further to the exclusion order, on 4 march 2015 the migration authorities issued a deportation order in respect of the applicant and he was later arrested.8.  on 7 may 2015 the georgian authorities informed the russian migration authority that the applicant was not a georgian national and that they would not assist in his return to georgia.9.  on 14 december 2015 the applicant was accused of an offence under article 18.8 § 3 of the code of administrative offences (cao) on account of his presence in russia without the necessary documents.the judge noted that the applicant was a stateless person but held that he had to comply with a statutory obligation to leave russia, having no valid legal basis for being there.11.  on 25 december 2015 the applicant appealed, arguing, inter alia, that the penalty of administrative removal could not be enforced in the absence of georgian or any other nationality and that it was therefore unjustified to place him in detention and keep him there.12.  on 26 january 2016 the saint petersburg city court upheld the judgment of 15 december 2015. the appeal court considered that the applicant could still be removed to the country from which he had arrived in russia if there was a readmission agreement with that country; that he could be held in detention for a maximum of two years, which was the statutory period for the enforceability of a penalty; and that the cao had not required the trial judge to set any time-limit when ordering his placement in a detention centre for foreigners.13.  on 24 march 2016 the georgian authorities again informed the russian migration authority that they would not assist in providing documents for the applicant’s return to georgia as he was not a georgian national and there were no other legal grounds for such assistance.14.  the applicant sought a review of the decisions of 15 december 2015 and 26 january 2016. on 24 june 2016 the deputy president of the city court upheld them on review under article 30.12 of the cao.15.  on 22 july 2016 the district court dismissed an application from the applicant to terminate the proceedings to enforce the judgment of 15 december 2015. the court held that there was no statutory basis in the cao or other legislation for granting such an application.16.  in the meantime, on 1 august 2016, referring to article 5 § 4 of the convention, the applicant lodged an application for release and again sought termination of the enforcement proceedings.18.  on 5 june 2017 the applicant’s lawyer lodged an application with the kirovskiy district court of saint petersburg in order to obtain the applicant’s release, referring to the above-mentioned constitutional ruling.19.  from 15 december 2015 to 5 august 2016 (when the application was lodged with the court) and then further until 22 june 2017 the applicant was kept in the сentre for the temporary confinement of foreign nationals (центр временного содержания иностранных граждан) in krasnoye selo.20.  during the period of his confinement up to 3 august 2016 the applicant was locked in his cell most of the time, being taken to a courtyard (measuring some fifteen square metres) every second day for ten to fifteen minutes.26.  the applicant has submitted several photographs of the cells, a statement written by his cellmate after march 2017, a statement from a detainee written in 2015 and a recent news report about the detention centre.they noted that the toilets (consisting of a “hole”) in the cells on the fourth floor were separated from the main area by a low partition or curtain and that it was not possible to switch the lights on or off from inside the cells.
4.  the list of applicants is set out in the appended tables.5.  on the dates indicated in the appended tables the applicants obtained monetary court awards against the municipal unitary enterprise passenger transport company of kotlas (mup kotlas passazhirskoye avtotransportnoye predpriyatiye – муниципальное предприятие муниципального образования котлас «пассажирское автотранспортное предприятие»).6.  some of the judgments in the applicants’ favour have been partly enforced during the insolvency proceedings in respect of the company (see paragraphs 7-10 below), while others remained unenforced to date.7.  the company was incorporated as a municipal unitary enterprise.it was set up by the municipality of kotlas.the company provided transport services in the town.it had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to it.8.  as submitted by the applicants, the prices for the transport services in the town of kotlas were regulated by the administration of arkhangelsk region.9.  on 28 september 2007 insolvency proceedings started in respect of the company.10.  on 18 september 2012 the company was declared insolvent and subsequently liquidated.
in his application form, the applicant submitted that he had sustained injuries as a result of the police intervention, and that on the way to the police station he had been insulted, threatened and ill-treated by rrf police officers.8.  the relevant criminal file, which was submitted by the government as part of their observations, indicated that two investigations had been opened into the criminal offence of the commission of arbitrary actions by a person vested with public powers in the exercise of his duties, as provided for in article 250 of the criminal code (kodi penal, hereinafter “the cc”).10.  the escort record (formulari i raportit të shoqërimit) in respect of the applicant, which bore the date 6 august 2012 and the time 8.10 p.m., stated that “he was bleeding from the back of his head and physically and verbally resisted the police officers.” 11.  it would appear that on 6 august 2012 at 8.30 p.m. the applicant telephoned a certain n.l., who was a judicial police officer working for the minister of the interior’s internal control service in pogradec (shërbimi i kontrollit të brendshëm, hereinafter “the ics”), and informed him of his intention to lodge a criminal complaint against the rrf officers who had allegedly beaten him on the shoulder, leg and head with a rubber truncheon.18.  on 13 august 2012 the district prosecutor ordered that a number of procedural actions should be taken, such as: the examination of a forensic medical report in respect of the applicant (see paragraph 20 below), the questioning of the applicant, the examination of the four people who had knowledge of the events, the collection of information about the identity of the rrf police officers, and any other action as appropriate.347 in response to a criminal complaint lodged by the applicant on 8 august 2012 against the rrf police officers in relation to the criminal offence of the commission of arbitrary actions as provided for in article 250 of the cc.on 3 september 2012 the district prosecutor ordered that a number of procedural actions should be taken, such as: the inspection of the registration log of the police station, the collection of information about the identity of the rrf police officers, the holding of an identification parade to identify the police officers, the taking of statements from the applicant and other people who had knowledge of the events, and any other action as appropriate.on the way to the police station one of the police officers had remained standing with his arm raised, ready to hit the applicant with the rubber truncheon he had in his hand.24.  on 10 september 2012 the district prosecutor asked the local police station to provide information relating to the identity of the rrf officers who had been on duty in pogradec on 6 august 2012. on 17 september 2012 the pogradec police station responded that the rrf team had been led by v.b., who was responsible for disclosing the information relating to the identity of the members.26.  on 18 september 2012 the district prosecutor ordered that a number of procedural actions should be taken, such as: questioning of the applicant, inspection of the registration log of the police station, inspection of the registration log of the local hospital’s emergency ward, examination of the forensic medical report in respect of the applicant (presumably the report set out in paragraph 20 above), collection of information about the identity of the rrf officers, questioning of four people who had knowledge of the events, examination of video footage from the nearby bank, and any other action as appropriate.he had refused to take part in an identification parade, owing to the fact that he had not been informed of such a procedural action, he and his colleague had been the only police officers wearing distinct rrf uniforms, and the applicant had been observing them for more than an hour.it would appear that the applicant had left the police station at 10.30 p.m. the registration log of the local hospital showed that the applicant had reported to the emergency ward at 11.00 p.m. with a wound caused by tearing and a contusion on the back of his head (vulnus laceratum, contusio capitis regionis occipitalis).39.  on 13 may 2013 the district prosecutor, by a reasoned decision, decided to stay the investigation in accordance with article 326 of the ccp, and referred the case file to the ics for further actions to identify the perpetrators.the decision described all the evidence that had been obtained, as well as the statements that had been given by the applicant and the other people who had either been involved in or had witnessed the brawl on 6 august 2012. in so far as relevant, the decision stated the following: “j.k.as regards the criminal complaint that physical violence was used by the rrf officers when petri was taken to the police station, i consider that doubts arise as to whether the offence of abuse of power as provided for by article 248 of the cc has been committed.having regard to the fact that criminal responsibility is individual and not collective, i consider that the investigation should be stayed.” 40.  having not received any response from the pogradec prosecutor’s office about the progress of the investigation, on 27 december 2012 the applicant sought the assistance of the albanian rehabilitation centre for trauma and torture (“the centre”).
6.  from the beginning of april 2014 armed groups started to seize official buildings in the donetsk and luhansk regions and announced the creation of self-proclaimed entities known as the “donetsk people’s republic” and “luhansk people’s republic” (the “dpr” and “lpr”).7.  in response, on 14 april 2014 the government, who consider the armed groups to be terrorist organisations, authorised the use of force against them in the legal form of an “anti-terrorist operation”.8.  in june 2014 the armed groups started to seize offices of the national bank of ukraine and other regional financial institutions in the donetsk and luhansk regions.9.  on 24 july 2014 the ukrainian postal service ukrposhta suspended its operations on the territories of the donetsk and luhansk regions that were outside the control of the government, because of frequent attacks on its vehicles and employees by armed groups.10.  on 6 august 2014 the national bank of ukraine suspended all financial transactions on the territories outside the control of the government (see paragraph 20 below).11.  government forces recaptured some territories in the donetsk and luhansk regions, but certain parts of the regions have remained outside the government’s control since that time.one part of the donetsk region not under the government’s control is the city of donetsk.12.  on 2 september 2014, following changes in the law, jurisdiction of the courts in the non-controlled areas was transferred to the relevant courts in the neighbouring regions on the territory controlled by the government (see paragraphs 34 to 36 below).13.  on 11 november 2014 all social benefit payments in the settlements of the donetsk and luhansk regions that were outside the control of the government were suspended (see paragraph 26 below) 14.  in december 2014 the donetsk regional administrative court and the donetsk regional administrative court of appeal were relocated to the cities of sloviansk and kramatorsk, territory controlled by the government (see paragraphs 37 and 38 below).15.  the applicants were registered as recipients of social benefits with different departments of the pension fund of ukraine in donetsk.16.  on 16 june 2015 the first and second applicants registered themselves with the labour and social security department of the krasnoarmiysk district of the donetsk region (currently the city of pokrovsk), controlled by the government.17.  the sixth applicant was registered with the labour and social security department of the obolonskiy district in kyiv on 9 september 2015. however, she did not apply for reinstatement of her social benefits.18.  the other applicants did not apply to the relevant social authorities on the territory controlled by the government for reinstatement of their social benefits.19.  according to the government, the sixth and seventh applicants travelled from donetsk to the territory controlled by the government after their social benefits had been suspended.the government provided a certificate from the state customs office stating that the sixth and seventh applicants had entered the territory controlled by the government on 31 october 2015, through an authorised checkpoint near the frontline between ukrainian forces and “dpr” armed groups in the town of zaitseve.
in july 2006 he had volunteered to cover the g8 summit, which was being held in the st petersburg region, for libertarian information and news collective (linc), disseminating press-releases and information on the internet about protests, connecting journalists and protesters, and providing coverage about the issues raised by activists.in his comments on the third-party submissions before the court, the applicant added that at the time he had been “involved with” the independent media centre (indymedia); prior to the g8 summit, he had taken leave from his television assignments and had “focused on media work” in the framework of linc.he did not take part in the protest; rather, his actions were limited to observing people and taking photographs, including when the police started to disperse the gathering and to arrest some of the participants.11.  it follows from the identical reports of two police officers that they approached the applicant and ordered him to cease his “unlawful actions”; despite several warnings, the applicant refused; he was then ordered to follow them to the police vehicle in order to be taken to the police station.the following pre-typed text was underlined in the record: “arrested in order to put an end to the offence, to compile the record of administrative offence, to examine the case and so on, as required by the cao”.14.  according to the government, when the applicant was arrested and held in the police station, he was in possession of an immigration card indicating “a private visit” to mr t. residing in moscow as the aim of his presence in russia, as well as photocopies of his ukrainian passport and shengen visa.in the applicant’s submission, the lawyer arrived at the police station at 9.15 a.m. but was not allowed to see him until 2 p.m. 16.  at around that time, the applicant was allowed access to the administrative-offence record.physical force had to be used against him to make him get into the vehicle.” the record also had the following pre-typed line with added handwritten text: “witnesses, attesting witnesses, victims: go., [address]; so., [address] ...” 17.  several hours later, a new administrative-offence record was compiled by officer d. the applicant read and signed it at around 7 p.m. according to the record, the applicant was arrested because he had “disobeyed a lawful order from a police officer”.he was accused of disobeying two orders from the police: (i) to cease his participation in the non-authorised demonstration; and (ii) to get, “voluntarily”, into the police vehicle, as stated in the judgment of the justice of the peace.the judge heard ms k., who stated that she had been taking a walk together with the applicant at 8.30 a.m. on 16 july 2006 when they had seen people running along nevskiy avenue; the applicant had started to follow them; she had lost sight of him and had eventually caught up with him when he had been placed in a police vehicle; at that point, he had not been showing any resistance to the police.21.  according to the applicant, the court refused to hear the officers who had arrested him (“the arresting officers”), the officers who had compiled the initial and the amended administrative-offence records or anyone mentioned in the record (see paragraphs 16-17 above).22.  on the same evening, the justice of the peace convicted the applicant under article 19.3 of the cao and sentenced him to three days of detention, to be counted from 10 a.m. on the same day.23.  the court relied on (i) the (second) administrative-offence record, compiled by the authority initiating prosecution against the applicant, and (ii) the written statements made by the arresting officers prior to the trial.i would ask you to examine the appeal in my absence but with the participation of my counsel and a representative from the ukrainian consulate.” 26.  on 18 july 2006 the applicant was visited by an official from the ukrainian consulate and signed a document authorising the consul to represent him on appeal.the appeal court held as follows: “[the applicant] argued in his statement of appeal that the trial court had not taken into account that as a journalist he had not taken part in the so-called “anti-globalist” protest; the trial court had not examined prosecution witnesses while the judgment was solely based on the written reports made by the police officers who had arrested him ... the trial judge gave a proper assessment of the officers’ reports and testimonies, including the testimony by k. who had been examined at the defendant’s request.
4.  on 28 february 1996 the applicants and the debtor (jsp “tara” cetinje) reached a court approved settlement before the cetinje municipal court, whereby the debtor undertook to pay the applicants specified amounts in respect of pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage.5.  the settlement became final on the same date.6.  the debtor ultimately paid part of the amounts determined in the settlement.7.  on 26 may 1997 the podgorica commercial court opened insolvency proceedings against the debtor.8.  on 19 august 1997 the applicants submitted their respective claims based on the settlement.9.  in the course of the insolvency proceedings the podgorica commercial court acknowledged the applicants’ claims.10.  on 23 december 2009 the podgorica commercial court terminated (zaključio) the insolvency proceedings against the debtor, but continued the proceedings against the debtor’s estate.this decision was upheld by the appellate court on 9 april 2010.11.  the proceedings are still pending.12.  on 14 october 2010 the constitutional court dismissed the applicants’ constitutional appeal on procedural grounds.13.  the court settlement in question remains partly unenforced to the present day.14.  it transpires from the case file that at the time the court settlement was concluded and became final (see paragraphs 4 and 5 above) the debtor was a company predominantly comprised of state‑controlled capital.the government neither contested this nor provided any evidence to the contrary.
6.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.8.  on 16 november 2009, after the investigator had reclassified their actions as a more serious offence, the zavolzhskiy district court in tver ordered the applicant’s placement in custody, citing the gravity of the charges and the fact that he had recanted.the district court interpreted the latter element as amounting to the risk of an obstruction of justice.on 11 december 2009 the tver regional court upheld the detention order on appeal, finding as follows: “[the fact that the defendant] has a permanent place of residence, lives with his family, is studying in high school and does not have a criminal record does not provide a basis for rejecting unconditionally the investigator’s application [for a detention order] in the light of the extreme gravity of the charges.” 9.  on 12 january 2010 the district court extended the authorised detention period, pointing out that the applicant “had changed his attitude to the committed offence from an outright acknowledgement to a downright denial”.in the court’s opinion, that implied that the applicant might interfere with justice if released.the district court also added that the custodial measure was necessary “to secure the enforcement of the conviction”.on 3 february 2010 the regional court upheld the district court’s assessment on appeal, in particular its finding that a non-custodial measure would not be sufficient to secure the enforcement of the conviction.10.  on 20 january 2010 the investigator in charge of the applicant’s case refused the parents’ request for leave to visit their son, reasoning as follows: “the investigation appointed mr v. smirnov, the father of mr a. smirnov, as the legal representative of the underage defendant.however, the investigation considers that mr v. smirnov is using all means to interfere with the criminal proceedings because of his vested interests; he has not responded when summonsed by the investigator or court, and is causing all kinds of delays in the proceedings.the investigation considers that this kind of conduct on the part of mr v. smirnov may have a negative influence of the defendant mr a. smirnov, as well as interfering with the establishment of the truth in the criminal case.” 11.  on 25 january 2010 the supervising prosecutor rejected a complaint from the applicant’s father about the investigator’s decision, recalling that the granting of leave to visit a detainee was at the investigator’s discretion rather than being a legal obligation and that the arguments for refusing leave were “persuasive and well-justified”.12.  on 3 february 2010 the district court issued a further extension order, holding that the applicant had been charged with a particularly serious offence and that the circumstances warranting the application of a custodial measure still obtained.13.  the final extension order of 11 march 2010 referred to the gravity of the charges against both co-defendants, without distinguishing between their individual situations.14.  by a judgment of 25 march 2010, the regional court found the applicant and his co-defendant guilty of attempted murder and sentenced each of them to five years’ imprisonment.on 9 june 2010 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the conviction.all visits were carried out under the supervision of a warden while the applicant was separated from his parents by a glass partition.
4.  the applicants were born in 1987 and 1986 and live in gümüşhane and erzincan respectively.5.  on 18 may 2007 the applicants participated in reading out a press statement in commemoration of i̇brahim kaypakkaya, the leader of the tkp/ml[1] (turkish communist party – marxist/leninist), who had died in 1973, allegedly under torture in police custody.6.  on 7 january 2008 the erzurum public prosecutor initiated criminal proceedings against fifteen people, including the applicants, charging them with disseminating propaganda in favour of the tkp/ml, under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no.3713).according to the indictment, during the gathering, the second applicant had read out a press declaration containing statements praising the tkp/ml and i̇brahim kaypakkaya, and the following slogans had been chanted by the demonstrators: “i̇brahim is our leader”, “our struggle continues and shall continue”, “i̇brahim kaypakkaya is immortal”, “down with the usa” and “we will drown fascism in the blood it has shed”.the group had also carried a banner which read “i̇brahim kaypakkaya is immortal – partizan”[2].7.  on 31 march 2009 the erzurum assize court found the applicants guilty as charged and sentenced each of them to ten months’ imprisonment pursuant to section 7(2) of law no.3713. in its judgment, the assize court held that the applicants had disseminated propaganda in favour of the tkp/ml, given that the second applicant had read out the press statement and the first applicant had chanted slogans.the court based its judgment on a report prepared by an expert regarding a police video-recording of the public gathering in question.8.  taking into account the applicants’ good behaviour during the trial and the fact that they had no previous criminal convictions, the court suspended pronouncement of the applicants’ conviction on the condition that they did not commit another intentional offence for a period of five years, under article 231 of the code of criminal procedure (hükmün açıklanmasının geri bırakılması).9.  the applicants filed an objection against the decision of 31 march 2009. in their petition, they stated that the first-instance court had erred in interpreting the facts and the law, and they asked to be acquitted of the charges against them.they further stated that their prosecution had constituted a breach of article 10 of the convention.10.  on 20 july 2009 the diyarbakır assize court held that the application of article 231 of the code of criminal procedure in the case was in line with the domestic law, and rejected the applicants’ objection without examining the merits of the case.that decision was served on the applicants on 5 august 2009.
9.  the applicant and d. were examined by officer k. in his report to his superior, drawn up at 10.40 a.m. on 27 august 2009, he stated that in view of the applicant’s answers to questions and because of his behaviour, neither of which have been specified to the court, there was a need to verify the information contained in the applicant’s customs declaration by way of an “inspection procedure” (see paragraph 31 below) in respect of the items in his bag and backpack and to “apply the measure for minimising risk as per profile no.10.  the government have submitted to the court a written statement from k., which reads as follows: “following the customs control measure of an interview and given [d.’s and the applicant’s] behaviour and the nature of their professional activities, a supposition/assumption (предположение) arose that they might have banned printed and/or audio- and video-material with extremist content in their bags ... since [the applicant] noted in his declaration that he had electronic storage devices, i made a written report to the acting chief officer of the customs checkpoint concerning the need for carrying out an inspection of [the applicant’s] bags in the framework of the risk management system and for involving officer b., an it specialist.the inspection was approved by the chief officer by way of his handwritten approval on my report ... the chief officer issued an order for an inspection and authorised b. and myself to use the sampling procedure ... the above-mentioned supposition/assumption was based on the presence of a folder labelled “extremist” in the laptop ... data from it was copied on the same day [on the spot] ... to dvd rw disks, which were then sealed in a plastic bag ... [the applicant], b. and two attesting witnesses were present ... the sampling report contained a detailed description of the data that was copied, including the names of the folders that had been copied, their number and the number of files in each folder ... the copying was carried out by officer b. i did not open or copy any electronic folders or files ... i did not read any ‘correspondence’ (personal correspondence or other text material) ... an order to carry out a forensic examination was issued on 8 september 2009 ... because on 27 august 2009 we had no information about the relevant expert organisations for that type of forensic examination ...” 11.  the government have also submitted a written statement from officer b., which reads as follows: “in accordance with the order for an inspection [no.i did not read any ‘correspondence’ (personal correspondence or other text material) from the laptop.” 12.  according to the government, after finding in the directory of the laptop an electronic folder entitled “extremism (for rr[1])”, which contained a number of photographs, the customs officer decided to copy it and some other folders from the laptop for further examination by an expert, who could determine whether they contained any information of an extremist nature.17.  the applicant submitted the following written statement by ms d. to the court: “at 10 a.m. we presented ourselves at the border control and presented our passports ... we were then taken to the customs control area ... there the customs officers asked [the applicant] to hand over his press card; so they were aware that he had one ... officer k. interviewed us about the purpose of our visit to abkhazia and our professional and civic activities ... i heard an fsb border officer tell the customs officers about the need for a ‘special check’ of our electronic storage devices ... seeing a laptop in [the applicant’s] bag, the customs officers expressed their intention to copy all the available information ... i was interviewed (again) about my civic activities, my political views and about [the applicant’s] professional activities ... the type of work done and the publications ...” 18.  on 9 september 2009 the applicant was informed that a report had been commissioned from a criminal forensics expert to determine whether the data copied from his laptop had any prohibited “extremist” content.all goods should be presented for checking by customs, as required under article 14 of the code ... the customs authorities are authorised to take samples of goods for examination ... and to use technical devices to speed up the checks ... the data from the applicant’s laptop was copied for the purposes of examination in compliance with presidential decree no.310 on combating fascism and political extremism ... in the circumstances, the fact that the samples taken for examination constituted all the relevant data was justified ...” 22.  the applicant appealed, arguing, inter alia, that the first-instance court’s assessment had not taken into account the requirements relating to articles 8 and 10 of the european convention, in particular, the requirement that any interference by a public authority had to be shown to be “necessary in a democratic society” and proportionate to the legitimate aims pursued.article 55 of the constitution only permitted restrictions on people’s rights on the basis of a federal statute; the decree in question was secondary legislation (подзаконный акт) and could not lawfully introduce additional limitations on constitutional rights; (b)  the trial court had mentioned that laptops, flash memory cards and the like were “goods” for the purposes of customs legislation.access to that information, however, was only allowed on the basis of a court order, as stated in article 23 of the constitution; (c)  in his “written explanations” to the appeal court, the applicant insisted that in chapter 25 proceedings a public authority had the burden of proving that its acts were lawful and justified.according to the applicant, the customs authority representative had refused at the hearing to explain the specific content of the risk profile concerning the applicant, referring to the fact that the information in question was classified and was for internal use only.23.  on 22 april 2010 the krasnodar regional court upheld the judgment, essentially reproducing the lower court’s reasoning as follows: “under articles 403 and 408 of the customs code, customs authorities fulfill the tasks and functions assigned to them by federal and other legislation ... and have the authority to apply measures prescribed by the customs code for ensuring compliance with customs legislation ... article 11 of the customs code defines goods (for the purposes of customs legislation) as movable property which is being transferred across the customs border.article 358 of the code provides that customs checks are based on the principle of selectiveness and, as a rule, should be limited to such forms of control as are sufficient for ensuring compliance with customs legislation ... when selecting the form of control, the risk management approach is applied, which is based on the effective use of resources for preventing violations of the legislation ... risk is defined as a probability of non-compliance with customs legislation.677 of 10 november 1995 by the customs authority (‘on preventing the transfer of prohibited printed, audio- and video-material across the customs border’) does not contradict the current customs legislation and has not been revoked because the current customs code contains article 13 concerning bans and limitations on the transfer of goods across the customs border ... in view of the above, the court agrees with the first-instance court that the customs inspection was authorised and carried out within customs control procedures and that the data was copied in line with russian presidential decree no.310 of 23 march 1995 ... article 2 of the decree clearly requires the customs authority to ‘arrest and bring to liability persons who disseminate printed, cinematographic, audio-, photo- or video-materials which are aimed at being propaganda in favour of fascism, at inciting social, racial, ethnic or religious enmity; and to take measures for seizing printed material of that kind’ ... article 383 of the code concerning the minimal amount of samples was complied with because the information taken for sampling was not homogenous.thus when the samples were taken, it was necessary to take the full amount of information from the device ... in addition, it is noted that under article 10 of the customs code, information received by customs officials may be used exclusively for the purposes of customs legislation ... customs officials are not authorised to disclose that information or transfer it to third persons, except as set down in the code or other legislation ...” 24.  the applicant does not appear to have been prosecuted subsequently in criminal, administrative or other proceedings in connection with the data obtained from his laptop by the customs authorities.
m.), of the applicants’ property (as well as other land not held by the applicants) was declared to be needed for a public purpose under the land acquisition (public purposes) ordinance, chapter 88 of the laws of malta (hereinafter, “the ordinance”).8.  the government took possession of the entirety of the property mentioned in the declaration and demolished the shop in order to build a local civic centre and service roads (in connection with a development project for the locality).12.  in the light of article 9 of the ordinance and act i of 2006, on 6 october 2010, by a president’s declaration of 3 september 2010, the sum offered for the taking of 7 may 1965 was eur 13,000 in accordance with an architect’s valuation dated 1 january 2005.1 to the convention, in so far as their land had not been taken in the public interest, and of article 6 of the convention, as well as the corresponding provisions of the constitution of malta.16.  the court noted that pursuant to the ordinance, as it was at the time, it had been the commissioner who had had to make an offer, and in the event that the offer had been refused, the same commissioner had had to institute proceedings before the land arbitration board (hereinafter “the lab”).the same applied concerning their complaint of a lack of public interest despite amendments to the law in 2009 (act xxv of 2009) ‑ which had introduced the possibility of challenging the public interest of an expropriation before the lab, within twenty-one days of the declaration – in the court’s view it was unlikely that an individual would be able to challenge a public interest which had not been mentioned in the declaration.17.  as to the complaint concerning the applicants’ property rights, having extensively referred to domestic as well as strasbourg case-law, the court held that the taking had not been in the public interest in so far as the property had been leased to third parties as a snack bar and thus for commercial purposes.furthermore, the applicants had received no compensation in forty-five years, and the offer made to them in 2010 (solely after constitutional redress proceedings had been commenced) had been based on a valuation from 2005. in the court’s view, based on the rent as submitted by the commissioner, “capitalised” at the rate of 3.5% applicable in such cases, the value of the property was approximately eur 60,000, that is to say five times the sum offered by the commissioner.18.  the court annulled the governor’s declaration of 7 may 1965 and the president’s declaration of 6 october 2010 as well as any other action, affecting the property, taken by the defendant pending the proceedings.it ordered the return of the property (vacant possession) in favour of the applicants and awarded eur 40,000 in compensation including non‑pecuniary (moral damage as known in the domestic system) and pecuniary damage (material damage) covering occupation of the premises until the date of return, in connection with the breach suffered.it considered that at the time of the declaration the taking (of the land on which the shop had stood) had been certainly in the public interest, specifically the building of roads giving access to the public.it was true that use of that plot of land had changed in 1972, as it had been decided to build a snack bar (and later to lease it) to see to the needs of the users of the square, as well as the civic centre, government offices, and a bus terminus.it considered that that court should have awarded compensation without prejudice to the pecuniary damage due in accordance with the relevant law (article 12 § 3 of the ordinance, specifically interest of 5% on the value of the property).thus, without prejudice to any such claim for pecuniary compensation in respect of the property taken and the relative interest, the constitutional court awarded eur 10,000 in non‑pecuniary damages for the violation suffered, bearing in mind that the value of the property was eur 13,000, and it annulled the return order for the property.21.  as the applicants refused to collect the award made by the constitutional court, in january 2014 the commissioner deposited the award in court by means of a schedule of deposit.
11.  on 22 august 2002 he gave his statements before the police in the absence of a lawyer and indicated that he had spent the day with his friends on 16 august 2002, the day h.a.as the grandmother of one of his friends and that when he had heard of the murder, he had speculated with his friends that she could have been killed for the jewellery she wore.14.  a police report prepared on 11 october 2002 established that according to the results of a dna test, the blood stains on a tile-cutting machine found at the applicant’s house matched the sample tissues taken from the deceased.he maintained that he had hit her on the head with a wooden club in the basement of their house, with the intention of stealing her jewellery, and that he had put her in a nylon bag afterwards as he had panicked.according to the police records bearing the applicant’s signature, the applicant did not benefit from the assistance of a lawyer during the reconstruction of events and was not informed of his rights to request legal assistance and to remain silent.he also added certain details such as the locations of the jewellery stores in istanbul and i̇zmir where he had changed the deceased’s jewellery, and how he had spent the money in i̇zmir with his friend a.s., who had not known how he had obtained it.22.  at the first hearing held on 19 november 2002, the applicant denied his previous statements and argued that he had had to confess to having committed the murder as a result of the ill-treatment inflicted on him.he further contested the relevance of the dna examination with regard to the tile-cutting machine, arguing that the court should conduct an examination of the wooden club indicated in his police statements, in order to prove that his confessions had not been genuine.24.  on 16 october 2003 the gebze assize court held that it lacked jurisdiction and forwarded the case to the kocaeli juvenile court as the applicant had been a minor at the time of the murder.during the course of the thirteen hearings before it, the assize court obtained a report from the istanbul forensics institute and heard all the police officers involved in the applicant’s questioning.25.  during the course of the hearings before the juvenile court, the applicant requested the court to obtain a new forensics report, claiming that there were discrepancies between the police report and that prepared by the istanbul forensics institute, as the latter noted that no blood sample could be found on either the tile-cutting machine or the wooden club.in his statements before the court, that lawyer submitted that he had first seen the applicant during the interview at the public prosecutor’s office and had suspected that he might have been ill-treated as he had been nervous.26.  in his submissions before the juvenile court, the applicant maintained that he had not been assigned a lawyer while in police custody and claimed that he had been coerced into making a false confession although he had not committed the murder.the court noted that it did not take account of the statements made by the applicant during his questioning by the police, as in any event it found him guilty on the basis of his subsequent statements confessing his acts, the records of the reconstruction of events, the forensics reports, the statements of a.s., and the bank transcripts which rebutted his defence with regard to the money he had spent after the murder.29.  on 16 june 2005 the court of cassation quashed the judgment, finding that the applicant’s sentence needed to be re-evaluated in the light of the new penal code, which had entered into force following the judgment.
4.  the applicant was born in 1961 and is currently detained in kremikovtsi prison hostel near sofia.5.  in a final judgment of 23 february 2009, the applicant was convicted of murder and sentenced to twelve years’ imprisonment.7.  on 26 august 2009 the serving of his sentence of imprisonment was interrupted in order for him to take care of his elderly mother, who had undergone hip-replacement surgery in july 2009. the interruption came to an end on 26 october 2009, and the applicant was again placed in kremikovtsi prison hostel.each cell had between thirty and thirty-five square metres of floor space and housed between sixteen and twenty-two inmates – that is, provided less than two square metres per inmate –, and had one sink and one toilet with a shower.according to the government, the cell measured between thirty-five and forty square metres and housed around twelve inmates.9.  the applicant further said that cold water was only available between 6 and 8 a.m. and 6 and 8 p.m., and hot water was only available between 8 and 9 a.m. and 7 and 8 p.m. hygienic and sanitary materials were not regularly provided.according to the government, the applicant had to share a cell with two to three inmates.11.  after the applicant’s prison regime was changed to a more lenient one, on 19 november 2014 he was placed in a cell outside the guarded area of the hostel.12.  according to the applicant, material conditions in the cells in which he was placed after 28 october 2010 were significantly better in terms of heating, lighting and hygiene, and were satisfactory.13.  lastly, the applicant alleged that health care in custody was inadequate, with no qualified doctors but only a dentist working on site, and no provision of medicines at reduced prices, as available to people out of prison.15.  according to the 2010 report of the committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment (“the cpt”) on the visit to bulgaria from 15 to 19 december 2008, in 2008 the number of the inmates detained in that facility was 622.16.  in its 2008 report the prisons in bulgaria the bulgarian helsinki committee noted poor material conditions, overcrowding and problems with health care in closed-types prison hostels.according to the same report in 2007 the health-care staff in kremikovtsi prison hostel consisted only of a dentist and a feldsher.17.  according to information provided by the government to the council of europe’s committee of ministers, in december 2013 the official capacity of the prison hostel was 426, whereas the actual number of inmates housed there was 493 (see neshkov and others v. bulgaria, nos.18.  in the 2012 report and 2016 report adopted under the national preventive mechanism, the ombudsman of bulgaria recommended that kremikovtsi prison hostel be closed due to severe overcrowding, poor hygiene and unsanitary living conditions.
5.  the first applicant was born in 1956 and lives in cetinje.the second applicant was founded in cetinje in 1990. the first applicant is the founder, the sole owner, and the executive director of the second applicant.the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.6.  on 1 july 2013 an insolvency creditor x (stečajni povjerilac) requested the commercial court (privredni sud) in podgorica to open insolvency proceedings (stečajni postupak) in respect of the second applicant.in the proceedings before the commercial court the second applicant was represented by the first applicant and a lawyer duly authorised by the latter.on 27 december 2013 the commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the second applicant and, inter alia, appointed an insolvency administrator (stečajni upravnik).7.  on 23 january 2014 the second applicant, through the lawyer, lodged an appeal against the commercial court decision.8.  on 18 march 2014 the court of appeals (apelacioni sud) in podgorica rejected the appeal (žalba se odbacuje) as having been submitted by an unauthorised person, given that the lawyer had not been appointed by the insolvency administrator.the court relied on sections 75 and 76 of the insolvency act (see paragraphs 17-18 below).this decision was served on the applicants on 17 april 2014.9.  on 12 may 2014 the applicants lodged a constitutional appeal.10.  on 13 may 2014 the applicants’ representative filed an initiative with the constitutional court (ustavni sud) seeking the assessment of the constitutionality of section 76 of the insolvency act in force at the time.there is nothing in the case-file as to the outcome of that initiative.11.  on 23 july 2014 the constitutional court rejected the applicants’ constitutional appeal for “not having been lodged by a party to the domestic proceedings or by a person authorised to appeal on behalf of the person whose rights and freedoms were violated”.this decision was served on the applicants on 15 october 2014.
8.  on 26 january 2007 the investigator, acting on the information that the applicant had fled abroad, asked the ostankinskiy district court in moscow for a detention order.9.  the detention hearing was fixed for 1 february 2007. the applicant’s lawyers had been notified of the date and time of the hearing on the previous day but did not show up and asked the investigator to postpone the examination of his application because they were busy in other proceedings.the district court appointed legal-aid counsel to represent the absent applicant, proceeded with the hearing and issued the detention order, referring to the fact of the applicant’s absconding to ukraine and from there to hungary, the gravity of the charges against him and the risk of interference with the investigation.considering that the risks of flight and obstruction of the investigation were sufficiently established, the city court upheld the detention order.the applicant appealed against each of the detention orders, lodging statements of appeal within two to ten days of the hearing date.13.  the most recent detention order of 25 july 2008 was quashed on appeal by the supreme court on 2 october 2008. the supreme court considered that there was no evidence substantiating the risk of absconding or interfering with justice.14.  while in custody, the applicant asked the investigator to be allowed to receive visits from his mother, wife and children and also pastoral visits from two orthodox priests, a. and s. 15.  with the investigator’s consent, the applicant’s mother and daughters visited him on two occasions in april and may 2007. in august and september 2007 the investigator interviewed his wife and mother as potential witnesses but they refused to testify, invoking the constitutional guarantee against self-incrimination.the investigator refused the applicant’s subsequent applications to see his family, stating that such visits could “have a negative influence on the conduct of the investigation”.as to the orthodox priests, on 29 march 2007 the investigator invoked the same ground to refuse a visit from s. on 30 august 2007 the investigator once again refused a pastoral visit, stating that the applicant should see the prison chaplain instead.17.  on 24 october 2007 and 6 february 2008 the tverskoy district court pronounced the refusal of pastoral visits to be lawful and justified, holding that the investigator had full discretion to determine whether or not such visits ran counter to the interests of the investigation.on 18 june 2008 the city court upheld the latter decision on appeal, holding that a restriction on religious rights was an inherent consequence of the pre-trial detention.18.  as regards family visits, on 30 october 2007 the tverskoy district court granted the applicant’s complaint in part, finding as follows: (a)  restrictions on visits from the applicant’s wife and mother in the period after the investigator had interviewed them as witnesses in the criminal proceedings had been lawful and within the discretion of the investigator; (b)  restrictions on visits from the wife and mother in the preceding period had not been justified but no relief could be afforded to the applicant because they had already been granted the status of witnesses and the investigator might wish to interview them again at some point in time; (c)  restrictions on visits from the applicant’s children were not justified and the investigator had an obligation to remedy a breach of the applicant’s rights.19.  on 10 december 2007 the applicant’s representative before the court, ms kostromina, asked the director of the remand prison to allow her to see the applicant and provided credentials confirming her status.20.  on 24 january 2008 ms kostromina lodged a complaint with the preobrazhenskiy district court claiming that the prison director should have authorised her visit without any restrictions, on the basis of article 34 of the convention guaranteeing unhindered access of an applicant to his representative.21.  on 15 february 2008 the district court dismissed the complaint, finding that ms kostromina was not the applicant’s counsel in the domestic criminal proceedings and could not therefore visit him.
9.  he was then taken to the local police station and later transferred by the psychiatric ambulance service to the central clinical psychiatric hospital of the moscow region (гкуз мо «центральная клиническая психиатрическая больница») (“the hospital”).reserved, secretive, tense, but during the conversation acknowledges the existence of the teenager and the repeated instances of sexual harassment ...” 10.  the psychiatrist who admitted the applicant to the hospital made the following record: “tense, exhibits [exaggerated and pretentious facial] mannerisms.according to the supporting documents – [a report to the head of the police station, the order for a psychiatric ambulance] – he was apprehended by police officers on the street, where he had been sexually harassing an underage teenager, having stalked him for four months, repeatedly not allowing him to walk away from such encounters.the panel also found that the applicant was a danger to himself and others and that there was a risk of significant damage to his health due to the deterioration or aggravation of his psychiatric condition in the absence of psychiatric assistance.conclusion: needs involuntary placement and treatment, in accordance with section 29(a) and (c) of the 1992 psychiatric assistance act.” 14.  on the same day the hospital applied for judicial authorisation of the applicant’s involuntary hospitalisation under section 29(a) and (c) of the psychiatric assistance act 1992, since the applicant was a danger to himself or others and there was a risk of significant damage to his health owing to the deterioration or aggravation of his psychiatric condition in the absence of psychiatric assistance.the application restated the findings of the earlier joint examination (see paragraph 11 above) and set out the following conclusions: “on 25 april 2014 was examined by the panel of resident psychiatrists of [the hospital] and diagnosed with organic delusional disorder.the patient needs to be involuntarily hospitalised and treated under section 29 (a) and (c) of the psychiatric assistance act of 1992. the examination and treatment of the patient can take place only under an in-patient regime ... [it is requested] 2.  that the request for authorisation be assessed on the premises of the hospital, since because of his mental state [the applicant] cannot be produced in court ...” 15.  on 5 may 2014 the savyolovskiy district court of moscow (савёловский районный суд г. москвы) held a hearing on the premises of the psychiatric facility.the hearing was attended by the applicant, his father and mother, the attending psychiatrist mr p., the head of one of the hospital’s departments (mr l.), the representative of the hospital (mrs k.) and the local prosecutor.16.  during the hearing mr p., mr l., and mrs k. generally advanced the same arguments as those presented in the application for judicial authorisation (see paragraph 14 above), maintaining that the applicant needed to be hospitalised and treated, that he posed a danger to himself and others, and that there was a risk of significant damage to his health in the event of a deterioration in or aggravation of his psychiatric condition in the absence of psychiatric assistance.the authorisation issued by the court in a succinct manner stated that, while the applicant and his father objected to hospitalisation, the evidence presented by the medical panel of the hospital demonstrated that the applicant was a danger to himself and others and that his mental state might deteriorate in the absence of treatment.the statement of appeal indicated that the district court had relied exclusively on the evaluation of the resident psychiatrists, had not addressed inconsistencies in evidence, had failed to substantiate the assertion that the applicant’s condition was severe and that he posed a danger to himself or others, and, lastly, had failed to demonstrate the absence of any alternative treatment options.the police report indicates that [he] had been harassing underage persons ... since the behaviour of [the applicant] exhibited symptoms of mental disorder, [he was taken to the hospital], where he initially agreed to hospitalisation, stated that since 2013 [he had been subject to] mood changes, and that he [suffered from] anxiety, irritability and difficulties in focusing his attention.[according to the medical evidence] on 25 april 2014 [the applicant] was lethargic, sluggish, and had a subdued mood, which he attributed to his inability to meet up with a boy he is attracted to.during the hearing the representative of [the hospital] stated that [the applicant] had been brought in in a delusional state, and had talked about ‘a boy’ who did not [in fact] exist.since the reaching of conclusions regarding the mental health of a person is within the exclusive competence of psychiatrists, the [district] court reasonably gave due regard to the report on the need to provide in-patient treatment to [the applicant] ... the appeal does not refer to any factual information demonstrating that the relatives of [the applicant] or other persons are capable of ensuring his and other persons’ safety without an in-patient treatment regime ...” 24.  the applicant’s subsequent attempts to initiate a review of the above-mentioned judicial decisions proved unsuccessful.
the applicant’s mother opposed the marriage and on the same day s.’s relatives took the applicant back to her mother’s house.6.  on 12 december 2009 the relatives of the applicant’s deceased father made the applicant go back to s.’s, because of the presumed consummation of the marriage.according to the applicant’s mother, the applicant told her once that her mother-in-law did not let her see s. and claimed that the applicant would not last living with them longer than two months.13.  on 23 september 2010 the applicant’s mother complained to the local police department and prosecutor’s office that the applicant had been forcefully held by s.’s family in inhuman conditions which led to deterioration of her health and coma.14.  on 10 october 2010 the investigator refused to institute criminal proceedings against s.’s family on the charges of incitement of suicide and causing damage to health.15.  on 24 october 2011 the applicant’s mother lodged another complaint with the local police department alleging that the applicant had been poisoned while staying at s.’s house.the expert, however, was unable to determine the cause of the applicant’s condition.18.  on 29 july 2012 the supervising prosecutor quashed the decision of 24 november 2011 and ordered further inquiry into the matter.20.  on 1 october 2012 the investigator refused to institute criminal proceedings on the charges of causing serious damage to health.21.  on 26 july 2013 the sunzhenskiy district court of the ingushetiya republic quashed the decision of 1 october 2012. the court noted that the inquiry had been incomplete.the investigator had failed (1) to question a number of important witnesses and (2) to determine the cause of the applicant’s condition.23.  on 15 january, 14 march and 21 may 2014 the deputy head of the district police department ordered a new inquiry noting that the previous inquiry had been incomplete.24.  on 18 january and 18 march 2014 the investigator refused to open a criminal investigation reproducing verbatim the earlier decisions of 1 october 2012 and 26 september 2013.in addition to his earlier findings, he studied the applicant’s medical case-file and concluded that it did not contain information accounting for the cause of her medical condition.27.  the case-file materials submitted by the government contain two decisions dated 6 march 2015. the first decision was taken by the investigator who refused to institute a criminal investigation in the applicant’s case.
the applicant also stated that the cost for the same thing in the kaunas regional court would be approximately ltl 10,000 (approximately eur 2,896) but that that was not the final amount.the conversation went as follows: “the applicant: ‘ ...you understand that the intermediary who will go will also need some, and..’ ... the applicant: ‘you know, salaries there are [ltl] 7,000, so you know...’ the applicant: ‘as with [d], when he brought, looked, he went there with those pennies, [they] said no, and he did not have any more...’ v.š.called the applicant and said that they would be in touch; he also asked if the applicant would pay him a visit and the applicant said that he would come at some point in the future.called the applicant and said that he had received a character reference from the psychologist and the applicant stated that he would be in touch.again called the applicant later that day and asked whether he should bring the medical certificate to the meeting and the applicant said that he was already in the correctional facility.the applicant confirmed that he did, that the person concerned was coming back from austria the following monday and that without that person the matter could not be settled there.asked whether he would have to pay something before the hearing in the kaišiadorys district court and the applicant said he would not have to give much because the chances were fifty-fifty.called, the applicant told him that the hearing would take place on 23 march and that the applicant would participate in it; he also asked to call him in the evening.the court of appeal held that the applicant had stated that he could influence two judges in kaišiadorys and thus decided to transfer the case to the kėdainiai district court so that the proceedings would be fair.had given the applicant ltl 2,000 and ltl 30,000 respectively during their meetings on 2 february and 29 march 2011 in return for a promise that the applicant would help in the proceedings for v.š.’s release on probation.the applicant’s statement that he had been going to conclude an agreement on legal services after he had taken ltl 30,000 were refuted by his conversation with g.t., where the applicant had stated that in case of failure he would keep 20% of the money and return the rest.the court further held that v.š.’s testimony, voice and video‑recordings showed that the applicant had not been incited to take a bribe and that the criminal conduct simulation model had been applied within the limits prescribed by the court (see paragraph 12 above).on the basis of the audio-recordings, the court also observed that the applicant had been the first to say that he could settle the matter for money.he again argued that he had been incited to commit an offence, that v.š., as a convicted prisoner, was not allowed to have recording equipment, that he had been provided with that equipment by the stt, and that the transcripts of the recordings should not have been used as evidence against him in the case.the applicant also alleged that the ltl 2,000 had been remuneration for his legal services and that he had not actually taken the ltl 30,000 from g.t., who had simply left the money in his car.
it can also be seen from the minutes that the members of the national radio and television council expressed their disagreement regarding the use of a hidden camera, arguing that if anyone were able to use a hidden camera by claiming that there was an overriding public interest in doing so, then all citizens – especially if they were public figures – would be exposed to the possibility of being subject to pressure and extortion.they also noted that there were two separate issues in the instant case; on the one hand the use of a hidden camera and on the other hand the entrapment of a.c. 8.  by its decision 214/162/23.05.2002, the national radio and television council ordered the applicant company to pay one hundred thousand (100,000) euros (eur) for each of the two television shows during which the above-mentioned videos were shown, as well as to broadcast on three days in a row on its main news show the content of that decision.the decision included a short description of the three videos, a citation of the relevant legislation, and the conclusion that the use of hidden camera in that case had not been in accordance with the relevant law.it further stated that the sanctions had been imposed following an assessment of the gravity of the offence, of the number of viewers of the two television shows, of the size of the investment that had been made by the applicant company and the fact that the television channel had been repeatedly fined in the past for the same offence.10.  on 4 april 2003 the applicant company lodged an application for annulment (αίτηση ακύρωσης) against the decisions of the national radio and television council and the minister of press and media with the supreme administrative court (συμβούλιο της επικρατείας) on the grounds that the above-mentioned decision had violated articles 9, 15 § 1 and 25 of the greek constitution, as well as article 10 of the convention.12.  in its legal assessment, the majority of the supreme administrative court firstly referred to the constitutional provisions providing the right to impart and receive information, and then emphasised that this right is subject to limitations whose legitimate aim is the protection of the rights of others and the observance of the rule of law on condition that those limitations are proportionate.however, even when broadcasting of the news is considered a legitimate exercise of the right to impart information, this does not automatically render legitimate the broadcasting of the relevant, secretly recorded images, as that constitutes a much more intense [έντονος] limitation of the constitutionally protected right of that person to his own image than the simple transmission of news.in the domestic court’s view, broadcasting of a secretly recorded image can only be justified if the legitimate (for the reasons mentioned above) broadcasting of such news is completely impossible or particularly difficult without broadcasting the image that was recorded by hidden means and which constitutes the source of the news.the domestic court stressed that from the text of the decision and from the minutes of the meeting of the national radio and television council it derived that the sanction was imposed to the applicant company solely and exclusively on account of the broadcast of the images that had been recorded by hidden means and not on account of the transmission of the news, whose source had been the secretly recorded images.16.  a concurring, more specific (ειδικότερη) opinion was joined to the majority opinion; the seven judges considered that the recording of a person without his knowledge and the use of it for the broadcasting of news constituted a direct violation of that person’s right to dignity as it reduces him to an instrument for others to achieving goals that are irrelevant to him.according to the first one, in view of the fact that the national radio and television council had considered that the broadcasting of news that had been recorded by secret means had constituted a legitimate exercise of the right to impart information, the same considerations should be extended to the broadcasting of the relevant image.therefore, the application for annulment should have been allowed, given that the national radio and television council’s decision had been based solely on the fact that the image of a.c. had been recorded by hidden means, without considering whether broadcasting news whose source was the above images constituted a legitimate exercise of the right to impart information.when, however, public figures were in public spaces but not under the conditions described above, or acted in a way that was of interest to the public (such as in cases in which they engaged in behaviour contrary to what their public role entailed or contrary to the image they projected towards the public), then the right to receive and impart information could justify the recording of that person without his consent and the broadcasting of the relevant images by the media.in respect of legitimately recorded images, when there is a balance between transparency and the right to receive information on the one hand and the protection of a person’s image on the other hand, the presumption should be that the recorded image could be broadcast without consent.in view of the above, the four judges considered that the application for annulment should be allowed, taking into account especially the fact that a.c. was a public figure, that the recording of his image had taken place in a public space (that is to say in a gambling arcade), and that the broadcasting of the relevant images had served the purpose of informing the public of behaviour on the part of a member of parliament that did not meet the requirements of his position.
after being summoned by his superiors, he was informed on 5 april 2008 that the hard disk on the computer had been analysed and that “address change certificates drawn up for third persons and bearing the lille general security service logo” had been found, as well as a large number of files containing pornographic images and films.it can be seen from the judgment of the amiens court of appeal of 15 december 2010 (see paragraphs 14-15 below) that the person who had replaced the applicant during his suspension from post had found “documents which had caught his attention” on the computer, and that he had alerted his superiors in march 2007 and january 2008.10.  a request for a written explanation was sent to the applicant on 7 may 2008. he replied that in 2006, following problems with his personal computer, he had transferred the contents of one of his usb keys to his work computer.11.  the applicant was summoned to a disciplinary hearing, which took place on 21 may 2008. on 9 june 2008 he was informed by the “resources management director” of amiens head office that a proposal had been made to dismiss him from the service and that he would be summoned to appear before the disciplinary board.his decision was worded as follows: “ ... the analysis of the files stored on the hard disk of [the applicant’s] work computer, used for his professional duties, contained the following: i) change of address certificate, signed in his name, certifying the transfer on 01/11/2003 of ms catherine [t.] to the lille general security service; the original certificate, sent to icf north-east enabled the notice period for vacating her flat to be shortened; ii) change of address certificate, bearing the ministry of justice logo, in the name of m.], governor of fresnes prison, certifying the transfer of m. [p.] frédéric to strasbourg prison, from 1 november 2006; iii) draft documents drawn up in the name of michel [v.], director of the socrif, certifying his financial situation with regard to that company; iv) a very large number of files containing pornographic images and films (zoophilia and scatophilia).these facts are in breach of the special obligation of exemplary conduct inherent in the duties formerly performed by him within the general security service, and of the following provisions: i) article 5.2 of the rh 0006 on the principles governing the conduct of sncf officials; ii) the general security database rg 0029 (information systems security policy – user’s charter); iii) the ra 0024 “code of professional conduct” - conduct to be observed with regard to the company’s information system; iv) article 441-1 of the criminal code.” 13.  on 28 october 2008 the applicant brought proceedings before the amiens industrial tribunal (conseil des prud’hommes) seeking a ruling that he had been dismissed without genuine or serious cause.on 10 may 2010 the industrial tribunal held that the decision dismissing the applicant from the service had been justified and, accordingly, rejected his claims.as a matter of policy, documents kept by employees in the company’s office, save those identified by them as personal, are presumed to be for professional use, meaning that the employer can have access to them in the employee’s absence.the employer also rightly pointed out that the user’s charter provided that “private information [had to] be clearly identified as such (“private” option in the outlook criteria)” and that the same was true of the media receiving that information (“private” folder).the same applies to the files containing the impugned certificates registered under the names “fred [p.]”, “socrif” and “catherine”.” 15.  the court of appeal also held that the applicant’s dismissal from the service had not been disproportionate.it observed that both the sncf’s code of professional conduct and the internal rules provided that staff were required to use the computers provided to them for exclusively professional ends, with the occasional private use being merely tolerated.the social division of the court of cassation dismissed the appeal in a judgment of 4 july 2012. it held as follows: “ ... whilst files created by an employee with the assistance of the computer facilities supplied to him by his employer for work purposes are presumed to be professional in nature, meaning that the employer is entitled to open them in the employee’s absence, unless they are identified as personal, the description given to the hard disk itself cannot confer privacy on all the data contained in it.the court of appeal, which found that labelling the hard disk in the employee’s computer “d:/ personal data” could not enable him to use it for purely private purposes and prohibit access by the employer, drew the legitimate conclusion that the files in question, which had not been identified as “private” according to the recommendations of the it charter, could be lawfully opened by the employer.the court of appeal, which found that the employee had stored 1,562 pornographic files representing a volume of 787 megabytes over a period of four years, and that he had also used his work computer to produce forged certificates, rightly held that such misuse of his office equipment in breach of the rules in force at the sncf amounted to a breach of his contractual obligations.
5.  on 1 march 2012 the herceg novi first instance court rendered a judgment in favour of the applicant and ordered the applicant’s employer “vektra boka” ad herceg novi (hereinafter “the debtor”) to carry out a re‑allocation of plots for the construction of apartments.6.  on 15 january 2013 the applicant requested enforcement of the above judgment and the herceg novi first instance court issued an enforcement order on 31 january 2013.7.  on 12 june 2015 the commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor.8.  on 28 january 2016 the herceg novi first instance court transferred the case to the commercial court for further action.9.  on 22 march 2016 the commercial court suspended (obustavio) the enforcement due to the opening of the insolvency proceedings, which decision became final on 11 may 2016.10.  the judgement in question remains unenforced to the present day.11.  on 8 february 2013 the applicant instituted administrative proceedings seeking, on the basis of the above judgment, the removal of competing titles from the land register.12.  on 29 july 2015 the real estate directorate terminated (prekinuo) the administrative proceedings because the commercial court had commenced insolvency proceeding in respect of the debtor.13.  on 7 september 2015 the applicant submitted an objection against the above decision.15.  on an unspecified day in 2003, the applicant instituted separate civil proceedings against the debtor, as his former employer, seeking reinstatement and damages.following three remittals, on 3 march 2014 the herceg novi first instance court rendered a judgment in the applicant’s favour.16.  on 22 september 2015 the high court upheld this judgment on the merits, but quashed it as regards the costs.17.  on 31 october 2016 the herceg novi first instance court transferred the case to the commercial court for further action due to the commencement of the insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor.18.  on 22 february 2017 the commercial court ruled partly in favour of the applicant regarding the costs.19.  the parties did not inform the court about when the commercial court’s decision became final and was served on the applicant.
10.  according to the applicant, the band club also repeatedly breached the tenancy agreement which it had signed, by manufacturing fireworks on the premises and conducting commercial activities (such as running a bar and letting the premises out as a wedding venue despite not having the requisite authorisation).it held that the requisition for the purposes of assigning the property to the band club could not be considered to be in the public interest.17.  in a judgment of 16 october 2006 the civil court (first hall) in its ordinary jurisdiction found the housing secretary and the band club liable for the damage suffered by the owners in connection with the structural alterations to the property.18.  by a judgment of 6 may 2009 the civil court (first hall) in its ordinary jurisdiction awarded the owners eur 72,000 in damages, covering eur 16,000 for missing objects, eur 40,000 to rectify the structural changes made and eur 16,000 for the loss of use of the property for twenty years.19.  in 2007 the applicant instituted constitutional redress proceedings in relation to the property requisitioned in 1955, asking the court to declare that, as a result of the requisition order and the continued occupation of the premises, she had suffered a breach of her rights under article 14 of the convention and article 1 of protocol no.she asked the court to award her compensation for the taking of possession of the property and for the violations suffered, and to order any other measure capable of preventing the continuation of the violation, including the release of the property.bearing in mind the values established by the applicant’s expert as to the rental value and sale value of the property, which was mtl 180,000 (approximately eur 420,000) (pg.12 of the judgment), as well as the length of time the requisition was and remained in place, the court awarded the applicant eur 60,000 in compensation (kumpens) for the requisition of the premises and the violations found, noting it was not awarding civil damages (danni ċivili) in this context.it further ordered the band club to vacate the premises within three months of the date of judgment and to return the premises to the applicant.the attorney general and the director of social accommodation also appealed, in particular in relation to the findings of a lack of public interest, a violation of article 14 and the redress awarded.it found, however, that it had been in the public interest – the court considered that jurisprudence had shifted since the time of the judgment of 30 december 1993 of the court of appeal on which the first-instance court had based its assessment.1 was a consequence of the lack of a fair balance between the interests of the landlord and those of the tenant, and given that the validity of the lease was not at issue in the present case, it did not seem appropriate for it to evict the tenant; it sufficed that that unfair balance be redressed.in relation to the amount of compensation, it considered that the disproportionality of the measure had not persisted since the start of the requisition in 1955, but had started to be so only after the 1980s.furthermore, the applicant had received the rent paid by the department and had only instituted constitutional proceedings in 2007 (while never contesting the validity of the requisition), thus it was legitimate and in line with local case-law to reduce her compensation.lastly, the court held that the claim for damages for the depreciation of the property as a result of structural works did not fall within the ambit of a constitutional complaint, and it was thus not its place to award such damages.27.  the constitutional court ordered the applicant to pay the costs of the cross-appeal and half the judicial costs of the proceedings before the two levels of jurisdiction.
1.  at the material time the applicant was the executive chair of the partidul verde ecological party, a political movement affiliated with the european green party.the party added that, contrary to the recommendations of the european commission for democracy through law (“the venice commission”; see paragraphs 20 and 21 below), law no.having reiterated that parliament’s political structure was defined by general elections, the constitutional court rejected partidul verde’s arguments as follows: “the [constitutional] court observes that the reason for the holding of the parliamentary by-elections was the fact that a parliamentary seat had fallen vacant.in order to respect the sovereignty and the will of the electorate as expressed in the framework of general elections, it is necessary that the by-election stage, which is subsidiary and complementary to the general elections, should observe the electoral threshold criterion which allows political parties to be represented in parliament.to allow candidates to stand in by-elections for political parties which are not represented in parliament would alter the latter’s political structure, [which is] incompatible with the votes cast by the electorate during the general elections which led to the constitution of the romanian people’s supreme representative body, with a specific political make-up, which can only be modified in the cases and conditions determined by law.... moreover, allowing a person who does not belong to a party represented in parliament to obtain a parliamentary mandate further to by-elections would be tantamount to allowing something which had not been obtained in the framework of general elections to be obtained by the ‘devious means’ of a by-election.” 10.  as regards the plea based on the recommendations of the venice commission, the constitutional court assessed it “with reservations”.it noted that the said recommendations advised against amending the electoral law less than one year before any elections, but that they also comprised the hypothesis that such amendments “should be adopted at the level of the constitution or at a level higher than that of ordinary law” (see paragraph 20 below).in the present case the constitutional court ruled that the recommendation had been complied with because the amendment to law no.11.  by judgment of 30 march 2010 the county court dismissed the party’s challenge, referring to the reasoning of the constitutional court in its aforementioned decision of 14 january 2010, to the effect that since partidul verde had failed to pass the electoral threshold in the general elections it could not put up candidates for the by-elections.503/2010 of 20 april 2010, the constitutional court allowed the objection of unconstitutionality lodged by the applicant and declared the part of the impugned section prohibiting independent candidacies unconstitutional on the grounds that it infringed the right to stand for election.61 of 14 january 2010 set out the reasons justifying, in the light of constitutional standards, the elimination of such parties from by-elections, as regards independent candidates no reason was given for subjecting them to the same legal treatment.in the case of independent candidates, however, such a criterion would be absurd; ... they are asked to submit support lists comprising the signatures of a minimum 4% of all the voters registered in the permanent electoral lists of the boards to which they submit their candidacies, [and the total number should not be lower that] 2,000 electors in the case of the chamber of deputies and 4,000 electors in the case of the senate.nevertheless, in relation to by-elections, the legislature failed to lay down the requisite conditions for this category of persons standing for election, providing that the category of candidates for by-elections comprised only political parties and organisations of citizens belonging to national minorities having passed the legal electoral threshold at the general elections, whether individually or in the framework of a political or electoral alliance.that being the case, it is a case not of setting limits on or circumscribing the manner of exercising the right to be elected, but of annulling that right by failing to recognise it, [by an] unlawful absence of regulation.), but it can in no way exclude from the electoral process, in the case of by-elections, the candidacy of a person [standing as an] independent candidate without thereby infringing the fundamental right enshrined in article 37 of the constitution – the right to be elected.” 15.  the applicant stood in the 2012 general elections and obtained a seat in the chamber of deputies for a four-year mandate.
7.  on 25 april 1999 the applicant was arrested and placed in police custody on suspicion of membership of an illegal organisation and the murder of thirteen persons.8.  on 26 april 1999 police officers at the istanbul security directorate took statements from the applicant in the absence of a lawyer.the applicant confessed that she was a member of the illegal organisation and admitted having planned an attack on a shopping centre and having acted as a lookout while other co-accused started a fire by throwing molotov cocktails at the shopping centre, killing thirteen persons in march 1999.9.  on 27 april 1999 the applicant was required to confront with two other co-accused before the police, in the absence of a lawyer.according to the record of the confrontation she admitted having carried out the attack on the shopping centre with those two and another co-accused.10.  on the same day an identification parade took place at the istanbul security directorate, in the absence of a lawyer, where one of the eyewitnesses of the incident identified the applicant in front of police officers and the public prosecutor at the state security court.11.  on the same day the applicant was also required to participate in a reconstruction of the events (yer gösterme).according to the record drafted by police officers and signed by the applicant, the applicant described in detail what steps she had taken before the attack on the shopping centre and indicated how she had acted as a lookout while the other co-accused threw molotov cocktails in the shopping centre.12.  on 30 april 1999 the applicant was seen by a doctor at the forensic medicine institution who noted in his report that the applicant bore no traces of ill-treatment.13.  on the same day, the applicant was heard by the istanbul public prosecutor and by the investigating judge, still in the absence of a lawyer.in her statements before both the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, the applicant denied the accusations and maintained that her statements to the police had been given under duress.14.  on 6 may 1999 the public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court filed an indictment with that court, and charged the applicant with carrying out activities for the purpose of bringing about the secession of part of the national territory, pursuant to article 125 of the former criminal code.16.  on 7 may 2007 relying on, inter alia, the applicant’s statements to the police, the istanbul assize court convicted the applicant as charged and sentenced her to life imprisonment for membership of an illegal organisation and the murder of thirteen people.in delivering its judgment, the assize court further took into consideration several items of evidence, such as the applicant’s statements to the police, public prosecutor and investigating judge, video recordings and written records of the crime scene visits, autopsy reports, eyewitness identifications, and the statements given by some of the accused persons.17.  on 7 may 2009 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the first instance court.
6.  the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in muş.7.  on 19 april 2003 the applicant was arrested and taken into custody on suspicion of membership of an illegal organisation.8.  on 20 april 2003 the applicant’s statements were taken by the police in the absence of a lawyer.during the interrogation, the applicant gave a detailed account of his acts within the illegal organisation pkk (the kurdistan workers’ party).9.  on 22 april 2003 the applicant was heard by the public prosecutor and the investigating judge at the istanbul state security court, again in the absence of a lawyer.in his statements before both the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, the applicant denied the accusations and maintained that his statements to the police had been given under duress.on the same day, upon the order of the investigating judge, the applicant was placed in pre-trial detention.10.  on 6 may 2003 the public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court filed an indictment accusing the applicant of membership of an illegal terrorist organisation under article 168 of the former criminal code, law no.765.11.  the state security courts were later abolished by law no.5190 of 16 june 2004, and the case was transferred to the istanbul assize court.12.  on 19 september 2006, relying on, inter alia, the applicant’s statements to the police, the istanbul assize court convicted the applicant under article 314 § 2 of the new turkish criminal code and sentenced him to six years and three months’ imprisonment.13.  on 19 november 2007 the court of cassation quashed the judgment on procedural grounds.14.  on 30 december 2008 the istanbul assize court convicted the applicant again under article 314 § 2 of the new turkish criminal code and sentenced him to six years and three months’ imprisonment.15.  on 20 march 2012 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the istanbul assize court.
in particular, the psychiatrists at the hospital had interrogated her (buvau kamantinėjama) about the ojas meditation centre and its practices, forced her to promise not to meditate, alleged that sex orgies had taken place there, that meditation was harmful for her mental health, that she should follow the catholic religion which is traditional in lithuania and that meditation was not compatible with her “social status”.the hospital argued that it had not disclosed any confidential information about the applicant, and that it could not be responsible for the actions of the applicant’s mother and the way the srovės broadcast had been presented.(a)  as to the lawfulness of the restriction of liberty when the applicant was held at vilnius psychiatric hospital 28.  the vilnius regional court noted at the outset that according to articles 27 and 28 of the law on mental health care a person could be placed in hospital without his or her consent if there was a clear and present danger of him or her harming themselves or others.30.  the vilnius regional court also agreed with the applicant’s argument that she had not been able to leave the hospital because she was under the influence of drugs, had faced a threat of being physically restrained if she disobeyed the doctors, and had been under a strict regime.31.  the vilnius regional court also observed that there was no written evidence that the applicant had ever agreed to be placed in vilnius psychiatric hospital between 7 may and 26 june 2003. according to the forensic expert report, the applicant had not been able to understand her actions on 7 may 2003; however, the experts had not reached the same conclusion about the period between 8 may and 26 june 2003. that notwithstanding, the applicant had been forced to stay in hospital for fifty‑two days for treatment.the court also relied on doctor d.š.’s admission during court hearings that the applicant’s life had “not necessarily been in danger” for all of the fifty-two days of treatment and to the same conclusion by the applicant’s treating doctor a.g. in fact, the records signed by doctor a.g. on 8 and 12 may 2007 stating that the applicant was being treated at the hospital had given only one side (vienašališki) of the situation as they had not been countersigned by the applicant.in that context, the court also had regard to the applicant’s explanation that because of the side effects of the medication (sleepiness, inability to concentrate) and the possibility of physical restraint (being tied down) in case of disobedience, she had not been able to express her disagreement about being treated at the hospital in writing.that conclusion was based on the applicant’s medical file, which contained the following records for 26 may and 20 and 23 june 2003: “ ... absence of a critical attitude towards attending [the ojas meditation] centre”; “during psycho-correction expressed opinion in categorical terms about attending the ojas centre, argues, that ‘it is a personal matter’”; “when efforts were made during psycho-correction to get the applicant to form a critical attitude (suformuoti kritiką) towards non-traditional religious beliefs, [the applicant] for a long time remained uncritical and also categorical”.(d)  as to the applicant’s remaining complaints 38.  after finding that between 9 may 2003 and 26 june 2003 the applicant had been placed in hospital and given treatment against her will in breach of domestic law (see paragraph 31 above), the vilnius regional court considered that there had therefore been a breach of the applicant’s right to the inviolability of her body.(a)  as to the lawfulness of the applicant’s placement in vilnius psychiatric hospital 45.  the appellate court upheld the vilnius regional court’s finding that on the basis of her health on 7 may 2003 the applicant had been lawfully placed in vilnius psychiatric hospital.47.  that being so, the court of appeal did not agree with the first‑instance court’s conclusion that doctor d.š.’s interview with the journalists, which had been shown during the television programme of 17 june 2003, had disclosed information that had revealed the applicant’s identity.in the particular case of the applicant, the court of appeal also referred to her open letter of 14 august 2003 to the srovės journalists (see paragraphs 21 and 22 above), where she had acknowledged that the television broadcast had been instigated by members of her family, that she had not been shown in the programme in person, and that she had been given a different name.the court of appeal considered that the fact that the main character of the programme (laidos herojė) had studied in the united states was not sufficient to establish that the programme was about the applicant.(c)  as to the applicant’s right to freedom of religion 49.  the court of appeal noted that the right to freedom of religion had been enshrined in article 26 of the constitution (see paragraph 64 below) and article 9 of the convention.50.  on the facts of the case, the court of appeal disagreed with the lower court’s conclusion that there had been a breach of the applicant’s right to freedom of religion while she was in vilnius psychiatric hospital.
4.  the applicant, a syrian national, was born in 1993 and currently resides in khartoum, sudan.5.  on 24 april 2015 the applicant arrived in russia, being in possession of a study visa.he enrolled in the izhevsk state technical university and had his registered residence in the town of izhevsk.his visa expired on 26 april 2016.6.  on 4 may 2016 the applicant applied for refugee status alleging the risks to his life and safety in the light of the on-going conflict in syria.the request and the subsequent appeals were dismissed by the russian migration authorities and the courts.7.  on 8 june 2016 the applicant was arrested and put in detention by the migration authorities.8.  by a judgment of 9 june 2016 the oktyabrskiy district court of izhevsk found the applicant in breach of migration rules, an offence under article 18.8 § 1.1 of the code of administrative offences, and ordered his expulsion.in order to facilitate enforcement, the court ordered that the applicant be placed in detention.9.  on 10 june 2016 the supreme court of the udmurtiya republic upheld the lower court’s judgment.10.  on 22 june 2016 the court indicated to the respondent government, under rule 39 of the rules of court, that the applicant should not be extradited, expelled or otherwise involuntarily removed from russia to syria for the duration of the proceedings before the court.since that date the enforcement of the applicant’s expulsion was monthly postponed by the domestic courts.11.  on 13 january 2017 the supreme court of the russian federation on appeal amended the lower courts’ judgments and excluded administrative removal from the sanction, since it would have exposed the applicant’s life to risk in syria.12.  on 20 january 2017 the applicant left russia for lebanon.
7.  on 13 february 1999, the applicant was arrested during an operation carried out against an illegal organisation, namely the pkk (the kurdistan workers’ party), at which time he was found to be in possession of a fake identity card.8.  on 15 february 1999 the applicant was interrogated by police officers at the istanbul security headquarters in the absence of a lawyer pursuant to law no.3842, which at the time of the applicant’s arrest provided for a systemic restriction in respect of offences falling within the jurisdiction of the state security courts.9.  the applicant admitted in his statement that he was a member of the organisation in question and gave information about a number of activities in which he had participated, including armed activities.the applicant stated that he was a member of the illegal organisation in question, that he had joined them in a rural area, and that he had afterwards tried to collect money for the organisation in istanbul.however, he withdrew the statements he had made to the police, maintaining that he had not participated in any other activity for the illegal organisation.11.  on the same day the applicant was questioned by the investigating judge, once again in the absence of a lawyer.he confirmed the statement he had made to the public prosecutor, but withdrew the one he had made to the police.12.  on 19 march 1999 the public prosecutor at the diyarbakır state security court filed an indictment with the diyarbakır state security court, charging the applicant under article 125 of the former turkish criminal code with membership of an illegal organisation and involvement in separatist activities against the republic of turkey.13.  on 5 june 1999 diyarbakır state security court declared that it had no jurisdiction to examine the case and transferred the file to the istanbul state security court.16.  at a hearing held on 14 november 2001 the applicant stated that he was a member of the illegal organisation, but had carried out only political activities for the organisation and not armed activities.17.  on 1 july 2003 another set of criminal proceedings brought against the applicant, which had been pending since 1994 and concerning charges related to membership of the pkk and taking part in activities for that illegal organisation, was merged with the one that had been initiated in 1999.the court based its decision, inter alia, on the applicant’s statements to the police, the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, and other witness statements taken by the police and the public prosecutor.20.  on 3 may 2005 the court of cassation quashed the decision of 16 september 2004 on the grounds that the details of a number of pkk activities for which the applicant had been held responsible had not been discussed in the decision in depth and that the case file lacked the necessary official reports.the applicant claimed during the trial that his statements during the preliminary investigation had been made under duress and he asked to be allowed to confront and examine a certain witness, namely s.k., whose statements had been relied on by the prosecutor in the indictment.
8.  on 3 may 2005 the governor of the correctional colony ordered the applicant’s placement in a punishment cell for thirteen days as a punishment for the disorderly state of his bed and bedside table.9.  on 5 may 2005 the applicant was examined by the prison doctor on duty who found that his state of health permitted his placement in a punishment cell, provided that he was not held in solitary confinement.11.  on the same day the applicant went on a hunger strike in protest against his placement in solitary confinement.12.  at 8 p.m. on 8 may 2005 the applicant was visited by the prison doctor on duty who examined him and found that his health was satisfactory.13.  after the doctor left, the door of the applicant’s cell was shut.14.  by letters of 15 june, 8 august and 1 november 2005 the applicant asked the prosecutor’s office of the altay region to initiate criminal proceedings against the warders on duty.he referred to statements by a warder, mr sh., that the applicant had himself asked him to shut the door.16.  it follows from the letter of 16 december 2005 from the prosecutor of barnaul that the prosecutor’s office had found that the applicant had been lawfully placed in a punishment cell.at the same time, the warders had disrespected the doctor’s recommendation by leaving the applicant alone in a closed cell.17.  following to further complaints by the applicant, in which he stated in particular that he had never asked the warders to close the door, the prosecutor of barnaul conducted an additional inquiry.he also questioned warders mr k. and mr s. who testified that the door to the applicant’s cell had been temporarily closed to prevent his communication with other inmates who were at that time receiving clean bedding in the storage room opposite to the applicant’s cell.he found that the warders had acted in compliance with the internal regulations and had had no intention of provoking the applicant to self-injury.19.  the applicant challenged the prosecutor’s decisions of 15 december 2005 and 27 january 2006 before the tsentralniy district court of barnaul.20.  on 27 september 2006 the tsentralniy district court upheld the prosecutor’s decisions, finding that the inquiry had been thorough and the refusals to open criminal proceedings had been lawful and justified.he submitted, in particular, that the warders had known that he suffered from claustrophobia and had closed the door to take vengeance on him for going on a hunger strike.
4.  the applicant was born in 1972 and is detained in belovo, kemerovo region.5.  following the applicant’s arrest on suspicion of drug trafficking, on 14 november 2008 he was placed in temporary detention facility no.he remained in that facility until 20 april 2010. he was detained in cells nos.91, 1, 7, 55, 4, 56, 51. each cell measured approximately twenty metres and housed, for the major part of his stay, between 10 and 14 inmates.in the majority of the cells the toilet was merely a hole in the floor.a lavatory pan was installed in three cells, in the corner, and was separated from the living area by a 1.5-metre fence.the applicant was afforded an hour-long walk daily in the recreation yard.6.  according to the government the applicant was provided with an individual sleeping place, except for the detention period between 18 november and 2 december 2008. there was artificial lighting, natural and artificial ventilation in the cells; the cells were heated.7.  on 30 december 2009 the leninskiy district court of tomsk found the applicant guilty of attempted drug trafficking and sentenced him to nine years and six months’ imprisonment.8.  the applicant’s lawyer lodged an appeal and asked to ensure the applicant’s presence at the appeal hearing.9.  on 17 may 2010 the tomsk regional court upheld the conviction, having heard a prosecutor and the applicant’s lawyer.the applicant was not transported to the hearing.10.  on 13 february 2013 the presidium of the tomsk regional court quashed the decision of 17 may 2010 and remitted the case for a fresh examination.11.  on 25 march 2013 the tomsk regional court upheld the applicant’s conviction on appeal.the applicant and his lawyer were present at the hearing.
6.  the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in istanbul.7.  on 16 june 1999 the applicant was arrested and taken into custody on suspicion of belonging to an illegal organisation, namely hizbullah.8.  on 21 june 1999 the applicant’s statements were taken by the police in the absence of a lawyer.during his interrogation, he confessed being a member of the hizbullah and gave a detailed account of his acts within the illegal organisation.9.  on 22 june 1999 the applicant was heard by the diyarbakır public prosecutor and the investigating judge at the diyarbakır state security court, again in the absence of a lawyer.in his statements before both the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, the applicant denied the accusations and maintained that his statements to the police had been given under duress.on the same date, upon the order of the investigating judge, the applicant was placed in pre-trial detention.10.  on 30 june 1999 the public prosecutor at the diyarbakır state security court filed an indictment with that court, charging the applicant under article 168 § 2 of the former turkish criminal code, namely for membership of an illegal armed organisation.11.  on 9 november 1999 the applicant was released pending trial.12.  the state security courts were later abolished by law no.5190 of 16 june 2004, and the case was transferred to the diyarbakır assize court.13.  on 12 june 2008, relying on, inter alia, the applicant’s statements to the police, the diyarbakır assize court convicted the applicant under article 314 § 2 of the new turkish criminal code and sentenced him to six years and three months’ imprisonment.in convicting the applicant, the assize court further took into consideration information on computer hard disks and print-outs, which had been seized in a house belonging to the illegal organisation, as well as the statements of several witnesses who had testified against the applicant.14.  on 4 june 2009 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the first-instance court.
had to somehow cover for his father, who had for many years collaborated with the kgb ... having worked as a spy, he was returned home by moscow ...” ([l.] reikėjo kaip nors pridengti tėvą, ilgus metus bendradarbiavusį su kgb ... jį kaip atidirbusį žvalgą namo sugrąžino maskva ...) “some were already [trying to get familiar with] the new ‘patriarch’, hitler’s ... friend, ... spy, ... copier of strategic maps, [l.] senior ...” (kai kas jau vedžiojo už parankių naujai iškeptą „patriarchą“, hitlerio ... draugą, ... žvalgą, ... strateginių žemėlapių kopijuotoją senąjį [l.] ...) “[l.] senior ... told how in 1918 ... [they] had raised the flag in the castle tower ... [h]ow afterwards they had had to flee to kaunas in order to escape from the bolsheviks, how on the way they had been arrested [and] interrogated... (and, as far as i know, recruited).” (senasis [l.] ... pasakojo, kaip 1918 metais ... pilies bokšte kėlė vėliavą, ... kaip jiems po to teko nuo bolševikų bėgti į kauną, kaip pakeliui juos areštavo, tardė... (o kiek man žinoma, ir užverbavo).)6.  on the fourth page of the book it was stated that the author assumed full responsibility for the truthfulness of the facts presented in the book (autorius prisiima visą atsakomybę už knygoje išdėstytų faktų tikrumą).he further submitted that, in any event, when writing the book he had relied on various historical sources and witness testimonies, as well as on his own personal experience – he provided a list of books and other publications which he had consulted, and described the circumstances in which he had found out about the events discussed in the disputed statements.subsequently amended his claim and asked the court to declare that the disputed statements had been erroneous and insulting to the honour and dignity of himself and his late father (see paragraph 36 below), and to award him a symbolic sum of ltl 1 (approximately eur 0.29) in respect of non-pecuniary damage.he submitted that, in line with the domestic courts’ case-law, the burden was on the author to prove that those statements were factually accurate, but the evidence collected in both the civil and the criminal proceedings demonstrated that they did not have any factual basis.on the one hand, the victim could ask the court to order the author of the work to retract the disputed statements, which would be a personal obligation on the part of the author which could not be transferred to his or her heirs.on the other hand, the victim could ask the court to declare that the disputed statements were erroneous and defamatory (insulting to the victim’s honour and dignity), in other words to request an objective assessment of those statements.it firstly stated that the key difference between statements of fact and value judgments was that the truthfulness of the former could be verified and proved, whereas the latter expressed a subjective view to which the criteria of truthfulness or accuracy did not apply.the court held that, notwithstanding the fact that the book had been based on the author’s memories, the disputed statements had not been limited to expressing a subjective view on any persons or events, but alleged that certain actions had been taken and certain events had occurred.it held that, in the case at hand, the first-instance court had thoroughly examined the evidence collected during the criminal proceedings and the sources indicated by the author himself (see paragraph 20 above), and had reached the conclusion that, on the balance of probabilities, the events described in the disputed statements “were more likely not to have happened than to have happened”.the court stated that the factual accuracy of the disputed statements could be proved by anyone and not only by their author, and that the applicant and her brothers had been able to rely on the material collected during the criminal proceedings and on the submissions made by their father in the civil proceedings, as well as to submit new evidence themselves.the court considered that if the author’s heirs had been exempted from the liabilities arising from the book, then the claimant, v.l., would have been denied any possibility to defend his rights against the erroneous and insulting statements published therein.it underlined the importance of striking a fair balance between the right to freedom of expression and the right to respect for honour and dignity, but stated that the right to freedom of expression did not extend to the deliberate dissemination of falsehoods with the aim of humiliating, insulting or otherwise causing harm to others, even if directed at public figures.the supreme court observed that the lower courts had established that the disputed statements had been erroneous and insulting to the honour and dignity of v.l.-ž.accordingly, once the court had declared that the disputed statements in the book had been erroneous and insulting to the honour and dignity of others, the author’s legal successors had the obligation to ensure that those statements would no longer be disseminated.
there is no doubt that communists will have no problems with fulfilling this task, because they already have experience of taking care of the lenin monument in kyiv and their financing is much better than that which the vestal virgins had.” 8.  while the parties did not provide a copy of the video in question to the court, it was possible to view it on several publicly available websites.in addition to the factual account from the parties summarised above, the court notes that the soundtrack to the video was a famous 1974 soviet song “the battle is going on again” (devoted to the victory of the 1917 revolution and optimism about the future of the communist regime).it could be seen on the video that once the applicant had broken the eggs in the frying pan and was about to approach the fire, while her friends held skewers with sausages, the two police officers appeared and the applicant explained something to them and they left.9.  there were several complaints to the police that the action on the video had amounted to desecration of the tomb of the unknown soldier and called for criminal prosecution.16.  on 18 february 2011 the investigator severed the criminal case in respect of the applicant and two unidentified persons on suspicion of desecration of the tomb of the unknown soldier by a group following a prior conspiracy.his arguments were as follows: the offence of which the applicant was suspected was punishable by a prison term of more than three years; the applicant had absconded, as a result of which she had been declared wanted by the police; and she could reoffend or hinder the establishment of the truth if at liberty.it was specified in the ruling that the term of the applicant’s detention was to be calculated from 29 march 2011. under the applicable legislation, the duration of pre-trial detention was limited to two months, with the possibility of further extensions.according to her, she had found out about the charge against her only on the day of her arrest on 29 march 2011. lastly, the lawyer submitted that the first-instance court had not considered any less intrusive preventive measures as an alternative to detention and that it had left without consideration the people deputies’ letters of guarantee.29.  on 17 june 2011 the pecherskyy court held a preparatory hearing, during which it rejected the applicant’s application for release with reference to the seriousness of the charge against her, “the nature and the circumstances of the offence of which she [was] accused”, as well as the fact that she had been declared wanted by the police.31.  on 4 october 2012 the pecherskyy court found the applicant guilty of the desecration of the tomb of the unknown soldier, acting as part of a group of persons following a prior conspiracy.the court noted that the applicant had convinced d. and two other people, whose identities remained unestablished, to carry out a performance at the “eternal glory” memorial aimed at protesting against the waste of natural gas caused by the burning of the eternal flame.the judgment further stated in that regard: “... the court considers that by committing deliberate acts in a group which showed disrespect for the burial place of the unknown soldier and for the public tradition of honouring the memory of soldiers who perished defending or liberating kyiv and the lands of ukraine from the fascist hordes, and by subsequently presenting those actions as a protest, [the applicant] has tried to escape social condemnation of her conduct and criminal liability for the offence.” 34.  relying on local authority documents, the court dismissed the applicant’s submission that there was no established location for the tomb of the unknown soldier.at the same time, in deciding on the penalty, it took into account, on the one hand, the fact that the applicant did not have a criminal record, that she was working as a political analyst and got positive character references by her place of residence and work.relying on the definition of the desecration of a burial place under the burial and funeral business act (see paragraph 47 below), she maintained that in the absence of any intention by her to “defile the family or social memory of a deceased or to show contempt for a burial place, or social and religious principles and traditions”, there were no constituent elements of a crime in her actions.as regards the applicant’s argument on her right to freedom of expression, the court noted that that right was not unlimited and that the restriction in the applicant’s case was in accordance with the law and pursued a legitimate aim.
6.  the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in muş.7.  on 30 october 2001 the applicant was arrested and taken into custody on suspicion of membership of an illegal organisation, namely the pkk (the kurdistan workers’ party).8.  on 1 november 2001 the applicant’s statement was taken by the police in the absence of a lawyer.during his interrogation, he confessed being a member of the pkk and gave a detailed account of his acts within the illegal organisation.9.  on 3 november 2001 the applicant was heard by the public prosecutor and the investigating judge at the istanbul state security court, again in the absence of a lawyer.in his statements before both the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, the applicant denied the accusations.on the same day, upon the order of the investigating judge, the applicant was placed in pre-trial detention.10.  on 6 november 2001 the public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court filed an indictment with that court, charging the applicant under article 168 of the former criminal code, with membership of an illegal armed organisation.11.  the state security courts were later abolished by law no.5190 of 16 june 2004, and the case was transferred to the istanbul assize court.12.  on 6 october 2006 the istanbul assize court, relying on, inter alia, the applicant’s statements to the police, convicted him of membership of an illegal organisation under article 314 § 2 of the new criminal code and sentenced him to seven years and six months’ imprisonment.13.  on 15 december 2009 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the first‑instance court.
7.  on being released after the interrogation, the applicant was handed over to the guards of budapest prison who, in the presence of the police officer, asked him whether he had been ill-treated.9.  right after the medical examination the applicant was again transported to the budapest main police department for questioning, from where he was taken to the military hospital by the police officer conducting his interrogation and allegedly assaulting him.the medical report recorded the following injuries: swelling on the right cheek, head sensitive to pressure, bruising on the lower lip, and abrasions on the lower right ribs and on the left shoulder blade.14.  in the ensuing criminal investigation conducted by the central investigation office the applicant gave a testimony on 14 november 2012, stating that during his questioning he had refused to make a statement and as a consequence had been punched by one of the police officers several times on his head, neck and back.15.  on 24 july 2013 one of the prisoner escort officers, c was questioned, and recalled that the applicant had complained of ill-treatment upon his return to the prison facility, which had surprised him since he had previously asked the applicant whether he had any complaints and had seen no injuries on the applicant’s body.he had asked the applicant why he had not complained of his ill-treatment earlier, to which the applicant had replied that he had been afraid of the police officers.he had a vague recollection that since there had been some complaints from the applicant’s side once they had arrived back at the prison facility, they had had to transfer him back to the police department.he could not remember whether he had escorted the applicant to the medical examination, but suggested that the applicant’s injuries must have occurred before he had been examined by the medical staff, which was why he had been called on to take photos.examining the photos of the applicant, she asserted that the bruises on the applicant’s face would have occurred immediately after an impact and that the applicant could have caused them himself.20.  on 2 january 2014 the central investigation office also heard evidence from h and i, two prison escort officers from budapest prison who had been on duty on the day of the incident, and who were responsible for transferring detainees to the healthcare facilities.examining the photos of the applicant, two of the medical staff stated that because of the bad quality of the photos, they weren’t even sure if they showed actual injuries or simply the shape of the applicant’s face, while the third asserted that the injury must have been fresh when the photo was taken.according to the expert assessment, the applicant’s account of the origins of his injuries was implausible, since if he had been ill-treated in the way described by him, his injuries would have been of a more serious nature.furthermore, the location of the injuries had not corresponded to the applicant’s description of the incident either.24.  the investigation was discontinued on 8 may 2014 on the grounds that the applicant’s allegations could not be substantiated beyond doubt in the absence of any witness testimony and taking into account the conclusions of the forensic expert opinion.the first-instance decision was upheld by the chief prosecutor’s office on 15 july 2014. the decision called the applicant’s attention to the possibility of lodging of initiating substitute private prosecution proceedings.
6.  the applicant is a journalist who, at the time of the events, was employed as head of the press department of the prosecutor general’s office.in proceedings for his reinstatement brought against the prosecutor general’s office, he argued before the domestic courts that the disclosure of the letters had been in good faith and had pursued the aim of “fighting corruption and trading in influence”.the domestic courts found in favour of the applicant’s employer, on the grounds that the applicant had breached his duty of confidentiality by disclosing the letters, and that he had failed to consult other heads of departments before disclosing the letters to the newspaper.10.  as to whether the measure had been “necessary in a democratic society” within the meaning of that provision, the court noted firstly that the applicant had not had alternative channels for disclosing the letters, and that, in the circumstances of the case, external reporting, even to a newspaper, could be justified.in doing so, the court came to the conclusion that the public interest in having information about undue pressure and wrongdoing within the prosecutor general’s office revealed was so important in a democratic society that it outweighed the interest in maintaining public confidence in the prosecutor general’s office.in view of all the considerations, the court came to the conclusion that the interference with the applicant’s right to freedom of expression, in particular his right to impart information, had not been “necessary in a democratic society”, and that there had been a breach of article 10 of the convention.on the same date the prosecutor general wrote to the head of the trade unions of the prosecutor general’s office, seeking the trade unions’ approval of the applicant’s dismissal from his employment on the basis of section 14(8) of the public service act (see paragraph 23 below).the reason for the applicant’s dismissal was the appointment of a new prosecutor general in 2007. according to the order, the trade unions had consented to his dismissal on 6 june 2008.the applicant also argued that that section was not applicable in the circumstances of the case, since the position of head of the press department of the prosecutor general’s office was not part of the cabinet of the prosecutor general.in particular, the court found that since the new prosecutor general had been appointed in 2007, he had the power to terminate the applicant’s employment on the basis of section 14(8) of the public service act.the court of appeal considered that the court’s judgment of 12 february 2008 had been implemented once the domestic courts had revised the judgments confirming his dismissal in 2003. the court of appeal did not give any consideration to the applicant’s arguments concerning his discussion with the prosecutor general and/or his experience during the time of his employment.however, the appeal on points of law was dismissed on 29 april 2009. like the court of appeal, the supreme court did not make any assessment of the applicant’s allegations about his discussion with the prosecutor general and the treatment to which he had been subjected during his ten days of employment.the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s argument about the state’s failure to execute the court’s judgment of 12 february 2008 by finding that that judgment had been enforced once the domestic judgments had been reviewed and the applicant had been reinstated in his previous position.21.  the applicant informed the department for the execution of judgments of the european court of human rights about the developments described above, and alleged that his being dismissed once again and the outcome of the new reinstatement proceedings amounted to a failure by the state to comply with the court’s judgment of 12 february 2008. in an action report of 2 december 2016 (see dh-dd(2016)1446) the government informed the committee of ministers about the general and individual measures taken in the course of implementing the court’s judgment of 12 february 2008, and expressed the view that that judgment had been enforced once the supreme court had reviewed and quashed its own judgment of 26 november 2003. they asked the committee of ministers to terminate the execution procedure in respect of that case.22.  at the time of issuing the present judgment, the procedure for supervising the execution of the judgment of 12 february 2008 is still ongoing before the committee of ministers.
6.  in the context of the use of secret surveillance measures in respect of a vice-president of the croatian privatisation fund (hrvatski fond za privatizaciju, hereinafter “the fund”), a legal entity established by the state and tasked with carrying out the privatisation of publicly owned property, the authorities intercepted and recorded a number of the applicant’s telephone conversations and messages.the secret surveillance was carried out on the basis of orders issued by an investigating judge of the zagreb county court (županijski sud u zagrebu).the reasoning of the relevant orders is outlined in the case of matanović v. croatia (no.9.  on 12 february 2008, upon completion of the investigation, the state attorney’s office for the suppression of corruption and organised crime (ured za suzbijanje korupcije i organiziranog kriminaliteta – hereinafter: “the state attorney’s office”) indicted the applicant and nine other individuals in the zagreb county court on charges of bribe-taking, offering bribes, and abuse of power and authority.the applicant was indicted ‒ in his capacity as the lawyer acting for the vice-president of the fund ‒ for facilitating the receipt of a bribe of 150,000 euros (eur) for his client and aiding and abetting the abuse of power and authority by him.10.  during the proceedings the applicant challenged the lawfulness of the secret surveillance orders, arguing that they lacked the requisite reasoning and had been issued contrary to the provisions of the relevant domestic law (see, for further details on the procedural actions taken, matanović, cited above, §§ 29-63).it examined in detail and dismissed the applicant’s arguments regarding the unlawfulness of secret surveillance orders on the grounds that they had been issued by the relevant investigating judge in accordance with the law.when convicting the applicant, the trial court had relied on the secret surveillance recordings, the statement of an informant, who had been questioned at the trial, the statements of other witnesses, and the evidentiary material available in the file.12.  on 24 and 28 september 2009, the applicant both personally and through a lawyer lodged appeals against the first-instance judgment before the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske).in the appeals, the applicant argued that he had been unlawfully monitored and that his conviction had been based on evidence obtained unlawfully by the use of secret surveillance.13.  on 17 february 2010 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal as unfounded, endorsing the reasoning of the first-instance judgment.14.  on 22 april 2010 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint before the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) alleging in particular that he had been placed under unlawful secret surveillance and that the evidence thereby obtained had been used in the criminal proceedings against him.15.  on 21 february 2012 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s complaints as unfounded, endorsing the reasoning of the lower courts.it also stressed that the applicant had actively participated in the proceedings and that there had been no arbitrariness in the findings and decisions of the relevant courts.16.  the decision of the constitutional court was served on the applicant’s representative on 23 february 2012.
as a result, the applicant received the status of a disabled person with the lowest degree of disability (третя група інвалідності).6.  in january 1996 the applicant instituted proceedings in the tsentralnyy district court against the simferopol trolley bus company, claiming compensation for pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage to her health caused by the accident.8.  on 1 february 2007, while the proceedings were still pending before the national courts, the court delivered a judgment on the applicant’s first application (no.as for the issues that were at stake for the applicant, the court notes that following the traffic accident the applicant was seriously injured and received a disability degree.given that the applicant was a single mother and had a child to raise, the compensations for loss of earnings and for expenses sustained as a result of a poor state of her health were of undeniable importance for the applicant.the court therefore considers that what was at stake for the applicant called for an expeditious decision on her claims.” 10.  on 27 march 2007 the simferopolskiy district court found against the applicant.on 24 december 2007 the court of appeal of the autonomous republic of crimea quashed this decision and remitted the case to a first-instance court for fresh examination.on 23 april 2008 the supreme court of ukraine upheld the decision of the court of appeal.on 29 july 2009 the court of appeal of the autonomous republic of crimea quashed this decision and remitted the case to a first-instance court for fresh examination.on 15 october 2009 the supreme court of ukraine upheld the decision of the court of appeal.12.  on 10 november 2009 the simferopolskiy district court left the applicant’s case without consideration because she had failed to appear in court without giving plausible reasons on 28 october 2009 and 10 november 2009. the applicant lodged an appeal against this decision stating that she had not been aware about the above-mentioned hearings.on 27 january 2010 the court of appeal of the autonomous republic of crimea rejected the applicant’s appeal.the court noted that the applicant had been duly notified about the date of the hearings.on 5 october 2011 the supreme court of ukraine upheld the decisions of the lower courts.a further attempt by the applicant to have the above decisions reviewed in the light of newly discovered circumstances was to no avail.
it observed that the applicant had recruited and instructed the child’s mother as a drugs runner for two separate consignments of cocaine from south america to europe in summer 1998 and in late 1999/early 2000. it considered, in favour of the applicant, that this was his first criminal conviction, that the first delivery had failed (the drugs did not actually enter the distribution system), and that the applicant had been detained on remand since july 2001. the regional court held against the applicant that he had used as drugs runners two young women who were adolescents at the time the offences were committed, and who ran the risk of a lengthy prison sentence in south america; that he had exploited the naivety of his daughter’s mother; that a large amount of cocaine was meant to be smuggled in the first case and that four kilograms of cocaine were smuggled into europe in the second case; and that the entire undertaking had been handled very professionally.13.  after his release, the applicant was granted exceptional leave to remain (duldung) under section 60a of the residence act – according to the information available to the court this was granted most recently in january 2017 and would last until july 2017. it meant that enforcement of the expulsion order was temporarily suspended, being impossible to execute as the applicant did not have a valid passport (see paragraphs 28, 29 and 36‑42 below).it held that the applicant’s expulsion was mandatory pursuant to section 47 § 1 of the aliens act (ausländergesetz; since 2004: section 53 of the residence act) which foresaw the mandatory expulsion of an alien if he or she were sentenced to either at least three years’ imprisonment for a criminal offence, or to any period of imprisonment (not on probation) for an offence under the narcotics act.it found that the applicant had lived with his daughter only for a short time prior to his imprisonment, she had thus experienced separation from the applicant and that, in the light of the applicant’s very serious criminal offences, the state’s interest in removing the applicant prevailed over his interest in enjoying family life with his daughter.22.  the administrative court found that, despite the serious nature of the criminal offences the applicant had committed, there was no public interest that outweighed the child’s best interests and the applicant’s interest in having contact with his daughter.it considered that they could only live together in germany, as the child could not be expected to relocate to nigeria; that the applicant had committed the criminal offences prior to the birth of his daughter; that he had made considerable efforts as a father, as was also evidenced by his choice to remain imprisoned in germany and to have supervised meetings with his daughter as of january 2008 rather than having his sentence suspended and being expelled as of 1 november 2007; that the latter event marked a turning point, which occurred after the expulsion order had become final in 2003 and which had not been taken into account by the administrative authorities; that the child had already been deprived of a relationship with her father for many years during his imprisonment; that the material assessment with a view to the applicant’s expulsion had been conducted on 21 march 2003, years before the developments in the father‑daughter relationship and the moment the expulsion order would be enforced; and that the enforcement of the expulsion order in connection with a re-entry ban would deprive the child of the possibility of a normal father-daughter relationship for the remainder of her childhood.as the decision to waive this requirement in cases concerning residence permits on humanitarian grounds was a discretionary one, the applicant did not have a claim to a residence permit within the meaning of section 10 § 3, third sentence, of the residence act, not even if the margin of appreciation were reduced to zero (see paragraph 34 below).third, the court found that the applicant could not base a claim to a residence permit on impediments to his return to his country of origin either, referring to the outcome of the asylum proceedings in 2008 and 2009 (see paragraph 18 above).the court of appeal concluded that, under these circumstances, it was not decisive whether the ties between the applicant and his daughter were such that the requirements for a residence permit on humanitarian grounds under section 25 § 5 of the residence act were met, if the applicant’s asylum application had not been dismissed, and refrained from elaborating on this aspect.the purpose of section 10 § 3 of the residence act was to sanction abuse of the asylum procedure, but an abusive asylum application should not bear negative consequences where the foreigner had a claim, within the meaning of that provision, to a residence permit.in that regard, it should be decisive whether or not the substantive requirements of the respective provision for a residence permit were met, as in his case with regard to the permit based on family ties, and that the reason for the claim not being realised, in his case the final expulsion order against him, should not be relevant.however, as the applicant did not have a valid passport, which was a general requirement for the granting of a residence permit from which derogations were, in cases concerning section 25 § 5 of the residence act, possible only by way of a discretionary decision, the exception foreseen in section 10 § 3, third sentence, of the residence act was not applicable.27.  on 22 march 2012 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the federal constitutional court, alleging that the decisions of the administrative court of appeal and of the federal administrative court violated his right to respect for his family life with his daughter.28.  after the authority of the city of munich, on 12 june 2012, had ordered the applicant to present himself to the embassy of nigeria in germany so that a passport for the upcoming expulsion could be issued, the applicant refused to do so and filed an action against this order with the munich administrative court.during the court hearing on 1 august 2012, the applicant and the immigration authorities agreed to the following: “- the effect of the re-entry ban will be limited to two and a half years after leaving germany.
7.  according to a medical certificate from tetovo medical centre issued on 29 january 2003 on the basis of the available medical evidence, mr s. selami was in a post-operative state (following medical trepanation of his skull and evacuation of the internal brain haemorrhage); parts of his skull and the tough brain membrane had been seriously damaged; he had suffered reduced mobility of all limbs, muscle hypotonia and neck and rib fractures.9.  on 31 august 2002, five days after first having been detained and beaten by the police (see paragraphs 15 to 22 below), an investigating judge of the skopje court of first instance (“the trial court”) opened an investigation against mr s. selami and three other persons in connection with their alleged involvement in enemy activities against the state and ordered their pre-trial detention.12.  on 18 november 2003 mr s. selami contacted the ministry of justice with a view to securing an out-of-court settlement and payment of 16,170,000 macedonian denars (mkd – equivalent to 263,000 euros (eur)) in respect of pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage caused, so it was asserted, by the unlawful deprivation of his liberty and the serious injuries that he had sustained at the hands of the police on 26 august 2002. in support he submitted the medical certificate from tetovo medical centre (see paragraph 7 above).13.  in the absence of any response from the ministry, on 30 january 2004 mr s. selami and the applicants submitted two separate lawsuits, one in relation to his unlawful detention and one in relation to his physical ill-treatment by the police, claiming pecuniary and non-pecuniary damages in both.they reiterated that on 26 august 2002 mr s. selami had been unlawfully deprived of his liberty; that he had been taken to police stations where he had been beaten and physically ill-treated; and that the police had taken him to skopje hospital where he had undergone head surgery.15.  in a judgment of 22 april 2010, the gostivar court of first instance ruled partly for mr s. selami and, relying on section 189 of the obligations act (see paragraph 26 below), it awarded him the equivalent of eur 18,000 in non-pecuniary damages for the unjustified detention between 19 september and 10 december 2002. it dismissed the remaining part of mr s. selami’s claim.as to the applicants’ claims, the court held that the consequences suffered by mr s. selami as a consequence of “the unjustified detention” could not be regarded “extremely severe disability”, as required by section 190(3) of the obligations act.as a result of the head trauma, there was haemorrhage ... in the right (part of the brain) ... after the surgery, mr s. selami had remained in coma and ... had been connected to a ventilator for assisted breathing.18.  relying on the statements of mr s. selami and the first and fourth applicants, the court established that in august 2002 the police had searched their house.they argued that the first-instance court had not determined their claim in relation to the serious injuries inflicted on him by the police, as a result of which he had had his skull broken; had suffered a brain haemorrhage; had required head surgery; had been immobilised and had lost the full use of his hands.21.  on 24 august 2012 the skopje court of appeal dismissed the appeals by mr s. selami and the applicants and allowed the appeal by the solicitor general.the court, inter alia, stated: “in the impugned judgment, the first-instance court established ... on the basis of the expert opinion [that mr s. selami] had experienced intense pain on his head and body when he had been physically attacked ... every blow had caused physical pain of different intensity, accompanied by swelling and bruises on his body ... regarding the intensity and duration of the fear, the experts are of the opinion that when arrested and physically assaulted and hit, particularly on his head, [mr s. selami] had had intense, unpleasant, emotional experiences of primary fear ... which persisted until he had fallen into a coma ... regarding the emotional suffering due to his unjustified deprivation of liberty and detention, the experts are of the opinion that the basis for an award of non-pecuniary damages ... is the time calculated as of 26 august 2002 ... when [mr s. selami] was arrested by the police ..., transferred to other police stations, where he was subjected to serious physical ill-treatment and beaten, which caused serious bodily injury ... this court considers that the [above] facts were correctly established.the serious injury inflicted on him (during the 2002 detention) had caused his left limbs to become dysfunctional to a minor extent, which cannot be regarded as an extremely severe disability.” 22.  the court rejected the applicants’ arguments that the first-instance court had not decided the claim for compensation for damage sustained as a result of mr s. selami’s physical ill-treatment.in this connection it stated that: “the operative provisions and the reasons given in the [impugned] judgment clearly and unequivocally confirm that the court had decided the entire claim ... this court considers that the emotional suffering due to unjustified detention is a single type of damage which includes all the detrimental effects on the victim, including his physical ill-treatment ... in assessing the amount of the award, this court took into consideration all the circumstances of the case, including the duration of the unjustified deprivation of liberty, the respect with which the plaintiff was held in his family and in the community, that during the unjustified deprivation of liberty he was physically ill-treated and sustained serious bodily injury, as a result of which his left limbs became dysfunctional to a minor extent, that he was hospitalised and operated on and that he had been disabled before ...” 23.  by a final decision of 31 october 2012, delivered by a notary public, the fourth applicant was declared the sole heir of mr s. selami’s inheritance, including the compensation awarded to him.the fourth applicant, as the statutory successor of the late mr s. selami, lodged the appeal in his name and on behalf of mr s. selami.
6.  prior to the events of 1 june 2007 that are in issue in the present case the applicant, who is not a lawyer, had appeared before the nova kakhovka court (hereinafter “the court”) in a number of cases, either as a party or as a representative.10.  the applicant appeared before the court and, at the opening of the hearing, challenged the presiding judge, m., in the following terms: “applicant: your honour, i would like to challenge the composition of the court.applicant: your honour, the grounds on which i challenge you are that, [when] sitting on the [bench of] the nova kakhovka court, you have not given a single lawful decision in any case where i was a representative or a party.this was the source of the problems you had in securing your appointment to the position of judge for life .... this article tells me unequivocally that you will only decide [this] case according to the instructions which you ... receive, and the law – including my rights as a consumer – will mean absolutely nothing to you.in support of what i have said i can refer to the case where you considered my claim against [a prosecutor] and where you delivered a totally illegal judgment, even though there have been decisions of the nova kakhovka court and of the court of appeal concerning the same situation, in which the actions of the prosecutor had been declared unlawful in that the prosecutor should have delivered not only letters in response to my complaints but formal decisions so that i could challenge those decisions.applicant: your references to the court of appeal’s decisions ... [the applicant lists names, apparently of other judges] judge: the hearing is adjourned!” 11.  according to the applicant, the hearing was adjourned at 9.30 a.m. upon the adjournment judge m. instructed her secretary, ms p., to draw up an administrative-offence report in respect of the applicant for contempt of court.the report stated that the applicant “on 1 june 2017 in the course of a court hearing ..., while challenging the presiding judge, accused [her] of delivering unlawful judgments [and undertaking] unlawful actions, uttered knowingly (завідомо) false statements detrimental to the judge’s honour and dignity, failed to react to the court’s admonishment to be balanced, [and] continued making statements which demonstrated her clear contempt for the court”, and in doing so committed an offence under article 185-3 of the code of administrative offences (hereinafter “the code”) – see paragraph 22 below).the report stated that the applicant’s rights as a person accused of an administrative offence, as set out in article 268 of the code (see paragraph 25 below), had been explained to her and that her case would be examined on the same day.15.  the applicant alleged that the case file had been transmitted from judge m.’s secretary to judge b. directly, without being registered at the court registry and without being assigned by the court president in accordance with the usual procedure.according to the applicant, the hearing commenced at 10.27 a.m. in the course of the hearing the applicant pleaded not guilty of the administrative offence of contempt of court and made oral submissions in respect of the charge against her.it appears that in the course of the hearing the applicant secretly audio-recorded the proceedings, producing a recording of a rather poor quality which she provided to the court on a cd disc (see paragraph 48 below).judge b. found that the applicant “in the course of a court hearing, in making a challenge, had accused judge m. of adopting unlawful decisions [and undertaking] unlawful actions, had made false statements detrimental to the judge’s honour and dignity, had failed to react to the court’s admonishment to be balanced, and had continued making insulting statements which had demonstrated clear contempt for the court.” in convicting the applicant the court relied on the report (see paragraph 12 above), the statements of the witnesses me.19.  on 2 july 2007 the first vice-president of the kherson regional court of appeal, acting on his own motion within the meaning of article 294 of the code (see paragraph 28 above), reviewed the case.in his reasoning the first vice-president noted in particular that the applicant had failed to lodge any application in her case, be it to be permitted to examine the case file, for evidence to be collected, or to be allowed to have the assistance of a lawyer.the article reported that g’s conviction by judge m. had again been quashed on appeal and the case remitted for retrial before a different district court and that g.’s relatives had apparently made sure that the case would be under the supervision of the presidential administration and other high state bodies.
13.  on 23 september 2015 the court of cassation quashed the second‑instance judgment of the chambery court of appeal and remitted the case to the lyon court of appeal.14.  on 10 december 2014 the pest central district court received from the applicant a request under the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction (articles 11-12) and the brussels ii bis regulation for the child to be returned to france.thus, as he suggested, his sister would look after l. the court also noted that the applicant had lodged his request almost a year after l.’s abduction and that although he had visited hungary on a number of occasions, he had not been in contact with l. thus, the court dismissed the applicant’s request under article 13(b) of the hague convention.he argued that article 13 of the hague convention was applicable to exceptional circumstances only and that neither the child’s age nor his closer connection to his mother had any bearing on the matter and could not constitute a decisive element in the decision to refuse to order the child’s return to his habitual residence.on 8 may 2015 the szombathely district court issued a restriction order in respect of the applicant, which was subsequently overturned on appeal on the grounds that the mother herself had not been a victim of violent behaviour on the part of the applicant.23.  on 30 april 2015, in an interim decision, the district court decided not to recognise the judgments adopted by the thonon-les-bains tribunal de grande instance and the chambery court of appeal, established that it did have jurisdiction in the matter, and temporarily placed l. in his mother’s sole custody.however, the proceedings before the thonon-les-bains tribunal de grande instance had failed to respect k.b.v.’s right to a fair trial, since – owing to the fact that the applicant had given false information to the french authorities – she had not been informed of the proceedings and had not been able to be heard in person.as to the interim resolution of custody rights, the court held that the interests of the child could be best served if he remained in his habitual environment – that is to say in the company of his mother and maternal grandparents – and that removing him from hungary would pose a risk of causing him psychological harm.nonetheless, the court found that the recognition of the foreign judgments could not be recognised, pursuant to article 23(b) of the brussels ii bis regulation, since recognition would have been contrary to the public policy of hungary, given that the best interests of the child had only been respected in a formalistic way.31.  on 3 february 2016 the szombathely high court upheld the decision of the district court of 10 december 2015 on the temporary placement of l. in his mother’s custody, emphasising that the thonon‑les‑bains tribunal de grande instance had arrived at the same conclusion.32.  in the meantime, on 24 february 2015 the applicant applied for the execution of the judgments delivered by the thonon-les-bains tribunal de grande instance and the chambery court of appeal.33.  on 7 september 2015 the szombathely district court dismissed the application, relying on the decision of the szombathely high court of 11 august 2015 on the non-recognition of the french courts’ judgments.34.  the applicant appealed, arguing that the district court had erred in finding that the decision on the non-recognition of the french courts’ judgments was relevant in the case.since in the meantime the court of cassation had overturned the judgment of the chambery court of appeal, the applicant requested the enforcement of the judgment of the thonon‑les‑bains tribunal de grande instance and maintained that this judgment had been declared automatically enforceable.the szombathely high court held that the judgment of the thonon-les-bains tribunal de grande instance, under which no rights at all were granted to the mother at all, was contrary to the public policy of hungary since it did not respect fundamental rights, and in particular the best interest of the child, and refused by a decision of 10 december 2015 to execute it.
6.  on 12 september 2006 the applicant submitted a written notice to the mayor of vinnytsia informing him that the chumatskyy shlyakh civic youth association (“the association”) registered in vinnytsia, of which he was chairman, intended to hold a picket (пікет) outside the vinnytsia regional authority (“the regional authority”) building.the notice read as follows: “we inform you that, starting from 14 september 2006 our organisation will hold a picket [in front] of the [regional authority] for an indefinite term in view of the unhealthy, in our view, social and economic state of affairs in the region.the applicant was neither the chairman, nor could he even be a member of the association because according to the association’s charter, membership was open to persons under the age of twenty-eight.according to the applicant, several other local groups joined the action and two small camping tents (measuring 2 by 2 metres) were erected by the walls of the regional authority building on a 15-metre wide street for storing handout materials and displaying the protesters’ slogans.10.  on 15 september 2006 the executive committee of vinnytsia city council instituted administrative proceedings seeking “to enjoin the [association] not to organise and carry out pickets on the streets and squares of vinnytsia and to oblige it to uninstall the unlawfully erected ‘small architectural structures’ (малі архітектурні форми).” the plaintiff alleged that the protesters had been breaching the peace and public order by offending passers-by, acting arrogantly towards them, obstructing the traffic and pedestrians and endangering the lives and health of local residents.referring to article 182 of the code of administrative justice (“the caj”, see paragraph 20 below), which provided for the lodging of an action before the start of a picket, the plaintiff asked the court to admit its action for consideration out-of-time on the grounds that only after the picket had started had it become apparent that the protesters intended to engage in inappropriate conduct.11.  on the same date the leninskiy district court in vinnytsia (“the district court”) held a hearing at which the applicant, representing the association, denied the allegations that the picketers had engaged in any inappropriate conduct.and the police officers present at the site of the picket be summoned for questioning; that the police authorities be asked whether any incidents of unlawful conduct by the picketers had been documented; and that the site be inspected in order to determine whether, in fact, the camping tents mounted by the picketers had obstructed the traffic or the passage of pedestrians.the relevant part of the judgment read as follows: “... [the] executive committee ... did not and could not have known about a possible breach of public order by the participants of the event, which fact resulted in missing the time-limit for lodging a court action as required by paragraph 1 of article 182 of the code of administrative justice of ukraine; the court therefore resets the procedural time-limit ... the court, when deciding the case, takes into account that the participants in the event installed small architectural edifices on the pavement.accordingly, at any time during the picket of indeterminate length, it cannot be excluded that those taking part might repeatedly breach public order.” 13.  the court also noted that the picket “may potentially encroach upon the rights and freedoms of other local residents” and held as follows: “[the court holds] to prohibit [the association] and other persons taking part in the action from organising and carrying out peaceful assemblies in the streets and squares of vinnytsia, [and] from installing small architectural edifices in vinnytsia; ... oblige them to dismantle the small architectural edifices installed in the square in front of the [administration’s] building ... to allow immediate enforcement of the court ruling ...” 14.  at 9 p.m. on 15 september 2006 the protesters were dispersed by the police.the applicant further complained that the court had rejected his request that those individuals be located and summoned, and that the police officers present at the site of the picket also be summoned for questioning concerning the alleged breaches of the law by the protesters.he also regretted that the court had refused his requests that the relevant police reports documenting the purported breaches of the law (if any) be produced and an inspection of the picket site be carried out with a view to determining whether the tents erected by the activists could count as “architectural structures” and whether there had been any obstruction of traffic or pedestrians.17.  on 22 november 2006 the vinnytsia regional court of appeal examined the applicant’s appeal and decided that, in view of the circumstances of the case (namely, the short notice of the intention to hold a picket and the indefinite period during which the participants planned to continue their demonstration) the administrative action lodged by the executive committee could be accepted for examination.it agreed with the district court’s findings of fact and noted, in particular, that by installing the tents, the protesters had breached section 16 of the populated localities development act and section 18 of the automobile roads act.accordingly, the court found that the term “peaceful assemblies” in the operative part of the district court’s judgment had to be substituted with the term “pickets”.
on 18 march 2015 the prosecution authorities asked the regional court to amend the proceedings against the applicant, based on the results of the investigation obtained after the criminal proceedings had been brought.9.  on 6 may 2015 the regional court decided to open the main proceedings, which commenced on 8 june 2015. on 14 july 2016 the regional court convicted the applicant on five counts each of aiding fraudulent conversion and tax evasion and sentenced him to four years and six months’ imprisonment.the conviction has not yet become final, with appeals lodged by both the applicant and the prosecution authorities still pending at the time the court examined the application.10.  on 26 october 2016 the frankfurt am main district court decided to set aside the arrest warrant of 30 october 2013, which since the outset had been the basis for the applicant’s continuous detention on remand.on 8 december 2014 the frankfurt am main district court dismissed an application from the applicant to set aside the detention order as it had become devoid of purpose (prozessual überholt) because the frankfurt am main court of appeal had been seized with a review of the applicant’s detention under articles 121 et seq.13.  on 24 october 2014 the prosecution authorities submitted a statement and the case file to the frankfurt am main court of appeal, requesting the extension of the applicant’s detention on remand in accordance with articles 121 et seq.he also requested that the court of appeal decide on his objection and an appeal to be heard, lodged on 25 august 2014 against the court of appeal’s decision of 28 july 2014, prior to the expiry of the time‑limit given to him to respond to the prosecution authorities’ submission.15.  on 19 november 2014 the names of the judges called to decide on the continuation of the applicant’s detention were disclosed to the applicant, following his request of the same day.on 25 november 2014 the applicant lodged a complaint of bias against two of the three judges concerned, arguing that they had repeatedly contacted the wrong authorities – either the frankfurt am main district court or regional court, rather than the prosecution authorities – to request the case file and had taken two and half months to decide on his objection and appeal to be heard.the judges gave their statements on 27 november 2014 and 1 december 2014. the applicant then requested additional statements from them, which was not deemed to be necessary by the court of appeal on 11 december 2014. four days later the applicant lodged another complaint about bias, arguing that their statements in response to his first such complaint could not restore his confidence in their impartiality.on 30 december 2014 the court of appeal rejected the applicant’s first complaint of bias as ill-founded, finding that there were no indications that the judges concerned were partial, even assuming that they had made a procedural mistake in connection with requesting the case file, leading to a delay in deciding on his objection and appeal to be heard.the court of appeal was informed by the prosecution authorities that the criminal proceedings had been brought before the darmstadt regional court, rather than the frankfurt am main regional court, so the court of appeal made a similar enquiry to the court in question on 3 february 2015.17.  on 10 march 2015 the applicant’s lawyer sent to the court of appeal two comprehensive submissions which he had made in the main proceedings before the regional court and asked the appeal court to take them into account when deciding on the continuation of the applicant’s remand detention.19.  on 21 april 2015 the applicant lodged another constitutional complaint with the federal constitutional court, alleging that the absence of a decision by the court of appeal in the pending detention review proceedings had violated his right to liberty and security.it further considered that in the light of, inter alia, the amount of evidence to be examined, the requests for legal assistance sent to several countries, and the scope and complexity of the case, there was no indication of undue delay in the conduct of the criminal proceedings, with the trial being scheduled to commence in june 2015. the applicant’s continued detention on remand was, therefore, proportionate.
on the day of the accident the company had not checked whether the pilot’s documents complied with the requirements of the legislation, and it had unjustifiably (nepamatoti) handed over the aircraft to him and verbally authorised him to fly.by referring to the investigation carried out by the taiib, the riga regional court noted that the primary reason for the accident was “human error” on the part of the pilot, and that the lack of sufficient procedure in relation to handing over an aircraft had contributed to the accident, but was not the sole cause of it.40.  in a letter dated 12 may 2015 addressed to the government regarding the accident in question, the civil aviation agency stated: “as regards the responsibility of the aircraft owner, we note that the legislative acts [at the material time] provided that the owner of an aircraft was responsible for ensuring the maintenance of the aircraft’s airworthiness, but not its safe operation during a flight, which was the pilot’s responsibility.201 (a), the owner is responsible for the continuing airworthiness of an aircraft and shall ensure that no flight takes place unless: the aircraft is maintained in an airworthy condition; and any operational and emergency equipment fitted is correctly installed and serviceable or clearly identified as unserviceable; and the airworthiness certificate remains valid; and the maintenance of the aircraft is performed in accordance with the approved maintenance programme.” 41.  article 92 of the constitution (satversme) provides, inter alia, that “any person whose rights are violated without justification has a right to commensurate compensation”.these powers comprised, inter alia: carrying out state supervision of the use of the republic of latvia’s airspace and civil aviation operations; prohibiting activities related to the use of airspace or the operation of aircrafts in breach of legislative acts; coming up with measures to guarantee aircraft flight safety; and drawing up legislative acts regulating the safety of civil aviation operations.49.  the relevant parts of section 34 read as follows: “an aviation specialist is prohibited from performing his or her functions if he or she: 1) is unable to present a licence with an appropriate qualification stamp allowing the performance of such functions, or if the specialist’s [possession of] the appropriate qualification has not been verified within the time-limit prescribed; ...” 50.  section 36 provided that the work of a civil aircraft flight crew should be managed by a pilot-in-command.51.  section 37 set out the duties of the pilot of an aircraft, such as: managing the work of a flight crew so that aircraft flight safety was ensured and the provisions of this law and other laws of the republic of latvia were respected, as well as the requirements of by-laws, instructions and other laws and regulations; implementing measures to prevent danger threatening the aircraft which he or she controlled; rescuing passengers, injured crew members, the aircraft, and its documentation and property on board; and providing medical assistance to those who were injured if the aircraft had an aviation accident.the performance of duties shall commence with a flight crew member’s preparation for a flight and shall conclude after the flight at the moment when he or she has fulfilled all of the functions set out in the rules regarding the operation of the aircraft and other regulations.” 54.  section 97 provided as follows: “an aircraft owner or operator, if the aircraft is operated by another person, shall be liable for any harm caused to a third party in the territory of the republic of latvia by an aircraft in flight or an object that has become separated from that aircraft [where this harm] manifests [itself] in either the death of the third party or damage caused to his or her health, or harm caused to his or her property, if the aircraft owner or operator, in accordance with the procedures laid down in legal acts of the republic of latvia, does not prove that the harm occurred according to the fault of the victim himself or herself.for the purposes of this section, an aircraft shall be deemed to be an aircraft in flight from the moment the engines of the aircraft are started before take-off until the moment when the aircraft has finished taxiing after its landing.” 55.  on 21 march 2013 the law on aviation was supplemented by section 91. this was to have effect from 24 april 2013 onwards and was worded in the following manner: “an aircraft owner and operator is prohibited from handing over an aircraft which is to be flown to a person who does not have a civil aircraft flight crew member licence with an appropriate qualification stamp and who is not insured in accordance with section 111 of this law.” 56.  in a judgment of 24 november 2010 in case no.the administrative cases chamber of the senate of the supreme court, in a decision of 24 july 2012 in case ska-726/2012, held that, in order for a person to seek compensation for an infringement of his or her rights caused by a legal provision adopted by parliament, he or she could file a civil claim with a court of general jurisdiction, directly referring to the third sentence of article 92 of the constitution.04255508, relying on article 92 of the constitution and article 1635 of the civil law, alleged liability on the part of the state and requested an award of compensation for non-pecuniary damage in respect of a failure to ensure the safety of soldiers’ skydiving classes and their compliance with legal provisions, which had resulted in the death of the claimant’s son.c33137808, the senate of the supreme court, sitting in an extended composition, noted that the state police’s conclusion reached in the course of criminal proceedings as to the absence of pecuniary damage was not binding on a court adjudicating a civil claim, and did not absolve parties to civil proceedings from the obligation to prove the non-existence of pecuniary damage in the course of those proceedings.in this connection attention is drawn to the point that the entire performance standards of annex 8 are applicable to all aeroplanes of over 5,700 kg mass intended for the carriage of passengers or cargo or mail international air navigation, of which the prototype was submitted for certification on or after 13 december 1964. moreover, by virtue of annex 1 the pilot of an aircraft certificated for operation with a minimum crew of at least two pilots must hold a type rating for that aircraft type.” section 2 – general aviation operations chapter 2.1 general 2.1.1 compliance with laws, regulations and procedures “2.1.1.1 the pilot-in-command shall comply with the laws, regulations and procedures of those states in which operations are conducted....” chapter 2.2 flight operations 2.2.1 operating facilities “the pilot-in-command shall ensure that a flight will not be commended unless it has been ascertained by every reasonable means available that the ground and/or water facilities including communication facilities and navigation aids available and directly required on such flights, for the safe operation of the aeroplane, are adequate for the type of operation under which the flight is to be conducted ...” 2.2.2.1 operating instructions – general “an aeroplane shall not be taxied on the movement area of an aerodrome unless the person at the controls is an appropriately qualified pilot or: a) has been authorised by the owner ...; b) is fully competent to taxi the aeroplane; c) is qualified to use the radio if radio communications are required; and d) has received instruction from a competent person in respect of aerodrome layout, and where appropriate, information on routes, signs, marking, lights, atc signals and instructions, phraseology and procedures, and is able to conform to the operational standards required for safe aeroplane movement at the aerodrome.” 2.2.5 duties of pilot-in-command “2.2.5.1 the pilot-in-command shall be responsible for the operation, safety and security of the aeroplane and the safety of all crew members, passengers and cargo on board....” chapter 2.6 aeroplane maintenance 2.6.1 owner’s maintenance responsibilities “2.6.1.1 the owner of an aeroplane, or in case where it is leased, the lessee, shall ensure that, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the state of registry [the state on whose register the aircraft is entered]: a) the aeroplane is maintained in an airworthy condition; b) the operational and emergency equipment necessary for an intended flight is serviceable; and c) the certificate of airworthiness of the aeroplane remains valid.
10.  the applicant was taken to the police station in the nearby town of valchi dol, where, at 11.30 a.m., an order for his arrest was issued under section 63(1) of the ministry of the interior act 2006 (see paragraph 26 below).14.  the murder investigation, to which the investigation into the alleged theft of a gun and other personal possessions mentioned in the applicant’s confession to officers z.k.16.  the varna regional court (hereinafter “the regional court”), which examined the case at first instance, held its first hearing on 25 june 2007. it heard the doctor who had examined the applicant on the evening of 21 june 2006 (see paragraph 12 above).he said that he had not committed the offences, as at the time of the murder he had been at his grandmother’s house in another village, and that he had confessed to the offences under duress.at the same time, the confession was one of “the pillars” of the indictment, as there was no other evidence showing the course of the events inside the victim’s house.on the basis of the evidence collected, it concluded that the applicant had stolen a gun and other personal possessions several days before the murder, and on the day of the murder had entered the victim’s house in order to steal food.when she had surprised him in the house, he had attacked her, hitting her with the gun stolen earlier – in such a way that a part of the gun’s cock had broken off and fallen to the floor – and with an axe which he had found in the house.20.  in establishing the facts, the regional court relied on the following most important pieces of evidence: a metal fragment which had been found under the victim’s body and which the experts confirmed to be the missing part of the cock of the gun; traces of the victim’s blood found on the handle of the gun found in the applicant’s bag; the testimony of the person who had given the applicant a lift in his car and had found that bag; the fact that that person had also recognised the applicant’s photo when it had been shown to him by the police; and the testimony of officers z.k.and v.v., who had recounted what the applicant had confessed to them with regard to the course of the events in the victim’s house.as to the officers’ testimony, the regional court pointed out that it considered it credible, since the confession as recounted by them had enabled the police to continue the investigation and identify further evidence.22.  in his written and oral submissions to the varna court of appeal (hereinafter “the court of appeal”), counsel for the applicant contested once again the testimony given by z.k.he argued that the regional court had not commented on the evidence showing that the applicant had been beaten in order to make the confession the officers had recounted, pointed out that the confession had not been repeated once the applicant had been taken before an investigator, and relied again on article 118 of the code of criminal procedure.in addition to the evidence described above, it relied on the testimony of a neighbour of the victim, who had seen a person considered to be the applicant on the roof of the victim’s house shortly before the murder.and v.v., the court of appeal pointed out that they had not been investigating bodies within the meaning of the code of criminal procedure, and that their testimony had been assessed in the light of all other evidence.furthermore, it commented on the exonerating evidence, in particular expert reports finding no fingerprints of the applicant and no traces of his scent in the victim’s house, saying that this was not sufficient to refute the accusations.
6.  on 4 may 1995 a group of about fifteen individuals carrying banners from the kurdistan workers’ party (pkk), an illegal armed organisation, and chanting slogans in favour of the organisation marched in a street in the küçükçekmece district of istanbul.one of those witnesses, a certain a.a., who had been working on the street where the events had taken place, indicated that he had seen a group of about twenty people marching in the streets, chanting slogans and throwing molotov cocktails at shops, and that the group had dispersed after several shops had caught fire.according to a report drawn up by the police and signed by the applicant, he identified mr bingöl (“the second applicant”) as one of the accomplices.he further stated that he had been arrested near the scene of the incident while on his way to his friend’s home, that he had seen a group of about thirty or forty people, and that he had had nothing to do with the events in connection with which he had been arrested.15.  on the same day, the first applicant was brought before a judge of the istanbul state security court, before whom he reiterated that he had not participated in the rally and had nothing to say about it.the judge ordered the first applicant’s detention and, in the absence of the second applicant, issued a warrant for the latter’s arrest.16.  the second applicant was arrested during an identity check on 27 april 1996 in the town of genç in the south-eastern part of the country, and was held in custody.on the same day, he participated in a reconstruction of the events in the absence of a lawyer and admitted having thrown a molotov cocktail at a shop on 4 may 1995.he gave a detailed account of his activities within the illegal organisation, including his participation in the events of 4 may 1995, and provided the names of various individuals who had also participated in that incident, including that of the first applicant.19.  on 10 may 1996 he was brought before the public prosecutor, where he accepted the statements which he had given to the police and admitted his participation in various activities of the organisation, including those of 4 may 1995. he stated that he had left the organisation and that he wished to have the benefit of law no.22.  on 29 august 1995 the trial court held a hearing in which, in the absence of the applicants and their lawyers, it heard several witnesses who had been interviewed by the police.y.k., an employee at nazlım, also gave evidence in person, stating that she had seen a man and a woman set fire to the shop and had provided the police with a detailed description of the woman.at that hearing, counsel for the first applicant requested that a.a. should be heard by the court in the presence of the applicant.27.  following the judgment of the court of cassation, the proceedings before the trial court started again on 19 september 1999 and the composition of the trial court was changed several times.31.  on 9 march 2004 the istanbul state security court found the applicants guilty of the offence provided for in article 125 of the criminal code and sentenced them to life imprisonment.
the report mentioned that if the prison in which the applicant had been placed offered a wide choice of daily menus it would be unnecessary to transfer the applicant to another prison providing such facilities.it added that on the other hand, if the prison only offered one standard menu, the erzurum hospital’s health board would hold a further meeting in order to decide whether the applicant should be transferred to another prison, after ascertaining the view of a dietician on the cholesterol content of the standard menu.7.  on an unspecified date the applicant, arguing that the meal served in prison was incompatible with his medically prescribed diet, asked the prison authorities to send samples to the ministry of justice and the human rights commission of the grande national assembly of turkey.on 7 november 2008 the erzurum judge responsible for the execution of sentences (“the judge responsible for the execution of sentences”) dismissed the appeal.on 5 december 2008 the erzurum assize court (“the assize court”) upheld the dismissal decision given by the judge responsible for the execution of sentences.11.  on an unspecified date the applicant lodged a complaint with the judge responsible for the execution of sentences about the refusal by the prison authorities, despite his many requests, to provide him with meals compatible with his medically prescribed diet, which he said formed an integral part of his medical treatment.the applicant stated the following, inter alia: “... my state of health [is poor]; the prison authorities informed me that i would be provided with meals compatible with my diet, but that has not happened; this can be noted from surveillance camera footage; i was not provided with the menu list when i wanted to submit it to the ministry for examination.” 12.  on 2 january 2009 the judge responsible for the execution of sentences allowed the applicant’s request.that judge referred in his decision to a document which the prison authorities had drawn up for the attention of the erzurum public prosecutor’s office, stating the following: “... medically prescribed diets cannot be prepared in [our] prison’s kitchen; we can only cook unsalted and unspiced versions of the meals prepared for the other [prisoners].extra potatoes, boiled eggs and tomatoes are sometimes provided.” 13.  the judge responsible for the execution of sentences pointed out that the prison had not indicated in that document whether or not the meals contained fats, which made it impossible to assess their cholesterol content.in view of the impossibility of ascertaining whether meals prepared in that manner were compatible with the medical prescriptions in question, he ordered that the standard menu should be examined by a dietician and, if that menu proved incompatible with the applicant’s diet, that the applicant should be provided with an appropriate menu.14.  on 5 january 2009 the erzurum public prosecutor (“the prosecutor”) appealed against the decision of 2 january 2009. on 8 january 2009 the judge responsible for the execution of sentences dismissed that appeal.he argued as follows: the meals were prepared in the prison kitchen; the daily allowance per prisoner, which totalled three turkish liras (try – about 1.40 euro at the material time), was only sufficient to prepare one type of meal per day, which meant that the prisoners could not be offered several types of menus; menus could not be prepared for the medically prescribed diets for a total of thirty-eight individuals detained in the same prison, and only an unsalted, fat-free and unspiced version of the standard menu was on offer.according to the prosecutor, the prison would only be able to improve its service in that respect if the amount of the daily allowance were increased.16.  on 9 january 2009 the assize court followed the prosecutor’s reasoning and quashed the decisions given by the judge responsible for the execution of sentences on 2 and 8 january 2009.17.  furthermore, according to the weekly lists of standard menus for the weeks of 24 february 2009 and 3 march 2009, the meals served to prisoners in the erzurum prison had mainly consisted of beef, fried food and starches: poultry meat had only been served once a week and the menus had comprised minimal fresh vegetables.
6.  in june 2003, the ministry of education, science and sport (hereinafter “the ministry”) made two calls for tenders for the purpose of making awards for scientific research projects; one call was directed at private entities and the other at public research organisations.8.  the applicant institute applied to the administrative court of the republic of slovenia (“the administrative court”), seeking the setting aside of the ministry’s decision.11.  in order to reflect the fact that the ministry had adopted the decision of 30 march 2010, the applicant institute supplemented its action of 19 october 2009, which it had originally lodged on account of the ministry’s failure to adopt a decision (see paragraph 9 above), with a request that the ministry’s decision be set aside.it complained that the ministry had joined the proceedings that had initially been intended for consideration of tenders from private research organisations to the proceedings for consideration of tenders from public research organisations, without issuing a formal decision to that effect.it also complained of errors in the evaluation of the competing programmes, because not all of the criteria specified in the rules on quality assessment and funding of the public research organisation programme had been taken into account.this provoked a distortion of the results of the procedure, as shown by the fact that only those research programmes in which the evaluators were leaders or members of research teams obtained financing.in its decision of 2 february 2011 the court gave an extensive account of the proceedings before the ministry and the submissions of both parties.invoking section 71(2) of the administrative dispute act (zakon o upravnem sporu – hereinafter “the ada”, see paragraph 23 below), the administrative court chiefly referred to the submissions of the ministry.it accepted the ministry’s submission that its decision had been dictated by the nature of the research and infrastructural programmes, taking into account the guidelines of the national research and development programme.the court also pointed out that the procedural rules for the evaluation of research programmes adopted by the national scientific and research council clearly defined the stages of the evaluation procedure, the participants in it and their tasks.regarding the alleged conflict of interests, the court stated that it agreed with the ministry as to why no such conflict existed and cited section 71(2) of the ada (see paragraph 23 below).as to the alleged errors in the evaluation of the competing programmes, the court merely disagreed with the applicant institute that not all criteria had been taken into account and again cited section 71(2) of the ada.it complained that the administrative court had not held a hearing even though the facts of the case had been contested and the applicant institute had explicitly requested a hearing at which witnesses could be heard.it also argued that the administrative court had failed to address its allegations that errors had been made in the evaluation procedure, and complained that insufficient reasoning had been given for the decision.16.  the applicant institute then lodged a constitutional complaint, arguing, among other things, that the decisions of the ministry and the domestic court had been arbitrary and that the courts had failed to address its allegations that errors had been made in the evaluation procedure.
7.  on 25 december 2001 the applicant was interrogated by the police in the absence of a lawyer.8.  on 26 december 2001 the applicant gave a statement to the public prosecutor in the absence of a lawyer in which he denied the statements he had given to the police.9.  on the same day the applicant was brought before the investigating judge at the diyarbakır state security court, who questioned him in the absence of a lawyer.at the end of the hearing, the court ordered that the applicant be placed in pre-trial detention.10.  on 9 january 2002 the diyarbakır public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment, charging the applicant under article 146 of the former turkish criminal code with attempting to undermine the constitutional order of the state.11.  on 19 march 2002 the diyarbakır state security court held the first hearing on the merits of the case.during the hearing, the applicant repeated his allegations of having been subjected to ill-treatment in police custody and denied his statements to the police.the report stated that the applicant had a dilation of the veins in his left testicle of up to 2.6 mm, which had resulted in a varicocele.5190 of 16 june 2004, published in the official gazette on 30 june 2004. the case against the applicant was transferred to the diyarbakır assize court.14.  on 25 june 2004 the diyarbakır public prosecutor issued a decision to discontinue the criminal proceedings against the police officers on account of a lack of evidence.15.  during the criminal proceedings against the applicant, the first-instance courts examined the applicant’s continued detention at the end of the hearings, either on their own motion or at the applicant’s request.the courts ordered that he be kept in detention owing to the nature of the offence, the state of the evidence and the contents of the file.the sentence, however, was reduced to twenty years of imprisonment as the applicant was a minor at the time of the offence.on 9 april 2010 the court dismissed his application for release on the grounds of the nature of the offence.21.  on 5 june 2012 the diyarbakır juvenile court found that, inter alia, on the basis of the applicant’s statements to the police, the applicant had committed the offence under article 146 of the former turkish criminal code and sentenced him to sixteen years and eight months’ imprisonment.
7.  on 25 january 2001 the court of cassation decided to allow an extraordinary appeal lodged by the deputy prosecutor general of armenia, quashed the two judgments and terminated both sets of criminal proceedings against the applicant on the grounds of absence of corpus delicti.in particular, the court of cassation found that there was no evidence to suggest that the applicant had committed the imputed offences, and that the court judgments had been based on assumptions and erroneous interpretation of the law.11.  on 16 april 2005 it was decided not to detain the applicant and to release him on a written undertaking not to leave his place of residence, on the grounds that he was a disabled person suffering from a number of diseases, had no previous convictions, had two children who were minors, as well as his wife and mother as dependants, and had a permanent place of residence.13.  on 5 may 2005 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan, on the basis of an application by the investigator, changed the preventive measure in respect of the applicant from a written undertaking not to leave his place of residence to detention on remand for a period of two months.17.  on 21 june 2005 investigator n., having reviewed the materials of the criminal case against the applicant, took a decision to discontinue a part of that case and not to carry out criminal prosecution (որոշում քրեական գործի մասը կարճելու և քրեական հետապնդում չիրականացնելու) with regard to the infliction of injuries on the applicant by v.s.in spite of the fact that the applicant had not violated the conditions of his written undertaking not to leave his place of residence and that he had been a disabled person and had had two minors as dependants, the investigator had applied to a court with an unfounded application seeking to have him detained.the district court lastly found that the investigator had taken an unfounded decision not to prosecute the police officers by assessing their actions as lawful and asked the prosecutor general, with reference to article 184 of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccp”), to institute criminal proceedings against them under article 309 § 3 of the cc for exceeding their authority, resulting in grave consequences.however, it decided to annul the request made to the prosecutor general on the grounds that article 21 of the ccp prohibited the reopening of proceedings if there had been a decision of the prosecuting authority to discontinue the proceedings or not to carry out prosecution.22.  on 27 november 2007 the applicant lodged a complaint with the courts, seeking to annul the investigator’s decision of 21 june 2005 as it contradicted the findings reached by the courts in his trial when assessing the actions of the police officers.26.  on 19 may 2008 the criminal court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal, finding that article 21 § 5 of the ccp was not applicable to his case and holding that the applicant had failed to contest the investigator’s decision of 21 june 2005 within the time-limits prescribed by articles 21 and 290 of the ccp, as well as the time-limit for requesting a reopening of a case prescribed by article 426.3 of the ccp.28.  on 8 april 2009 the court of cassation found that the applicant had failed to show that he had valid reasons for missing the prescribed one-month time‑limit and decided to refuse the examination of the applicant’s appeal on points of law.29.  on 11 september 2007 the applicant lodged a civil claim against the state, seeking further compensation for pecuniary damage, specifically for loss of income, and compensation for non-pecuniary damage in relation to his two unfair convictions, in the amount of 15,078,664 united states dollars, and in relation to his unlawful arrest and detention and infliction of bodily harm, in the amount of 1,000,000 euros (eur).it stated at the outset that the applicant was an “acquitted person” within the meaning of article 66 of the ccp and was entitled under the same article to claim pecuniary damage suffered as a result of his unlawful arrest, detention, indictment and conviction.32.  on 7 march 2008 the civil court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the judgment of the district court, finding that the applicant had already been compensated for pecuniary damage in relation to his convictions, while his new claims for pecuniary damages were unsubstantiated.it held at the outset, with reference to the judgments adopted in the applicant’s criminal case and article 52 of the code of civil procedure, that the applicant had a case for damages under article 1063 of the civil code, taking into account the fact that the police officers’ actions had been unlawful within the meaning of that article.
6.  on 5 june 2009 the applicant’s employer returned the applicant’s employment registration book to him, without any written or oral notification, showing that his employment had been terminated.he asked it to recognise that he had concluded an open-ended contract of employment, given that he had been in continuous employment with his employer for over three years, which was the time-limit for fixed-term employment contracts under the labour act.8.  on 22 january 2010 the ivanić grad municipal court dismissed the applicant’s claim as time-barred.9.  upon an appeal by the applicant, on 16 february 2011 the velika gorica county court (županijski sud u velikoj gorici) quashed the first‑instance decision and remitted the case for fresh consideration.it held that the first-instance court should have declared the applicant’s claims inadmissible as time-barred, without examining it on the merits.10.  in the fresh proceedings, the ivanić grad municipal court on 6 may 2011 declared the applicant’s action inadmissible as having been lodged outside the prescribed time-limit.the first-instance court, relying on section 133 of the labour act, held that the applicant and his employer had concluded a fixed-term contract lasting until 31 may 2009 and that the applicant must have known that his contract would end on that day.he had not concluded a new contract of employment with his employer and he had therefore been obliged to lodge an application for the protection of his rights with his employer within the fifteen-day time-limit, starting from 1 june 2009. however, he had failed to do so and consequently his claim had been lodged out of time.rejecting the applicant’s argument, the first‑instance court also held that the defendant company had not been obliged to adopt a formal decision on terminating his employment or to send him any other kind of notification, given that he must have known that his contract would come to an end on 31 may 2009.13.  on 14 november 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law (revizija) with the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske), which was dismissed as ill-founded on 25 september 2012. the supreme court also held that the applicant had failed to seek the protection of his rights in respect of his employer within the deadlines prescribed by section 133 of the labour act.he complained that the courts had wrongly declared his claim inadmissible because it had been of a declaratory nature and as such had not been subject to deadlines.he relied on a decision by the velika gorica county court of 16 january 2013 in the case of a colleague of his, who for the same reasons as the applicant had also sought to have the court recognise that he had concluded an open-ended contract of employment.in that decision the velika gorica county court, in accordance with instructions given in the supreme court’s decision no.revr-1697/11 of 6 june 2012, had dismissed the defendant’s (the employer’s) objection that the claim was time-barred.namely, the supreme court had held that the claim had been of a declaratory nature and as such was not subject to deadlines.
7.  on 26 april 1977 the osijek county court (okružni sud u osijeku) awarded the applicant a lump sum in compensation and ordered the defendant – hrvatske željeznice – to pay him monthly payments in respect of the difference between his disability pension and the salary he would have been earning were it not for his inability to work.13.  on 24 april 1991 the first-instance court allowed the applicant’s claim in part, but on 16 august 1991 the vukovar county court (županijski sud u vukovaru) quashed the first-instance judgment in part, because it found that the first-instance court had failed to correctly establish the facts.14.  in the resumed proceedings, the first-instance court commissioned a report from an accounting expert and ordered the applicant to pay costs in advance in the sum of 696.55 croatian kunas (hrk).20.  on the same date, on the basis of the expert witness’s report, the first-instance court issued a judgment allowing the applicant’s claim in part.it held that the first-instance court had failed to take into account the fact: that the first-instance judgment of 24 april 1991 had become final as regards an amount of 63.80 former yugoslav dinars (yud) per month payable for the period from 1 january 1991 onwards; the applicant had turned 60 on 15 august 1994; and he should have lodged an application for his disability pension to be recalculated as an old-age pension.specifically, it ordered the expert witness, in calculating the monthly amount, to take into account the amount of 63.80 dinars which had already been awarded, as well as the fact that the defendant was 50% responsible for the damage at issue, and to establish whether the applicant had used his right to have his disability pension recalculated as an old-age pension when he had turned 60.25.  upon an appeal by the applicant, on 9 september 2008 the vukovar county court quashed the first-instance decision, because it held that the applicant had already identified the defendant.26.  in the resumed proceedings, at a hearing held on 22 december 2008 the first-instance court commissioned a report from an accounting expert in accordance with the second-instance court’s instruction given in its judgment of 3 may 2005, and ordered the applicant to pay the related costs in the amount of hrk 2,578 in advance.27.  on 15 january 2009 and 3 february 2009 the applicant asked for an exemption from paying the costs of the expert witness, claiming that, given his financial situation, and the fact that his pension was hrk 2,313 per month and his wife was unemployed and without any income, he was unable to pay those costs without putting his own and his wife’s subsistence at risk.28.  at a hearing on 3 february 2009 the applicant reiterated all the arguments and repeated that he had not been able to pay for the costs of the expert report.the court set aside its decision of 22 december 2008 regarding a further report from an accounting expert, because the applicant had failed to pay for the costs, and concluded the hearing.29.  on 16 february 2009, relying on the rules regulating the burden of proof, the first-instance court issued a judgment dismissing the applicant’s claim.it held that, owing to his failure to pay for the costs of the expert report, the court had not been able to establish the exact amount of the monthly payments.in its reasoning, the first-instance court stated that the vukovar county court, in its decision of 11 november 2008, had awarded the applicant hrk 20,000 for the violation of his right to a trial within a reasonable time, and that he could have paid for the costs of the expert witness with that money.30.  the applicant lodged an appeal, claiming that the amount awarded to him for the violation of his right to a trial within a reasonable time had been paid to him on 13 march 2009, namely after the first-instance judgment had already been delivered.
15.  the applicant further submits that he was arbitrarily detained and tortured in tunis in the premises of the ministry of the interior, from 24 april to 1 june 1992, on the orders of a.k., the then minister of the interior.the relevant part of the judgment reads as follows: “with regard to an action in tort based on the unlawful acts that were allegedly committed in tunisia by the defendants, to the claimant’s detriment, the swiss courts do not have territorial jurisdiction under international law to examine the complaint, given that the defendants are not domiciled or habitually resident in switzerland, and given also that no illegal act or detrimental outcome occurred in switzerland, pursuant to sections 2 and 129 of the ldip.” 26.  under section 3 of the ldip (see paragraph 37 below), the swiss courts also lacked jurisdiction under the forum of necessity, given the lack of a sufficient connection between, on the one hand, the case and the facts, and, on the other, switzerland.in this connection, the court of first instance ruled as follows: “all of the acts with regard to whose after-effects the claimant, a tunisian national, seeks compensation for non-pecuniary damage, were allegedly inflicted on him, as he submits, in tunisia in 1992, within the premises of the tunisian ministry of the interior, by the tunisian state and its officials.the mere fact that on account of those acts the claimant applied for and received political asylum in 1995 in switzerland, where he has since been domiciled, does not, in itself and in the light of current case-law, amount to a sufficient connection enabling a forum of necessity to be established against the defendants in switzerland and geneva.” 27.  by a writ dated 16 november 2005, the applicant appealed against that decision before the court of justice of the republic and the canton of geneva (“the court of justice”).his appeal was rejected in a judgment of 15 september 2006. after noting that the appellant had shown that he was unable to bring a civil action in tunisia, the court of justice found as follows: “as the outcome of the present appeal depends on the immunity from jurisdiction of the respondent parties, the question whether there exists a forum of necessity in the appellant’s place of residence can, however, remain undecided.” 28.  the court of justice thus held that the respondents enjoyed immunity from jurisdiction, since the acts of torture had been perpetrated in the exercise of sovereign authority (iure imperii) and not under private law (iure gestionis).with regard to the jurisdiction of the swiss courts, he argued that the purpose of the introduction of a forum of necessity in section 3 of the ldip (see paragraph 37 below) had been to avoid denials of justice, especially in cases of political persecution, and that he had provided sufficient evidence that he could not reasonably bring proceedings before a foreign court.3.2 in this instance, the jurisdiction of the swiss authorities cannot be derived from the general rule concerning the international jurisdiction of the state of domicile of the defendant contained in section 2 of the ldip, since the respondents are not domiciled in switzerland.3.3 in the absence of an ordinary forum, the problem must be addressed under section 3 of the ldip, which concerns the forum of necessity ... under the latter provision, where no forum is provided for in switzerland by the ldip and where proceedings in another country prove impossible or one cannot reasonable require that they be brought in that country, the swiss judicial or administrative authorities of the locality with which the case has a sufficient connection have jurisdiction.clearly, the impossibility of bringing and pursuing proceedings abroad can only be examined in the light of the tangible circumstances and of the possible consequences for the individual concerned in the particular case; it will ultimately be for the court to recognise, or not, its jurisdiction” .... .i, geneva 2002, n.10 ad article 99/lpc/ge, concerning the force of res judicata, in which the authors consider that identical claims, in terms of their content, based on the same arguments and the same combination of alleged facts, constitute the objective limit of res judicata; that identity is determined by the complete set of legal considerations which formed part of the first application and were adjudicated upon; this was how “cause” was to be understood in former article 99(2); the alleged facts of the case determine an overall situation [“sachverhalt”, “prozessstoff”] which it is for the court to assess) but would appear to equate to “procédure” or “demande en justice” or in german to “rechtsstreit”, “rechtssache”, “prozess”, “angelegenheit”, “causa litigandi” or “streitgrund”.as the versions of the law drafted in the three official languages have the same standing, the question arises whether the difference between the french wording and that of the other two versions results from an error in the legislative process, from a difference in meaning which becomes apparent only in the context of specific cases according to a varying understanding of the legal provision in each of the languages, or, lastly, from a linguistic difference attributable either to the non-translatability knowingly taken into account in the drafting or to uncertainty on the part of the legislator as to the meaning to be conveyed (see schubarth, die auslegung mehrsprachiger gesetzestexte, in rapports suisses présentés au xviie congrès international de droit comparé, zurich 2006, p. 11 et seq., especially p. 12 s.).some argue that the “cause” must be seen as a legal concept allowing the claim to be defined, while for others the “cause” comes down to a set of facts giving rise to the legal issues in debate or the legal interest invoked (see vincent/guinchard, procédure civile, 24th edition, paris 1996, n. 519 p. 386 et seq., who conclude that the “cause” of the action is constituted by a legally characterised set of facts).in the case in point, it must be acknowledged that a comparison with the german and italian versions assists in the interpretation of the french text, supporting the view that the term “cause” should be assigned the restricted meaning of “set of facts” or, to take a literal translation of “sachverhalt” and “fattispeccie”, “exposé” or “état de faits” and not “procédure”.in this regard, no claim in respect of the non-retrospective nature of laws, or the existence of a previous amnesty or pardon, or the binding force of double jeopardy, or the statute of limitations or prescription of the crime or punishment, shall be admitted.” 32.  the government observed that the constituent elements of transitional justice had already been set out in “organic law no.pursuant to section 11 § 1: “[t]he compensation of victims of violations is a right guaranteed by law and the state shall offer every form of sufficient, effective redress commensurate with the extent of the violations committed and the individual situation of each victim.” 34.  the government further added that title ii of the law established a “truth and dignity commission” (tdc), which was an independent body whose members were chosen by the legislative assembly from among public officials known for their neutrality, impartiality and competence (sections 16, 19 and 38 of the organic law).
4.  the applicant company is a privately owned company registered in danilovgrad, montenegro.5.  in july 2004 a call for tender for hotel “otrant” in montenegro was issued.the deadline for submitting bids was october 2004. together with three other companies, the applicant company took part in the tendering process.on 30 november 2004, however, it was informed that the tender was awarded to another bidder.6.  on an unspecified date in december 2004, the applicant company objected to this decision.on 29 december 2004 the commercial court in podgorica (privredni sud u podgorici) rejected the applicant company’s objection.7.  on 28 january 2006 the court of appeal quashed this decision and remitted the case to the first instance.8.  on 15 june 2006 the commercial court ruled against the applicant company.this decision was served on the applicant company on 8 september 2009.9.  on 26 march 2010 the court of appeal upheld the decision of the commercial court.the decision of the court of appeal was served on the applicant company’s lawyer on 27 april 2010.10.  on 15 july 2010 the applicant company lodged an initiative urging the supreme public prosecutor’s office (vrhovno državno tužilaštvo) to file a request for the protection of legality (zahtjev za zaštitu zakonitosti), but this motion was rejected on 21 july 2010.11.  on 30 july 2010 the applicant company lodged a constitutional appeal.on 14 october 2010 the constitutional court rejected this appeal as having been lodged out of time.
even though [that] provision was repealed by section 3 of the act on the incorporation of the basic ownership relations act, it is because of that prior express statutory prohibition that the time elapsed before that date cannot be taken into account in calculating the time-limit necessary for acquiring ownership by adverse possession of immovable property socially owned on 8 october 1991, unless [that] time-limit had elapsed before 6 april 1941 under the regulations in force at the time.” 20.  the applicants then, on 23 july 2007, lodged a constitutional complaint against the second-instance judgment alleging infringements of their constitutional rights to equality before the law, equality before the courts and fair procedure.... if the view that the property in question was socially owned on 8 october 1991 is to be accepted, even though in the land register it was not registered as such in accordance with the [relevant regulations concerning registration of the property in the state and social ownership], then it was, in accordance with the cited statutory provisions, necessary to take into account the entire period of possession until the bringing of the civil action, except [the period] between 6 april 1941 and 8 october 1991.” 21.  in a decision of 30 september 2009 the constitutional court dismissed the applicants’ constitutional complaint and on 19 november 2009 it served its decision on their representative.3.  the respondent authority shall, within 15 days, on pain of enforcement, reimburse the plaintiffs for the costs of these proceedings.” 24.  in the response to the applicants’ action the respondent authority submitted that the property in question had been in social ownership and that, having regard to the constitutional court’s decision invalidating section 388(4) of the 1996 property act (see paragraph 15 above), the fact of possessing socially owned property before 8 october 1991 could not be taken into account in calculating the time-limit for adverse possession.... given that the action was brought in 2002, that in the land register the right of ownership is registered in the name of the stobreč municipality, that section 388(4) of the [1996 property act] was invalidated by the constitutional court’s decision of 17 november 1999 – which means that the fact of possessing socially owned property in the period before 8 october 1991 cannot be taken into account in calculating the time necessary for adverse possession – ... the plaintiffs and their predecessors could not have acquired ownership before 1991 unless they manage to prove that they had acquired [it] by adverse possession before 6 april 1941. the plaintiffs’ action evidently relies precisely on that.therefore, since [for the court] it is beyond dispute that the plot in question had been socially owned on 8 october 1991 ... in order to determine whether it had been acquired by adverse possession it had to be established whether the plaintiffs’ legal predecessors had been in possession of certain quality of the disputed property before 6 april 1941 and thus for the period prescribed for adverse possession by the rules applicable at the time.” 27.  in their appeal the respondent authority emphasised that the applicants could not have become the owners of the property in question because prior to 8 october 1991 it had been prohibited to acquire ownership of socially owned property by adverse possession unless the ownership had been acquired in that manner before 6 april 1941. the respondent authority claimed that the lifting of that prohibition had not had retroactive effect (see paragraphs 11-15 above).even though [that] provision was repealed by section 3 of the incorporation of the basic ownership relations act, it is because of that prior express statutory prohibition that the time which elapsed before that date cannot be taken into account in calculating the time-limit necessary for acquiring ownership by adverse possession of immovable property socially owned on 8 october 1991, unless [that] time-limit had elapsed before 6 april 1941 under the regulations in force at the time.” 29.  the applicants then, on 1 august 2008, lodged a constitutional complaint against the second-instance judgment, alleging violations of their constitutional rights to equality before the law, equality before the courts and fair procedure.in their constitutional complaint they, inter alia, stated: “therefore, from the legal and factual situation where, as in the instant case, the plaintiffs have, themselves and through their predecessors, indisputably been in possession in good faith of the property in question for more than 100 years, and viewing such situation in the light of croatian law in force, ... it follows that it is necessary to ... quash the contested judgment and remit the case ... if the view that the property in question was socially owned on 8 october 1991 is to be accepted, even though in the land register it was not registered as such in accordance with the [relevant regulations concerning registration of the property in the state and social ownership], then it was, in accordance with the cited statutory provisions, necessary to take into account the entire period of possession until the bringing of the civil action, except [the period] between 6 april 1941 and 8 october 1991.given that the time-limit for acquiring ownership of property socially owned on 8 october 1991 did not run in the period between 6 april 1941 and 8 october 1991 (which view the constitutional court expressed in decision u‑iii‑1595/2006 of 5 february 2009), the court finds that the legal views expressed in the contested judgment of the county court are based on a constitutionally acceptable interpretation and application of the relevant substantive law.” 31.  in the proceedings before the chamber the applicants complained that the split county court judgments in their cases were in breach of their rights guaranteed by article 1 of protocol no.1 to the convention, which guarantees the protection of the right of property, and the rights provided by article 14 of the convention because the applicants’ are being discriminated and thereby placed in a disadvantageous position compared to other croatian nationals because in almost the same, i.e. in terms of substantive law and factual background compatible, cases the same court, the split county court, has been adopting judgments allowing registration of the right of ownership [in respect of the land] in the immediate vicinity of that of the applicants, to those who make such requests on the basis of undisturbed possession of hundred years.before the croatian courts in substantially similar cases final judgments were adopted from which it follows that the courts have been granting the claims of those in possession of the land adjacent to that of the applicants, and have been declaring those possessors the owners of that immovable property on the basis of adverse possession that is, undisturbed possession of 20 years , which [period] elapsed by 6 april 1941, and so in accordance with the opinion [expressed at] extended plenary session of the federal supreme court of yugoslavia of 4 april 1960. therefore, [such] different treatment by the courts placed the applicants in an unequal position, which caused them enormous damage.” 34.  on 23 may 2014 and 25 june 2015 respectively, notice of the complaints concerning the alleged violation of their property rights was given to the government and the remainder of the applications was declared inadmissible pursuant to rule 54 § 3 of the rules of court (see paragraph 4 above).that is to say, at the time when the applicants brought their civil action in the split municipal court, neither the provisions of the then valid property act, nor the case law of the highest courts of justice in the republic of croatia, had provided for the possibility of including the period in question in the time-limit for adverse possession.the government primarily point out that it was disputed before the ordinary courts (i) whether the applicants and their predecessors had been possessors in good faith and fair possessors, (ii) how long the applicants and their legal predecessors had been in possession of the disputed real property before 6 april 1941, and (iii) whether the legal time-limit for adverse possession had expired before 6 april 1941. at no time was it disputed between the parties in the proceedings whether the possession of the real property in the time period from 6 april 1941 to 8 october 1991 should be included in the time-limit for adverse possession.in particular, the trgo case was about acknowledging ownership acquired by adverse possession in the period between 6 april 1941 and 8 october 1991, whereas the applicants herein do not claim that said period should, nor do they have any expectations that the said period would, be taken into account in calculating the time-limit for acquiring ownership by adverse possession given that they acquired the ownership [of the land in question by adverse possession] regardless [of that period] the trgo case therefore cannot be regarded as relevant case-law in the present case.” 42.  the applicants in their observations in both cases cited section 388(4) of the 1996 property act, as amended by the 2001 amendment (hereinafter referred to as “the 2001 version of section 388(4)”).... however, if the view that the [land in question] was socially-owned on 8 october 1991 is to be accepted, even though in the land register it was not registered as such in accordance with the [relevant regulations concerning registration of the property in the state and social ownership], then it was, in accordance with the cited statutory provisions, necessary to take into account the entire period of possession until the bringing of the civil action, except [the period] between 6 april 1941 and 8 october 1991.... the applicants have therefore at the time they brought the[ir] civil action, in accordance with the relevant statutory provisions which were in force at the time of brining the civil action and in accordance with the relevant case-law, acquired the ownership by adverse possession and so without taking into account the time period between 6 april 1941 and 8 october 1991. if that view is not to be accepted, they have definitely acquired ownership by taking into account the period after 8 october 1991 in which period they have retained uninterrupted peaceful possession of [the land in question] until the present day.
25.  the records of the questioning indicate that the applicant was accused of: (i) attempting to discredit an investigation into an alleged coup (the “balyoz” case); (ii) making certain statements serving the interests of fetö/pdy, in particular during a television programme broadcast on can erzincan tv on 14 july 2016, in the course of which, according to the public prosecutor, the terrorist organisation had sought to prepare the public for a military coup; (iii) holding an account with bank asya, a bank with alleged links to fetö/pdy; (iv) avoiding a criminal investigation through the assistance of members of the national police suspected of belonging to fetö/pdy; (v) visiting fetullah gülen at his home in pennsylvania and kissing his hand; and (vi) having in his possession a united states one-dollar bill with an “f” serial number (denoting the initial of the forename fetullah).at the end of the hearing, the magistrate ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention, having taken the following factors into consideration: the strong suspicions against him; the nature of the alleged offences and the fact that they were among the offences listed in article 100 § 3 of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccp”) – the so-called “catalogue offences”, for which a suspect’s pre-trial detention was deemed justified in the event of strong suspicion; the risk of absconding; and the risk that alternative measures to detention might be insufficient to ensure the applicant’s participation in the criminal proceedings.in the reasons for his decision, the magistrate noted the following: during the attempted military coup, members of fetö/pdy had used heavy weapons; since february 2012 the organisation in question had been explicitly waging a campaign against the political authorities; the members of fetö/pdy had attempted to force the government’s resignation by discrediting it in public opinion, especially through judicial operations carried out between 17 and 25 december 2013; and the organisation had taken control of several media outlets with a view to achieving its aim.30.  on 14 april 2017 the istanbul public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment with the istanbul assize court in respect of several individuals, including the applicant, in particular accusing them, under articles 309, 311 and 312 in conjunction with article 220 § 6 of the cc, of attempting to overthrow the constitutional order, the turkish grand national assembly and the government by force and violence, and of committing offences on behalf of a terrorist organisation without being members of it.in addition, he complained that his detention in police custody had been unlawful and excessively lengthy, that he had had no access to the investigation file in order to challenge his pre-trial detention, that the magistrates ordering his detention had not been independent or impartial, that no hearings had been held following his applications challenging his continued pre-trial detention, and that the conditions of his detention were incompatible with the prohibition of inhuman and degrading treatment.36.  with regard to the applicant’s complaint that his pre-trial detention was unlawful, the constitutional court noted firstly that the evidence forming the basis for his detention had included: (i) an article entitled “the meaning of sledgehammer” (“balyoz’un anlamı”), published in the star newspaper in 2010; (ii) his statements during the television programme broadcast on can erzincan tv on 14 july 2016; and (iii) an article entitled “turbulence” (“türbülans”), published on his own website on 20 july 2016. after examining the substance of these items of evidence, the constitutional court held that the investigating authorities had been unable to demonstrate any factual basis that might indicate that the applicant had been acting in accordance with the aims of fetö/pdy or with the purpose of preparing the ground for a possible military coup.the constitutional court observed that, as well as having published the above-mentioned articles and made the statements in question, the applicant was accused of holding an account with bank asya, having avoided a criminal investigation through the connivance of members of the national police suspected of belonging to fetö/pdy, and having in his possession a united states one-dollar bill with an “f” serial number.next, the constitutional court examined whether there had been a violation of the right to liberty and security in the light of article 15 of the constitution (providing for the suspension of the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms in the event of war, general mobilisation, a state of siege or a state of emergency).regarding the application of article 15 of the constitution, it referred to its findings concerning the lawfulness of his pre-trial detention (as set out in paragraphs 155-57 of its judgment – see paragraph 36 above) and held that there had also been a violation of freedom of expression and freedom of the press as enshrined in articles 26 and 28 of the constitution.40.  as to the complaint of a lack of independence and impartiality on the part of the magistrates who had ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention, the constitutional court dismissed it as being manifestly ill-founded, on the grounds that the magistrates were appointed by the high council of judges and prosecutors and were entitled to the same constitutional safeguards as other judges.41.  concerning the applicant’s complaint that he had had no access to the investigation file, the constitutional court held that he had had sufficient means available to prepare his defence to the charges against him and challenge his pre-trial detention, in view of the contents of the detailed questions put to him during questioning by the public prosecutor and the magistrate, and the overall duration of the restriction on access to the case file.42.  with regard to the complaint that no hearing had been held during the examination of the applicant’s applications challenging his pre-trial detention, the constitutional court found that there was no obligation to hold a hearing on each and every objection to pre-trial detention orders and their extension, and that where a person had been able to appear before the first-instance court considering the issue of detention, the fact that there was no hearing on a subsequent appeal did not in itself contravene the constitution since it did not breach the principle of equality of arms.noting firstly that the examination of the merits of an individual application to the constitutional court against a judicial decision entailed determining whether there had been a violation of fundamental rights and what measures would be appropriate to put an end to the violation, and secondly that grounds of appeal on points of law could not be examined by the constitutional court in the context of an individual application, it found that the constitutional court did not have jurisdiction to assess the evidence in the case file.the assize court added that ordering the applicant’s release as an automatic consequence of the judgment in question would run counter to the general principles of law, the independence of the courts, the principle that no authority could give orders or instructions to the courts, and the “natural judge” principle.in so holding, it took the following into account: the evidence before it; the large scale of the attempted military coup; the risk of the applicant’s absconding; the current state of the case file; and the severity of the potential sentence in the event of a conviction.
6.  on 29 december 2006 the leninskiy district court of dnepropetrovsk, ukraine, ordered to arrest and bring the applicant to the court in order to determine the preventive measure during the investigation of his alleged robbery.the applicant’s name was put on the international list of wanted persons.8.  on 14 october 2007 the ukrainian authorities sought the applicant’s extradition from russia in relation to the criminal proceedings against him.9.  on 21 december 2007 the russian federal migration authority concluded that the applicant had fraudulently obtained his russian passport by falsifying a number of documents.the applicant’s subsequent attempts to challenge the federal migration authority’s decision on his russian passport were unsuccessful.on 15 may 2008 a prosecutor authorised his detention considering that the decision of 29 december 2006 of the leninskiy district court of dnepropetrovsk had authorised the applicant’s “placement into custody”, as mentioned in article 61 § 1 of the minsk convention.11.  on 24 june 2008 a district prosecutor decided that the applicant should be “placed in custody” considering that the decision of the leninskiy district court of dnepropetrovsk of 29 december 2006 authorised “placement into custody”, as required under article 466 § 2 of the russian code of criminal procedure (“the ccrp”).12.  on several occasions the applicant unsuccessfully complained about his detention to the prosecuting authorities.on 4 september 2008 the perovskiy district court of moscow dismissed the applicant’s complaint considering that his arrest and detention in relation to the ukrainian extradition request had been and remained lawful.on 24 november 2008 the moscow city court upheld this decision of 4 september 2008 concluding that “matters relating to lawfulness and reasons for detention should be raised under another procedure prescribed by law”.13.  on 3 october 2008 the russian prosecutor general’s office granted the extradition request.on 18 november 2008 the moscow city court confirmed the decision of 3 october 2008. on 29 january 2009 the supreme court of russia upheld the judgment of 18 november 2008 on appeal.14.  on 20 may 2009 the applicant was transferred to the ukrainian authorities in the town of kharkov.on 26 may 2009 he was transferred to the town of dnepropetrovsk.on 6 june 2009 a ukrainian court refused to order the applicant’s detention pending the investigation.
5.  on 17 february 2000 the applicant lodged a claim with the yakutskiy town court of the republic of sakha (yakutiya) (“the town court”) against the government of the republic of sakha (yakutiya) for providing him with a housing subsidy and for a compensation of non-pecuniary damage.8.  on 7 april 2005, following the applicant’s supervisory review appeal, the presidium of the supreme court quashed the decision of 23 april 2001. the supreme court remitted the case for a new examination by the court of cassation instance for the applicant had not been duly summoned to the hearing of 23 april 2001.10.  on 26 january 2006, upon the applicant’s supervisory review appeal, the presidium of the supreme court quashed the judgment of 2 february 2001 and the decision of 11 may 2005 as it found that the lower courts misjudged the facts of the case and erred in application of the national law.12.  on 21 august 2006 the supreme court set aside the judgment of 17 may 2006 on appeal and remitted the case for a new examination, as the lower court had misapplied the national law.13.  on 18 december 2006 the town court ordered the government of the republic of sakha (yakutiya) to pay the applicant 683,619 russian roubles (rub) from the federal budget funds allocated for providing the housing subsidies for persons leaving the high north regions.in the first set of the proceedings, the appellate court found the judgment unlawful, and requested to bring into the proceedings the municipality “nizhnekolymskiy rayon”.in the second set of the proceedings, the appellate court found that the applicant had not been duly summoned to the hearing, and that the municipality should have been joined to the proceedings as a defendant rather than a third party.it ordered the government of the republic of sakha (yakutiya) to pay the applicant rub 1,812,838.10 from the federal budget funds allocated for the housing subsidies for persons leaving the high north regions.21.  on unspecified dates, the applicant submitted the writ of execution, first, to the department of the federal treasury and, second, to the ministry of finance of the republic of sakha (yakutiya).23.  on 29 july 2011 the department of the federal bailiffs’ service for the republic of sakha (yakutiya) (“the bailiffs’ service) received the writ of execution and opened the enforcement proceedings.25.  on 30 august 2011 the decision of 29 july 2011 was set aside and the bailiffs’ service refused institution of enforcement proceedings with the reasoning that as the enforcement document required recovery of public budgetary funds, it could not be enforced by the bailiffs’ service.26.  on 8 february 2012 the district court clarified the judgment of 23 september 2008. it explained that the debt had to be recovered from the government of the republic of sakha (yakutiya) represented by the federal treasury of the republic of sakha (yakutiya) from the federal budget sources allocated for the housing subsidies for persons leaving the high north regions.30.  on the same date the bailiff responsible for the execution of the judgment issued an act establishing that there were grounds for returning the writ of execution to the creditor.33.  on 20 december 2010 a judge of the supreme court of russia ordered that the application should be returned to the applicant with the reasoning that the proceedings complained of ended on 17 november 2008, i.e. before the entry into force of the compensation act.the court agreed with the judge that had passed the decision of 20 december 2010 that the end date of the proceedings was the date of the decision of 17 november 2008 to uphold the judgment of 23 september 2008 on appeal, while the subsequent period when the applicant applied for supervisory review of that decisions should not be included in the overall length of the proceedings.
the applicant stated that he had joined zaman in order to be able to express his opinions; that he was in favour of a democratic system corresponding to european standards; that he was a secular person; that he had not been aware of the threat posed by fetullah gülen’s movement until after the attempted military coup of 15 july 2016; and that he was opposed to any attack on democracy.22.  at the end of the hearing, the magistrate, taking into account the contents of the articles written by the applicant – and finding that they had promoted the terrorist organisation in question, even after 17 december 2013 – ordered his pre-trial detention.in the reasons given for ordering the applicant’s pre-trial detention, the magistrate took the following factors into consideration: the strong suspicions against him; the nature of the alleged offence and the fact that it was among the offences listed in article 100 § 3 of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccp”) – the so-called “catalogue offences”, for which a suspect’s pre-trial detention was deemed justified in the event of strong suspicion; the risk of absconding; the state of the evidence and the risk of its deterioration; and the risk that alternative measures to detention might be insufficient to ensure the applicant’s participation in the criminal proceedings.in his decision, the magistrate stated in particular that it was an established fact that in order to prepare the ground for a military coup, the instigators needed to create the perception that the leaders of the country concerned were dictators.25.  on 10 april 2017 the istanbul public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment with the istanbul assize court in respect of several individuals, including the applicant, who were suspected of being part of the fetö/pdy media network, in particular accusing them, under articles 309, 311 and 312 in conjunction with article 220 § 6 of the criminal code (“the cc”), of attempting to overthrow the constitutional order, the turkish grand national assembly and the government by force and violence, and of committing offences on behalf of a terrorist organisation without being members of it.26.  the public prosecutor submitted that the articles by the applicants and other individuals being charged in the same criminal proceedings against leading members of fetö/pdy’s media wing could not be regarded as an expression of the authors’ opposition to or criticism of the government.in the applicant’s case, the public prosecutor contended that the expressions he had used had gone beyond the limits of freedom of the press in that they had undermined the rights of the official authorities and endangered social peace and public order.in that connection, it noted that on 4 october 2016, following a request he had made to that effect the previous day, the applicant had been examined in prison by a general practitioner and had then been transferred to the urology department of the state hospital, where he had undergone a medical examination on 20 october 2016, and that his next appointment had been scheduled for 22 march 2017. in those circumstances, the constitutional court found that keeping the applicant in pre-trial detention did not currently constitute a danger to his life or health.32.  with regard to the applicant’s complaint concerning the lawfulness of his pre-trial detention, the constitutional court noted firstly that the evidence forming the basis for his detention had included: (i) an article entitled “as if it were a religious war” (“din savaşıymış”), published on 21 december 2013; (ii) an article entitled “the president must not remain a spectator” (“cumhurbaşkanı seyirci kalamaz”), published on 24 december 2013; (iii) an article entitled “between erdogan and the west” (“erdoğan ile batı arasında”), published on 28 december 2013; (iv) an article entitled “yes, both the crime and the punishment are individual” (“evet suç da ceza da şahsidir”), published on 8 february 2014; (v) an article entitled “this nation is not empty-headed” (“bu millet bidon kafalı değildir”), published on 1 march 2014; and (vi) an article entitled “the solution is a government without erdoğan” (“çıkar yol erdoğan’sız hükûmet”), published on 29 march 2014. after examining the substance of these articles, the constitutional court found that they mainly dealt with matters relating to the “17-25 december [2013]” criminal investigations.in them the applicant had set out his opinion that the government members implicated in the criminal investigation in question should be brought to justice and that it was the responsibility of the president and the ruling party’s leaders to take action to that end.next, the constitutional court examined whether there had been a violation of the right to liberty and security in the light of article 15 of the constitution (providing for the suspension of the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms in the event of war, general mobilisation, a state of siege or a state of emergency).33.  next, with regard to the complaint concerning freedom of expression and of the press, the constitutional court observed that the applicant’s initial and continued pre-trial detention on account of his articles amounted to interference with the exercise of that right.regarding the application of article 15 of the constitution, it referred to its findings concerning the lawfulness of his pre-trial detention (as set out in paragraphs 108-10 of the constitutional court’s judgment – see paragraph 32 above) and held that there had also been a violation of freedom of expression and freedom of the press as enshrined in articles 26 and 28 of the constitution.36.  as the applicant was still in pre-trial detention on the date of delivery of its judgment, the constitutional court decided to transmit the judgment to the istanbul 13th assize court so that it could take “the necessary action”.noting firstly that the examination of the merits of an individual application to the constitutional court against a judicial decision entailed determining whether there had been a violation of fundamental rights and what measures would be appropriate to put an end to the violation, and secondly that grounds of appeal on points of law could not be examined by the constitutional court in the context of an individual application, it found that the constitutional court did not have jurisdiction to assess the evidence in the case file.
8.  the most relevant parts of the speech read as follows (translation done by the registry): “...but the fact that today, one opens the newspaper illum, front page, and reads the editorial by s.b., who chose to speak about a pending police investigation, about an anonymous email that i received and about a threatening letter that i received... this is a level which should not be acceptable in our country.the article’s opening paragraphs read as follows: “during a recent short visit to london, i had the opportunity to watch the film ‘the lives of others’ (original title: das leben anderen [sic]) an academy award‑winning german movie, set in the 1984 cultural scene of east berlin, monitored by secret agents of the stasi: the secret police of the former german democratic republic (east germany).little did i think that events that were to unfold when i was back in my country would make me wonder whether the pn [nationalist party] and the mlp look at the duties of the police in somewhat different manner.” 11.  other relevant parts of the article, read as follows: “i say this with deep regret, but i can only be seriously perturbed by the ease with which mlp deputy leader michael falzon [m.f.]why should the police force interfere in labour’s internal politics where, it is obvious, there are too many cooks spoiling the broth?” ... “yet the ease with which the mlp deputy leader phones him up to complain, and ‑ even worse ‑ the ease with which this leading politician is provided with a service that cannot be linked in any way with the pursuit of ‘criminality’ ‑ as we know it ‑ makes one wonder.” ... “these events seem to indicate that within labour there are people who can influence and interfere in decisions taken by the police force.does the mlp deputy leader who happens to be my namesake, carry more weight and influence with the commissioner of police than the deputy prime minister who is politically responsible for the police force?” ... “i firmly believe that tonio borg [then minister of interior] should set up a high powered inquiry with the specific task of getting to the bottom of this sordid soap opera.he owes it to all present and future maltese citizens who did not live the past ‑ so that they will live in a future where no one controls their freedom and hence their lives.” 12.  on 17 july 2007 m.f., the deputy leader of the mlp, instituted libel proceedings against the applicant (and against the editor of the newspaper) under article 28 of chapter 248 of the laws of malta (see the “relevant domestic law” section below), and sought damages, claiming that the above‑mentioned extracts of the article had been defamatory.whether he intended to initiate proceedings against the person who should result to be responsible, given that the prosecution of such a crime would require the injured party to lodge a complaint; - the documents which had been passed on to the cop had in turn been passed on to the criminal investigation department (c.i.d.)it considered it appropriate to analyse and mention all the relevant evidence that had not been referred to by the first‑instance court: - m.f., as plaintiff and now respondent, submitted that the reader had been induced to believe that he had persuaded the police to harm someone, when all he had done was to file a report requesting that the anonymous letters and emails he had received be investigated.- the editor testified that in his opinion the speech delivered by the deputy leader of the mlp indicated that the latter had put pressure on the cop to investigate the matter when he had met up with him to discuss the emails and the anonymous letters.21.  the court of appeal was of the view that, having examined all the relevant evidence and thus gaining an understanding of the circumstances preceding and surrounding the article, the applicant’s assumption could not be considered as constituting fair comment.he further claimed that the ordinary courts had referred to insinuations and allegations which had not been made or implied by the applicant in his article, such as the statement by the court of magistrates to the effect that m.f.the applicant criticised the cop for following up on the indications given by m.f., to the extent that the applicant had called on the minister of the interior to look into the matter.it considered that the court of appeal had reached a legitimate conclusion in finding that the applicant’s opinion piece had contained declarations which assumed as a fact that the mlp deputy leader had illegitimately and abusively influenced the police and also that the exercise of illegitimate and abusive pressure on the cop had not been proved as a fact.32.  the constitutional court noted that while the article had contained a series of questions (in respect of which the applicant argued that it was for the reader to answer), it had also contained assertions, some of which had not reflected the real facts, according to the court of appeal.similarly, the quest “does the mlp deputy leader, who happens to be my namesake, carry more weight and influence with the commissioner of police than the deputy prime minister, who is politically responsible for the police force?” was nothing but an allegation of fact in the form of a question.
the witnesses further stated that children were punished by whichever adult was supervising the children at the time and that parents were pressured by the community to conform to the rules of upbringing.the court withdrew the applicant parents’ rights to decide where their children should live (aufenthaltsbestimmungsrecht), and to take decisions regarding the children’s health (gesundheitsfürsorge), schooling and professional training, and transferred those rights to the youth office.the court also ordered that the youth office, when taking the children into care, could have recourse to compulsion, request support from the police and be permitted to enter the premises of the twelve tribes community in klosterzimmern.16.  on 29 november 2013 the family court upheld its interlocutory order of 1 september 2013. on the basis of articles 1631, 1666 and 1666a of the german civil code (see paragraphs 30–32 below), the court stated in its reasoning that there was a high probability that leaving the son in the community or returning him there would lead to him being subjected to corporal punishment, thus infringing his personal dignity and integrity, values protected by the german basic law (see paragraphs 26 and 27 below).the court found that the statements by other children in parallel proceedings, the video footage and the statements of other witnesses confirmed that the disciplining of children in the community would include corporal punishment.therefore, it was necessary to take the son out of the community as the option which least infringed the family’s rights, but which ensured that he would not be caned or harmed in any other way.it overturned the decision on the withdrawal of the parents’ right to take decisions regarding their son’s schooling and professional training, because, owing to his age, there was no need for the withdrawal of such a right in an interim decision.the court of appeal found it established that the parents considered caning to be part of their son’s upbringing and that the son would be caned if returned to his parents and the community.it also found that there had been no other option entailing less of an infringement of the family’s rights because up to that point the parents had not shown any willingness to refrain from disciplining their son, and greater assistance from the youth office would not ensure the safety of the son at all times.21.  on 30 november 2013 the family court revoked its interlocutory order of 1 september 2013 concerning the parents’ right to decide on the oldest daughter’s place of residence and health, but upheld the rest of the decision.the court observed that statements by the daughters and other children in parallel proceedings, the video footage and the statements of other witnesses had confirmed that the disciplining of children in the community might include corporal punishment.it overturned the decision on the withdrawal of the parents’ right to take decisions regarding professional training for the two younger daughters because there was no need for the withdrawal of such a right in an interim decision.the court of appeal found it established that all three children had been caned and that there was a high probability that the two younger children would be caned again if returned to their parents and the community.it based its finding on the statements of the oldest daughter, which had been confirmed by the statements of the former members of the community and the guidelines in the leaflet our teachings on child training.it further observed that the wishes of the two girls (nine and twelve years old) did not prevent the taking of such a decision because only the expert opinion expected in the main custody proceedings would clarify how relevant the wishes of the girls were and the extent to which they had formed those wishes themselves.
17.  on 2 december 2013 the nuremberg court of appeal dismissed an appeal by the applicants against the interim decision of the family court in essence, but set the decision aside to the extent it concerned the parental right to decide on schooling matters.28.  after hearing the applicants’ son in the home of the foster family where he had been placed on 21 october 2014, the family court decided on 22 october 2014 to withdraw the applicants’ right to decide where their son should live and to take decisions regarding his health and schooling, and transferred those rights to the youth office, which had been appointed as supplementary guardian.based, in particular, on the court‑commissioned expert opinion and the statements by the applicants during the court proceedings, the court concluded that there was a high, concrete probability that the son would be subjected to corporal punishment using physical objects over the course of several years.throughout the course of the proceedings the applicants had unreservedly advocated their parenting style and had refused to accept the opinion that the type of corporal punishment they endorsed was covered by the ban on violence under article 1631 of the civil code.31.  in regard to the fact that the applicants had withdrawn their consent to being examined by the court-appointed expert after the expert opinion had already been submitted, both for themselves and their child, the court held that this did not render the expert’s report unusable in the proceedings.while the court had given its own consent in place of the parents’ as far as it concerned the son, the parents’ actions on that point could not, in light of the state’s obligation to protect children under constitutional law, hinder the use of the expert opinion in the proceedings.the court of appeal, after hearing the applicants, their son, the son’s guardian ad litem, a representative of the youth office, the court‑appointed expert and the expert commissioned by the applicants, dismissed the applicants’ appeal on 26 may 2015.33.  in a decision of thirty-nine pages, the court of appeal considered in detail the applicants’ statements concerning corporal punishment, publications by the twelve tribes church, the expert’s opinion and the criticism of the report by the privately commissioned expert.37.  after interviewing the applicants, their two daughters and the children’s foster parents, and observing a meeting between the applicants and their children, the expert submitted a written opinion on 23 december 2013. he stated that the applicants and their daughters had confirmed that the parents had used a rod as corporal punishment on the daughters and that even though the applicants had a loving attitude towards their children, they considered corporal punishment using physical objects as an appropriate and necessary parenting method.the expert concluded that the applicants’ rigid, authoritarian parenting style and their conviction that children should be raised to obey their parents by means of corporal punishment using physical objects from the age of three conflicted significantly with the best interests of the children and was also detrimental to the unimpaired development of their personality.based, in particular, on the opinion by the court‑appointed expert and the statements by the applicants and their children, the court concluded that there was a high, concrete probability that the children would be subjected to systematic corporal punishment using physical objects, which would in turn be detrimental to the best interests of the children in physical and psychological terms.besides the problem of detecting corporal punishment through unannounced visits by the youth office (see paragraph 30 above), the court also pointed out that the applicants had consistently, over the course of the proceedings, shown a lack of willingness to cooperate with the youth office and had refused to accept state schools, both of which the court found necessary to prevent degrading corporal punishment and ensure the children’s autonomous development.lastly, the court concluded that the withdrawal of the consent to being examined by the court-appointed expert did not hinder the use of the expert opinion in the proceedings (see paragraph 31 above).the court held that corporal punishment with a rod, prohibited by article 1631 § 2 of the civil code (see paragraph 54 below), constituted the physical abuse of children and if applied regularly and repeatedly the competent authorities were obliged under article 1666 of the civil code (see paragraph 55 below) to intervene and take the necessary measures in the best interests of the children.48.  the court of appeal also confirmed that the applicants’ withdrawal of their consent to being assessed did not prevent the courts from using the expert opinion as evidence and that there were no less severe measures available to avert the imminent detriment to the best interests of the children resulting from their parents’ use of corporal punishment.
91. the second applicant is his wife who was born in 1984. she lives in horlivka with her mother, the third applicant, who was born in 1951. the fourth applicant, the mother of the first applicant, was born in 1948 and died on 5 december 2010. the first applicant expressed wish to pursue his mother’s complaints on her behalf.she requested that the investigation not be entrusted to the kalyninskyy district prosecutor’s office (“the kalyninskyy prosecutor’s office”), given that one of its officials had allegedly been with m. at the time of the events and that m. had referred to that fact as a guarantee of his impunity (see paragraph 8 above).on the same date that authority quashed the refusal of 28 june 2008. it noted that the investigation had wrongly been entrusted to the kalyninskyy police despite the fact that the second applicant’s complaint concerned her alleged ill-treatment by one of its officers.24.  on 15 september 2008 the prosecutor ordered such an examination of the second applicant with a view to answering the following questions: (1) how exactly could her injuries have been inflicted; (2) whether there were marks on her head possibly resulting from blows with a mobile phone; (3) whether she could have sustained the injuries in question in the circumstances as she alleged; and (4) when exactly she had sustained the injuries in question.it answered the above questions as follows: (1) the craniocerebral injury and the bruise on the neck had resulted from contact with blunt objects; (2) neither the examination of the second applicant nor the evaluation of the medical file had established any injuries to her head (apparently, implying visible injuries); (3) the second applicant’s injuries could have been inflicted on her in the circumstances described; and (4) according to the medical documents, the second applicant could have sustained the injuries on 19 june 2008.32.  on an unspecified date (illegible in the available copy) the kalyninskyy prosecutor’s office sent a summons to the first applicant at his registered residence (his mother’s home), instructing him to come to the prosecutor’s office on 5 september 2008. it is not clear whether it was issued in the context of the criminal investigation in respect of the complaints by the first applicant’s wife (see above) or whether it was rather related to the subsequent criminal proceedings against him.33.  on 10 september 2008 the kalyninskyy prosecutor’s office opened a criminal case against the first applicant on suspicion of abuse of power and forgery committed in his capacity as a law-enforcement official in january 2008. more specifically, on 14 march 2008 the local court had informed the prosecutor of some factual inaccuracies in a report on an administrative (minor) offence, which had been drawn up by the first applicant.40.  on 24 september 2008 she sent to the investigator the first applicant’s request of 23 september 2008 to admit her to the proceedings as his representative and to give her a copy of the ruling of 10 september 2008 initiating the criminal investigation against him.41.  on 29 september 2008 the chief of medicine of horlivka hospital informed the investigator, in reply to the latter’s enquiry, that the last time the first applicant had come to the hospital had been 15 september 2008 and that the hospital administration did not know how he could be reached.the prosecutor indicated that the first applicant was on the wanted list and that he needed to show up to receive copies of the rulings in respect of the institution of the criminal proceedings against him and for his questioning.44.  on 31 october 2008 the kalyninskyy prosecutor sent another letter to the first applicant, informing him that another criminal case had been opened against him on that date on suspicion of abuse of power by a law-enforcement official and forgery in office and that he had to come to the prosecutor’s office to get a copy of that decision and for questioning.the investigator relied on articles 106 and 115 of the code of criminal procedure (hereinafter “the ccp”, see paragraph 78 below) and substantiated the arrest as follows: the first applicant had been on the wanted list since 19 september 2008, had impeded the establishment of the truth and had committed serious criminal offences.56.  on 1 august 2013 the higher specialised court for civil and criminal matters quashed the appellate court’s ruling of 6 march 2012 in the part concerning the first applicant’s conviction (the part concerning the remittal of the case to the first-instance court remained in force) and remitted the case for fresh appellate examination.70.  on 7 october 2008 the kalyninskyy court allowed another application to search the first applicant’s registered residence (the flat of the fourth applicant) given that the investigator had information that the first applicant might be hiding there.71.  on 11 february 2009 the police conducted a search of the fourth applicant’s flat on the basis of the court ruling of 7 october 2008. as indicated in the search report, the police were searching for “items, valuables and documents related to the criminal activity of [the first applicant]”.
8.  the applicant was released on 18 may 2012 following the suspension of his sentence by virtue of a decree issued by the president of the republic concerning a number of prisoners.9.  in his application form the applicant, without specifying the exact period of his detention, submitted that he had been held in overcrowded cells at nicosia central prisons, where there was only 0.5 to 1.7 sq.he sometimes had to wait two to three hours to use the toilet, and, when the cells were locked, he had to urinate into a bottle and defecate into a waste bag.following his conviction and sentence he had been transferred to block 2b, where he had been detained between 24 january 2011 and 5 october 2011. on the latter date he had been placed in block 2a, where he had been detained until his release on 18 may 2012. both block 2b and 2a accommodated sentenced prisoners.it was almost certain that during his detention in block 5 the applicant had shared a cell with another inmate and that therefore he had had 3.10 sq.13.  based on the daily occupancy records for the relevant period, the number of inmates in the block varied from 80 to 124 per day.the government stated that it was possible that the applicant had spent time in all the different types of cells in this block during his detention.m, depending on whether he had shared the cell with five, six or seven inmates; and, lastly, in the dormitory he would have had from 1.8 sq.if the applicant had been held in the dormitory in early spring or during the winter (see paragraph 49 below), he would have disposed of between 2.04 and 3.2 sq.m of personal space as the daily occupancy records indicated that the block had accommodated between 94 and 110 inmates per day during those periods.(d)  additional information regarding the general conditions in the blocks 15.  the various parts of the prison were equipped with a central heating system which covered all the blocks and cells.the central air conditioning system which functioned in the summer months was in the corridors and there were individual electrical fans in the cells.16.  following the 2012 report of the european committee for the prevention of torture (“cpt”) on its visit to cyprus from 12 to 19 may 2008, the prison administration discontinued the practice of switching off cell bells during the night, hence detainees had access to the toilets during those hours (see paragraphs 26-27 and 30 below).the order had also directed prison staff to check and ensure that the call panel in the warden’s room was active at all times, especially during the evening, so that prisoners could be assisted and emergencies prevented.according to a letter by the prison director dated 27 february 2014, records were not kept of when cells were opened for toilet visits during the night, that is between 9 p.m. and 6 a.m. however, a detainee could leave his cell for up to three toilet visits during that period.
5.  on 19 may 2004 the military court of the moscow circuit found the applicant guilty of the disclosure of state secrets and the illegal possession of ammunition and sentenced him to four years’ imprisonment.7.  according to the government, on 26 may 2005 the federal penitentiary service of the russian federation (the “fsin”) decided that the applicant should serve his sentence in correctional settlement facility (колония-поселение) no.the court heard a representative of the prison administration and the prosecutor, who considered the applicant’s release on parole to be possible.9.  on 31 august 2005 the prosecutor asked the district court to reinstate the requisite time-limit to permit him to appeal against the decision of 19 august 2005, noting that he had received a copy thereof only five days after its delivery.the court relied on the relevant provision of the rules of criminal procedure which provided for such reinstatement if there had been a delay of at least five days before a party to the proceedings had received a copy of the impugned decision.11.  on 16 september 2005 the sverdlovsk regional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal against the decision of 1 september 2005 and quashed the decision of 19 august 2005, remitting the matter for fresh consideration.from 28 july to 8 august 2005 the applicant was detained in the cell alone and from 8 to 9 august 2005 two other inmates were held together with the applicant.a 110 cm high brick wall and a plywood door separated the toilet from the living area of the cell.the distance between the toilet and the dining table/nearest sleeping place was at least 1.5 m. hygiene and food provision both met the statutory standards.22.  in the summer, the cell was very hot and humid and the ventilation did not work.the only source of water was a tap above the toilet, which was a hole in the floor.25.  on an unspecified date the applicant complained to the prosecutor, alleging that detaining him in such a disciplinary cell was in contravention of the applicable laws.he advised the applicant that at the material time the facility did not have a quarantine area in which newly arrived convicts could be placed for the purpose of medical checks.he further informed the applicant that, following a report by the prosecutor, the administration had made the necessary arrangements to set up a proper quarantine area in the facility.lastly, the prosecutor explained that the applicant was entitled to contest the prosecutor’s findings in a court or before a superior prosecutor.
5.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the applicant, may be summarised as follows.7.  on 25 july 2007 the krestetskiy district court of novgorod region (the district court) ordered pre-trial detention of the applicant.8.  in the order of 2 november 2007 the district court authorised extension of the applicant’s detention “until and including 24 december 2007”.9.  on 11 december 2007 the district court scheduled a preliminary hearing for the applicant’s trial in order to decide on his further detention.the relevant section of the operative part of the decision read as follows: “[the court] ordered to schedule a preliminary hearing in the criminal case of mr dudin ... on 25 december 2007 at 10.00 a.m. ... to transfer [from the detention facility] the accused mr dudin for the hearing at the set date and time.to keep the measure of mr dudin’s restraint – pre-trial detention – unchanged.” 10.  on 25 december 2007 between 10.00 a.m. and 11.00 a.m. the district court held a preliminary hearing ordering the criminal case to be send to trial and the applicant’s further detention.during the hearing the applicant and his representative raised the objection regarding unlawfulness of the applicant’s detention between 24 december 2007 and the time of the hearing, but the district court dismissed it without advancing any specific reasons in this regard.in the relevant part the regional court’s decision read as follows: “mr dudin’s and his representative’s arguments regarding unlawfulness of the detention ... at the moment of the adoption of the decision [are unfounded] ... [t]he present criminal case was transferred to court on 11 december 2007, i.e. within the period of [the accused’s detention ordered during investigation] and according to section 2, article 255 of the criminal procedure code the period of the defendant’s detention is calculated from the date when the case was transferred to court and until the judgment is pronounced and may not exceed six months.” 12.  on 27 may 2008 the district court convicted the applicant of aggravated robbery and sentenced to six years’ imprisonment.on 10 july 2008 the conviction was upheld on appeal by the novgorod regional court and the period of the applicant’s pre-trial detention between 23 june 2007 and the day of conviction was fully counted towards execution of his sentence.14.  the applicant lodged a civil action against the ministry of finance of the russian federation seeking non-pecuniary damages for his allegedly unlawful detention without a court order between 24 and 25 december 2007.15.  on 24 april 2008 the novgorodskiy town court of novgorod region found that between midnight 24 december 2007 and 11.00 a.m. on 25 december 2007 the applicant’s detention was unlawful and violated his rights under article 22 of the russian constitution and article 5 § 1 of the convention.during the hearings the representative of the ministry of finance acknowledged that the applicant’s detention during the abovementioned period was not secured by a court order.the representative of the ministry of the interior (intervening in the proceedings) admitted that the authorisation for the detention expired on 24 december 2007. the representative of the regional prosecutor’s office (also intervening in the proceedings) maintained that the applicant’s detention was lawful, but stated that any detention without a court order would be unlawful.16.  on 11 june 2008 the novgorod regional court annulled the lower court’s judgment on appeal and adopted a new judgment dismissing the applicant’s claims.the regional court argued that while the order of 2 november 2007 set the period of detention “until and including 24 december 2007”, the decision of 11 december 2007 to schedule a preliminary hearing to 25 december 2007 essentially ordered the detention until that date, because it left it “unchanged” (see paragraph 6 above).
5.  on 7 april 2008 the applicant notified the executive committee of naberezhniye chelny of his intention to hold a public event in the form of a hunger strike in front of the local prosecutor’s office beginning from 21 april 2008. on the same day the applicant was informed that his notice did not comply with the requirements of the law.6.  on 16 april 2008 the applicant lodged an addendum to his notice in which he indicated the place, the timing and the goal of the planned event as well as the information about its organiser.he also asked to ensure the protection of a tent (to be positioned near the prosecutor’s office) from 9 p.m. to 9 a.m. daily and the twenty-four-hour presence of an ambulance at the venue of the event.7.  on 17 april 2008 the head of the public relations department of the local executive committee informed the applicant that his planned public event amounted to a “picket” within the meaning of the public events act (hereinafter “pea”).in breach of the pea the notice about the event did not contain information about the number of participants or arrangements to be made for preventing disorder and providing medical aid during the event.9.  according to the government, on 22 april 2008 at 3.15 p.m. the applicant set up on the lawn in front of the prosecutor’s office a tent and a poster reading “hunger strike.he was accused of the breach of the procedure for the organisation of public events, an offence under article 20.2 § 1 of the code of administrative offences (hereinafter “cao”).the case file was then submitted to a justice of the peace, who adjourned the hearing so that the applicant could retain a counsel.it is unclear whether the applicant was arrested by the police or otherwise deprived of his liberty at any moment prior to appearing before the justice of the peace.11.  on 24 april 2008 the justice of the peace of the 8th court circuit of naberezhniye chelny found the applicant guilty under article 20.2 § 1 of the cao and imposed a fine of 1,000 russian roubles ((rub), equivalent to 27 euros (eur) at the time).moreover, the applicant had intended to hold a twenty-four-hour picket in breach of the pea’s ban on public events between 11 p.m. and 7 a.m. the court concluded that the applicant breached the procedure for the organisation of his public event.by a decision of 7 may 2008 the town court upheld the judgment of the justice of the peace.13.  in separate proceedings, on 7 may 2008 the justice of the peace of the 1st court circuit of naberezhniye chelny found the applicant guilty under article 19.3 § 1 of the cao.the justice of the peace found it established, on the basis of testimony of two eyewitnesses and police officers, that at 8 p.m. on 22 april 2008 the applicant being aware of the administrative offence proceedings pending against him under article 20.2 of the cao, had nevertheless disobeyed the lawful police order to stop the picket being held in breach of the pea.15.  on 3 june 2008 the applicant lodged a supervisory-review appeal against the judgment of 7 may 2008. on 8 july 2008 the deputy president of the supreme court of the tatarstan republic dismissed it, fully endorsing the findings of the lower courts.
by a decision of the bar council of 24 september 1993, the applicant was suspended from the roll, as the exercise of the profession of lawyer was considered to be incompatible with his practising as an auditor.this decision was published in the official gazette in june 2000. when the applicant ceased his activity as an auditor in april 2016, he continued to be suspended from the bar council’s roll until at least the end of 2016 as the result of a disciplinary sanction imposed on him for having practised as a lawyer while not being authorised to do so.10.  on 28 february 2008, in the context of a set of civil proceedings in which he was nevertheless acting as a lawyer, the applicant criticised the decisions taken by the judge hearing the case, saying that they were not worthy of a judge and that a judge could not lie or omit the truth in the exercise of his functions.it is not clear from the material before the court on what basis the applicant was acting as a lawyer in the context of those proceedings given the suspension from the roll referred to above.as the applicant had not instructed a lawyer, the public prosecutor’s office appointed counsel on the basis of article 64 of the code of criminal procedure (ccp) to conduct the applicant’s defence.the court held that under the provisions of portuguese law, in particular article 32 of the constitution and articles 64 § 3 and 287 § 4 of the ccp (see paragraphs 28, 33 and 40 below), the defendant had the right to be represented by independent counsel, a right which would not be made effective if self-representation were to be allowed.14.  the applicant lodged an appeal with the coimbra court of appeal against the order of 7 september 2010, challenging the decision not to allow him to represent himself in the criminal proceedings.it considered the appeal to be admissible despite the fact that it had been lodged by the applicant in person, as it concerned the very issue whether the applicant, as the defendant, was entitled to conduct his own defence.the judge had previously refused to adjourn the hearing at the applicant’s request, finding that the court of appeal had already given a final ruling on the applicant’s application to represent himself.18.  on 12 december 2013 the baixo-vouga criminal court, following a hearing which the applicant again did not attend but at which his court‑ appointed defence lawyer was present, found the applicant guilty of aggravated insult (see paragraph 50 below) and ordered him to pay 140 day‑fines of nine euros (eur) each as well as the costs of the proceedings.20.  in an order dated 1 may 2014 the baixo-vouga criminal court rejected an appeal by the applicant against the judgment as inadmissible, on the ground that the appeal had not been signed by court-appointed defence counsel or by a lawyer instructed by the applicant.this was also clearly the case at the trial, taking into account, for example, the places to be occupied in the courtroom, the wearing of a gown and the cross-examination of witnesses.he also had the right to be the last person to address the court, immediately following the pleadings and before delivery of the judgment (see article 361 § 1 of the ccp, paragraph 45 below).there was a distinction between, and a dual safeguard emanating from, the mandatory instruction of a lawyer to ensure the accused’s “technical” defence and the possibility for the accused to be present and to intervene in the proceedings.27.  according to the material before the court, the applicant did not call into question the qualifications or quality of the court-appointed lawyer at any stage in the proceedings before the domestic courts.
6.  on 15 february 2010, while crossing the border between serbia and croatia with his wife, the applicant was caught by the croatian customs authorities carrying the sum of 563,300 euros (eur) which he had failed to declare, contrary to the law.7.  on the same day the customs authorities instituted administrative‑offence proceedings (prekršajni postupak) against the applicant before the financial inspectorate of the ministry of finance (ministarstvo financija, financijski inspektorat – “the ministry”) for failing to declare eur 560,000 – a sum exceeding eur 10,000 – an administrative offence defined in section 40(1) of the foreign currency act and section 74 of the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism act.the money he had been carrying originated from: (a) a company called sci (société civile immobilière) m. registered in france, of which he was the director and the only member, from whose account he had withdrawn eur 326,008.03 with a view to starting another business; and (b) the sale of their house in france (the remaining amount).he also explained that he had not wished to deposit the money in a bank account because, in the wake of the global financial crisis of 2007-2008, he had been afraid that his bank would go bankrupt and that he would lose most of that money, given that the french state only guaranteed up to eur 50,000 of bank deposits.while the italian authorities did not reply at all, the serbian authorities informed the ministry that neither the applicant nor his wife had been recorded in their register of suspicious transactions, and the french authorities only confirmed the authenticity of the transactions on which the applicant relied to prove the origin of the money he had been carrying.10.  by a decision of 9 july 2010 the ministry found the applicant guilty of having committed the administrative offence in question and fined him 5,000 croatian kunas (hrk).11.  on the basis of the documentary evidence, the ministry established that: (a)  the company sci m. had been founded in 2002 and recorded in the business and companies register in strasbourg, and under french law its members were liable for its debts in proportion with their share in the company, that is, the applicant in respect of 99.75% and his wife in respect of 0.25%; (b)  on 6 july 2009 the applicant had indeed sold his house in france, and eur 243,091.82 from the proceeds of sale had been paid into his bank account on 29 july 2009, from which he had first transferred eur 30,000 to his company’s account on the same day and then withdrawn eur 211,500; and (c)  on 21 december 2009 the applicant, acting as the company’s director, had sold its real estate, and eur 326,008.03 from the proceeds of sale had been paid into the company’s bank account on 19 january 2010, a sum which had been withdrawn by the applicant the next day.12.  the ministry held that the origin of the money which the applicant had failed to declare was irrelevant in relation to the commission of the offence of which he had been convicted or the imposition of the fine.13.  in particular, the ministry decided not to confiscate eur 241,500 of the money which the applicant had not declared, because it found that this sum did indeed originate from the sale of his house in france.14.  as regards the remaining eur 318,500 (of the eur 560,000 which had been seized), the ministry held that this sum was part of the funds which the applicant had withdrawn from his company’s bank account (eur 326,008.03) on 20 january 2010 (see paragraph 11 above).the ministry further held that: (a)  since there was no evidence that the applicant had borrowed that money from his company, by carrying it across border he had disposed of it as if it had belonged to him, which amounted to misappropriation of the company’s funds, an offence punishable in every country; and (b)  he had failed to pay the relevant taxes in france on that amount.15.  the applicant appealed by arguing that: (a)  the evidence collected indicated that the french authorities had been aware of the transaction from which the confiscated sum originated, but had done nothing about it, which suggested that they considered that it originated from a legitimate source, (b)  the ministry correctly assumed that he had not borrowed the confiscated sum from his company, as he had actually lent eur 358,600.81 to his company in 2008 and 2009, for which he had submitted documentary evidence; (c)  under french law, he was fully liable for the debts of his company, the payment of which, including taxes, he therefore could not have avoided by misappropriating the company’s funds as the ministry implied; (d)  the ministry had attempted to interpret foreign (french) law, and in such a complex area as tax and commercial law, about which it had known very little; and (e)  it was peculiar that the ministry had confiscated for the benefit of the croatian state budget the amount on which he had, in the ministry’s own view, not paid the relevant taxes in france.16.  by a decision of 17 september 2010 the high court for administrative offences (visoki prekršajni sud republike hrvatske) dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the ministry’s decision, endorsing the reasons given therein.18.  by a decision of 17 november 2011 the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) declared the applicant’s constitutional complaint inadmissible and served its decision on his representative on 2 december 2012. it found that, even though the applicant had relied on the relevant articles of the constitution in his constitutional complaint, he had not substantiated his complaint by any constitutional-law arguments, but had merely repeated the arguments raised in the proceedings before the ministry and the high court for administrative offences.the members are, however, liable for the debts of the company without limitation, meaning that they may be liable in relation to their personal assets (article 1857 of the french civil code).
5.  on 30 december 2004 an investigator decided to institute criminal proceedings in connection with alleged usury by the applicant, proscribed by article 213 § 1 of the criminal code (“the cc”).9.  on 10 august 2005 the investigator sent the bill of indictment to the kentron and nork-marash district prosecutor (“the prosecutor”) for approval but on 15 august 2005 the prosecutor refused to approve it and returned the case to the investigator for further investigation.10.  on 15 october 2005 the investigator initiated another set of criminal proceedings, under article 178 § 2 (2) of the cc, concerning the acquisition of property rights through fraud by the applicant.12.  on 7 march 2006 the investigator decided to amend the applicant’s charges and to bring new charges against him under article 178 §§ 2 (2) and 3 (1), article 182 § 3 (2), article 213 § 2 (1) and (2), and article 349 § 1 of the cc on account of fraud in large and particularly large amounts, extortion in particularly large amounts, usury performed as a profession which resulted in dire financial consequences for the injured parties, and forgery of evidence.13.  on the same date the investigator lodged an application with the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan, seeking to have the applicant detained for a period of two months, which was rejected by the district court.however, upon an appeal by the prosecutor, on 28 march 2006 the court of appeal overturned the district court’s decision and ordered the applicant’s detention for a period of two months.15.  on 14 july 2006 the supervising prosecutor approved the bill of indictment and the case was sent to the district court, which took it over on 24 july 2006.in addition, on ten occasions the hearings were adjourned because of applications by the prosecutor or on the court’s own motion, and on nine occasions because the applicant’s applications were granted.18.  on 15 october 2007 the powers of the judge in charge of the applicant’s case were suspended.19.  between 21 november 2007 and 23 december 2010, the court held forty hearings which were adjourned because of the absence of the applicant or his lawyer or because of applications lodged by them.in addition, on thirty-five occasions the hearings were adjourned because of the absence of the victims or witnesses or because of applications lodged by them, and on thirty-two occasions because the prosecutor’s applications had been granted or because the court had decided to adjourn the case of its own motion.21.  in march and june 2010 the district court partially granted or refused applications, introduced by the applicant and one of the victims, requesting that it order a forensic examination.22.  on 31 january 2011 the district court gave judgement, finding the applicant guilty of five counts of the offences set out in article 178 § 3 (1) (fraud), article 182 § 3 (2) (extortion), article 213 § 2 (1) and (2) (usury), and article 349 § 1 (forgery of evidence) of the cc and sentenced him to nine years’ imprisonment, confiscated half of his property and imposed a fine of 400,000 armenian drams (amd).it appears that during the proceedings the district court examined forty-seven witnesses, about thirty pieces of documentary evidence and five expert opinions, one of which was ordered by the district court.24.  on 3 october 2011 the criminal court of appeal rejected the appeals and upheld the district court’s judgment.
from herceg novi (montenegro), brought a civil action in the dubrovnik municipal court (općinski sud u dubrovniku) against f.o.’s heirs and h.a., seeking to have the contract for the exchange of the houses declared null and void and to obtain the possession of the house in dubrovnik.he also submitted that the difference in the values of the properties exchanged had been disproportionate in that the house in dubrovnik was worth about 250,000-300,000 euros (eur) and the house in trebinje some eur 80,000-90,000. lastly, he stressed that it had been impossible for him to regularise his ownership of the house in trebinje due to the irregularities in the contract.corrected some clerical omissions in the civil action and reiterated the arguments for declaring the contract null and void as set forth in the civil action, namely that the contract had been signed under duress, that the legal status and ownership of the house in trebinje had not been properly stated and that there had been a disproportionate difference in the value of the properties.in the second document he explained that the value of the subject matter of the dispute had been set too low, and indicated the new value of the subject matter of the dispute at hrk 105,000 (approximately eur 14,160 at the time).finally, they objected to the change of the value of the subject matter of the dispute, arguing that it had been increased only in order to enable the claimant to lodge an appeal on points of law.also, in the light of the parties’ arguments, including on the issues regarding the power of attorney on the basis of which the contract had been concluded, it found no grounds to doubt the validity of the contract.it assessed the costs of the proceedings by reference to the value of the subject matter of the dispute indicated at the hearing on 6 april 2005, namely hrk 105,000. the relevant part of the judgment reads as follows: “... [t]he costs of the proceedings were awarded to the respondents [and assessed] according to ... the value of the dispute indicated by the claimant (hrk 105,000 ‑ (page 58 [of the case-file]) which this court accepted.” 26.  on 12 december 2005 the first-instance court ordered m.z.the relevant part of that judgment reads as follows: “in view of the fact that the [first-instance judgment] is challenged in its entirety, thus including also the decision on the costs of the proceedings, and although the appeal is not specified in that respect, [it is to be noted that] the decision on the costs of the proceedings is based on the relevant law and adequate reasons are provided.” 28.  on 24 may 2010 m.z.30.  by a decision of 30 march 2011 the supreme court declared the appeal on points of law inadmissible ratione valoris, finding that the value of the subject matter of the dispute was below the statutory threshold of hrk 100,000 (approximately eur 13,500 at the time).it held that the applicable value of the subject matter of the dispute was that set out in the claimant’s statement of claim in the civil action.the relevant part of that decision reads as follows: “with regard to section 40 (3) of the civil procedure act if, in a situation referred to in subsection 2, it is obvious that the value of the subject matter of the dispute indicated by the claimant is too high or too low, so that an issue arises concerning jurisdiction over the subject matter, the composition of the court, the type of proceedings, the right to lodge an appeal on points of law, the authorisation for representation or the costs of proceedings, the court shall, ex officio or upon the objection of the respondent, by the latest at the preparatory hearing or, if no preparatory hearing has been held, at the first session of the main hearing before the respondent has begun litigation on the merits of the case, quickly and in an appropriate manner verify the accuracy of the value specified and, by a decision against which no separate appeal is allowed, determine the value of the subject matter of the dispute.it follows that when an action does not concern a sum of money the claimant is obliged to indicate the relevant value of the subject matter of the dispute in the civil action, after which the claimant is not allowed to change the [indicated] value of the dispute.only a court may set the value of the subject matter of the dispute, ex officio or if an objection is raised by the respondent, if it establishes that the value indicated in the civil action is too high or too low, by the latest at the preparatory hearing or, if no preparatory hearing has been held, at the main hearing before the examination of the merits.later on, at the hearing of 6 april 2005, the claimant’s representative indicated the value of the subject matter of the dispute at 105,000 croatian kunas considering that it had been indicated too low in the civil action.it follows that the relevant value of the subject matter of the dispute is the one indicated by the claimant in the civil action, namely 10,000 croatian kunas, because the claimant was not allowed to change the indicated value if he did not amend his claim at the same time.” 31.  by a decision of 10 november 2011 the constitutional court summarily declared a constitutional complaint by the applicant, complaining, inter alia, of a lack of access to the supreme court, inadmissible on the grounds that the case raised no constitutional issues.
5.  the applicant is a legal entity, a local community of the christian baptist church in the republic of poland operating on the basis of the act of 30 june 1995 on relations between the republic of poland and the christian baptist church act (ustawa o stosunku państwa polskiego do kościola chrześcijan baptystów w rp – hereinafter “the 1995 act”) with its seat in wrocław.8.  on 4 september 1946 the wrocław governor (wojewoda wrocławski) decided that the property in question should become subject to the applicant church’s management (przejęcie w zarząd) on the basis of section 2(4) of the 1946 decree on abandoned property (dekret o majątkach opuszczonych i poniemieckich – hereinafter “the 1946 decree”).11.  on 23 june 1959 the district residential buildings board for wrocław-krzyki (dzielnicowy zarząd budynków mieszkalnych) decided that all kinds of property which were subject to the church’s management were to pass into the ownership of the state and ordered that the applicant church transfer the property in question to the state.in 1977 the state was registered as the owner of this property and, after the reform of the local governments of 1990, the property was transferred to the city of wrocław.the governor found that the applicant church had failed to satisfy a requirement laid down in section 39 of the 1995 act, specifically that it had not possessed the property in question on the day of entry into force of the act relied upon.the governor further held that: “... in the circumstances of the case, section 40 of the act likewise cannot be applied because the property in question is located on territory which was not part of poland before 1 september 1939. the fact that the property was owned by an organisational unit of the baptist church operating in the german reich does not constitute a basis to claim return of ownership because its ownership was transferred to the state under the [1946 decree].” 18.  on 23 september 1996 the applicant church appealed against this decision to the minister of the interior and administration.20.  on 1 july 1998 the minister replied that the length of the proceedings was attributable to amendments of the 1995 act and informed the applicant church that the relevant decision would be issued by 15 august 1998.22.  on 5 march 1999, before examination of the applicant church’s complaint, the minister of the interior and administration issued a decision, annulling the challenged decision and ordering the return of the case to the governor.23.  in view of the fact that the minister had issued a decision, on 28 april 1999 the applicant church withdrew the complaint of 12 january 1999 concerning the inactivity of the administrative authority.25.  on 29 may 1999 the governor requested from the minister of the interior and administration an official interpretation of the amended section 4 of the 1995 act “in view of the many doubts as regards the proper interpretation of this provision”.28.  on 20 october 2000 the applicant church lodged a complaint (zażalenie) with the minister of the interior and administration that the governor had exceeded the statutory time-limits and had failed to issue a decision on the merits or to justify the delay in the proceedings.33.  on 17 december 2001 the minister of the interior and administration allowed the appeal, finding that the proceedings should not have been stayed, annulled the challenged decision and returned the case to the governor.34.  on 12 march 2002 the supreme administrative court examined the applicant church’s complaint against the inactivity of the administrative authority and ordered the governor of lower silesia to issue a decision on the merits within the time-limit of thirty days.39.  on 8 february 2007 the governor’s office gave a procedural decision in which it held that owing to the particularly complicated nature of the case, the decision on the merits could not be issued within the statutory time-limits and set a new deadline for decision of 30 june 2007.the governor relied on the amended 1995 act and found that the applicant church had failed to satisfy the requirements laid down in section 4 of the act, namely that it could not be a legal successor of the church which had not operated on the territory of poland before 1 september 1939.
5.  the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in varna.6.  the applicant and his wife divorced on 21 august 2006 pursuant to a court-approved agreement between the two of them.under the terms of this agreement, the applicant undertook to pay child support to the two children born during the marriage and agreed to his wife’s keeping his family name after the divorce.7.  subsequently, the applicant learned that his former wife had conceived their second child, born in 2003, as a result of a relationship with another man during her marriage to the applicant.the applicant underwent a dna test to determine whether he was the father of the younger child.the dna test ‒ the result of which the applicant received on 15 january 2007 ‒ established that he was not the biological father of the second child.the results of this dna test were never considered by a court.8.  shortly thereafter, in february 2007, the applicant brought a civil claim in court, seeking to contest his paternity of the child in question.on 1 march 2007 the varna regional court dismissed his request, finding that it was time-barred due to the expiry – in 2004 – of the year-long limitation period counting from the child’s birth or from learning thereof (see the section “relevant domestic law and practice” below”).this finding was confirmed by two higher judicial instances, the final decision being pronounced by the supreme court of cassation on 19 september 2007.9.  the applicant brought subsequent proceedings in which he sought to stop paying child support to the second child.on 20 may 2008 his claim was rejected by the varna district court, which found that it had not been proven that the applicant was not the child’s father, given that he had not rebutted the legal presumption under article 32 (1) of the family code 1985 (“the 1985 code”).
14.  on 23 september 2004 the applicant filed with the sofia city court an action for damages based on section 2(6) of the law on state responsibility for damages against the stara zagora regional court, the plovdiv court of appeal, the supreme court of cassation and the public prosecutor’s office.15.  at the hearing on 11 october 2005 the representative of the plovdiv court of appeal, judge n.d., presented a copy of the judgment delivered on 3 october 2005 by the stara zagora regional court (see paragraph 27 below), and invited the sofia city court to adjourn the civil case until the end of the second set of criminal proceedings against the applicant.pursuant to article 182 paragraph 1 (g) of the 1952 code of civil procedure (cpc), the court allowed that request on the grounds that the outcome of the second set of criminal proceedings might prove decisive for the outcome of the compensation proceedings.it noted that at the end of the second set of criminal proceedings against him (see paragraphs 20-32 below) the applicant had been sentenced to three years’ imprisonment and that that sentence had been combined with the prison sentence passed on him at the end of the first set of criminal proceedings.it further noted that the criminal courts had also deduced from the combined sentence the period of one year seven months which the applicant had spent in pre-trial detention during the first set of criminal proceedings, and found that therefore the length of the applicant’s detention had not exceeded the sentence imposed on him.she alleged that the judges of the stara zagora regional court were not impartial, on the grounds that their court was a respondent in the framework of the action for damages brought by the applicant (see paragraph 14 above).22.  that request was dismissed by the trial court as ill-founded, on the following grounds: “as regards the formal indictment presented, there is information to the effect that that indictment was received in the sofia city court on 29 september 2004, and there is no information to suggest that civil proceedings have been formally commenced by the court of first instance”.the trial court further held that there had been no evidence of bias on the part of any of the two professional judges and the three lay judges sitting in the trial court, who had not been involved in the first set of criminal proceedings against the applicant.24.  in his written observations of 21 october and 8 november 2004 in reply to the indictment, the applicant repeated his argument concerning the alleged bias on the part of all the regional court judges and requested their collective withdrawal and the assignment of the case to another court.25.  at the 10 january 2005 hearing counsel for the applicant called once again for the withdrawal of all the regional court judges and the assignment of the case to another court of the same level of jurisdiction.that request was dismissed on the following grounds: none of the lawful reasons for the withdrawal of judges set out in article 25 of the code of criminal procedure had been established in the present case; there was no evidence of bias on the part of the trial court judges, the case had been examined by a different court whose impartiality was unchallenged and the regional court had no means of influencing the outcome of the respective proceedings; and in any event, an appeal lay against the regional court’s future decision in that criminal case.in her observations of 18 january 2006 counsel for the applicant complained of bias on the part of the judges of the court of first instance, inter alia on account of that court’s refusal to transmit the case file to another court for assessment.in her pleadings counsel complained, in particular, of the insufficiency of the evidence to convict the applicant, called for her client’s acquittal and, in the alternative, sought the referral of the case to the lower-level court on grounds of procedural shortcomings.the court sentenced him to ten years’ imprisonment and upheld the part of the regional court’s decision relating to the combination of sentences and the deduction of the time spent in pre-trial detention.32.  by judgment of 16 november 2006 the supreme court of cassation set aside the 25 january 2006 judgment of the plovdiv court of appeal, reduced the applicant’s sentence to three years’ imprisonment, combined the latter with the sentence imposed during the first set of criminal proceedings and deducted the period spent in pre-trial detention during the first set of criminal proceedings.
the first applicant was arrested at 6.30 p.m., the third applicant at 7.00 p.m. and the second applicant at 7.30 p.m. 9.  on 13 march 2007 the investigator asked the odintsovo town court to remand the applicants in custody.10.  during the hearings on the same day - which lasted from 11.30 a.m. to 1.00 p.m. for the first applicant, from 9.40 a.m. to 10.25 a.m. for the second applicant and from 10.30 a.m. to 11.25 a.m. for the third applicant – the judge heard the prosecutor, the applicants and their counsel.the court found that the prosecutor’s applications had been supported by evidence showing the necessity of placing the applicants in custody in view of the risks of absconding, reoffending or interfering with the investigation.it follows from a document issued by the detention facility administration that the first applicant’s submissions were dispatched on 14 march 2007. however, the submissions by the second and third applicants were not dispatched until 23 march 2007.they complained that they had not still received copies of the detention orders of 13 march 2007. they further argued that the town court had disregarded the fact that the offence imputed to the applicants was not a serious one, that they had permanent places of residence, had positive references and studied at a university.14.  on 27 march 2007 counsel for the applicants complained before the odintsovo town court that the investigators had denied them access to the case file and had refused to give them copies of, in particular, the prosecutor’s applications for remand and of the detention orders.the first and third applicants received copies of their respective detention orders on 30 march 2007. the delay in serving the detention orders on the applicants was due to the fact that the judge had sent the documents to the mozhaysk detention facility, although the applicants were held at the odintsovo detention facility.16.  on 3 april 2007 the odintsovo town court found that the investigators had unlawfully restricted counsel’s access to the case file and had thereby violated the applicants’ defence rights.the evidence showing the existence of the risks of absconding, reoffending or interfering with the investigation to which the town court had referred in its detention orders had not been examined during the hearings and the applicants had not been given an opportunity to challenge it.on the same day the regional court quashed the detention orders of 13 march 2007. it found that the detention orders had been based on insufficient reasons.the town court had disregarded the facts that the charges were not serious, that the applicants had no criminal record, had a permanent place of residence and studied at a university.19.  counsel for the applicants asked the court to give them copies of the appeal decisions so that they could bring it to the detention facility and have the applicants immediately released.by letter dated 18 april 2007 the president of the moscow regional court informed them that under the domestic law copies were to be sent by post to the detention facility, which had been done on 12 april 2007. copies of the detention orders could not be given to counsel.21.  on the same day, 12 april 2007, counsel asked the director of the detention facility to release the applicants, referring to the regional court’s order to release them.22.  the appeal decisions were received by the detention facility on 13 april 2007. on the same day the applicants were released.
6.  the applicant, who was one of the indirect beneficial owners of a company, arranged for it to be sold to another company.on 1 october 2013 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of fraud through the execution of a sham sales contract.it was alleged, in particular, that the company purchasing the applicant’s company also belonged to the applicant and the price it paid had been unrealistically low.on 3 october 2013 the taganskiy district court of moscow (“the taganskiy district court”) held a hearing to determine a preventive measure in respect of the applicant.the latter argued that he should not be detained by reliance on article 108 § 1.1 of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccrp”), which prohibits the remanding in custody of people suspected or accused of offences committed within the sphere of their business activities.the taganskiy district court dismissed that argument in the following terms: “... [the applicant] is suspected of having committed a serious offence aimed at making a profit which was unconnected to any business activity and had been organised by a group of people; [the offence being] punishable with up to ten years’ imprisonment, some of the accomplices have not yet been identified and arrested.” 7.  on 21 october 2013 the moscow city court upheld the detention order.9.  on 28 march 2014 the ostankinskiy district court of moscow (“the ostankinskiy district court”) further extended the applicant’s detention.as regards article 108 § 1.1 of the ccrp, the district court stated as follows: “the court dismisses the arguments of the defence and of [the applicant] himself that the offence of which he is accused was committed within the sphere of his business activity because, according to the current bill of indictment, he is accused of having committed an offence motivated by profit with the aim of misappropriating another’s property by way of deception or abuse of trust, using an organised group, and on a particularly large scale.the court therefore concludes that the offence imputed to [the applicant] was not connected to the carrying out of a business activity, which is an independent activity undertaken at one’s own risk with the aim of obtaining regular revenues from the use of possessions, the sale of goods, or the performance of works or services by people registered in such a capacity in accordance with the law.” 10.  on 14 may 2014 the moscow city court upheld on appeal the detention extension order of 28 march 2014. it held that the first-instance court had examined and dismissed with proper substantiation the applicant’s argument that his alleged offence had been committed within the sphere of his business activity.on 23 september 2014 the applicant, who owned the bank, was arrested on suspicion of having transferred money out of the bank’s account by acquiring unsecured promissory notes.13.  on 25 september 2014 the tverskoy district court of moscow (“the tverskoy district court”) authorised the applicant’s detention.the applicant argued that he should not be detained, inter alia, because he was suspected of an offence committed within the sphere of his business activity.the tverskoy district court rejected the argument as follows: “... the court takes the view that, as can be seen from the evidence in the case, the method and circumstances described in the decision to initiate the criminal investigation, and the actions of [the applicant] in misappropriating the funds in this case are not related to [a business] activity as defined in article 2 § 1 of the civil code of the russian federation”.the moscow city court dismissed the applicant’s argument that his alleged offences had been committed within the sphere of his business activity.in particular, the moscow city court held as follows: “... the action of committing an offence by using another’s funds and taking on obligations to the bank’s clients without any intention to comply with them, cannot be considered to be a business activity.”
10.  considering that the police actions in respect of her and the degrading treatment to which she had been subjected were sufficiently serious so as to amount to a criminal offence, on 27 may 2008 the applicant sought the institution of criminal proceedings against officer s., referring, inter alia, to the unlawful deprivation of liberty.the arrest record reads as follows: “[the applicant] was escorted to the police station at: 3.40 p.m. on account of: an administrative offence under: article 20.1 of the cao for the purpose(s) of article 27.3 of the cao: for taking a decision.” 18.  officer o. compiled the administrative-offence record, which reads as follows: “[the applicant] used foul language in the presence of mr i. and continued his unruly behaviour, despite being asked to stop.20.  on 31 august 2010 the applicant was taken before a justice of the peace, who held a hearing at which he examined the applicant, as well as i., k. and m. on the same day, the justice of the peace convicted the applicant of minor hooliganism (article 20.1 of the cao) and sentenced him to five days of detention.23.  on 4 october 2010 the krasnoarmeyskiy district court of volgograd held an appeal hearing and examined the applicant, i., k., m. and officer o. the appellate court upheld the judgment of 31 august 2010. on 3 november 2010 the volgograd regional court upheld the judgments following a review.the courts considered that while neither the ccp nor the cao set out a separate procedure for challenging the measures of being escorted to the police station or of administrative arrest, arguments concerning those measures could be raised during an examination of the related cao charges against the applicant, as well as in an appeal against a decision that had been taken on such charges.32.  in separate proceedings, the applicant lodged a claim for compensation, arguing that article 27.4 required that a record of administrative arrest was to specify reasons for the arrest; the record of his arrest referred to the need to compile the administrative-offence record; such record had been compiled late at night on 9 december 2011; thereby the justification for his arrest had been exhausted and could no longer justify his continued deprivation of liberty on 10 and 11 december 2011. the applicant concluded from the above that the unlawful deprivation of liberty on those dates served as a legal basis for obtaining compensation on account of the non-pecuniary damage suffered.on 27 may 2013 the same court dismissed a cassation appeal lodged by the applicant, stating as follows: “... [the applicant] was escorted to the police station for the compiling of a record of administrative offence ... with a view to the correct and expedient examination of the case, he was subjected to the measure of administrative arrest ... the actions of the police officers relating to the escorting and the arrest procedures were assessed by the courts dealing with the administrative charge and were, in substance, declared lawful ... the claimant’s argument that the courts in a civil case should assess the lawfulness of the police actions is based on a wrong interpretation of the law ... it is not appropriate to challenge the procedure of administrative arrest within the procedure under chapter 25 of the code of civil procedure, where there is a decision to engage the liability of a person for an administrative offence ...” 34.  this application was lodged on 5 september 2014 by aleksey olegovich dragomirov, who was born in 1980 and lives in roslavl in the smolensk region, russia.on the same day, referring to s.’s report, a medical report (the contents of which are not clear) and an arrest record, the justice of the peace convicted the applicant of an administrative offence under article 20.21 of the cao on account of being drunk in a public place at 2.45 p.m. on 9 june 2008 while having an untidy appearance, thus offending human dignity and public morals.the appeal decision reads as follows: “the defendant was convicted of being drunk and looking untidy in a public place at 2.45 p.m. on 9 june 2008 ... [the applicant] stated that he had consumed vodka with a friend in the morning of 9 june 2008; had then attended a sauna, had put clean clothes, had had lunch and had then gone to attend a meeting in the district prosecutor’s office; he had not seen any police officer at 2.45 p.m. ... mr se.stated before the appeal court that he had had a meeting with [the applicant] at 3 p.m. while he could see that [the applicant] had consumed alcohol, he conducted himself, looked and spoke properly ... officer s. stated that he had been told on 9 june 2008 of [the applicant] being drunk but he had actually not seen him at 2.45 p.m. and had actually not effected his arrest at that time ... the file contains a medical report compiled at 10.45 p.m. and the arrest record indicating that the defendant had been arrested at 6.05 p.m. there is no other evidence in the file.by a judgment of 5 march 2014, the district court awarded the applicant rub 5,000 (eur 100 according to the bank of russia rate on the relevant date) on the basis of the fact that the prosecution had been discontinued.the relevant record reads as follows: “[the applicant] arrived at the police station at ‘11.25’ in connection with offences under: ‘article 20.2, article 19.3 of the cao’ for (among the grounds listed in article 27 of the cao): for compiling a record of administrative offence ...” 45.  the applicant was released at 8.30 p.m. he was later admitted to hospital.the court considered that there had been no evidence that the place where the applicant had stood was assigned to the territory of the town court under the applicable laws and regulations.the court observed as follows: (a)  having regard to articles 5, 10 and 11 of the convention and the ruling of the plenary supreme court of russia dated 27 june 2013 (concerning the application of the convention by courts of general jurisdiction), the police’s action in taking the applicant to the police station had been proportionate and had pursued a legitimate aim; it had been of short duration, and had not involved any recourse to physical force.53.  the justice of the peace convicted the applicant of the offence and sentenced him to five days of administrative detention, to be counted from 4 september 2015. the justice of the peace stated that the applicant’s guilt was confirmed by, inter alia, the record of administrative offence compiled by the police as well as by the applicant’s guilty plea.
9.  on 9 march 2010 the applicant applied to the justice of the peace of the 339th court circuit of the vostochnoe dergunino district of moscow for a residence order under which a. would live with him.otherwise, failure to take interim measures might complicate or make impossible the execution of the forthcoming judgment.” 12.  the applicant learned of the interim measure on 30 april 2010. on that day he came to visit a. at the nursery school and the teachers refused to let him see the boy, citing the interim order.on 17 august 2010 the moscow city court upheld on appeal the decision of 29 june 2010. the case file was sent to the experts on 8 september 2010.the applicant submitted that there had been no justification for the interim measure, which had been motivated solely by the prevailing belief that a child should be raised by the mother rather than the father.20.  on 17 september 2010 the justice of the peace of the 133th court circuit of the mytichshinskiy district of the moscow region convicted ch.24.  during the hearing of 24 december 2010 the applicant lodged an objection against the judge of the timiryazevskiy district court, submitting that she (that is to say the judge) had stated on several occasions that she would rule against the applicant because according to the established practice of the timiryazevskiy district court a residence order was always made in favour of the mother.25.  on 18 january 2011 the timiryazevskiy district court allowed a request lodged by the applicant for the proceedings to be stayed; it accordingly stayed the residence order proceedings pending the criminal proceedings against ch.30.  on 7 april 2011 the moscow city court, acting by way of supervisory review, quashed the judgment of 26 january 2011 upholding ch.’s conviction and remitted the criminal case for fresh examination by the appellate court.as could be seen from the documents submitted by the applicant to the court, she lived in a severely polluted and criminally unsafe neighbourhood in the vicinity of an oil refinery plant and a prison.she said that the applicant had become angry when he had learned of the court decision ordering the interim measure, had asked for a copy of that measure and had called his lawyer.37.  the following documents were submitted by the parties for the court’s examination: (i)  the applicant’s and ch.’s pay statements, (ii)  documents showing that the district where ch.lived was among the most polluted districts of moscow, (iii)  documents from the criminal case file against ch., and (iv)  documents relating to a.’s medical history and a.’s pre-school education both at the applicant’s place of residence prior to his parents’ separation and at the mother’s place of residence after the separation.it held as follows: “having examined the entirety of the evidence, the court finds that there is a very serious conflict between the parties as regards the child’s residence arrangements, ... which has a negative impact on the child by creating a psychologically unhealthy and tense atmosphere around him.[the applicant] is entitled to apply for a reconsideration of the issue after a. has reached a more conscious age [по достижению сыном более сознательного возраста].” 39.  the applicant appealed, repeating the arguments he had raised before the district court.(i)  on the first and third weekend of each month from 10 a.m. on saturday until 8 p.m. on sunday at the applicant’s place of residence, in the mother’s absence and with the right to attend outdoor activities for children, and (ii)  for two weeks during the summer and two weeks during the winter on dates agreed with the mother, provided that the child is in good health, with the right to leave moscow and to go abroad.
5.  at the material time the applicant leased a flat in a block of flats in noyabrsk (a town in the yamalo-nenetskiy region).6.  according to a logbook of people taken to the police station, the applicant arrived at the station at 7.05 a.m. and was handed over to an investigator “for further proceedings” at 7.55 a.m. on 16 february 2006. according to the applicant, the investigator, ch., repeatedly questioned him as “a witness to the incident”.7.  according to the applicant, he was released on 16 february 2006 at about 11 p.m. and summoned to appear before the investigator the next day at 2 p.m. the applicant alleges that he was under the constant supervision of police officers between 6 a.m. and 11 p.m. on 16 february 2006 and was not allowed to leave the police station.11.  on 28 september 2011 the noyabrsk town court returned the claim to the applicant, stating that he had failed to correct the errors in his claim.between 18 february 2006 and 22 june 2006 the applicant was kept in the temporary detention centre of the noyabrsk police station (“the ivs”).14.  the applicant provided the following description of the conditions in the ivs.the drains in the shower room did not work, and the water temperature was not adjustable.(a)  the applicant’s account 23.  the applicant provided the following description of the conditions of his detention in the correctional colony, and submitted a detailed plan of the accommodation, with a description.water was only available from 5 a.m. to 7 a.m. and from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. while there was no running water, the detainees had two water tanks at their disposal – one which contained drinking water and the other which contained water which was not drinkable.this was clearly not enough, since the water in the tanks would be used up by about 10 a.m. the toilets smelled extremely unpleasant, since there was no water to flush them after 10 a.m. 25.  the floor of the dormitory was based on a frame made of used railway sleepers impregnated with creosote.27.  according to the applicant, in 2008 the detainees were provided with winter clothes only at the end of november when the temperature dropped below minus 28˚c.(b)  the government’s account 28.  as regards the conditions of the applicant’s detention in ik-8 in labytnangi, the government submitted information which can be summarised as follows:19 september 2008 – 30 october 2009 7 321 no information no information 6 and 4 30 october 2009 – 14 may 2010 10 (accommodated in building previously occupied by units 7 and 8) 321 122 119 6 and 4 18 may 2010 – 20 april 2011 10 321 96 95 6 and 4 25 april 2011 – 16 july 2011 10 321 84 81 6 and 4 29.  they also submitted that the toilets had been separated from the canteen and dormitory, and the units had been naturally ventilated and regularly disinfected.30.  on an unspecified date in 2010, while serving his sentence in the correctional colony, the applicant brought civil proceedings against the noyabrsk police station and the russian ministry of finance, seeking compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damage resulting from the poor conditions of his detention in the ivs in 2006. the applicant was not represented in those proceedings.32.  on 30 august 2010 the applicant lodged an appeal against the decision of 23 july 2010. he complained in particular that he had not been allowed to personally address the court, despite a request he had made to this effect, and he asked the appeal court to arrange for him to attend the appeal hearing.
it was held that the applicants should be detained pending their expulsion, which had been ordered by the head of the aliens office (szef urzędu do spraw cudzoziemców) on 6 march 2013 and in view of the risk that they might again flee the country.11.  the information about the guarded centre for aliens in kętrzyn which is presented in paragraphs 12-16 below, is derived from the reports of the helsinki foundation for human rights, which resulted from their monitoring visits in 2012 and in january and february of 2014.unlike in many other guarded centres, the one in kętrzyn had outer but no inner bars on the windows and the windows in the day rooms (świetlica) were without any bars.it was held that the 2013 expulsion decision did not cover the child, who was born later in germany and whose presence in poland resulted from a decision of the german authorities.20.  on 4 february 2014 the kętrzyn district court decided to extend the detention of all the applicants at the guarded centre for aliens until 27 april 2014. the domestic court relied on the fact that the 2013 expulsion decision was enforceable despite ms bistieva’s renewed asylum application and that the identification of the family members was being carried out by the polish authorities.regional court (sąd okręgowy) upheld the decision of 9 january 2014. it was held that the decision to place ms bistieva in administrative detention was justified because she was an illegal alien in poland and she had crossed the german border illegally.22.  on 19 february 2014 the head of the aliens office decided not to grant the application to stay the enforcement of the 2013 expulsion decision.24.  in view of the 2013 decision, which was enforceable, on 18 april 2014 the head of the aliens office discontinued the applicants’ asylum proceedings (decision no.25.  on 25 april 2014 the kętrzyn district court decided to extend the administrative detention of the applicants until 29 june 2014, given the discontinuation of the latest set of asylum proceedings.she argued that her application was justified because on 27 january 2014 the warmińsko-mazurski governor had refused to order the expulsion of her youngest child and because, in a separate set of proceedings, on 25 april 2014 the refugee council (rada do spraw uchodźców) had granted refugee status to her father, mother and siblings.28.  on 5 june 2014 the head of the aliens office decided to temporarily suspend the enforcement of the 2013 expulsion decision, until the delivery of a new decision, on the grounds that new circumstances had arisen in the case.it was observed that the decision to extend the measure of administrative detention was justified by the need to secure the course of the proceedings concerning the refusal of refugee status and expulsion.it was also noted that the last relevant decision had been delivered by the head of the aliens office on 18 april 2014 and served on ms bistieva within the statutory time-limit.the domestic court held that section 107 of the 2003 aliens act had not been breached by the fact that the youngest child had been detained along with ms bistieva and the rest of the family even though his own expulsion had not been authorised by the governor.lastly, the court considered, without providing detailed reasons, that the possible alternative measure, namely placing the applicants at the aliens centre in podkowa leśna and providing them with social care, was not called for in the circumstances of the case.
had sold it to third persons in december 2001. they had then, on 8 january 2002, purchased another lot of sugar in the amount of 1.5 and 3.5 tonnes respectively, which had subsequently been attached and included in the list of exhibits by mr s. the decisions concluded that the sugar in question was not the object of the crime in the present case, and therefore its attachment should be lifted.in connection with the fact that they had sold the sugar in breach of their written undertakings given to mr s. the decision stated that the undertakings had not been legally binding, since when they had been given, the sugar had not been formally attached and included in the list of exhibits, and therefore there had been no legal grounds for mr p. and mr pr.the decision concluded that in view of the fact that it was mr p. and mr pr.’s money which had been stolen in the present case, rather than akvilon’s sugar, it was the former and not the company who were victims of the crime.23.  as regards mr p.’s claim, after several rounds of proceedings, the town court granted it in a judgment of 21 may 2004. the court confirmed mr p.’s title to 1.5 tonnes of sugar, referring to the fact that he had purchased it on 8 january 2002. the court further established that the sugar belonging to mr p. had been attached by the investigator, mr s., and transferred to a third party and then to akvilon for safe storage and that by the investigating authorities’ decision of 24 march 2003 the attachment order had been lifted.24.  throughout the investigation into the incident of 30 november 2001 the applicant lodged numerous complaints with the supervising prosecutors alleging negligence on the part of the investigator, mr s. in particular, she complained of his failure timeously to attach the sugar belonging to akvilon and his decision to transfer it for safe storage to mr p. and mr pr., individuals whom akvilon had accused of fraud, with the result that the sugar had been lost and akvilon had suffered pecuniary damage.25.  in letters sent to the applicant in the period of 2002-04, the nevinnomyssk prosecutor’s office and the main investigating division of the department of the interior of the stavropol region stated, inter alia, that the investigator, mr s., had indeed breached certain requirements of the criminal procedure legislation.26.  between april and july 2004 the nevinnomyssk prosecutor’s office took a number of similar decisions to dispense with criminal proceedings against mr s. they stated, in essence, that although formally there were elements of an offence punishable under article 293 of the russian criminal code (professional negligence) in mr s.’s actions, that article provided for criminal liability only if the damage caused by such negligence attained a minimum of rub 100,000, whereas the pecuniary damage alleged by akvilon had been lower than that amount.27.  in 2003 akvilon initiated proceedings before the commercial court of the stavropol region against the nevinnomyssk department of the interior, the department of the interior of the stavropol region and the russian ministry of the interior.the company complained that the negligent actions on the part of the investigator, mr s., during the investigation into the incident of 30 november 2001 had resulted in the loss of five tonnes of sugar belonging to the company.29.  on 30 november 2004 the appellate instance of the commercial court of the stavropol region quashed the first-instance judgment in so far as the applicant’s claim for pecuniary damage was concerned, stating that the lower court finding as to the absence of a causal link between the pecuniary damage sustained by akvilon and mr s.’s actions had been incorrect.the appellate court noted that the first-instance court had not taken into account that criminal proceedings against mr s. in connection with the negligent performance of his duties had not been instituted only on the formal ground that the pecuniary damage inflicted on the claimant company by his actions had been below the statutory limit established in article 293 of the russian criminal code.the appellate court further found it established that “it was on account of the unlawful actions of investigator s., who had transferred five tonnes of sugar belonging to the akvilon company to other persons, that [the company] had been deprived not only of its property but also of the right to claim compensation for damage in the context of the criminal proceedings, as the investigator in charge had withdrawn the status of victim [from the company]”.the appellate court considered it established that the company had proven the circumstances in which it had sustained pecuniary losses in the amount of rub 96,312, and awarded the company the full amount claimed in respect of pecuniary damage, as well as rub 8,619.42 for costs and expenses to be recovered from the russian ministry of the interior at the expense of the federal treasury.30.  on 10 march 2005 the federal commercial court of the north‑caucasus circuit, acting as a cassation instance, upheld the appeal decision of 30 november 2004. the court, however, reduced the award to rub 55,000, noting that that sum represented the pecuniary losses sustained by akvilon in 2001 (see paragraph 7 above).33.  in a decision of 12 july 2005 the appellate instance of the commercial court of the stavropol region noted that on 10 march 2005 the federal commercial court of the north-caucasus circuit had reduced the award in respect of non-pecuniary damage from rub 96,312 to rub 55,000 and ordered that the recovery of the amount of rub 41,312 be discontinued.
4.  the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in sovetskaya gavan, khabarovsk region.5.  on 22 october 2009 the applicant was arrested and brought to the khabarovsk administrative detention centre where he stayed until 27 november 2009.6.  since 22 october 2009 he had been detained with more than 12 inmates in the cell no.a month after he had been transferred to another cell with the area of 6 square meters which he had shared with another inmate.toilets were not separated from the living area, and the persons using them were in full view of others.food supply was inadequate, the applicant was served meals only once a day and had no drinking water from within the cell.8.  the government submitted that the khabarovsk administrative detention centre comprised two cells: no.5 with the area of 14.6 square meters for 3 inmates and no.the temperature was 23oc, there were kettles with boiled water in the cells.9.  on 26 october 2009 the applicant’s wife, mrs liu, sought to visit the applicant but was refused.10.  on 6 and 10 november 2009 the applicant’s wife filed complaints with the khabarovsk prosecutor’s office stating that she had not been allowed to see the applicant.11.  in august 2010 the applicant brought a civil claim for compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damage, stating that the conditions of his detention had been inhuman and degrading, and that the prohibition on family visits was unlawful.relying on the statements of a representative of the detention centre, the court held that the internal rules of the administrative detention centres approved by the decree of the ministry of defence of russia of 6 june 2000 no.605 dsp (“the rules”) did not make provision for family visits, and that the applicant’s right to family life had not been breached as he had met his wife during court hearings.13.  on 18 may 2011 the khabarovsk regional court upheld the above decision on appeal.
9.  the applicant followed them to grozny, where she attempted to visit her son, but was prevented from doing so by e. 10.  on 18 february 2014 the applicant applied to the leninskiy district court of grozny (“the district court”) for a residence order under which i. would live with her.11.  on 19 march 2014 the childcare authority of the chertanovo district of moscow visited the applicant’s flat in moscow and found the living conditions there suitable for a small child.12.  on 19 march 2014 the justice of the peace of the 230 court circuit of the chertanovo district of moscow convicted e. of assault and battery, finding e. guilty of assaulting and injuring the applicant in august 2013, and sentenced him to a fine.in favour of his father [e.] would not be contrary to the child’s interests and would not hinder his contact with the mother.” 15.  at the hearing concerning the applicant’s application for a residence order, e. stated that i. had indeed lived with his mother until recently, but he was not at all attached to her.16.  at the hearing, an official of the childcare authority of grozny reiterated the findings contained in the report of 15 april 2014.it follows that the court may go beyond the parties’ claims and make a residence order in respect of the child in favour of the father [e.].these factors are the child’s attachment to each of the parents and [any] siblings, the relationship between the child and each of the parents, the child’s age, the parents’ moral and other personal qualities and the possibilities each of them have for creating [proper] conditions for the child’s upbringing and development (in the light of such considerations as each parent’s occupation, employment schedule, and financial and family situation), and other factors defining the situation in each parent’s place of residence.the plenary ruling stresses, in particular, that the better financial or living conditions of one of the parents cannot, in themselves, constitute a decisive reason for granting this parent’s application for a residence order in his [or her] favour.the better financial and living conditions of one of the parents (the claimant has a higher income and owns residential property in moscow) cannot constitute a decisive reason for making a residence order in her favour and for rejecting the other parent’s claim, because there are other factors.in the court’s opinion, the claimant has not submitted evidence in support of her arguments in [the] adversarial proceedings.” 18.  the applicant appealed.the judgment was based on the best interests of the child, taking into account his age, his attachment to the father, and the father’s ability to create proper conditions for his son’s upbringing and development.20.  in reply to a complaint by the applicant that she had been prevented from seeing her son for a long time, by a letter of 7 august 2014, a deputy mayor of grozny informed her that e. had stated to the childcare authorities that he would not allow any contact between i. and his mother.21.  by a letter of 12 september 2014, the head of the childcare authority of grozny informed the applicant that the childcare official who had issued the report of 15 april 2014 had been disciplined.23.  on 27 november 2014 a judge of the supreme court of the chechen republic refused to refer the applicant’s cassation appeal to the presidium of that court for examination, finding no significant violations of substantive or procedural law which had influenced the outcome of the proceedings.25.  on 14 january 2015 the applicant applied to the shali town court of the chechen republic (“the town court”), asking that i. be returned to her.
it repealed the legal status of religious communities act 1977 (“the 1977 act”) and provided that the commission for religious communities and groups (комисија за односи со верските заедници и религиозните групи – “the commission”) would be responsible for dealing with religious matters, which up until then had been the responsibility of the ministry of the interior (“the ministry”).8.  on 25 august 1997 the commission requested that the applicant association submit a copy of its application (копија од пријавата) to be listed in the register of the ministry and the related certificate of registration (потврда за постојано пријавување) so that it could “transfer (into its register) the religious communities and groups of which the ministry of the interior had been notified (пријавени)” (section 35 of the 1997 act, see paragraph 37 below).9.  on 4 september 1997 the applicant association (under the name “islamic bektashi community” in tetovo) contacted the ministry, seeking a copy of all relevant documents related to its application submitted in 1993. according to the applicant association, on 16 september 1997 it forwarded to the commission all the documents obtained from the ministry save for the certificate, which had never been issued.the certificate further stated: “since the statutory conditions are met, the bektashi community of the republic of macedonia is listed (пријавена).” 12.  by a decision of 18 july 2000, the state statistics office specified the applicant association’s main activities (“the activities of religious organisations”), its headquarters (the “arabati baba” site); and attributed corresponding indexes and business codes.13.  in a letter of 13 june 2002 sent to a trial court regarding unrelated proceedings, the commission confirmed that “the bektashi community of the republic of macedonia [had been] registered (регистрирана) ...” 14.  in 2003 a local non-governmental organisation (“the macedonian centre for international cooperation”) published the “directory of religious communities in macedonia”, which included the religious entities recorded in the commission’s register.in reply the commission stated that it had only been required to transfer to the registration court information regarding existing religious communities registered up until 1998. since it had only been notified about the applicant association in 2000, the latter should have made an application for re‑registration in the single court register (“the court register”) in accordance with the 2007 act.however, since the applicant association had not given notice to the ministry, at the time, it had not been transferred to the commission’s records, as provided for in that provision.” 20.  it further established that in june 2000 the applicant association had given notice to the commission, which the latter had acknowledged with the 2000 certificate.24.  on 20 december 2010 the court refused to register the applicant association on the following grounds: (a) the name “bektashi” had already been used by another religious entity registered in the court register; (b) the doctrinal sources were the same as the doctrinal sources of another already registered religious entity; and (c) the applicant association had not submitted proof of ownership of the “arabati baba” site in tetovo, indicated as its headquarters in the application for registration.27.  on 27 may 2011 the registration court again refused to register the applicant association as its intended name contained the term “bektashi”, which had already been used by another religious entity, namely the “ehlibeyt bektashi religious group of macedonia” registered in the court register on 10 september 2010. the court stated that “the existing act [did] not allow for the registration of a new religious entity under a name that [had] already been recorded in the register for another registered religious entity”.furthermore, its doctrinal sources were no different from the doctrinal sources of the islamic religious community, which had existed for centuries and which had been registered in the court register on 14 november 2008. as to the doctrinal sources as described by the applicant association, the court stated as follows: “... [they consist of] the islamic religion and the teaching of the holy koran, which is supplemented and interpreted by the knowledge and practices of prophet mohamed and imam ali, the holy ehlibeyt (the prophet’s family) and the holy journey of haji bektash veli ... it is about the sources of the islamic religion, for which there is already a registered religious community ... whose teaching includes the koran and the practices of mohamed aleyhisselam.in other words, the doctrinal sources of [the applicant association] are not at all different from the doctrinal sources of the ... islamic religious community ... in the court’s opinion, the doctrinal sources are to be regarded as official insignia of a church, religious community or group within the meaning of section 10(1) of the 2007 act.it would be a violation of [that provision] if they did not differ i.e. did not have specific characteristics, elements that were different from the doctrinal sources of the teachings of an already registered [religious entity].” 28.  in such circumstances, the court held that the “substantive conditions” for registration of the applicant association in the court register had not been fulfilled.in order to reply whether there are elements of discrimination in the dismissal of the application for registration of the bektashi religious community, the constitutional court assesses whether the courts which decided in the registration proceedings ... gave sufficient reasons and whether the refusal to register the bektashi religious community was based on relevant and reasonable grounds, namely whether the refusal of registration pursued a legitimate aim and whether there was a measure of proportionality between the means used and the aim pursued ...” 33.  the court then referred to the grounds on which the registration court had based its decision and stated as follows: “... the [registration] court refused to register the [applicant association] on two grounds: (1) the intended name of the [applicant association] contained the term ‘bektashi’ which had been incorporated into the name of an already registered religious entity, the ‘ehlibeyt bektashi religious group of macedonia’ ... and (2) its doctrinal sources were the same as the doctrinal sources of an already registered religious entity, the islamic religious community.the [dismissal decision was based on] section 10(1) of [the 2007 act] ... the constitutional court endorses the findings of the first-instance court that the name and the doctrinal sources are official insignia of a religious entity and distinctive elements through which it is identified and recognised by the public ... this particularly concerns smaller religious entities, namely [those] that ... manifest their distinctiveness through these two elements.in view of the foregoing, the constitutional court considers that the refusal to register the bektashi religious community did not violate [the applicants’] freedom of religion of the applicants, nor were they discriminated against on the basis of their religion.”
8.  according to the applicant, he did not resist arrest and did not sustain injuries during his arrest; rather, it was during his stay in the police station that the police officers ill-treated him in order to pressure him to make incriminating statements against his co-accused in the trial.had grabbed the applicant by his right hand in order to apply the so-called “elbow-lock” technique, but due to the fact that the applicant had continued to resist all three of them had fallen to the ground.13.  according to a police report made on the day of the applicant’s arrest, the applicant was informed of the reasons for his arrest and his right to remain silent, to hire a lawyer of his own choosing and to have a person of his choice be informed of his arrest.the applicant replied that he understood the advice and the grounds for his being under suspicion and maintained that he did not require a lawyer for that day’s questioning and that he would give a statement to the investigating judge and answer questions.lastly, the applicant stated that he had been arrested the day before at 5 p.m. and that apart from the use of force during his arrest he did not have any objections about the police conduct during his stay in the police station.21.  at a hearing held on 20 june 2011, which the applicant and his lawyer attended, the dubrovnik country court (“the trial court”) established the identity of the defendants and the charges brought against them.the applicant’s lawyer then proposed that the trial court examine the medical records of the applicant’s father who allegedly suffered a stroke after learning of the applicant’s arrest, as well as a medical certificate dated 27 january 2011 confirming that on 21 october 2010 the applicant had been examined by a doctor and that the doctor’s report had been forwarded to the police.he also proposed that the trial court hear the applicant’s sister and examine the power of attorney by which she had hired a lawyer to represent the applicant during the time that the investigating judge was questioning him.d.h., the lawyer allegedly hired by the applicant’s sister, who represented d.š., the applicant’s co-accused in the trial, stated that the power of attorney in question had been signed in his office on the night when the applicant had been held in the police station.stated, inter alia, that he had not sold drugs to the applicant and that he had learned from his lawyer, d.h., that the police had ill-treated the applicant in the police station and had beaten him.when further asked by the presiding judge and the lawyer, d.h., the applicant explained that even though on 22 october 2010 he had been advised by the investigating judge of his right to remain silent and to hire a lawyer, he had been afraid of the police officers who had brought him before the investigating judge, given that they had been the same police officers who had beaten him.it found that during the trial the applicant himself had alleged that he had given his oral statement to the investigating judge uninterruptedly, without the police officers being present, and after being advised of his right to hire a lawyer and to remain silent.29.  the trial court dismissed evidence proposals relating to the applicant’s alleged ill-treatment in the police station, specifically that his sister be heard in respect of this allegation, finding that his sister had not been present during his arrest and transportation to the police station, and later on had not been in the same room with the applicant and the police officers.as to the criminal accusation against the applicant, the trial court found that the applicant had confessed to being an intermediary in the sale of amphetamines and it took his confession into account as a mitigating circumstance.as to the change of the applicant’s line of defence during the trial, the supreme court agreed with the trial court that this had probably been an attempt to help his co-accused, d.š., in the trial, rather than constituting a credible reason for retracting his earlier statements.
38.  in the course of the appellate proceedings, the warsaw court of appeal referred a legal question to the supreme court, seeking an interpretation of the provisions of the ccp concerning the assignment of a trial court judge to a given case and the consequences of an irregularly constituted trial bench for the outcome of appellate proceedings.39.  the legal question read as follows: “does the expression “court improperly constituted” in article 439 § 1 (2) of the ccp also concern a situation in which a court that ruled on a case included a judge who had been “allocated” to the case by some other entity than the [one] authorised to do so by law, i.e. the president of a court (president of a division) assigning a judge – article 350 § 1 (1) of the ccp – in the manner specified in article 351 § 1 of the ccp.” 40.  in a resolution adopted on 17 november 2005, the supreme court replied as follows: “the assignment of members of a court in breach of the rules specified in articles 350 § 1 and 351 § 1 of the ccp constitutes a relative ground of appeal (względna przyczyna odwoławcza) referred to in article 438 § 2 of the ccp.” 41.  in its legal question, the court of appeal noted that, in consequence of a decision adopted by the board of the warsaw regional court, the president of a division in that court had issued an order assigning judge a.k.59.  the court of appeal held as follows: “in the present case ... on the basis of the circumstances concerning the passing of the 2005 amendment established in the course of the appellate proceedings, the court of appeal reached the conclusion that the regulations contained in the act had been adopted by the legislature, in particular, so that they could be applied to the pending proceedings in a specific case indicated in the reasons for the bill, and in addition, the judge hearing the case took part in the process of amending the law as an advisor, thus showing a lack of impartiality.having regard to the foregoing, the application of the 2005 amendment to the present case would have patently violated the standards of articles 10 and 45 § 1 of the constitution and article 6 of the convention concerning the right to a fair trial before an impartial tribunal and would have had an obvious influence on the pertinent part of the judgment.” 60.  the court of appeal decided not to apply the 2005 amendment to that part of the case.62.  the court of appeal underlined that the above shortcomings had only affected part of the trial court’s judgment, namely the offence imputed to the second applicant (point vi.2 of the operative provisions of the trial court’s judgment), for which the limitation period had been set to expire on 12 september 2005. only in that part did there exist a logical and irrefutable causal link between the error in the assignment of judge a.k.66.  the prosecutor general lodged a cassation appeal against the part of the court of appeal’s judgment concerning the discontinuation of the proceedings against the second applicant in respect of the charge of theft of the fozz’s property of a considerable value (point vi.2 of the operative provisions of the trial court’s judgment).the prosecutor general argued that the court of appeal had erred in holding that the application of the 2005 amendment to the offence in question would have breached articles 10 and 45 § 1 of the constitution and article 6 of the convention on account of the alleged lack of impartiality of judge a.k.76.  furthermore, the 2005 amendment had entered into force on 3 august 2005 and the limitation period with regard to one of the offences (point vi.2 of the operative part) had been set to expire on 12 september 2005. accordingly, the consequences of the expiry of the limitation period and the entry into force of the law extending limitation periods had taken place in the course of the appellate proceedings.78.  having regard to the above conclusion, the court noted that the principal issue before the court of appeal and now before it was the compatibility of the 2005 amendment with the constitution and the convention, as well as the related problem of how the court should proceed in the event of a finding of incompatibility.80.  with regard to the constitutionality of the 2005 amendment related to the shortcomings of the legislative process, the supreme court concurred with the court of appeal that the conduct of that process indicated that the impugned legislation had been adopted with a view to influencing the outcome of a particular case.the court of appeal had analysed the issue from the perspective of the “partiality” of judge a.k., who had been involved in the preparation of the law partly determining the outcome of the case, but for the supreme court that issue had to been seen in a wider context.in fact, the court of appeal had analysed the issue of the “partiality of the legislature” and understood it to mean an encroachment by the legislature on the competences of the judicial authorities by the former’s involvement in the determination of a specific case by means of enacting legislation.a statement made by z. ziobro mp during the debate on the bill in the sejm on 22 march 2005 was relevant here (“among the thousands of cases [threatened by the expiry of the limitation period] there is also this one, which outrages and shocks polish public opinion the most, which ... became the instigator and final argument for the introduction of this bill, and that is fozz-gate and the real risk of the limitation period expiring in this case”).85.  for that reason, the supreme court quashed the part of the court of appeal’s judgment concerning the discontinuation of the proceedings against the second applicant (point vi.2 of the operative provisions of the trial court’s judgment) and remitted that part of the case to it.was present at the [committee’s] meeting on 1 june 2005 on the point concerning the above-mentioned bill, because he was waiting for the beginning [of a discussion on] of the third point for which he had been invited as an advisor (i.e. on the bill amending the criminal code and the code of execution of sentences in respect of combating paedophilia ...) the agenda of that meeting included a discussion on the amendments proposed in the second reading of the deputies’ bill: 98.  it appears that judge a.k.
the district court relied on the particularly serious nature of the crime with which the applicant had been charged and his position on the merits of the arrest and the charges brought against him.the court also relied on the risk that he might flee from the investigating authorities and the court, exert pressure on victims, witnesses and other participants in the criminal proceedings, or otherwise hamper the administration of justice in the case.9.  on 20 august and 23 august 2010, at the request of the applicant’s lawyer, the district court adjourned the review of the applicant’s detention until 23 august and 24 august 2010, respectively.11.  on 24 august 2010 the applicant’s lawyer asked the district court to adjourn the hearing until 25 august 2010 so as to enable her to review the prosecution material and discuss her position with the applicant.the judge refused to adjourn the hearing until 25 august 2010, but granted a two-hour adjournment until 6 p.m. 12.  on 24 august 2010 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 24 november 2010, having found no grounds for altering or lifting the custodial measure and having taken note of the particular complexity of the case.13.  the applicant appealed against the above decision, claiming, inter alia, that the two-hour adjournment of the hearing on 24 august 2010 had not permitted him to consult his lawyer in private; nor had it allowed his lawyer to have sufficient time to review the prosecution material.14.  on 11 october 2010 the st petersburg city court (“the city court”) found that there were no reasons to vary the preventive measure, and it upheld the decision of 24 august 2010 on appeal.most of the file consisted of procedural documents concerning issues relating to the institution of the criminal proceedings, the extension of the time-limit for the investigation, the joinder of criminal cases, and documents which had been previously handed to the applicant.besides, all these documents had been examined in the hearing on 24 august 2010. as regards the applicant’s complaint as to his inability to have a confidential exchange with his lawyer before the hearing of 24 august 2010, the city court held that the applicant and his lawyer had been given the opportunity to communicate in the courtroom.this did not amount to a breach of the applicant’s right to defence, because the applicant’s lawyer could have had a confidential meeting with the applicant in the remand prison without any restrictions, and they could have developed their defence position beforehand.in any event, the hearing could not have been adjourned until 25 august 2010, since the time-limit for the applicant’s detention had been due to expire on 24 august 2010, and therefore the decision on the preventive measure had had to be taken before then.20.  on 22 february 2011, reiterating the reasons which had prompted the application of the custodial measure in the applicant’s case, the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 24 may 2011 pending examination of the case file.as regards the applicant’s complaint regarding the alleged violation of his right to defence by the refusal to adjourn the hearing of 22 february 2011, the city court held that the applicant’s lawyer had failed to prove her sickness by providing a medical certificate.the court noted that the grounds which had prompted the application of the custodial measure in the applicant’s case had not changed, and referred to the considerable size of the case file, a case file which neither the applicant, nor his co-defendants or their lawyers had been able to examine in full.27.  as mentioned above, on 6 april and 28 june 2011 respectively the city court examined the applicant’s appeals against the decisions of the district court of 22 february and 30 may 2011 extending his detention.
5.  on 14 december 2012 the state duma adopted at first reading a draft law which, in particular, prohibited adoption of children of russian nationality by us citizens.7.  according to the applicants, they read on various online social networks that many people intended to stage solo “pickets” (одиночные пикеты) on 19 december 2012 in front of the state duma to express their opposition to the draft law.the format of solo “pickets” was chosen because there was no longer time to observe the minimum statutory three‑day notification period for other types of (group) events.8.  the applicants decided to hold their own solo “pickets” and at around 9 a.m. positioned themselves, holding banners, in the vicinity of the state duma at some distance from other protesters (see also lashmankin and others v. russia, nos.9.  according to the applicants, they were arrested by the police several minutes later and brought to a police station.at 10.30 a.m. the police drew up a record of the administrative escorting (протокол административного доставления) in respect of each applicant.a record of administrative arrest (протокол административного задержания), drawn up at the same time, stated that the applicants had arrived at the police station at 10.30 a.m. the first applicant, mr tsukanov, made a handwritten note on his arrest record that he had been actually apprehended at 9.20 a.m. the second applicant, mr torchinskiy, made a handwritten note on his escorting record that he had been actually apprehended at 9.30 a.m. 10.  at the police station both applicants were accused of organising and holding a group public event without prior notification, in breach of article 20.2 § 2 of the code of administrative offences (hereinafter, “cao”).the administrative offence records indicate that the offences were committed at 10 a.m. the first applicant made a handwritten note that he came to the event venue at 9 a.m. and was arrested at 9.20 a.m. 11.  the first applicant was released at 1.20 p.m. the second applicant was released at 1.10 p.m. 12.  on 15 january 2013 the justice of the peace of the 369th court circuit of the tverskoy district of moscow found the second applicant guilty under article 20.2 § 2 of the cao and sentenced him to a fine of 20,000 russian roubles (rub), (about 495 euros (eur) at the time).the justice of the peace found it established, on the basis of the records and testimony of police officers, that the applicant had taken part in a “picket” involving fifty people.the applicant had waved a banner, thereby attracting the attention of passers-by and journalists assembled for the occasion.13.  on 6 february 2013 the justice of the peace of the 369th court circuit of the tverskoy district of moscow found the first applicant guilty under article 20.2 § 2 of the cao and sentenced him to a fine of rub 20,000 (about eur 495 at the time), with the reasoning identical to that in the judgment of 15 january 2013. the justice of the peace also relied on police reports and testimony of a police officer who had apprehended the first applicant at the venue of the public event.15.  on 13 february and 11 march 2013 the tverskoy district court of moscow upheld the judgments concerning the second and the first applicant respectively.16.  the second applicant applied for review of the court decisions under article 30.12 of the cao.on 28 june 2013 the deputy president of the moscow city court partly allowed his complaint and changed the classification of the administrative charge against him.the second applicant was found guilty of the breach of the established procedure for the conduct of public events committed by a participant, an offence punishable under article 20.2 § 5 of the cao.
9.  by a decision of 29 december 2007, the mayor of magadan appointed the applicant as the guardian of k.l.s., on the grounds that the child’s parents did not take care of her.17.  in august and september 2012 the applicant made a number of telephone calls to the childcare service of chernivtsi and to the orphanage, asking them to take into account that she wished to become k.o.s.’s legal tutor, and that she was preparing the necessary documents to make a formal application.18.  at the applicant’s request, the tutelage and guardianship service of magadan sent a letter to the childcare service of chernivtsi informing them that she wished to become k.o.s.’s legal tutor and that she had fulfilled her obligations as k.l.s.’s tutor.19.  by a letter of 17 september 2012, the childcare service of chernivtsi informed the tutelage and guardianship service of magadan that they had received the information about the applicant’s wish to become k.o.s.’s legal tutor on 4 september 2012. the childcare service of chernivtsi further informed the tutelage and guardianship service of magadan: that a couple wishing to adopt k.o.s.had been given permission to establish contact with him prior to that date and had already submitted all the necessary documents for his adoption (see paragraphs 22-23 below); that an opinion in favour of that adoption would be issued; and that, on the basis of such an opinion, the couple would submit an adoption application to the pershotravnevyy district court in chernivtsi (hereafter “the pershotravnevyy court”).lastly, the childcare service of chernivtsi noted that the applicant had the right to lodge a tutelage application with the same court, and advised her to do so “as soon as possible”.it was also noted: that the child had a half-sister and an aunt who lived in magadan; that in august and september 2012 the applicant and the magadan authorities, respectively, had informed the childcare service of chernivtsi of her wish to become the child’s legal tutor; that the applicant had been informed in reply that she could lodge an application for tutelage with a district court; and that no such application had been lodged.lastly, the opinion read that, generally, adoption was “the preferred form of [a child’s] placement”, and that, in the present case, the adoption would be appropriate and in the interests of the child.the court held that the requested adoption was in the interests of the child in being raised in “stable life conditions and in [an atmosphere of] harmony”.29.  on 1 february 2013 the applicant lodged an appeal with the chernivtsi court of appeal against that judgment, stating that it had violated her right to become her close relative’s legal tutor and her right to submit arguments against the adoption.was a russian national, as his biological mother had been a russian national at the time when he had been born in 2007; (iv) that the procedure provided for in ukraine’s relevant international treaties in relation to the adoption of foreign nationals had not been followed; and (v) that the pershotravnevyy court had disregarded the fact that she had informed the ukrainian childcare service of her wish to become k.o.s.’s legal tutor and the fact that she had been preparing the necessary documents for this.sent a letter to the court of appeal stating that she and the rest of her family (notably her grandparents and the applicant) had a close connection with k.o.s.31.  on 4 april 2013 the court of appeal refused to examine the applicant’s appeal on the grounds that the judgment did not concern her right or interest in becoming the child’s legal tutor, or any obligations in that regard which in principle could be the subject matter of a separate claim.32.  the applicant appealed in cassation, mainly arguing that the court of appeal had failed to examine her arguments and that she had been deprived of access to a court, in violation of the procedural rules.33.  on 10 july 2013 the higher specialised court for civil and criminal matters rejected the applicant’s cassation appeal on the basis that it had not been demonstrated that the contested decision of the court of appeal was unlawful.
5.  on 14 december 2004 a group of about forty party members, including the applicants, entered the waiting area of the president’s administration building in moscow and locked themselves in an office on the ground floor.6.  they asked for a meeting with the president, the deputy head of the president’s administration mr surkov, and the president’s economic advisor mr illarionov.according to the statement of the charges, at 12.30 p.m. on 14 december 2004 forty party members had effected an unauthorised entry into the reception area of the administration of the president of the russian federation.until the arrival of the police, the party members, including the applicants, had waved anti‑president placards through the office window, thrown out leaflets and chanted slogans calling for the president’s resignation.13.  according to the applicants, the fast pace of the trial, coupled with the remand centre regulations prohibiting visits on weekends and allowing counsel to see no more than one client per day, prevented them from having a sufficient number of consultations with their counsel.they had come to the president’s administration to meet the officials and hand over a petition that listed the president’s ten failures to comply with the constitution and contained a call for his resignation.they had entered the waiting area and, as the guards had attempted to stop them and had threatened them with violence, had locked themselves in an office on the ground floor.19.  the guards and the police officers testified that the defendants had forced their passage into the building by knocking down two metal detectors and had locked themselves up in one of the offices.20.  counsel for the defendants asked the guards questions about the names and positions of the persons who had given orders during the arrest operation, the number of persons involved in the arrest operation, the witnesses’ exact positions and duties and about the substance of the orders they had received from their superiors.they argued that the questions were relevant and important for the defence because it was necessary to understand whether the police and the guards had acted within their powers.it held as follows: “[the defendants], acting in conspiracy, committed serious breaches of public safety and order by disregarding established norms of conduct and showing manifest disrespect for society ... they effected an unauthorised entry into the reception area of the president of the russian federation’s administration building and took over office no.14 on the ground floor... they then blocked the door with a heavy metal safe and conducted an unauthorised meeting, during which they waved the national bolsheviks party flag and placards, threw anti-[putin] leaflets out [of windows] and issued an unlawful ultimatum by calling for the president’s resignation, thereby destabilising the normal functioning of the president’s administration and preventing its reception personnel from performing their service duties, namely ... reception of members of the public and examination of applications from citizens of the russian federation ... while performing the above disorderly acts [the defendants] ... destroyed and damaged property in the offices of the reception area of the president’s administration building ...” 23.  given that the defendants had voluntary compensated the pecuniary damage caused by their actions and taking into account their positive references, the court sentenced the majority of them to various terms of imprisonment (ranging from one year and six months to three years) conditional on two or three years’ probation.the court found that those defendants could not be released on probation, taking into account their active role in the commission of the offence, negative references and the fact that some of them had been earlier charged with administrative or criminal offences which however did not result in convictions.they also submitted that when determining the sentences the trial court had unlawfully taken into account the defendants’ respective roles in the commission of the imputed offence, given that the charges brought against them were identically phrased and that the role and actions of each defendant had not been detailed.25.  on 29 march 2006 the moscow city court upheld the conviction on appeal, finding that the charges had been brought in accordance with the procedure provided by law and the defence rights had been respected.
11.  immediately after the verdict, at the exit from the courtroom, the journalists reporting on the case for, among others, france bleu, rtl and the midi libre put questions to the parties’ lawyers, and in particular to the applicant.with a white – all-white – jury on which not all communities are represented, combined with, let’s face it, a very weak prosecution and a trial that was conducted in an extremely biased fashion, the door was wide open for an acquittal, it’s no surprise.” 14.  these last remarks were the subject of a letter from the principal public prosecutor at the montpellier court of appeal, dated 6 october 2009, to the chairman of the montpellier bar, seeking the latter’s opinion “in view of the outcry caused by this statement in judicial circles in nîmes”.15.  on 1 december 2009, after the chairman of the bar had found that the applicant’s remarks were not offensive and did not go beyond the bounds of free criticism of a court decision, the principal public prosecutor informed him of his decision to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the applicant under article 188 of the decree of 27 november 1991 on the organisation of the legal profession (see paragraph 29 above).he highlighted the length of the investigation, the fact that the gendarme had not been held in pre-trial detention and the disjoinder of the proceedings for false testimony concerning members of the gendarmerie patrol present on the day of the events, as well as the tensions during the five days of the hearing before the assize court.however, the rapporteur was able to hear evidence from one of the lawyers for the acquitted gendarme, mr n.-p. the latter confirmed the atmosphere of heightened pressure and tension throughout the trial, which had also been experienced by the lawyers of the civil parties.20.  on 2 april 2010 the applicant was summoned to appear before the disciplinary board on the basis of article 183 of the above-mentioned decree of 27 november 1991 (see paragraph 29 below), “for having, in the public lobby outside the courtroom of the nîmes court of appeal, seriously breached the essential ethical principles of the legal profession, and specifically those of discretion and moderation, by publicly making the following comments accusing the court and jury of racist and xenophobic bias”.with a white – all-white – jury on which not all communities are represented ..., the door was wide open for an acquittal, it’s no surprise.” 21.  the disciplinary board of the bar associations attached to the montpellier court of appeal, sitting in plenary session, held its hearing on 21 may 2010. reiterating his statements, the applicant relied in particular on article 10 of the convention, arguing that his remarks had been made in the context of the defence of his client’s interests as a civil party and within the ten-day period during which the principal public prosecutor could appeal against the acquittal.the disciplinary board stressed that the statements had been devoid of personal animosity and had reflected “ideas, opinions and information apt to contribute to a discussion or debate of public interest ... as part of a broader commentary on the decision of the assize court ...”; this came “within the scope of protection of the right to freedom of expression under article 10 of the convention”.24.  in his pleadings before the court of appeal the applicant argued that his remarks had been directed at the jury rather than at the reputation, integrity and intellectual honesty of its members (who, moreover, had not brought any proceedings against him), based on the sociologically indisputable fact that the jury did not represent the diversity of the entire national community although its decision necessarily involved an element of subjectivity.it found as follows: “outside the courtroom, lawyers are not protected by immunity [of judicial speech] and the appropriate degree of their freedom of speech is no longer assessed in relation to the requirements of the exercise of the rights of the defence, but only in relation to freedom of expression.” the court of appeal noted that the statements had been made in public, inside the court building, but before the press and not in the course of judicial proceedings; at that juncture, the verdict had been known and the hearing was over.the court further found as follows: “as the members of the jury form part of the assize court, composed of three professional judges and nine lay jurors, this amounts to discrediting the entire court and consequently the judiciary itself, by disregarding the other three members of the assize court and especially the collegial spirit whose very purpose is to avoid bias and afford enhanced procedural guarantees.” in the court of appeal’s view, the remarks did not form part of the exercise of the rights of the defence, in the absence of any mention of the possibilities of appeal against the decision of the assize court.in addition to the defence arguments already presented before the disciplinary body and the court of appeal, he argued that the latter had wrongly held that the statement had targeted the judiciary and the entire assize court, as the words “... combined with – let’s face it – a very weak prosecution and a trial that was conducted in an extremely biased fashion ...” had not been mentioned in the indictment (see paragraphs 13 and 20 above).among those debates he mentioned the courts’ treatment of police officers implicated in criminal proceedings, stating as follows: “we need only recall the judicial ramifications of two cases that caused a sensation and attracted widespread media coverage at the time of the proceedings resulting in the acquittal of gendarme c: [after] the pursuit and death of zyed b and bouna t in 2005 [triggered riots for weeks, the decision of the paris court of appeal on 27 april 2011 to dismiss the case revived the debate], and the death of ali z in 2009. following those events, in a report published on 2 april 2009, amnesty international expressed concern about an increase in police violence and a lack of judicial action against the perpetrators.in addition to the ‘low rate of prosecution of alleged perpetrators’, according to the non-governmental organisation, there was a certain ‘laxity’ in the sentences imposed, leading to real impunity for the offences.” 28.  in a judgment of 5 april 2012 the court of cassation dismissed the applicant’s appeal in the following terms: “firstly, the complaint alleging that the disciplinary body exceeded the scope of its jurisdiction is inadmissible for failure to produce the indictment.secondly, having stated explicitly that, outside the courtroom, lawyers were not protected by the immunity conferred by section 41 of the law of 29 july 1881, the court of appeal found that the impugned remarks had racial connotations casting aspersions and suspicion on the integrity of the jurors and thus amounted to a breach of the duties of moderation and discretion.
he is the chairman and one of the co-founders of the election monitoring and democracy studies centre (seçkilərin monitorinqi və demokratiyanın tədrisi mərkəzi − “the centre”), a non-governmental organisation specialising in the monitoring of elections.he was also the chairman and one of the co-founders of the election monitoring centre (seçkilərin monitorinqi mərkəzi), a non‑governmental organisation specialising in the monitoring of elections which was established on 19 february 2006. following numerous attempts to acquire status as a legal entity under domestic law, the election monitoring centre was finally registered by the ministry of justice on 1 february 2008. however, a few months later, in may 2008, the domestic courts ordered its dissolution at the request of the same ministry.9.  following the dissolution of the election monitoring centre, on 1 december 2008 the applicant and some of his colleagues founded the centre (see paragraph 7 above), which has made several unsuccessful attempts to obtain state registration through applications to the ministry of justice.the prosecutor justified his request by citing the gravity of the charges against the applicant, the fact that he did not live at the address where he was officially registered as a resident, and that there was a risk of his absconding from the investigation and obstructing the investigation’s functioning by influencing other participants in the criminal proceedings.16.  on 16 december 2013 the nasimi district court, relying on the official charges brought against the applicant and the prosecutor’s request, ordered the applicant’s detention for a period of three months.the court cited the gravity of the charges and the risk of re-offending and justified its decision as follows: “after having examined the request with the material of the case file and having heard the submissions of the investigator and the prosecutor in favour of the request and the submissions of the accused and his representative against the request, the court considers that the request should be granted.moreover, he was unable to obstruct the functioning of the investigation as all the documents relating to his activities had been in the possession of the investigation since the search of the centre’s office on 31 october 2013.the appellate court was silent as to the applicant’s above-mentioned specific complaints and confined itself to noting that the applicant’s personal situation ‒ that he had a permanent place of residence, that he was married, that his family was financially dependent on him, and that he had a good reputation ‒ did not constitute grounds for lifting the detention pending trial.23.  following a request dated 4 march 2014 from the prosecutor general’s office for an extension of the period of the applicant’s pre-trial detention, on 6 march 2014 the nasimi district court extended the applicant’s detention pending trial by three months, until 16 june 2014. the court justified its decision by citing the complexity of the case and the fact that a number of investigative steps still needed to be carried out, meaning that more time was needed to complete the investigation.25.  on 14 march 2014 the baku court of appeal dismissed the appeal, upholding the nasimi district court’s decision of 6 march 2014. the appellate court provided the same reasoning as the first-instance court.26.  on 19 march 2014 the prosecutor general’s office charged the applicant under articles 179.3.2 (high-level embezzlement) and 313 (forgery in public office) of the criminal code, in addition to the original charges under articles 192.2.2, 213.1 and 308.2 of the criminal code.the description of the allegations against him was slightly expanded, but essentially remained the same as that given on 16 december 2013 (see paragraph 14 above), with additional information alleging that the applicant had falsified various pieces of paperwork and minor contracts for services provided by a number of individuals (presumably in connection with various grant projects) and had not paid them in full as stipulated in the contracts.the court substantiated its decision by citing the gravity of the criminal charges against the applicant and the risk of his absconding from the investigation and obstructing its functioning.36.  on 20 december 2013 the monitoring committee co-rapporteurs for azerbaijan of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe (pace) expressed their concern about the arrest and pre-trial detention of the applicant.37.  on 9 may 2014 maina kiai, un special rapporteur on the rights to freedom of peaceful assembly and of association, and margaret sekaggya, un special rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders, condemned the arrest and criminal prosecution of the applicant.
6.  on 26 january 2007, 11 february 2007 and 7 march 2007, greek helsinki monitor published on its website some press releases, in which, inter alia, it welcomed the concluding observations of the un committee on the elimination of discrimination against women (cedaw) for greece and criticised the domestic authorities’ responses to them.was requested to provide a statement as a suspect in the case, on 10 january 2008 the public prosecutor at the athens court of first instance dismissed the applicant’s criminal complaint and filed (αρχειοθέτησε) it away, in accordance with article 47 of the code of criminal procedure.in particular, the prosecutor considered that the above-mentioned statements made within the context of the interview, did not constitute facts but value judgments and in any event, they did not overcome the necessary threshold of similar exchanges between various bodies.10.  on 6 february 2008, following an appeal by the applicant against the order by which his criminal complaint was filed away, the public prosecutor at the athens court of appeal ordered e.t.’s criminal prosecution for slander made through the press, considering that the above-mentioned statements were susceptible of harming the applicant’s honour and reputation, not only individually, but also as representative of greek helsinki monitor.12.  the new hearing date before the three-member athens magistrates’ court was set for 18 september 2008. on that date, at the beginning of the hearing of the case, e.t.53833/08 published on the same date, the said court declared itself not to have competence and referred the case to the three-member athens court of appeal for misdemeanours (hereafter the “court of appeal”).on 28 november 2008 the operative part of the judgment was corrected and on 6 april 2009, the case file was transmitted to the prosecution service at the athens court of appeal, marked as extremely urgent.had been elected as a deputy in the parliamentary elections of 4 october 2009. on that basis, he applied to the court to have the proceedings suspended in accordance with article 62 of the constitution in order for parliament to give permission.until the greek parliament had granted leave and, if such leave were not granted or if no action were taken in the three‑month period from the submission of the prosecutor’s request to the greek parliament, until her status as a parliamentarian ended.in respect of article 62 of the constitution and the applicant’s objection, the domestic court held the following: “... in addition, since parliament has not granted leave, the prosecution is declared inadmissible if it concerns an offence committed when the defendant was a member of parliament.if, however, criminal proceedings were initiated prior to that, when the defendant was not a member of parliament, then they are suspended until the said leave is granted or until the defendant’s status as a parliamentarian ends ... it should be noted that in the present case no matter arises concerning the interpretation of articles 61, 62 and 20 § 1 of the constitution ... and of article 6 § 1 of the convention, so as for the court to rule that parliament’s leave is not required to conduct this trial because the above-mentioned act did not take place, according to the civil claimant’s allegations, in the context of her parliamentary duties.that is because the prosecutable offence (slander for an interview that the defendant gave to a newspaper in her capacity as general secretary for gender equality of the ministry of interior, public administration and decentralisation) clearly does not concern a private dispute; it should be examined if it relates and is linked to the political activity of the defendant-deputy and in general to the exercise of her parliamentary duties.however, examination of this matter and, eventually, any conclusion thereof can only be carried out by the competent authority, the greek parliament ...” 16.  the decision was published on the date of the hearing, that is to say 17 february 2010, and was finalised (i.e. entered in a special book at the registry of the criminal court) on 10 august 2010. on 13 august 2010 the applicant lodged an application with the public prosecutor of the court of cassation requesting an examination of points of law of the said judgment.on 19 august 2010 the case file was transferred to the public prosecutor of the court of cassation, who the next day sent it to the minister of justice.on 1 march 2011 the public prosecutor at the court of cassation notified the public prosecutor at the court of appeal of the outcome of parliament’s vote on granting leave.
6.  until september 2004 the applicant was detained in the cherkassy pre-trial detention centre (“the cherkassy sizo”) in which, he stated, cells had been overcrowded and had lacked basic amenities.mr guk’s application has already been examined by the court, which found, in particular, a violation of article 3 of the convention on account of the conditions of his detention in the above colony (see guk v. ukraine [committee], no.9.  according to the applicant, during his stay in the colony he was held in a cell, in which the living space was “extremely insufficient”.heating in the cell was inadequate; the air was damp and cold; the walls were covered with mould.(b)  submissions by the government 11.  according to the government, the equipment in the applicant’s cell corresponded to the domestic standards.the quality of the tap water corresponded to the standards.the temperature in the cell was not less than 18 degrees celsius and the air in the cell was neither damp nor cold.12.  according to the applicant, the washing unit in the colony had no changing facilities, so the prisoners had first to undress in their cells.13.  whenever the guards opened the cell, the prisoners had to retreat to its far corner, squat and put their arms behind their heads.when taken out of the cell, the applicant was handcuffed; he was required to walk in a squat or some other unnatural position; his head was covered with a black bag; handcuffs were not disinfected.15.  in support of the above submissions, the applicant referred to the written statement of mr guk, which confirmed the procedure the prisoners had had to follow when the guards had opened the cell.it also stated that, when taken out of the cell, the prisoners had been handcuffed and escorted in a crouched position; a bag had often been put over a prisoner’s head.16.  the applicant also stated that the administration had carried out searches of personal belongings, leaving them in disorder and often damaged; his watch had been stolen by an unidentified guard.(b)  submissions by the government 17.  the government stated that the washing unit had a changing room.when escorted out of the cell, they were handcuffed, but not required to walk in a squat or with the head covered with a bag; handcuffs were in a proper condition and their disinfection was not required.
article i of its transitional provisions, as in force at the material time, also provided that persons who on the date of the entry into force of the transitional provisions of the law were members of the already existing bar association or who had a special permit to provide paid legal services had the right to be founding members of the aba, without having to pass a qualification examination, subject to their complying with the requirements in respect of candidates for admission to practice as legal counsel (see paragraph 35 below).9.  in november 2004 the constituent assembly of the aba was held on the basis of the provisions of the law, with the participation of members of the former bar association and lawyers holding a special permit.10.  in the meantime, on 14 june 2005 new amendments to the transitional provisions of the law were adopted providing for admission to the aba of all lawyers holding a special permit, including those whose right to be founding members of the aba had not been recognised, without passing a qualification examination, subject to their complying with the requirements in respect of candidates for admission to practice as legal counsel (see paragraph 36 below).– that the president of the aba (a.t.) declared the meeting open and then the members of the presidium questioned the first applicant about his stance on the functioning of the aba, before dismissing his application.one minute later the decision of the presidium of the aba rejecting annagi hajibeyli’s application for admission to that organ was declared.” 13.  on an unspecified date in 2005 the second applicant applied for admission to the aba, relying on the amendments to the law of 14 june 2005.the relevant parts of the transcript of the meeting, which is three pages long, read as follows: “after giving the information about intigam aliyev [the second applicant] to the members of the presidium, a.t. gives the floor to them for questions.[the second applicant]: firstly, my colleagues and i did not question before the courts the lawfulness of the aba, but rather sought the invalidation of its constituent assembly, which was held in blatant breach of the requirements of the law.by a unanimous decision of the members of the presidium of the aba the admission of intigam aliyev to the aba is refused.” 15.  on 21 february 2006 the first applicant brought an action in the nasimi district court alleging that the presidium’s decision of 27 january 2006 had been unlawful.it appears from the transcript of the nasimi district court’s hearing held on 7 february 2007, which was submitted to the court by the first applicant, that the representative of the aba at the hearing, i.k., stated, in reply to the first applicant’s question concerning the grounds for the presidium’s decision of 27 january 2006, that the first applicant’s replies to the questions and his previous statements had justified the decision of the presidium’s members.the court held that the first applicant’s complaint should be dismissed because admission to the aba was a matter which fell within the exclusive competence of the members of the presidium and there had been no breach of law in the examination of the first applicant’s request by the presidium.the relevant part of the judgment reads as follows: “it was established in the course of the court investigation that, while he disputed the decision of the presidium, a. hajibeyli [the first applicant] did not challenge the legality of that decision, but rather its motives.article 1 (iii) of the law on advocates and advocacy activity of the republic of azerbaijan provides that the prohibition of any interference with or pressure on the professional activity of legal counsels and their [professional] association by the prosecutor’s office, court, other state bodies, public associations, [or] any company, entity, organisation or official constitutes the basis of the legal profession.therefore, given that the issue addressed by a. hajibeyli in his application falls within the exclusive competence of the members of the presidium and is subject to their consideration and will, any interference with that issue is not allowed by law.” 18.  on 16 march 2007 the first applicant appealed against that judgment, alleging a violation of his rights, as protected under articles 6, 10, 11 and 14 of the convention and article 1 of protocol no.it further appears from the transcript of the court of appeal’s hearing held on 6 june 2007, which was submitted to the court by the first applicant, that the representative of the aba, i.k., again stated at the hearing that the members of the presidium had considered that the first applicant should not be admitted to the aba because of his stance on the functioning of the aba.it appears from the documents in the case file that in the course of the proceedings before the first-instance court the second applicant and the aba lodged various requests and applications, which were dismissed by the court.
submitting that article 197a of the criminal code had been amended in order to implement the directive, the applicant argued that the notion of the facilitation of unauthorised “residence” within the meaning of article 197a § 2 should be understood as entailing a long-term stay, to be distinguished from “transit” or “entry” as defined in the first paragraph of article 197a, which had been added to article 197a when the directive was implemented.12.  in his advisory opinion of 10 december 2013, the advocate general (advocaat-generaal) to the supreme court expressed his view that the applicant’s appeal should be dismissed with the exception of the first of the grounds of the appeal, which pertained to the length of the proceedings: the duration of the cassation proceedings had exceeded a reasonable time within the meaning of article 6 § 1 of the convention, for which a reduction of sentence was to be applied.with regard to the applicant’s complaint that the evidence did not show that there had been any “residence” of the migrants in the countries at issue, the advocate general was of the opinion that article 197a § 2 of the criminal code called for a broad interpretation of “residence”, as had been the case prior to the implementation of the directive and the framework decision.13.  on 24 december 2013, the applicant submitted written comments in reply to the advocate general’s advisory opinion (a so-called “borgers letter”[1]) in which he made a tentative request for questions to be referred to the cjeu for a preliminary ruling about the interpretation of “residence”, “entry” and “transit” within the context of the directive and whether the directive contained minimum rules or constituted a general framework of terms, if the supreme court were to concur with the advocate general.based on section 81 (1) of the judiciary (organisation) act (wet op de rechterlijke organisatie), this requires no further reasoning as the grievances do not give rise to the need for a determination of legal issues in the interests of legal uniformity or legal development.” 16.  the supreme court thus quashed the court of appeal’s judgment as regards the imposed sentence, reduced the sentence to 34 months’ imprisonment, and dismissed the remainder of the grounds of appeal.section 81 of the judiciary (organisation) act enables the supreme court to limit the reasoning of the rejection of a cassation grievance to the finding that the complaint raised therein “does not constitute grounds for overturning the impugned judgment and does not give rise to the need to determine legal issues in the interests of legal uniformity and legal development”.the appeal may, for instance, be manifestly ill-founded (klaarblijkelijke ongegrondheid), because the impugned ruling rests on two grounds, each of which is capable of supporting the decision by itself but only one of which is challenged, or there may be a lack of interest, for example because a ground for the appeal, although well-founded, cannot, after the overturning of the impugned ruling, lead to an outcome other than the one to which that ruling had led.’ ... 2.2.2.  section 80a of the judiciary (organisation) act does, however, bring about a change in cases in which an omission hitherto necessitated the overturning of the impugned ruling, even though the person bringing the cassation appeal did not actually have a sufficient interest − deserving to be respected in law (niet voldoende in rechte te respecteren belang) − in such an overturning and a possible rehearing after remittal or referral of the case.... consequences for the content of the statement of grounds of appeal in cassation and the ‘borgers letter’ 2.6.1.  pursuant to the second paragraph of section 80a of the judiciary (organisation) act the supreme court will not issue a decision of the kind referred to in the first paragraph without first having taken cognisance of the written statement of grounds of appeal in cassation ... if the ‘selection at the gate’ (selectie aan de poort) which the legislature has introduced by way of section 80a of the judiciary (organisation) act is to achieve its intended aim, then the lawyer who acts as legal representative, or the public prosecution service as the case may be, can reasonably be expected – in the words of the explanatory memorandum – to submit ‘statements of grounds of appeal ... that are of decent quality’.it must be presumed that the procurator general will express his point of view as to the applicability of section 80a of the judiciary (organisation) act on a hearing day set by the judge in charge of the supreme court’s list of cases (rolraadsheer) and also that if the procurator general is of the opinion that the case lends itself to the application of section 80a of the judiciary (organisation) act, he will express this point of view in writing.the judgment also implies that the case in question concerns one of the situations where there is no need for such referral of preliminary questions, namely when the preliminary question raised is not relevant for the resolution of the dispute or can be answered in the light of the case-law of the court of justice [of the european union] or that no reasonable doubt exists as to the manner in which the question concerning the rules of community law was to be resolved.” 21.  article 267 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (“tfeu”)[2] provides as follows: “the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to give preliminary rulings concerning: (a)  the interpretation of the treaties; (b)  the validity and interpretation of acts of the institutions, bodies, offices or agencies of the union ...; where such a question is raised before any court or tribunal of a member state, that court or tribunal may, if it considers that a decision on the question is necessary to enable it to give judgment, request the court to give a ruling thereon.the jurisdiction of the court to give a preliminary ruling on the interpretation or validity of eu law is exercised exclusively on the initiative of the national courts and tribunals, whether or not the parties to the main proceedings have expressed the wish that a question be referred to the court.in so far as it is called upon to assume responsibility for the subsequent judicial decision, it is for the national court or tribunal before which a dispute has been brought – and for that court or tribunal alone – to determine, in the light of the particular circumstances of each case, both the need for a request for a preliminary ruling in order to enable it to deliver judgment and the relevance of the questions which it submits to the court.” relevant case-law of the cjeu 23.  in the case of s.r.l.it concluded that they were not obliged to refer a question of interpretation of community law raised before them in the following situations: (1) where the question was not relevant, in the sense that the answer to the question, regardless of what it might be, could in no way affect the outcome of the case; (2) where the question was materially identical to a question which had already been the subject of a preliminary ruling in a similar case, or where previous decisions of the court had already dealt with the point of law in question, irrespective of the nature of the proceedings which led to those decisions, even though the questions at issue were not strictly identical; or (3) where the correct application of community law was so obvious as to leave no scope for any reasonable doubt as to the manner in which the question raised was to be resolved (bearing in mind that before it came to this conclusion the national court or tribunal had to be convinced that the matter was equally obvious to the courts of the other member states and to the court of justice, and only if those conditions were satisfied could the national court or tribunal refrain from submitting the question to the court of justice and take upon itself the responsibility for resolving it).26.  the judgment then concluded as follows (point 21): “... the third paragraph of article [267] of the [treaty on the functioning of the european union] is to be interpreted as meaning that a court or tribunal against whose decisions there is no judicial remedy under national law is required, where a question of community law is raised before it, to comply with its obligation to bring the matter before the court [of justice], unless it has established that the question raised is irrelevant or that the community provision in question has already been interpreted by the court or that the correct application of community law is so obvious as to leave no scope for any reasonable doubt.the existence of such a possibility must be assessed in the light of the specific characteristics of community law, the particular difficulties to which its interpretation gives rise and the risk of divergences in judicial decisions within the community.” 27.  in the case of györgy katz v. istván roland sós (c-404/07, ecli:eu:c:2008:553), the cjeu delivered its judgment on 9 october 2008 which, as far as relevant to the present case, reads: “37.
she was informed that property rights to land that had been an urban area were to be restored by: giving plots of land to the citizens who had buildings on those plots – the maximum plot size was limited to a 0.2 hectares; giving plots of land in cities and rural areas where a citizen did not have land, except for the cities of vilnius, kaunas, klaipėda, šiauliai, panevėžys, alytus, marijampolė, druskininkai, palanga, birštonas and neringa; legally voiding a citizen’s liabilities to the state; and paying compensation in securities.13.  in september 2007 the authorities informed the applicant that they had addressed the kaunas municipality regarding vacant plots of land in the area where her father had had the land, and had been told that the restitution process had to be carried out in accordance with the detailed plan for restitution approved in 1991.16.  in august 2009 the applicant wrote a letter to the authorities and stated that, in accordance with the constitution, not only did she have a right to receive fair compensation for the land, but a vacant plot of land situated in the same area where her father’s land had been had to be returned to her.25.  in november 2014 the authorities informed the applicant that as of 1 november 2014, article 21 § 4 of the law on restitution provided that a citizen who had already asked for his or her property rights to a plot of land to be restored could, by 1 march 2015, express or change his or her wish regarding the form in which the ownership rights to the real property were to be restored, and choose a plot of forest of equal value, provided that a final decision on restitution had not been taken or, if taken, had not yet been executed or had been executed in part.she asked the court to oblige the authorities to restore her property rights within one month of the court decision becoming final, or to pay her fair monetary compensation, calculated in accordance with the land value map for 2013. the applicant also stated that she had sustained pecuniary damage in the amount of ltl 3,616,598 (approximately eur 1,047,439), but she was not asking for any award in this respect.34.  the applicant appealed and also asked to be awarded compensation in respect of pecuniary damage amounting to eur 1,047,439. on 24 july 2014 the supreme administrative court held that the first-instance court had been obliged to examine the applicant’s request to have her property rights restored, but it had not examined all the documents submitted.the court further referred to the administrative proceedings regarding the applicant’s alleged inability to use one plot of land that had been returned to her (see paragraphs 26-28 above), and the civil proceedings regarding the sale of the plot of land of 0.0498 hectares to r.n., started by the national land service (see paragraphs 29-31 above).the court decided that, in the applicant’s case, the authorities had carried out their functions by: sending information about the methods by which the applicant’s rights could be restored; providing information about vacant land; and asking the applicant to express her choice as to the method of restitution.the court held that the authorities could only choose the method of restitution for a citizen if he or she had not expressed his or her decision before 1 april 2003. in the applicant’s situation, the national land service had not issued any decision within the required six-month time-limit, and thus the applicant had a right to receive compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damage.in 2003 she had asked for compensation “in a convertible currency at world market prices” (see paragraph 11 above); in 2009 she had asked for compensation at market prices in accordance with the land value map for 2009 (see paragraph 16 above); in 2010 she had asked for compensation at market prices plus 15% interest (see paragraphs 19 and 22 above); and in 2015 she had stated that her choice as to the method of restitution had been expressed in 1991, and she was not going to change her mind (see paragraph 37 below).in june 2009 the authorities had indicated the method by which the compensation would be calculated and had stated that the value of the 2.5469 hectares of land which had to be restored to the applicant would be ltl 20,167 (approximately eur 5,841) if the applicant preferred to acquire the land in another area, and ltl 32,267 (approximately eur 9,345) if she preferred compensation in securities (see paragraph 16 above).two plots of land had been returned to the applicant in natura in 2009. in 2010 the kaunas land reform division had asked the kaunas municipal administration to additionally examine whether there was vacant land in the area where the applicant’s father had owned land before 1940, but it had been established that there was no more vacant land.41.  the applicant lodged a claim with the domestic court, asking it to annul the decision of the national land service of 6 december 2016 by which her property rights to 2.5469 hectares of land had been restored and it had been decided that she would receive monetary compensation of eur 9,359 (see paragraph 39 above).the value of the land had been calculated in accordance with the method approved by the government (see paragraph 52 below), and the amount calculated for the applicant had been in accordance with that method.43.  in october 2017 the authorities asked the applicant to provide them with her account number so they could pay her the monetary compensation of eur 9,359. in the event that the applicant failed to do that, the monetary compensation would be transferred to a notary’s deposit account.
at the time of the events giving rise to the present application, he was the owner and editor-in-chief of a publishing house, aram basım ve yayıncılık.the authors of the memoirs described their lives in the pkk camps, in rural areas in both turkey and iraq, armed clashes with the turkish security forces, and their ideology and opinions regarding the situation in turkey.on 30 september 2003 he asked that court to order the seizure of copies of the book on the grounds that certain passages on pages 7, 19, 23, 81, 106‑114, 139, 147, 152, 157-177, 203, 273, 277, 317, 321 contained propaganda in favour of the pkk.9.  on the same day a single judge at the istanbul state security court made an interim order for the seizure of copies of the book.the judge considered that the passages referred to by the public prosecutor incited the use of methods of violence and terror, and thus constituted propaganda in favour of the pkk.10.  on 14 october 2003 the istanbul public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul state security court, charging the applicant with disseminating propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no.12.  on 7 october 2004 the court of cassation quashed the first-instance judgment holding that the first-instance court should consider the provisions of the new press act (law no.13.  on 22 july 2005 the istanbul assize court held that it did not have jurisdiction over the case and sent the file to the beyoğlu criminal court.15.  on 19 october 2006 the court of cassation decided that the istanbul assize court had jurisdiction over the case and sent the case file to that court.in its judgment, the court held: “on the basis of the examination of the book in its entirety, it has been observed that the book depicts the activities of members of the pkk-kadek, the terrorist organisation, and their so-called impressions of the clashes between them and members of the security forces.the preface to the book contains the following: ‘our president apo[2] states that the outcome of the war is very valuable ... while the history written and life created by bullets drip off pens, guerrillas go beyond the faraway corners of our land with their bags on the backs and their weapons in their hands ... we smile with a picture of war and, with a song, we add new [people] to those who have left us ...’ on page 160, it is stated: ‘we had to change the anatolian people’s army for emancipation in accordance with the needs of the anatolian people.our president [abdullah öcalan] stated that he knew the people of the black sea, and advised us to raise consciousness through our attitudes and actions first, and then to tell them that we were pkk members, after they trusted us ...’ on pages 106 and 107, it is stated: ‘... i shared my joy with them by saying “friends, four vehicles belonging to the enemy were destroyed.i had only one wish: engaging in a clash and getting in a good shot with my weapon, which i had not used, although i had had it with me for long time.’ ‘... [he asked] “my friend, is this your first [armed] clash?” i said “yes.” “[armed] clashes are nice, aren’t they?” “yes, they are.”‘” 17.  the istanbul assize court considered that the above-mentioned passages and certain other passages on pages 19, 21, 81, 105, 108, 110, 113, 114, 134, 135, 139, 147, 163, 189, 197, 203, 273, 274, 277, 317 and 321 praised the armed clashes between pkk militants and the security forces, and those militants’ acts.according to the assize court, the publisher had not aimed to publish a book of memoirs, but had had the intention of disseminating propaganda inciting the terrorist organisation and its militants to violence or other methods of terrorism.the court of cassation quashed the judgment of 29 june 2007 on the ground that a pre-payment notice had not been served on the applicant in accordance with section 7(2) of law no.
5.  the applicants are russian nationals who were born in 1952 and 1954 respectively and live in the town of belomorsk in the republic of karelia.7.  on 18 january 2006 ms l., an investigator of the primorskiy district prosecutor’s office in st petersburg, asked the head of the primorskiy district police to identify relatives of the deceased; to establish their place of residence and to summon them to the prosecutor’s office for the purpose of granting them victim status in the criminal case.9.  on 30 january 2006 the investigator, having concluded that it was impossible to identify relatives of the deceased, assigned the status of victim in the criminal case to a representative of the municipal authorities.10.  on 2 february 2006 the applicants contacted ms l. and informed her of their intention to come to st petersburg to take part in the criminal proceedings.11.  despite that notification by the applicants, five days later ms l. sent the criminal case file to the primorskiy district court for trial.12.  sometime later the applicants were invited to take part in the criminal proceedings in the capacity of victims.14.  on 6 june 2006 the primorskiy district court found mr o. guilty of having murdered the applicants’ son and sentenced him to six years’ imprisonment.15.  on the same day, responding to the applicants’ complaints about the authorities’ failure to notify them of their son’s death, the district court issued an interim decision (частное постановление) in respect of the investigator, ms l. the decision, sent to the primorskiy district prosecutor, in so far as relevant, reads as follows: “moreover, the [finding] that the investigator, ms l., did not take sufficient steps to find relatives of the deceased and that measures undertaken [by her] were formalistic in character is not only confirmed by the fact that the decision assigning victim status to [a representative of the municipal authority] had been taken before the information was received from the police officials, but also by the fact that the criminal case-file material contained sufficient information about [the applicants’ son] on the basis of which it was possible to establish the place of residence of his relatives ([there was] an explanation from mr o. made on 1 december 2005, in which he had given information about the place of residence of [the applicants’ son]; a statement made by mr o. on 8 december 2005 in which he said that a criminal case against [the applicants’ son] was pending before a court; statements by a witness, ms a., who asserted that [the deceased’s] mother had occasionally made telephone calls to [the deceased’s] flat; a certificate on [the deceased’s] criminal record from which it is apparent that the primorskiy district prosecutor’s office of st petersburg applied a measure of restraint in the form of a written undertaking in respect of [the applicants’ son] in criminal case no.137755; the material in the above-mentioned criminal case file contains a copy of [the applicants’ son’s] passport; and so forth).it follows that the victims’ rights envisaged by the law in force were substantially violated in the course of the preliminary investigation.relying on article 29 § 4 of the russian code of criminal procedure, [the court] rules: -          that the violations of criminal procedural law committed during the preliminary investigation in the criminal case should be brought to the attention of the primorskiy district prosecutor in st petersburg; -          that the primorskiy district court of st petersburg should be informed of the measures taken no later than a month after receipt of the present decision.” 16.  in 2007 the applicants lodged an action against the prosecutor general’s office and the ministry of finance, seeking compensation for pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage.relying on the primorskiy district court’s interim decision of 6 june 2006, the applicants argued that as a result of the investigator’s failure to promptly notify them of their son’s death, they had sustained pecuniary damage, having been forced to pay for the exhumation and transport of their son’s remains from st petersburg to belomorsk.in addition, they had suffered non-pecuniary damage as they had been unaware of their son’s whereabouts for a long time and had been forced to initiate a search for him; they had been unable to properly say “goodbye” to their son and to provide him with a decent burial; they had been forced to go through a two-week bureaucratic procedure to obtain permission to exhume their son’s remains; and subsequently, after the exhumation, they had been forced to identify his disfigured remains.17.  on 5 february 2008 the tverskoy district court of moscow dismissed the claim, having found that the investigator had not committed any unlawful actions and there had been no final decision by any domestic court establishing otherwise.18.  on 20 may 2008 the moscow city court upheld the judgment, endorsing the district court’s reasoning.
and st., were arrested on suspicion of robbing and killing m. 7.  according to the applicant, he was apprehended by the police task force at about 10 a.m. on 22 august 2004 in the apartment of his girlfriend and taken to the police station, where he was beaten up and threatened in an attempt to force him to confess to the robbery and murder of m. 8.  the case file contains two arrest warrants – one issued by a police officer and another one by the prosecutor investigating the murder (hereinafter “the investigator”), both indicating that the applicant had been arrested by the above-mentioned officials on 22 august 2004 at 6.30 p.m. at their offices.the lower part of the last page of the record contains a printed statement (“довідка”) that was added later (it was dated 2007); this additional statement is signed by the investigator only and asserts that the applicant’s relatives were informed of his arrest.10.  at about 4 p.m. on 22 august 2004, according to the applicant, and from 9 until 10 a.m. on that day, according to the official record, the applicant was questioned as a suspect by the investigator in the presence of b., a lawyer.during the questioning, the applicant provided details regarding the robbery and admitted that he had hit m. in the head with a bat during the robbery but that he had done so instinctively, in self-defence.11.  later that day, from 8 until 8.30 p.m., the applicant took part in a videotaped reconstruction of the crime in the presence of a forensic expert, an investigator from the local police, two attesting witnesses and the investigator in the case.12.  during the reconstruction, which commenced near the place where the bat used for the murder had been hidden, the applicant pointed to the exact place where the bat was; the bat was then uncovered and retained as evidence.he furthermore participated, still unrepresented, in a videotaped reconstruction of the crime during which he stated, inter alia, that he had seen the applicant with a bat in his hands but had not seen who had murdered m. 14.  on 23 august 2004 the investigator appointed b. to represent the applicant, and st., and admitted him to the proceedings.on the same date s. contacted the prosecutor, who allowed s. to represent the applicant instead of b. the applicant furthermore made a written statement declaring that he was refusing the services of b. and wanted s. to act as his lawyer.18.  on 14 october 2004 the video recording of the reconstruction of the crime of 23 august 2004 was played to the applicant in the presence of s. the applicant retracted his earlier confession and explained that he had only given it because he had been threatened and beaten up by the police on 22 august 2004.25.  the court based the applicant’s conviction, among other evidence, on the confessions he had made during his questioning by the investigator on 22 august 2004, the reconstructions of the crime on 22 and 23 august 2004, the statements of his co-defendants that they had seen him with a bat in m.’s house, and physical evidence, including an expert’s report suggesting that the traces of blood found on the bat (the location of which had been pointed out by the applicant during the reconstruction of the crime on 22 august 2004) could have belonged to m. 26.  by the same judgment, the court rejected as unsubstantiated the applicant’s submissions that he had made his self-incriminating statements under duress, referring to the results of the medical examination of 8 october 2004 (see paragraph 17 above) and the prosecutors’ decision of 19 january 2005 (see paragraph 20 above).the court also suggested, without giving details, that there had been some technical errors in the procedural documents, in particular as regards the time of the applicant’s arrest and questioning, but that they did not affect the fairness of the respective investigative actions.28.  the court refuted the applicant’s allegation that the bat retained as evidence had been switched with another (see paragraph 22 above), noting that the disparity in the bat’s description by the experts and the prosecutor could have been explained by the fact that the latter was colour blind.he further stated that he had not been assisted by any lawyer when he had been forced to confess during the crime reconstruction of 22 august 2004. he also complained about the fact that b. had represented him and his co-accused st. at the same time (see paragraph 13 above) – a conflict of interest (as there had been important discrepancies in their respective statements) that should have prevented him from being allowed to do so.31.  the supreme court found that the applicant’s guilt was proved, inter alia, by the statements he had made during his questioning of 22 august 2004 and during the reconstructions of the crime.the court also noted that the details of the crime which the applicant had revealed in his statements could not have been known to him unless he had been the direct perpetrator.
12.  on an unspecified date the applicant lodged a request with the pest central district court for the child’s return, pursuant to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction (hereinafter, “the hague convention”).was keeping the child in hungary illegally and ordered that she return the child to the applicant’s residence in italy by 21 september 2012. alternatively, the child should be handed to the applicant or his proxy in budapest no later than 24 september 2012.14.  following an appeal by k.s., on 8 november 2012 the budapest high court upheld the decision of the pest central district court and ordered that the child be returned to italy by 30 november 2012 or to the applicant or his proxy in budapest by 4 december 2012.15.  following a further appeal by k.s., that decision was upheld by the supreme court on 22 january 2013; nevertheless, the child was not returned to the applicant.the bailiff of the mezőtúr district court instructed the mother to comply with the final decision and return the child to the applicant within fifteen days and ordered her to pay a fine of 152,400 hungarian forints (huf – approximately eur 490).21.  on 15 february 2013 the court bailiff sent a copy of the return order to the guardianship office of mezőtúr district in order to enable the said authority to serve it on k.s.the application was dismissed on 29 october 2013 on the grounds that the judgment of the venice minors court (see paragraph 18 above) was not yet enforceable (see paragraph 31 below) and the requirement of dual criminality was not satisfied.for the return order issued by the budapest high court (see paragraph 14 above) to be suspended, but this decision was subsequently quashed by the szolnok high court on 19 june 2013. on 16 october 2013 the mezőtúr district court refused another similar application lodged by k.s.lodged an application for the enforcement proceedings to be terminated; that application was refused by the pest central district court on 4 october 2013. that judgment was upheld by the budapest high court on 10 december 2013.36.  following an appeal by the applicant against the szolnok judgment of 30 june 2014 (see paragraph 31 above), on 25 november 2014 the kúria declared the judgment of the venice minors court (see paragraph 18 above) enforceable.37.  on 23 december 2014 the padua public prosecutor lodged by means of a letter rogatory a further application for judicial assistance and requested that the padua police be authorised to assist the local judicial police with the execution of the arrest warrant.on 18 march 2015 the budapest prosecutor’s office dismissed this application on the grounds that the conduct described in the criminal complaint could be classified as kidnapping under the italian criminal code, but not under article 190 of the hungarian criminal code.in order to identify k.s.’s place of residence, they had checked the database of the national health insurance fund and requested data from all those of the country’s financial institutions that provided payment services.moreover they had requested data from the mobile phone companies, the hungarian state treasury, the hungarian tax and customs authorities, and regional and local tax and customs agencies; they had also run checks in the databases of companies providing card services to regular customers in the territory of hungary.41.  by a letter dated 13 december 2016 the italian central authority informed the applicant that the hungarian authorities were still not able to execute the return order because they had still not identified k.s.’s place of residence.
7.  based on the data obtained by the swiss police, on 7 august 2006 the slovenian police, without obtaining a court order, requested company s., a slovenian internet service provider (hereinafter “the isp”), to disclose data regarding the user to whom the above-mentioned ip address had been assigned at 1.28 p.m. on 20 february 2006. the police based their request on section 149b(3) of the criminal procedure act (hereinafter “the cpa”, see paragraph 36 below), which required the operators of electronic communication networks to disclose to the police information on the owners or users of certain means of electronic communication whose details were not available in the relevant directory.8.  on 12 december 2006 the police proposed that the kranj district state prosecutor’s office request the investigating judge of the kranj district court to issue an order demanding that the isp disclose both the personal data of the subscriber and traffic data linked to the ip address in question.14.  on 5 march 2008 the investigating judge of the kranj district court, opened a judicial investigation against the applicant on the basis of a reasonable suspicion that he had committed the criminal offence of displaying, manufacturing, possessing and distributing pornographic material under section 187(3) of the criminal code.the judge noted, among other things, that the applicant’s father had been the holder of the identified ip address and that the applicant had allegedly been logging into the respective program under the name of “benet”.the higher court confirmed that the first-instance court had correctly established the facts of the case; moreover, it held that the data concerning the user of the ip address had been obtained lawfully, as no court order was required for such a purpose.the applicant argued that the swiss police should not have obtained the respective dynamic ip address without a court order, and nor should the slovenian police have obtained the data on the identity of the subscriber associated with the ip address without such an order.24.  on 20 january 2011 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law, reasoning that given the general accessibility of websites and the fact that the swiss police could check the exchanges in the p2p network simply by monitoring the users sharing certain contents, that is without any particular intervention in internet traffic, such communication could not be considered private and thus protected by article 37 of the constitution.as a result, the data concerning the identity of the user of the ip address were not protected as communication privacy under article 37 of the constitution, but only as information privacy under article 38 of the constitution, and no court order was required in order to disclose them in the applicant’s case.29.  the most relevant parts of the constitutional court’s decision are as follows (as translated into english on the constitutional court’s website): “review of the objections regarding access to the complainant’s ip address by the swiss police 11. the second paragraph of article 37 of the constitution provides a higher level of protection than article 8 of the echr as it requires a court order for any interference with the right to communication privacy ... the right to communication privacy determined by the first paragraph of article 37 of the constitution primarily protects the content of the communicated message.therefore, in the view of the constitutional court, the complainant’s expectation of privacy was not legitimate; that which a person knowingly exposes to the public, even if from a home computer and the shelter of his or her own home, cannot be a subject of the protection afforded by article 37 of the constitution.obtaining the data regarding the complainant’s dynamic ip address does not interfere with his right to communication privacy determined by the first paragraph of article 37 of the constitution taking into account all the circumstances of the case, therefore a court order was not necessary to access it.... review of the objections regarding access to data on the user of a certain ip address 16. the complainant also challenges the standpoint of the supreme court that by its request to the service provider under the third paragraph of article 149.b of the cpa the police did not acquire traffic data, but only data regarding a particular user of a determined means of communication ... 17. in the case at issue, on 7 june 2006, on the basis of the third paragraph of article 149.b of the cpa, the police sent a request to the service provider for data regarding the user to whom ip address 195.210.223.200 was assigned on 20 february 2006 at 13:28. in the response, they received data regarding the user’s name, surname, and address, while the time of the communication set to the nearest second was already known.then on 14 december 2006 the police also obtained an order issued by the investigating judge on the basis of the first paragraph 149.b of the cpa and the service provider also provided the traffic data on the basis of this order.in view of the foregoing, the contested position of the supreme court is not inconsistent with article 37 of the constitution, and the complainant’s complaints in this part are unfounded.” 30.  judge j. sovdat welcomed the constitutional court’s departure from the supreme court’s view that the information concerned had not amounted to traffic data.this essential circumstance in my opinion negates the notion of the neutrality of the datum regarding a specific user of services for a certain (known) dynamic ip address that the police sought through the service provider - namely, the neutrality of the datum in terms of denying its ability to communicate anything more than the name and address of a certain person (who has a subscription contract with the service provider).
5.  the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in istanbul.6.  at the material time, the applicant was a civil servant in the metropolitan municipality of istanbul and a member of the local branch of the tümbel-sen trade union, which is affiliated to the kesk (kamu emekçileri sendikaları konfederasyonu – the confederation of public employees’ trade unions).7.  in april 2008 two of the largest trade unions, namely the di̇sk (devrimci i̇şçi sendikaları konfederasyonu – confederation of revolutionary workers’ trade unions) and the kesk (kamu emekçileri sendikaları konfederasyonu – confederation of public employees’ trade unions) announced that they were planning a large scale demonstration in istanbul for 1 may 2008 and that their members would be gathering to celebrate the labour day and to commemorate their friends who had lost their lives during the demonstrations of 1 may 1977.8.  in may 2008 the applicant was informed that a disciplinary investigation had been initiated against him for being absent without leave on 1 may 2008 and he was asked to submit his defence submissions.the applicant explained that he had participated in a demonstration organised by his trade union on that day to celebrate international labour day.9.  subsequently, the applicant was given a warning as a disciplinary sanction owing to his being absent without leave on 1 may 2008 pursuant to section 125 of the civil servants act (law no.657).10.  on 13 may 2008 the applicant objected to the decision and requested its annulment.11.  on 16 may 2008 the disciplinary board of the istanbul municipality dismissed the applicant’s objection, finding that the contested decision was in accordance with the law and that there were no grounds to annul it.
he was the owner and the editor-in-chief of a publishing house, namely aram basım ve yayıncılık, at the time of the events giving rise to the present application.8.  on 29 august 2001 the public prosecutor attached to the istanbul state security court filed an indictment with the istanbul state security court charging the applicant with aiding and abetting the pkk, an illegal armed organisation, under article 169 of the former criminal code, on account of the publication of the book entitled the language of life in the mountains.11.  on 23 september 2003 the public prosecutor attached to the istanbul state security court requested that the court revise its judgment of 24 july 2002 since article 169 of the former criminal code had been amended on 7 august 2003. the istanbul state security court accepted that request.the case against the applicant concerning the book entitled the language of life in the mountains was transferred to the istanbul assize court.13.  on 16 august 2003 the public prosecutor attached to the istanbul state security court filed an indictment with the istanbul state security court charging the applicant with aiding and abetting the pkk under article 169 of the former criminal code on account of the publication of the book entitled 33 days in the deluge.according to the indictment, on pages 129, 130 and 135 the struggle of the pkk and its leader, abdullah öcalan, was praised and the applicant had therefore aided the pkk through the medium of the press.14.  on 30 april 2007 the istanbul assize court decided to join the proceedings concerning the language of life in the mountains and 33 days in the deluge.with regard to the publication of 33 days in the deluge, the assize court considered that on pages 129, 130 and 135 the pkk and its leader, abdullah öcalan, were praised and the offence of dissemination of propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation had therefore been committed.the assize court furthermore found that the book allowed for the transmission of the opinions of the pkk to the public and was aimed at bringing more sympathisers into that organisation.16.  on 25 june 2009 the court of cassation quashed the judgment of 7 december 2007, holding that the first-instance court should not have joined the two cases, since the case concerning the language of life in the mountains was a re-qualification of the applicant’s previous final conviction (uyarlama yargılaması).20.  in the meantime, the istanbul assize court resumed the trial concerning the publication of 33 days in the deluge following the court of cassation’s decision of 25 june 2009.in its judgment, the assize court reiterated that on pages 129, 130 and 135 the pkk and its leader, abdullah öcalan, were praised and the offence of dissemination of propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation had therefore been committed.the court held that the turns of phrase used on those pages were not protected by article 10 of the convention and constituted an abuse of the right to freedom of expression.the assize court further found that the book permitted the opinions of the pkk to be transmitted to the public and was aimed at bringing more sympathisers into that organisation and thus at destroying the unitary nature of the state of the republic of turkey.23.  on 15 february 2012 the court of cassation decided to discontinue the proceedings concerning the publication of 33 days in the deluge, holding that the prosecution was time-barred.
11.  at the relevant time, the applicant possessed a certificate issued by the sfry authorities in kosovo in 1988 indicating that he had been an albanian national with the status of a foreigner holding a temporary residence permit in the sfry.12.  on 2 february 1989 the ministry of the interior of the then socialist republic of croatia informed the novska police that the applicant’s application for a permanent residence permit in the sfry had been refused in accordance with the government policy according to which albanian refugees should be instructed to apply for the sfry citizenship.he explained that he had been granted a temporary residence permit by the relevant authorities in kosovo which was valid until july 1989. he also stated that he had attempted to travel to germany but had not had a valid visa and had thus been refused entry.15.  a further report of the novska police to the ministry of the interior of 26 february 1990 indicated that the applicant was still living in novska and working in a restaurant.19.  on 20 july 1992 the novska police forwarded the applicant’s application to the ministry of the interior of the republic of croatia (ministarstvo unutarnjih poslova republike hrvatske – hereinafter “the ministry”) with a suggestion that it be granted.22.  on 18 december 1992 the novska police informed the ministry of the obtained information explaining that the applicant had lived in novska as a foreigner since 1980 and that he had albanian citizenship.27.  meanwhile, the applicant had obtained a permit for extended residence of a foreigner (he was considered to be an albanian citizen) from the novska police for the period between september 1993 and september 1994, which was first extended until september 1995 and then january 1996. he was also granted a driving licence on 14 april 1994 valid until 19 november 2027.29.  a report on the applicant’s personal circumstances prepared by the novska police on 8 march 1995 indicated that he had lived in croatia since 1979. the report contains a statement that the applicant had an albanian passport issued in kosovo (then part of serbia) and that he had allegedly disappeared from his place of residence during the war in croatia.33.  on 29 may 1996 the administrative court dismissed the applicant’s administrative action on the grounds that there was no evidence that he had had a registered residence in croatia since 1979. in fact, according to the novska police’s report of 28 march 1995 (see paragraph 29 above), he had had a registered residence in novska, as a foreigner with extended residence status, since 24 september 1993. in these circumstances, the administrative court considered that no available evidence suggested that the applicant had had an uninterrupted registered residence in novska for a period of more than five years as required by section 8(1)(3) of the croatian citizenship act.35.  a report on the applicant’s personal circumstances prepared by the novska police on 24 april 2002 indicated that the applicant was a national of the federal republic of yugoslavia (serbia and montenegro – hereinafter “the fry”).the administrative court held that the ministry had properly established that the applicant had failed to meet the statutory requirements under section 29(1) of the movement and stay of foreigners act as his employment booklet did not show that he had worked for an uninterrupted period of three years.the applicant also argued that he was not a classic alien but an individual who found himself in the very specific circumstances of the dissolution of the sfry in a situation whereby he was no longer able to provide a valid travel document.he contended that he had been a national of the sfry and that he had had a registered residence in novska since he had arrived there in 1979, which had been erased at a later stage.the novska police held that the applicant was a national of kosovo whose parents had come from albania to kosovo and that they had had the status of refugees in the sfry.he explained that he had contacted the albanian embassy after he had been given an assurance that he had qualified for croatian citizenship but they had told him that he had not been a national of that state (see paragraphs 25 and 37 above).
on 29 july 2009 the authorities initiated assistance measures, including parenting guidance, couple therapy, a norwegian language course for the applicant, and aggression management therapy for c. an application was also submitted for a kindergarten place for a. after a while the kindergarten raised concerns owing to a’s high absence rate and the fact that many verbal expressions of anger were being directed at the staff by c. 15.  on 15 october 2009 the police raised additional concerns with the child welfare authorities after they had been called out to the hospital in f. the mother had been admitted the day before with a suspected ectopic pregnancy.23.  the parents appealed against the emergency care order of 17 november 2010 to the board, which granted the appeal in part in a decision of 15 december 2010. the decision regarding the emergency placement was upheld, but the amount of contact with the children was increased and the decision not to inform the parents of the children’s whereabouts was set aside.among other things, the city court referred to the fact that the applicant under the hearing had made herself unavailable to her counsel, but not to c. the city court stated that the abduction risk might possibly be regarded differently when the criminal case against c had been heard by the court.the high court understands that this opinion is shared – although to a varying extent – by all the experts who have appeared before [it].” 47.  there was limited updated information about the applicant’s situation at the time of the board’s decision, but it was clear that she had been granted a divorce from c. she had also passed a norwegian language course and established a small social network in g. seen in isolation, her ability to provide care thus appeared to have improved somewhat since the high court hearing.in the high court’s opinion, there can be little doubt that the father’s further contact with the mother will be harmful to the children and constitute a significant deficiency in relation to the children’s safety if the care order is revoked.” 49.  however, the high court had stated in its judgment that the question of contact for the applicant could be seen in a different light if c were expelled from the country.the paternal grandmother’s statement gave the impression that the children’s fate was the family’s responsibility, and not a matter that just concerned c. 59.  fourthly, the board considered it unlikely (“lite sannsynlig”) that the applicant would be able to protect the children from their father if they were returned to her.at least one member of the applicant’s family had demonstrated that he was willing to carry out unlawful acts on behalf of c. the applicant’s contact with her own family would therefore entail a significant risk of her and the children’s whereabouts becoming known to c. the applicant had stated that she would be willing to break off all contact with her family if the children were returned to her.his rape of the applicant in march 2012, and the surveillance and death threats against her via an accomplice in the summer of 2013 showed that he had learnt nothing from the abduction in 2011. on the basis of the factors set out above, the board assumed that, for the foreseeable future, c appeared to be prepared to use unlawful means to gain control over the applicant and the children.74.  since the abduction, and following the board’s decision of 24 june 2011 (see paragraph 31 above), there had been no contact sessions between a and b and their parents for nearly three years at the time of the board’s decision of 25 february 2014. the board therefore found that it had to be deemed that there was little attachment between the applicant and the children.the foster parents’ suitability for the task had not been contested either – either by the applicant or by c. the board saw no reason to doubt that the foster parents would also continue to take good care of a and b in the future, and that they were fit to bring up the children as their own.being removed from them would constitute a serious trauma with the potential to do great harm, not least because of the vulnerability they have developed as a result of their experiences before the placement.” 96.  the city court deemed it out of the question to expose the children to the risk that returning them to the applicant would entail, and found that the conditions for this were not satisfied.it is unclear what role the mother played in this, but given that she brought a large sum of money and a lot of clothes and other equipment to the meeting on 21 june 2011, it is not inconceivable that she might have known more than she told the police.” 100.  the police had concluded that the threat level was moderate at that time because the parents did not know the children’s whereabouts, but that this could change.108.  on the basis of the concrete circumstances of the case, the high court considered that the decision was not flawed because the significance of the children’s cultural background and identity had not been considered separately in the decision regarding what would be in their best interests.the high court found it clear that deciding to remove the parents’ parental responsibility and granting consent to the children’s adoption in this case was not in breach of article 8 of the convention or articles 3 and 9 of the un convention on the rights of the child.111.  based on the concrete circumstances of the case, in particular the fact that the children had been violently abducted in 2011 and the applicant had been subjected to serious threats initiated by c as recently as 2013, there was, in the high court’s opinion, nothing to indicate that a further examination of the children’s security situation would have led to a different conclusion.
8.  on 5 november 1996 the regional office of the croatian employment bureau in rijeka (hrvatski zavod za zapošljavanje, područna služba u rijeci, hereinafter “the rijeka employment bureau”) granted the applicant unemployment benefits in the amount of 410.89 croatian kunas (hrk – about 55 euros (eur)) for 468 days, starting from 11 december 1995. there was no appeal, so that decision became final.9.  on 17 june 1997 the applicant lodged an application with the rijeka employment bureau for the extension of the duration of unemployment benefits due to her ongoing temporary inability to work.13.  on 27 march 2001 the rijeka employment bureau terminated the applicant’s entitlement to unemployment benefits with effect from 10 june 1998. it held that the deadline prescribed in section 25(1)(2) of the employment act had expired on 9 june 1998.16.  on 25 july 2001 the applicant then lodged two administrative actions with the administrative court, seeking the annulment of the central employment bureau’s decisions of 11 and 15 may 2001. she claimed that she had twenty-seven years of service, and as such was entitled to unemployment benefits until she was next employed or until she retired.17.  on 22 september 2004 the administrative court dismissed the claim concerning the decision of 11 may 2001 upholding the decision of 27 march 2001 (see paragraph 10 above) as ill-founded, endorsing the arguments and conclusions of the lower bodies.18.  in a separate judgment of the same day the administrative court quashed the decision of 15 may 2001 which upheld the decision of 3 april 2001 by which the applicant had been ordered to repay the sum of hrk 19,451.69 (see paragraph 14 above).19.  on 25 march 2005 the rijeka employment bureau contacted the applicant by letter, proposing to reach an out-of-court settlement within fifteen days regarding the repayment of the unemployment benefits which she had received between 9 june 1998 and 27 march 2001, in total hrk 19,451.69. she was cautioned that the rijeka employment bureau would otherwise be compelled to institute civil proceedings against her for repayment of the amount claimed.23.  on 3 august 2005 the rijeka employment bureau brought a civil action against the applicant for unjust enrichment, seeking repayment of hrk 19,451.69, together with statutory interest, on the basis of the unemployment benefits she had received between 10 june 1998 and 27 march 2001.the same court also rejected the applicant’s counterclaim, given that a final and binding decision on her entitlement to unemployment benefits had already been adopted in the administrative proceedings, and that such a decision could not be contested in the context of civil proceedings.it also allowed the rijeka employment bureau’s appeal and, relying on section 210 of the civil obligations act, reversed the first-instance judgment in respect of the unjust enrichment claim, and ordered the applicant to pay hrk 19,451.69 plus statutory interest running form 3 august 2005 (the date of lodging the claim against the applicant) to the rijeka employment bureau.it held that the applicant was obliged to return the amount in dispute in view of the fact that a legal basis for the unemployment benefits had ceased to exist on 10 june 1998.34.  on 26 june 2013 the first-instance court ordered the applicant to pay court fees in the amount of hrk 540 (about eur 72), on account of the enforcement application and the writ of execution.36.  by a conclusion (zaključak) of 30 september 2013 the rijeka municipal court informed the rijeka employment bureau about the financial agency’s letter and ordered it to give the court information about the applicant’s bank account or make a further proposal.37.  on 22 october 2013 the rijeka employment bureau lodged an application to change the object of the enforcement (prijedlog za promjenu predmeta i sredstva ovrhe), and requested enforcement in relation to the applicant’s movable property, given that she was unemployed and had no income, real property or motor vehicle.38.  by a decision taken on 8 december 2014 the rijeka municipal court declared the application of 22 october 2013 inadmissible on the basis that it was premature, since changing the object of enforcement is not possible before a writ of execution becomes final.
while in prison, he was examined three times (on 1 and 18 april and on 13 may 2011) by an orthopaedist, who observed that the applicant required physical therapy in the light of a limitation of his knee-joint movement, the atrophy of a thigh muscle, and an injury to a peroneal nerve.on 11 april 2011 the applicant was examined by a neurologist who likewise found atrophy of the thigh muscle and impaired bending of the right foot, which he attributed to an injury to the peroneal nerve.8.  on an unspecified date, but not later than 27 march 2012, the applicant brought a civil action against the state treasury/białystok remand centre for infringement of his personal rights, claiming that the prison healthcare system had failed to provide him with appropriate medical care during his detention and, moreover, that the cells had not met the minimum spatial requirement of 3 square metres per person and had been mouldy and infested with insects.9.  on 27 march 2012 the białystok regional court (sąd okręgowy) exempted the applicant from the court fees.10.  on 20 january 2014 the białystok regional court granted the applicant pln 23,000 (approximately eur 5,550) and dismissed the remainder of his action.the court held, particularly on the basis of the medical expert opinion, that the applicant had had a motorcycle accident and had required physical therapy as recommended by the prison orthopaedist.the court established that, due to the lack of physical therapy, the applicant had suffered atrophy of the thigh muscle and foot drop affecting his right foot.the court compared this finding with the fact that upon his arrival the applicant had not been suffering from foot drop, the pain in his knee had not been severe, and his right leg muscles had been working more effectively.the court emphasised that the applicant had not been offered proper treatment despite a worsening of his symptoms.the court stated that the rehabilitation process for the applicant would be long and arduous, a situation which could have been avoided had the defendant acted appropriately.the court held that the applicant had suffered physical pain of significant seriousness, which, in turn, had had negative psychological consequences.the court also ordered the applicant to reimburse pln 3,186 (eur 766) for the costs of the defendant’s legal representation and pln 10,932 (eur 2,628) in court fees (in total: pln 14,118 (eur 3,394)).12.  following the defendant’s appeal against the judgment, on 12 september 2014 the białystok court of appeal (sąd apelacyjny) amended the judgment, reduced the compensation granted to the applicant to pln 13,000 (eur 3,095), and upheld the first-instance court’s findings of fact and law.the applicant was not ordered to pay the court fees for the proceedings before that court.this court pointed out that in the experts’ opinions it was not specified, even approximately, what the effects of the negligence might be, how much longer the rehabilitation process would take, or how much stronger the pain had become in comparison to pain experienced previously by the applicant.
he was subsequently transferred back to omonoia police station, where he remained until 28 may 2013. on that date he was transferred to korydallos prison, where he stayed until 30 december 2013. he was subsequently transferred to larissa prison, where he remained until 25 november 2014. on that date he was transferred to korydallos prison, from where he was released the next day, that is to say 26 november 2014.7.  on 13 november 2013 the applicant was convicted by the three‑member court of appeal for felonies to a sentence of eight years’ imprisonment and a fine of 20,000 euros for the offence of buying and selling drugs as a person not addicted to drugs (decision no.the cell had been filthy and unfurnished, with no beds and only a cement bench running along the length of three of the walls, which had accommodated six to eight people, including the applicant.a guard had had to open the door of the cell every time the applicant needed to visit the toilet and sometimes its use had taken place in front of the other prisoners, since it had no door.he had not been provided with hygiene or cleaning products, nor had he had access to medical care despite his disability and the wounds to his leg, which had become worse owing to the conditions in which he had been detained.10.  there had been no outdoor exercise or other occupational activities and, owing to the lack of space within the cell and his disability, the applicant had spent all day sitting on the cement bench.instead of being provided with a special bed adapted to his needs, he had had to sleep on the lower tier of a bunk bed on which he had barely been able to lie down, owing to his disability.the applicant argued that his medical situation had required him to be detained in a hospital; however, this had not been arranged, apart from the two days he had spent in the prison hospital upon his transfer to korydallos.he had been placed in a cell along with many other prisoners, as the prison had been overcrowded, and he had not been provided with a special bed or special toilet facilities adapted to his needs.15.  the applicant submitted that he had not received appropriate medical treatment, that he had not been regularly monitored by a doctor, and that at no time had he been admitted to a hospital with access to nursing staff who would have taken appropriate measures to ensure that his needs were met.16.  the government’s main submission concerning the applicant’s detention in omonoia police station was that it had not reached the level of severity required for it to fall within the scope of article 3 of the convention.the records at the government’s disposal did not show the exact number of the applicant’s fellow inmates but at the time of the government’s submissions the cell had accommodated seventeen detainees.m. the cell had two windows ensuring sufficient light and ventilation, it had been heated and was generally in better condition than the rest of the prison cells.the record submitted by the government showed that the applicant had met with the prison psychologist twenty-seven times, and had been provided with financial, psychological and material assistance through the channel of the prison’s department of social service.26.  the government pointed out that the applicant had not referred to or adduced any evidence showing that he had submitted any request before the prison authorities concerning his complaints before the court.
even the western community is compelled to admit that putin’s russia is waging a war aimed at the physical extermination of chechens as an ethnic group.” 9.  an article entitled “insanity [defence] of budanov[3] [is] a guarantee of victory for basayev[4]” (“невменяемость буданова – залог победы басаевa”) commented on the case of a high-ranking russian officer who was standing trial on charges of torture and murder for the strangulation of an 18-year-old chechen woman and, in particular, on the judgment of the first-instance court by which the defendant had been found not guilty by reason of temporary insanity.from now on we should require immediate compulsory psychiatric examination of all commanders of the military and naval forces, service personnel of the ministry of the interior, the border guard, the police and the fsb, starting from a captain and finishing with the commander-in-chief – v.v.putin.” 11.  it also appealed: “let dozens of chechen snipers take up their positions in the hills and the city ruins and hundreds and thousands of aggressors perish from their holy bullets!we will avenge you, salman!” 17.  in an article entitled “a new joke by vova” (“новая шутка вовы”) the applicant stated: “lawful convictions issued by the sharia court of the cri against national traitors are being executed rigorously.” 18.  in the same issue of the newsletter the applicant reproduced information from the website regions.ru regarding a police operation by a unit of the regional department of the interior aimed at setting free uzbek nationals who had been held in slavery by russian nationals.hence, the rubicon has been crossed, the choice has been made and there is no room to back off – we no longer have any other family than all peoples oppressed by ‘our’ empire, than partisans fighting to be freed from its yoke, than famous warlords like basayev and political parties which claim monetary compensation [from russia] for their occupation and return of the territories russia has annexed ...” 22.  in the same article the applicant stated: “... it is the bloody cannibalistic atrocity of this state towards a tiny and helpless mountain people that first brought this thought into our conscience: russia must be destroyed forever, a state doing similar things to an entire nation should not exist at all!” 23.  an article headlined “chechnya shielded the caucasus” (“чечня заслонила собою кавказ”), authored by a third person, stated: “... maskhadov, basayev, khattab[6] and other heroes of the chechen resistance courageously and firmly got in the way of russia’s aggression and, in fact, saved not only the independence of chechnya but also its very existence, as well as the existence of other states in the caucasus ...” 24.  in an article entitled “no comments” the applicant stated: “... putin’s cheap propaganda can jabber as long as it wishes that maskhadov is a bandit and that he is responsible for the ‘nord-ost’ [theatre siege] and the recent explosions in tushino[7].lawful elections of the president of the cri under the constitution of the cri of 1992 will only be possible when the cri army, headed by commander-in-chief maskhadov, defeats occupying russia’s illegal armed groups of the ministry of defence, the ministry of the interior and the federal security service, and chucks them out of the territory of independent ichkeriya ...” 25.  in an article headlined “retribution-2” (“возмездие-2”) the applicant stated: “... retribution for genocide will take place sooner or later.one day executioners in uniforms and narks without uniforms in moscow, as well as in chechnya, will be held accountable to us for everything ...” 29.  an article headlined “kremlin looters” (“кремлевские мародеры”), authored by a third person, criticised the actions of the russian army in the chechen republic and, in particular, accused them of a large-scale extra‑judicial executions of civilians during a “sweep” operation in a chechen village in 1995. it also stated: “in chechnya the russian army stopped existing as a military force of the state, having, once and for all, turned itself into a frenzied gang of looters and murderers; a herd intoxicated with drugs.” 30.  in his “editorial note” to the “declaration of the committee ‘2008: a free choice’” the applicant stated: “we, [the rko] and radikalnaya politika, are united with the committee and prepared to cooperate with them.32.  in an article headlined “the price to be paid for genocide” (“расплата за геноцид”) the applicant wrote: “the explosion in the moscow metro[12] is justified, natural and lawful ... chechens have a moral right to blow up everything they want in russia, after what russia and russians have done to them; no objections regarding humanism or love for humankind can be accepted.” 33.  in the same article the applicant stated: “it has been ten years since the russian federation and its people [began] a totally destructive genocidal war against the chechen people, who before the war numbered only one million people”.34.  in an article headlined “will russia be allowed to participate in the summer olympics in athens?” (“пустят ли россию на летнюю олимпиаду в афинах?”) the applicant wrote: “russia’s bloody attack on the cri led to, among millions of other similar bloody consequences, russia’s security forces’ killing of the ex-president of the cri, zelimkhan yandarbiyev, who had helped his people to repel this attack.” 35.  in eight issues of the radikalnaya politika newsletter, in a column entitled “the good news” (“благие вести”), the applicant published information which he had copied from various news agencies’ websites, such as interfax, or websites like strana.ru and kmnews.ru.43.  the trial court further examined other pieces of evidence, including the expert report of 13 april 2004; written complaints from eight private individuals in which they had stated that the applicant’s articles had aimed at inciting hatred and had contained insulting language in respect of russians, orthodox believers and law-enforcement officers; reports of seizure of issues of the applicant’s newsletter; reports of a search of the applicant’s flat and seizure of his computer; a report on the applicant’s forensic psychiatric examination, which confirmed that he was fully able to understand the meaning of his actions and to control them.(b)  judgment of 20 november 2006 45.  in a judgment of 20 november 2006 the district court found the applicant guilty of “having publicly appealed to extremist activities through the mass media” (article 280 § 2 of the russian criminal code) and of having committed “actions aimed at inciting hatred and enmity as well as at humiliating the dignity of an individual or group of individuals on the grounds of ethnicity, origin, attitude towards religion and membership of a social group, through the mass media” (article 282 § 1 of the russian criminal code).47.  more specifically, the district court observed that in various issues of his newsletter the applicant had represented the conflict in the chechen republic as a war between two states – chechnya and russia; had approved of terrorist attacks carried out in russia, and of the actions of criminals and terrorists aimed at the extermination of the russian people as a nation.1 (27), the applicant had interpreted the events in the chechen republic as “a national liberation struggle of the chechen people against the colonial expansion of russia” (see paragraph 13 above), referred to “lawful convictions of the sharia court of the cri” (see paragraph 17 above), and mentioned “president maskhadov”, “president of the cri”, “commander-in-chief of the cri maskhadov”, “the capital of the cri, dzhokhar” (see paragraph 14 above).55.  the court further noted that in the article “retribution-2” the applicant had referred to “the following acts aimed against the state and the existing political regime in russia: organisation of meetings concerning events in the chechen republic, participation in those meetings, writing inscriptions on the walls of buildings, fences and bus stops” with the contents reflected in the relevant extracts of that article (see paragraph 25 above).59.  lastly, the court referred to the fact that “at an unauthorised meeting on 23 february 2004 the applicant [had] called on individuals to support his movement by openly displaying banners with slogans condemning the regime” (see paragraph 36 above) and during the meeting of 10 march 2004, “to continue to commit crimes aimed at incitement to hatred and enmity among the population, abasement of dignity of an individual or group of individuals on the grounds of gender, nationality, language, origin or religious beliefs and membership of a social group, the applicant, personally and with a participation of an unidetified person, had distributed issues nos.60.  the district court rejected the applicant’s argument that in the relevant articles he had made no appeals to extremist activities, and, in particular, that he had not called for the overthrow of the constitutional order nor stirred up inter-ethnic discord; and that he supported the constitutional order, the russian constitution and the chechen people’s right to self-determination and had merely availed himself of the right to freedom of expression.
in their statements, the applicants accepted the charges against them and gave a detailed account of their involvement in the pkk (the workers’ party of kurdistan, an illegal organisation).before the public prosecutor and the judge, the applicants denied the charges against them.9.  on 2 july 1999 the public prosecutor at the diyarbakır state security court filed an indictment with that court and accused the applicants of carrying out activities for the purpose of bringing about the secession of part of the national territory, under article 125 of the criminal code.10.  the proceedings resumed before the diyarbakır state security court and the first and second applicants were authorised to have the assistance of an interpreter.in their defence submissions before the trial court, the applicants retracted the statements they had allegedly made during the preliminary investigation stage.11.  on 7 may 2002 the diyarbakır state security court found the applicants guilty as charged and convicted them under article 125 of the former criminal code with carrying out activities with the aim of bringing about the secession of part of the national territory.12.  on 25 march 2003 the court of cassation quashed the judgment of the first-instance court on the ground that during the trial certain witness statements, which had been taken on commission before other courts, had not been read out to the applicants for comment during the trial.5190 of 16 june 2004, and therefore, the case against the applicants was transferred to the diyarbakır assize court.14.  on 7 march 2005 the diyarbakır assize court complied with the decision of the court of cassation and witness statements that had been taken on commission were read out to the applicants for their comments.at the end of the trial, the diyarbakır assize court found the applicants guilty as charged and sentenced them to life imprisonment.15.  on 17 june 2005 the principal public prosecutor at the court of cassation decided that the case file should be remitted to the diyarbakır assize court for examination of whether the new criminal code which had entered into force on 1 june 2005 (law no.16.  on 25 october 2005 the diyarbakır assize court once again convicted the applicants under article 125 of the former criminal court, finding that this provision was more favourable to them than the corresponding provision of the new criminal code.17.  on 30 may 2006 the court of cassation quashed the judgment on procedural grounds, holding in particular that certain documents which had been relied on by the first-instance court in its judgment were not of an official nature.18.  on 24 april 2007 the diyarbakır assize court, after obtaining official copies of all the documents in the case file, convicted the applicants under article 125 of the former criminal code and sentenced them to life imprisonment.19.  on 11 december 2007 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the first-instance court.
4.  the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in oslo, norway.5.  on 26 april 2000 criminal proceedings were brought against the applicant and one other person in connection with a traffic accident which had resulted in death of a child.6.  on 25 february 2003 the court of first instance in podgorica convicted the applicant for endangering public traffic and sentenced him and his co-accused to one year and six months’ imprisonment.7.  on an unspecified date in 2006 the high court in podgorica quashed this judgment and remitted case back to the court of first instance.8.  on 18 april 2007 the court of first instance adopted a new judgment and again convicted the applicant and his co-accused.but the court reduced the sentence to one year and four months’ imprisonment.9.  on 13 november 2009 the high court further reduced the sentence of the applicant’s co-accused, but upheld the judgment of the court of first instance in respect of the applicant.10.  the applicant’s subsequent appeal against the judgment of the high court was rejected on 14 june 2010.11.  following that rejection, on an unspecified date in 2010, the applicant lodged a further appeal on points of law (zahtjev za ispitivanje zakonitosti pravosnažne presude) with the supreme court.12.  on 26 october 2010 the supreme court rejected this appeal.13.  on 11 december 2010 the applicant lodged an action for fair redress (tužba za pravično zadovoljenje) with the supreme court, complaining about the overall length of criminal proceedings.it was rejected on 31 december 2010.14.  on 19 april 2013 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s ultimate appeal.
5.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.6.  the applicant was born in 1967 in the tajikistan soviet socialist republic of the soviet union and came to russia in 1993. he is an apatride.on 2 august 2014 the kalininskiy district court in st petersburg sentenced him to a fine and administrative removal from russia.the court also directed that he should be detained until expulsion in the special facility for the detention of aliens in the leningrad region (сувсиг по спб и ло) in krasnoye selo.the decision described the applicant as being “a native (уроженец) of the tajikistan republic”.8.  by letters dated 11 august and 18 november 2014, the federal migration service asked the embassy of tajikistan in moscow to issue a laissez-passer document enabling the applicant’s return to tajikistan.it was discovered that he had been registered in the police database under a different name.on 11 february 2015 the federal migration service used that name to request a laissez-passer from the embassy of tajikistan.10.  on 10 september 2015 the federal migration service again attempted to obtain a travel document for the applicant using his original name.11.  on 28 july 2016 the governor of the detention centre asked the kalininskiy district court to discontinue the enforcement of the judgment on the ground that the two-year limitation period in respect of the applicant’s offence had expired.on 29 july 2016 the district court granted the application.12.  while in detention, the applicant was held in standard six-person cells (cells 509, 402, 516 and 615) measuring 27.4 square metres which were furnished with three two-tier bunk beds, six bed stands, six chairs and a table.the steel door with a peephole and a hatch for serving food remained under lock at all times and he was not allowed to leave the cell, except for short and infrequent outdoor exercise.14.  the applicant complained about dim lighting, poor quality of food, insufficient outdoor exercise in cramped conditions, a lack of medical assistance and a shortage of meaningful activities.the government disputed the applicant’s allegations and submitted copies of contracts with the catering, cleaning and laundering companies and a copy of visitors’ register from the medical unit.
the operational-search division of the chief directorate of the ministry of the interior of the russian federation in the privolzhskiy federal circuit (оперативно-розыскное бюро гу мвд рф по приволжскому федеральному округу – “the orb police unit”, “the police” or “police officers”) carried out operational-search activities in the case, including phone tapping.the results were declassified and transferred to s., an investigator from the investigation division of the nizhniy novgorod regional police department (следственная часть главного следственного управления при гувд нижегородской области) in charge of the robbery case, on 2 june 2004. according to the police report, the robbery was committed by the applicant and five other individuals.11.  according to the police records, the applicant confessed to committing the robbery with three other individuals at 9.30 a.m. on 8 june 2004. his confession was recorded in the form of a voluntary “statement of surrender and confession” (явка с повинной) by operational officer p. in room no.12.  according to a record of the applicant’s arrest as a suspect in the robbery case, drawn up by s., the applicant was arrested at 9.40 a.m. on 8 june 2004, and the record was drawn up at the same time.according to the applicant, at the hearing in the presence of a lawyer appointed by his family, he complained to the judge that he had been ill-treated by police officers and had signed a confession statement as a result, but the judge did not take any action.17.  on 24 june 2004 the applicant, through his lawyer, lodged complaints with the head of the remand centre, the nizhniy novgorod regional prosecutor, the prosecutor general’s office and the presidential human rights committee.he stated that as a result of the violence he had confessed to a crime which he had never committed in a “statement of surrender and confession” which had been dictated to him by the police officers and s. 18.  the applicant’s account of events on 28 june 2004 is as follows.20.  on the same day the applicant, who had received no response to his previous complaint, lodged another complaint with the head of the remand centre stating that he had been beaten up at the police station on 28 june 2004, as a result of which he had sustained contusions to his ribcage and abrasions.3 of the orb police unit, which provided “operational support” in the applicant’s criminal case, that three of the five people detained in the case had confessed to the robbery and had been cooperating with the investigation by uncovering further evidence of criminal activity by the group.32.  the applicant submitted to the court the following witness statements recorded by a representative of the non-governmental organisation committee against torture in nizhniy novgorod in february 2006: (i)  according to a statement by i.k., he was serving a sentence of imprisonment in unit no.38.  on 2 august 2004 an investigator from the nizhegorodskoy district prosecutor’s office refused to initiate criminal proceedings into the applicant’s alleged ill-treatment on 28 june 2004, pursuant to article 24 § 1 (2) of the code of criminal procedure for lack of the constituent elements of a crime under article 286 of the criminal code (abuse of powers) in the actions of ya., one of the police officers who had taken the applicant on 28 june 2004 from sizo-1 to the police station and back.stated that after the applicant’s arrest and before the arrival of the investigator in charge of the criminal case the police officers had interviewed the applicant.45.  relying on statements by police officers m., p. and ya., the investigator s., convicts a.a., m.k., and a.v., and t., the head of the unit functioning as a remand centre, who all denied the applicant’s allegations of ill‑treatment, the deputy prosecutor held that the applicant’s allegations were not supported by evidence.46.  on the same day the head of the nizhniy novgorod regional prosecutor’s office division responsible for supervising investigations and inquiries reviewed the decision of the sukhobezvodnenskaya prosecutor’s office of 8 april 2005 and found it lawful and well-reasoned, stating that during his detention in ik-14 the applicant had confessed to six crimes, and “his statements had been documented in records of surrender and confession (явки с повинной) which had been forwarded to the [operational-search division of the chief directorate of the ministry of the interior of the russian federation] in the privolzhskiy federal circuit (орб гу мвд россии по приволжскому федеральному округу)”.54.  on 22 february 2007 the supreme court of the russian federation reduced the applicant’s sentence to sixteen years’ imprisonment, correcting calculation errors by the trial court, and upheld the remainder of the judgment.
4.  the applicant was born in 1992 and lives in bukhara, uzbekistan.5.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.6.  the applicant was born in uzbekistan.in 2003 his father, mother, brother and sister moved to vladivostok in russia and subsequently acquired russian nationality, while he continued to live with his grandfather in bukhara, visiting them in the summer months.after his grandfather had died and the applicant had finished the secondary school, in june 2011 he joined his family in russia.7.  the applicant took a mandatory blood test with a view to obtaining a health certificate to support his application for a temporary residence permit.he was found to be hiv-positive.8.  on 23 september 2011 the consumer protection authority declared the applicant’s presence in russian undesirable (the “exclusion order”) on the ground that he was hiv-positive.9.  by judgment of 19 december 2011, the sovetskiy district court in vladivostok rejected the applicant’s challenge to the exclusion order, finding that it was issued in full compliance with russian law.10.  on 13 february 2012 the primorskiy regional court upheld the judgment on appeal.11.  on 22 february 2012 the applicant left russia to comply with the exclusion order.
6.  on 29 july 2009, the applicant was celebrating his birthday with a group of friends by a lake when they were attacked by s. who was intoxicated and carrying a hunting rifle.during the conflict, s. hit one of the applicant’s friends with the barrel of his gun and fired four gunshots at the group’s cars parked nearby.the applicant attempted to prevent s. from continuing shooting but was shot from a distance of some five metres into his right calf.the applicant’s repeated attempts to disarm s. resulted in his receiving two more gunshots from a very short distance into his already wounded leg.7.  as a result of the attack the applicant sustained serious injuries to his right leg which led to amputation of his leg above the knee.8.  on 31 july 2009 criminal proceedings were instituted against s. on charges of hooliganism with the use of a firearm resulting in the causing of severe harm to the applicant’s health.10.  on 12 august 2009 s. was declared a suspect in the criminal proceedings and on 29 december 2009 he was indicted.12.  on 23 february 2010 the criminal case-file was remitted for examination from the căușeni police station to the anenii noi police station.13.  between march and december 2010 the anenii noi police conducted a new investigation into the circumstances of the case and carried out again all the investigative measures.14.  on 14 december 2010 the case-file was transmitted to the anenii noi prosecutor’s office with the proposal to be remitted to a court for consideration.15.  on 20 december 2010 both the applicant and his representative were notified of the completion of the criminal investigation.16.  on 30 december 2010 the prosecutor’s office decided to discontinue the criminal proceedings against s. the prosecutor’s office found that according to article 63(2) of the code of criminal procedure, a person’s status as suspect cannot be maintained longer than three months.17.  on 18 february 2011 at the request of the applicant’s representative, the prosecutor general’s office decided to annul its previous decision of 30 december 2010, and to resume the criminal investigation on the ground that new facts had been discovered.18.  on 31 march 2011 the rascani district court upheld s.’s objection against the prosecutor’s decision of 18 february 2011, ordering its annulment.the applicant and his representative were not summoned or informed about the proceedings.
7.  late at night on the same day, the gendarmerie carried out a search at the sancak hotel, which is owned by the applicant.the records drawn up afterwards noted that during the course of the search, a certain m.ş.8.  the search records, which were prepared a few hours after the search and signed by the hotel’s manager, showed that five women of foreign nationalities had been staying at the hotel with some men and that they had all been taken to the gendarmerie headquarters.some of the women were asked whether they knew of any complicity between the traffickers and the management of sancak hotel, to which they responded in the negative.10.  on the same day the applicant was arrested and taken into the custody of the gendarmerie on suspicion of facilitating prostitution.before.12.  on the same day, the gendarmerie also questioned the hotel’s manager, who stated that both he and the applicant were very strict about keeping procurers out of their hotel.establishing that the accused had provided premises for prostitution in their hotels, it held that the applicant had failed to obey the orders of an official authority as charged and should be punished accordingly.16.  the applicant objected to that decision, arguing that his defence rights had been restricted in that the court had sentenced him to the fine solely on the basis of the statements taken previously by the police, and without hearing him in person.17.  on 3 february 2006 after examining the case on the basis of the case file, the bakırköy assize court upheld the decision of the magistrates’ court.it was indicated on the envelope that the applicant was invited to a hearing concerning his case, which would be held on 10 july 2006. the envelope did not show any confirmation that the letter had been served on him.19.  the applicant’s lawyer stated that he had received a copy of the final decision at the registry of the büyükçekmece magistrates’ court on 11 july 2006. in support of his claim, he submitted a copy of the assize court’s decision, on which a lawyer working at his office had noted that he had been served with the copy in person on that date.20.  following communication of the present application, on 21 december 2009 a public prosecutor prepared an assessment report, summarising the events in the case.21.  on 2 january 2014 both the applicant and the government were asked under rule 54 § 2 (c) of the rules of court to provide the court with a document indicating the notification date of the final decision by 16 january 2014 at the latest.22.  on 3 november 2017 the government were once again asked to provide documents regarding the commencement of the six-month time‑limit, in particular the content of the envelope from the büyükçekmece magistrates’ court dated 24 may 2006 and the document in support of the public prosecutor’s claim that the final decision had been served on the applicant on 26 may 2006. on 30 november 2017 the government informed the court that they could not find the requested documents.
7.  on 5 february 2007 the moskovskiy district prosecutor’s office of kaliningrad (“the district prosecutor’s office”) received a pre-investigation inquiry file containing evidence of the elements of a crime under article 111 § 4 of the criminal code (intentional infliction of serious bodily harm causing the victim’s death).15.  the investigation established that on 17 january 2007 officers from the moskovskiy district department of the interior of kaliningrad had arrived at the scene of the incident in order to stop a disturbance of public peace caused by the applicant’s son’s unlawful actions.17.  on 23 april 2007 the forensic medical examination was carried out, establishing that the applicant’s son’s death had been caused by an open blunt traumatic brain injury accompanied by contused head wounds and bruises, haemorrhages in the soft tissues of the head, fractures of the skull bones, haemorrhages above and under the layers of mater, complicated by brain oedema and compression (forensic medical report no.19.  on 22 october 2007 the district court returned the criminal case to the prosecutor for re-drafting of the bill of indictment and remedying of deficiencies that prevented examination of the case, in particular, the formulation of exactly how v.’s actions had exceeded the limits of necessary self-defence.20.  on 29 december 2007 the chief investigator from the kaliningrad investigative division of the investigation department of the investigative committee at the russian federation’s prosecutor’s office for the kaliningrad region (“the kaliningrad investigative division”) discontinued the criminal proceedings, having arrived at the conclusion that the injuries resulting in the death of the applicant’s son on 1 february 2007 had been inflicted by v. as actions of necessary self-defence.39/696 of 23 april 2007 (see paragraph 17 above); -  statements by v. submitting that on 17 january 2007 he had had a fight with the applicant’s son and had administered to the latter at least two blows to the head with a piece of broken baseball bat, following which he had called the police, who had taken the applicant’s son to the police station; -  statements by witnesses t. and p. who were present at the scene of the fight and confirmed v.’s statements; -  statements by police officer erk, who arrived at the scene and saw the applicant’s son squatting down, with blood streaming from his head and a bruise below his eye; he submitted that the applicant’s son, v., t. and p. had been taken to the police station, following which an ambulance had been called for the applicant’s son as his head was bleeding; no violence had been used against the latter; -  statements by duty officer tr., who had received information about the fight and had seen the applicant’s son brought to the police station in a state of alcoholic intoxication, with a lacerated wound in the region of one eye and several abrasions, following which an ambulance had been called to take him to hospital; he submitted that nobody in his presence had subjected the applicant’s son to any beatings; -  similar statements by duty officer ser.; -  statements by operative agent mir., who saw the applicant’s son at the police station with injuries to his body; he submitted that he had not seen anybody beating the applicant’s son at the police station; -  statements by witness f., who arrived at the police station having been told that the applicant’s son had been taken there; however, she had then been informed that the latter had been taken to hospital to be treated for his injuries; she further submitted that in the hospital the applicant’s son told her that he had been beaten up by the police in the entrance to v.’s house; -  statements by witness g., who had accompanied the applicant’s son in his car to the scene of the fight; he submitted that the applicant had told him that he had a score to settle with a man called “erik” who had cooperated with the police; he had seen the applicant’s son knock on a window and enter the building with a baseball bat in his hands; about fifteen minutes later he had seen the police arrive at the exit from the building; the applicant’s son had been walking unassisted, he had not been handcuffed, but had been holding his head; one of the police officers had been holding a plastic bag containing two fragments of the baseball bat; the applicant’s son had got into the police car and been taken to the police station; he had not seen anybody hitting the applicant’s son or threatening him; -  statements by the applicant, who submitted that her son had told her that he had been beaten up by the police; -  statements by witness min., who had heard about the fight from v.; -  statements by witness mot., who had heard about the fight from t.; -  statements by neighbours sukh.and tishch., who knew nothing about the events in question; -  statements by witness gor., the applicant’s son’s partner, who had been told by the applicant’s son that he had been beaten by the police; -  statements by witness ven., who was receiving treatment in the hospital at the time when the applicant’s son was admitted and who submitted that the latter had told him that he had sustained the injuries through being beaten with a baseball bat; -  the police station’s registration log, which contained no mention of the applicant’s son being arrested on the 17 january 2007; -  expert report no.52 of 2 july 2008 stating that the applicant’s son’s open blunt brain injury had been caused by a combination of traumatic impacts in the region of the head which could have resulted from the circumstances described by v., that is to say by the infliction of multiple blows by a baseball bat fragment in the region of the head.the applicant also sought to have clarified the reasons why her son had not been questioned about the circumstances of the incident during the week before he lapsed into a coma, to obtain an expert examination of the bloodstains on his clothes which could have clarified whether he had been standing up or lying down when he sustained his injuries, and an expert examination which could have clarified the origin of metal particles found in the wounds of her son.27.  on 13 january 2010 the deputy head of the investigative committee at the russian federation’s prosecutor’s office for the kaliningrad region set aside the decision of 18 january 2008 (see paragraph 21 above) as having been taken in violation of the criminal procedure.the examination established that the open blunt traumatic brain injury inflicted on the applicant’s son had been caused by at least five traumatic impacts, and that it could have arisen in the circumstances indicated by the accused v. during his questioning on 7 march 2007 and the on-site verification of his testimony on 6 april 2007 (see paragraphs 11 and 16 above) (report no.31.  between 14 february 2010 and 21 february 2012 the criminal proceedings were discontinued on five occasions on the grounds of absence of the constituent elements of a crime under article 108 § 1 of the criminal code in the actions of v., and were subsequently resumed.the decision noted that the investigation had identified the constituent elements of a crime under article 108 § 1 of the criminal code in the actions of v. however, since the crime belonged to the category of minor crimes and had been committed over two years earlier, in 2007, v. was to be exempted from criminal liability pursuant to article 78 § 1 (a) of the criminal code (exemption from criminal liability due to expiration of statutory time-limits for criminal prosecution).35.  on 5 december 2012 the acting head for the moskovskiy district of the kaliningrad investigative division took the decision to resume the proceedings in view of the necessity of conducting psycho-physiological expert examinations − using a polygraph − of the police officers who had brought the applicant’s son to the police station so as to verify the veracity of their statements.
7.  on 9 march 2002 the applicant’s statements were taken by the police in the absence of a lawyer.during the interrogation, the applicant gave a detailed account of her acts within the illegal organisation pkk (the kurdistan workers’ party).8.  on 11 march 2002 the applicant was heard by the public prosecutor and the investigating judge at the istanbul state security court, again in the absence of a lawyer.before the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, the applicant partially retracted her previous statements maintaining that she had given statements to the police under duress.on the same day, upon the order of the investigating judge, the applicant was placed in pre‑trial detention.9.  on 18 march 2002 the public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court filed an indictment accusing the applicant of membership of an illegal terrorist organisation under article 168 of the former criminal code.10.  at a hearing held on 31 may 2002, the applicant gave evidence in person in the presence of her lawyer.she stated that she had left turkey through her own means and that she went to romania, bulgaria, greece and iran with the help of the people whose names she could not remember anymore.she further stated that she had turned back to turkey through the mountains with the help of people who knew the area well.the applicant also claimed that she did not know any of the other accused in the case and that she had not received any training in the camps.lastly, she stated that she had been called the code name “ariel” at the camp in iran.when asked about her statements to the police, the applicant denied them, claiming that they had been taken under duress.when asked about her statements to the investigating judge, she denied them claiming once again that the police had put pressure on her.11.  on 16 april 2008, relying on, inter alia, the applicant’s statements to the police, the istanbul assize court convicted the applicant under article 314 § 2 of the new turkish criminal code and sentenced her to six years and three months’ imprisonment.12.  on 23 december 2010 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the istanbul assize court.
6.  on 9 april 2007 at about 11 p.m. the applicant was stopped by the police and taken to the dzerzhinskiy district department of the interior of the town of perm (дзержинский ровд г. перми – “the police station”) for an identity check.9.  subsequently the applicant was interrogated by an investigator, b., in the presence of n. (the head of the police station), p., and zh.10.  immediately after his release on 10 april 2007 the applicant complained at the police station of having been beaten by p. 11.  on the same day the applicant went to a traumatology centre, where he was diagnosed with bruising on the left side of his forehead.he was made to undergo an expert examination, which revealed the following injuries: bruises on the left side of his forehead, at the outer corner of his left eye and on the left side of his neck, and an abrasion behind his left ear.the expert concluded that the above-mentioned injuries could have been caused by his being hit by a hard blunt object(s) or by that object being drawn across the applicant’s skin, possibly at the time and under the circumstances indicated by the applicant.13.  on 9 june 2007 the investigator of the dzerzhinskiy district prosecutor’s office of the town of perm decided not to institute criminal proceedings against p., in the absence of any indication that a criminal act had been committed.having questioned the applicant and others involved in the incident and having examined the medical evidence, the investigator found that there were no objective data confirming that the injuries had been inflicted by the police officer.the investigator noted, in particular, the discrepancies between the applicant’s description of the alleged beatings and the injuries that he had actually sustained.15.  on 2 july 2007 the dzerzhinskiy district court of perm (“the district court”) declined to examine the applicant’s challenge.16.  following an appeal by the applicant, on 24 july 2007 the perm regional court (“the regional court”) quashed the decision of 2 july 2007.18.  on 20 september 2007 the regional court quashed the judgment of 24 august 2007 (since it had been delivered in the absence of p.), and remitted the matter for fresh examination by a different bench.the court pointed out that the decision in question had been based on the submissions of the police officers, without due assessment of the fact that the applicant, who had had no bodily injuries prior to his arrest by the police (as confirmed by i., a. and pan.20.  on 13 november 2007 the regional court quashed the judgment of 9 october 2007 on appeal and remitted the matter for fresh examination by a different bench.22.  following an appeal by the district prosecutor on 20 december 2007 the regional court quashed the judgment of 29 november 2007 on appeal and referred the matter again for fresh examination by a different bench.the court found that the investigator had rightly come to the conclusion that there had been no objective information confirming the applicant’s allegation of ill-treatment by the police officer, p., and that the above-mentioned conclusion had been reached on the basis of comprehensive evidence.
the municipal authorities reclaimed the flats, and the applicants’ title to the real property in question was annulled.5.  in 1977 a number of flats in a residential building located at 15-3 ulitsa tsyurupy, moscow, were assigned by the city of moscow to the ministry of communications.in 1991 the flats were transferred to the rostelekom open joint stock company, the ministry’s successor.6.  in 2008-2009 a group of people, including a police officer, a lawyer, a notary and several rostelekom employees, forged documents pertaining to three flats located at 15-3 ulitsa tsyurupy, moscow, showing that the flats were owned by private individuals and, following their deaths, were inherited by their “heirs”.8.  on 7 december 2012 the housing department of the city of moscow (the “housing department”) was recognised as a victim of the crime.the court established, inter alia, that the defendants had forged the documents and had had unlawfully registered the flats as private property to the detriment of the city of moscow.the court invalidated the transactions in respect of the flats and the applicants’ title to the flats and ordered their eviction.the court applied the domestic law provisions which allowed the owner to recover its property from a bona fide purchaser if the said property left the owner’s possession against its will.the court considered that the city of moscow had not had intent to divest itself of the flats and had a right to recover the stolen flats from the applicants.14.  the moscow city court upheld the judgments of the district court on appeal.4919/16), the city court discerned no evidence in the material of the case file that would substantiate her claim that she had bought the flat in good faith.the city court took into account that she had bought the flat a month and a half after the previous transaction and that the purchase price of the flat had been obviously lower than its market value.in the city court’s view, ms titova, if having acted with due care and diligence, should have had doubts as to the legitimacy of seller’s title and sale of the flat.15.  subsequently, the city court refused to grant the applicants leave to bring a cassation appeal against the judgments in their respective cases.16.  according to the government, the applicants were not evicted and continue to reside in the flats.
4.  the applicant was born in 1980 in abakan, the khakassiya republic.5.  the applicant stood accused of theft and murder.on 22 november 2004 the sayanogorsk town court in khakassiya fixed, in the hearing held without the applicant’s attendance, the opening date for the trial and ordered an extension of his pre-trial detention.on 2 december 2004 the applicant was convicted and given a custodial sentence.6.  on 22 march 2005 the constitutional court held, in unrelated proceedings, that the provisions of the code of criminal procedure ought to be interpreted as guaranteeing the right of the defendant to take part in the hearing where the matter of detention was decided, to make submissions to the court and to produce evidence (judgment no.4-p, point 4 of the operative part).7.  on 8 august 2013 the presidium of the supreme court of the khakassiya republic quashed the town court’s decision of 22 november 2004 in the part relating to the detention matter.referring to the case-law of the constitutional court, it found that the district court had unlawfully extended the applicant’s detention without giving him an opportunity to take part in the hearing or to make submissions to the court.8.  the applicant sued the ministry of finance, seeking compensation for the unlawful detention from 22 november to 2 december 2004. by judgment of 16 september 2013, as upheld on appeal on 27 november 2013, the abakan town court rejected his claim, holding that he was not eligible for compensation in respect of pre-trial detention because he had been found guilty and given a custodial sentence.
11.  on 11 march 2014 the applicant applied to the izmaylovskiy district court of moscow (“the district court”) for a residence order in respect of the children.15.  on 17 november 2014 the sunzhenskiy district bailiffs’ service in the republic of ingushetiya refused to institute enforcement proceedings since the debtor, r.m., resided in moscow.17.  on 2 february 2015 the enforcement proceedings were transferred to the sunzhenskiy district bailiffs’ service in the republic of ingushetiya.18.  on 12 february 2015 the applicant challenged the lawfulness of the above-mentioned decision before the district court.20.  meanwhile, on 23 march, 2 april, 14 april and 16 april 2015 a bailiff from the sunzhenskiy district bailiffs’ service tried to enforce the judgment of 25 june 2014 without success: on 23 march and 16 april 2015 due to the emotional state of the children, on 2 april 2015 because the children were outside the territory of the republic of ingushetiya, and on 14 april 2015 because the applicant was absent.21.  on 24 april 2015 the applicant challenged in court the lawfulness of the bailiffs’ actions during the attempt to return the children to her on 16 april 2015, in particular: involvement of the wrong district childcare authority in the enforcement, refusal of a request by her to have the enforcement filmed, refusal to examine an objection by her concerning a psychologist participating in the enforcement, delay in notification of the enforcement, establishment during the enforcement of the applicant’s son’s preferences as to his future living arrangements, as well as the bailiffs’ inaction resulting in the failure to secure enforcement of the judgment of 25 june 2014.22.  on 11 june 2015 the magasskiy district court of the republic of ingushetiya found the bailiffs’ actions during the attempt to return the children to the applicant on 16 april 2015 to be unlawful.24.  meanwhile, according to the government, on 16 june, 5 july, an unspecified date in july, 15 july and 17 august 2015 a bailiff from the sunzhenskiy district bailiffs’ service informed the applicant that the enforcement was scheduled for 22 june, 6 july, 13 july, 27 july and 19 august 2015 respectively.took the children to the premises of the sunzhenskiy district bailiffs’ service.27.  on 17 september 2015 the enforcement file was returned to the izmaylovskiy district bailiffs’ service in moscow pursuant to the decision of the district court of 8 april 2015 (see paragraph 19 above).33.  on the same day the chief bailiff of the izmaylovskiy district bailiffs’ service imposed an administrative fine on r.m.34.  on 14 january 2016 the commission for the affairs of minors and the protection of their rights of the severnoye izmaylovo district in moscow imposed an administrative fine on r.m.35.  on the same day the bailiff temporarily restricted r.m.’s travel in view of his failure to comply with the judgment of 25 june 2014, and ordered him to pay the imposed administrative fines.was invited to the bailiffs’ office on 19 january 2016 to provide explanations for his reluctance to comply with the judgment of 25 june 2014, and was ordered to comply by 20 january 2016.40.  according to the government, on 5 may 2016 the bailiff informed the applicant that the enforcement was scheduled for 10 a.m. on 19 may 2016 at the children’s place of residence in the republic of ingushetiya.
5.  the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in bălți.6.  on 5 february 2011 at 1.30 p.m. the applicant was arrested on suspicion of trafficking in human beings and placed in detention for a period of seventy-two hours, which is the maximum duration of detention under the moldovan law before a detainee is brought before a judge.7.  on 8 february 2011 at 10.20 a.m. the prosecutor applied to a judge for the applicant’s remand in custody and at 2 p.m. the applicant was brought before a judge, who ordered his remand in custody for thirty days.it is not clear at what time the decision was adopted, but there is a handwritten note on it which states it had been presented to the applicant at 3.50 p.m., followed by the applicant’s signature.8.  the applicant appealed against the above decision and argued, inter alia, that the detention which had taken place before the court’s decision of 8 february 2011 had been longer than seventy-two hours, which was the maximum duration provided for by law.he also submitted that he had not been given access to the materials in the case-file relied upon by the prosecutor when requesting his remand in custody.9.  on 17 february 2011 the bălți court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal.the court did not pay attention to the applicant’s allegation that he had no access to the materials in the case-file.10.  on 5 march 2011 the prosecutor in charge of the case applied to a judge for a prolongation of the applicant’s detention for another thirty days.he ordered the applicant’s detention until 6 march 2011.11.  on an unspecified date, the same judge issued a new decision rectifying the date of the validity of the applicant’s order for remand in custody from 6 march to 6 april 2011. the applicant appealed.12.  on 16 march 2011 the bălți court of appeal upheld the applicant’s appeal and quashed the decision of the lower court, after having found that the second decision modifying the date from 6 march to 6 april 2011 had not been taken in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the code of criminal procedure.the court found therefore that the applicant’s detention had been unlawful since 6 march and ordered his immediate release.13.  it appears from the materials contained in the case file that the applicant has been convicted at first instance and that the proceedings are still pending before the bălți court of appeal.according to the information provided by the parties, the applicant is currently wanted by the authorities.
the event had been approved by the city authorities in the form of a march followed by a meeting at bolotnaya square which was supposed to end at 7.30 p.m. the march was peaceful and held without any disruptions, but when the marchers arrived at bolotnaya square it transpired that barriers installed by the police had narrowed the entrance to the meeting venue, allegedly restricting the space allocated for the meeting.8.  on the same day the moscow city department of the investigative committee of the russian federation opened criminal proceedings to investigate suspected acts of mass disorder and violence against the police (articles 212 § 2 and 318 § 1 of the criminal code).on 9 june 2012 he was arrested on suspicion of having participated in acts of mass disorder and of using violence against the police during the demonstration of 6 may 2012. on the same day the basmannyy district court of moscow ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention until 9 august 2012. it referred to the gravity of the charges and information about the applicant’s personality.on the same day the district court found that the circumstances that had justified the detention order had not changed and extended the applicant’s detention until 6 november 2012. on 5 september 2012 the moscow city court upheld that decision.15.  on 2 november 2012 the basmannyy district court authorised a further extension of the applicant’s detention until 6 march 2013. it reiterated the grounds given in the previous extension orders and stated that the circumstances justifying the detention order had not changed.the investigator considered that the use of force by the police had been justified by the behaviour of the protesters, including the applicant, who had actively resisted their arrest and thrown various objects at the police officers.along with the gravity of the charges, the court based its decision on the findings that “the reasons which initially warranted the detention have not changed” and that “no other measures of restraint would secure the aims and goals of the judicial proceedings”.however, the district court did not consider that guarantee and ordered that the applicant and his co-defendants be detained until 24 february 2014 on the grounds of gravity of the charges and the nature of the offences imputable to them.they also agreed that the size of the cells and the number of detainees had allowed the applicant four square metres of personal space and that the applicant had had an individual sleeping place in every cell.29.  the applicant’s description of the conditions of detention during his transfer from the remand prison to court and back, and the government’s submissions in that regard, were identical to those in the case of yaroslav belousov (cited above, §§ 69-73).it held, in particular, as follows: “between 4 p.m. and 8 p.m. on 6 may 2012 ... at bolotnaya square ... unidentified persons ... called those present [at the venue] to move outside the agreed meeting venue, to defy the lawful orders of the police ..., to use violence ... which led to mass disorder accompanied by the use of violence against public officials in connection with the performance of their duties [and] the destruction of property.on the same day at 5 p.m. at the latest [the defendants] acquired the criminal intent to participate in mass disorder and to use violence against ... police officers ... moreover ... the participants of the acts of mass disorder threw pieces of tarmac, stones, sticks and other objects at the police ... which hit them on various parts of their body, and [the defendants] ... [who] participated in the acts of mass disorder ... implemented their criminal intent to use violence against public officials ... applied physical force which was not a danger to the life or health of those [officials] ... between 5.05 p.m. and 10 p.m. [the applicant] ... shouted insulting slogans and used metal barriers to block the police’s movement ... thus preventing the arrest of the participants in the acts of mass disorder ... [the applicant], acting intentionally, at least three times threw stones and pieces of tarmac at police officers in a targeted manner ... and used violence against an unidentified police officer which did not endanger his life or health ... unidentified participants in the acts of mass disorder, acting intentionally, tore a protection helmet off an unidentified police officer’s head and punched and kicked him several times in the head and body, meanwhile [the applicant] ... punched this police officer at least once.[the applicant] ... used violence against police officer t. which did not endanger his life or health ... ... unidentified participants of the acts of mass disorder intentionally tore off [t.’s] protection helmet, which [t.] continued to hold in his hands, and punched him in the head and body, whereupon [the applicant] intentionally grabbed [t.’s] uniform and ... snatched the helmet from his hands.... the court considers the [defendants’] arguments that they were protecting somebody from police officers or happened to be victims of the police’s use of force as farfetched and aimed at mitigating their responsibility ...” 36.  the applicant was sentenced to three years and six months’ imprisonment, calculated on the basis of a three-year prison term under article 212 § 2 of the criminal code, partly concurrent with a term of one year under article 318 § 1. the applicant’s pre-trial detention counted towards the prison sentence.the applicant was invited to return the completed application form within eight weeks of receipt of the court’s letter but no later than 21 march 2013. as no further correspondence had been received from the applicant, on 28 august 2013 the registry of the court asked him whether he was still being represented by mr d. and reminded him to return the completed application form.
blasphemy against the state religion – pages 10 and 17 5.  reference to the abduction, sexual assault and murder of children – page 36 in conclusion, the play is a sinister tapestry of violence and perversion where the sum of the parts is greater than the whole.the board feels that in this case the envelope has been pushed beyond the limits of public decency.” 14.  on 2 february 2009 the applicants filed a judicial protest against the chairperson, in her personal capacity and as chairperson of the board, the commissioner of police and the attorney general claiming that the actions of the board were illegal in so far as they constituted a violation of article 39 of the maltese constitution and article 10 of the convention.21.  during these proceedings the court heard several witnesses which it classified as (i) those who acted in the play and had thus read the script and performed it in rehearsals, (ii) persons who watched the rehearsals but did not read the script and (iii) the defendants who read the script but did not watch the rehearsal.he, however, explained that there were instances, such as the one in the present case, where the script was so objectionable, that he did not feel the need to watch it, since the two elements which he objected to (the words concerning auschwitz and the passage about fred and rose mary west) would always remain objectionable, no matter the way in which they were presented, be it a tragedy or a comedy.for the purposes of the present case, the applicants were complaining of a human rights violation, and therefore an action for judicial review could not be an effective remedy in so far as it could not award the relevant damage, and could not order that the performance go ahead irrespective of the ban.indeed the specific scenes referred to, as well as other parts of the play, were an affront to the dignity of the individual, which was an integral part of the civil and moral fabric (tessut) of the country.as problematic as the relationship of the couple might have been, one could not make extensive use of vulgar, obscene and blasphemous language to highlight perversions, vilify (ikasbar) the right to life and the right to freedom from inhuman and degrading treatment, and vilify the respect towards a woman’s dignity.in the court’s view, the stitching of a vagina as an act of sexual pleasure, bestiality, the depravity arising from the thought of a woman eating another woman’s excrement, the pleasure obtained in raping children, the murder of children and sexual intercourse with parents of violated and murdered children, were unacceptable even in a democratic society.no matter how the text of the play is looked at, it runs aground on the reef of the inalienable dignity of the human person, and the court understands that this was the underlying reason for the board’s decision.” 43.  the court rejected their complaint under article 6 on the basis that the proper procedure had been undertaken, the applicants had been free to put forward their views in their request for reconsideration, which was carried out by another person [not present at first-instance] and no bias had been shown.44.  the applicants appealed the first-instance judgment only in so far as it concerned the merits of their complaints, and asked the constitutional court to confirm the judgment in so far as it related to the second applicant’s victim status.46.  as to the constitutional and conventional complaint raised by the applicants, the constitutional court held that the existence of the board did not breach any of the applicants’ rights, and indeed the applicants had not impugned the law establishing the board.both the convention and the constitution provided for inter alia the protection of morals and the reputation and rights of others, and the maltese constitution also included public decency, in the relevant provision.however, the manner in which religious beliefs and doctrines are opposed or denied is a matter which may engage the responsibility of the state, notably its responsibility to ensure the peaceful enjoyment of the right guaranteed under article 9 to the holders of those beliefs and doctrines.” 49.  in its view the limits of decency had been breached due to the blasphemy which was an offence under maltese law and to the vilification of the dignity of a people, of a woman, of children, and of the human being, as well as the extreme glorification of sexual perversion.the court emphasized that the production despised the dignity of the individual, in particular sectors, such as women and children, whether because of their nationality or religion, and opined that even though the main characters were acting in this way because of tension, pressure and depression, such contempt could not be justified as art.50.  recalling that it was the duty of the state to protect the morality of the country, the constitutional court considered that the board had fulfilled its duty.
5.  according to the applicant, on 7 february 1999 the administrative authorities of the leninskiy district of grozny provided her with a housing allocation order no.in particular, the order did not correspond to the date on which it had been issued and the impress of a seal on the order had been made with the help of an improvised cliché which in its turn had been made with a help of a computer on the basis of an impress of the authentic seal.8.  upon receipt of this information the administration of grozny brought court proceedings against the applicant seeking to declare the allocation order of 7 february 1999 null and void and to evict her from the flat in question.she submitted that the administration had issued her with the housing allocation order because she had been on the housing list and she was subsequently registered as living in that flat.she had not been aware of the fact that the order had not been printed in the printing office.10.  the administration of the leninskiy district of grozny asked to grant the claims submitted by the administration of grozny.the administration could not say whether the order had been in fact delivered to the applicant, since the archives had not been preserved.842 was issued on 7 february 1999. that would mean that 842 orders were issued from the beginning of 1999 until 7 february 1999. however, the administration of the leninskiy district could not deliver such a number of housing allocation orders during one month.11.  on 24 february 2009 the leninskiy district court of grozny (“the district court”) declared the housing allocation order of 7 february 1999 null and void and issued an order to evict the applicant.in particular, the district court held as follows: “...it follows from the materials of the case that the housing allocation order no.the impress of a seal of the leninskiy district of grozny [on the order] had been made with the help of an improvised cliché which in its turn had been made with a help of a computer on the basis of an impress of the authentic seal.those circumstances follow from the content of the statement of claim, parties’ submissions in the court, they have not been contested by the parties and are confirmed by evidence submitted [to the court].the request by the administration of grozny for restauration of the three-year time-limit for lodging of their claim for declaring the order null should be granted.the court has assessed the whole of evidence submitted by the parties and finds that it is possible to grant the claimant’s claim...” 12.  in her appeal against the judgment of 24 february 2009 the applicant submitted that in taking the decision to evict her the district court had not examined whether she had been in need of housing or not.the impress of a seal of the leninskiy district of grozny [on the order] had been made with the help of an improvised cliché which in its turn had been made with a help of a computer on the basis of an impress of the authentic seal... ... having regards to the above, the court of first instance had concluded that the claims submitted by the administration of grozny had to be granted.
6.  the first applicant, dimitrios zabelos, was detained in the prison hospital from 6 march 2014 until 17 june 2015, when he made use of the remedy provided for by article 110a of the criminal code.7.  the second applicant, adriatik berberaj, was detained in the prison hospital from 6 april 2010 until 21 january 2011 and from 7 february 2012 until 1 july 2015, the date on which he was released following use of the remedy provided for by section 12 of law no.8.  the third applicant, dimitrios berberidis, was detained in the prison hospital on 6 december 2012 and was released on 11 june 2015 following use of the remedy provided for by section 12 of law no.9.  the fourth applicant, pola honein, was detained in the prison hospital from 18 december 2012 until 1 july 2015. he was released after having made use of the remedy provided for by article 110a of the criminal code.10.  the fifth applicant, theodoros iliopoulos, was detained in the prison hospital from 8 january 2013 until 2 june 2015, the date on which he was released following use of the remedy provided for by section 12 of law no.11.  the sixth applicant, marouf kamoli, was detained in the prison hospital from 30 december 2013 until 19 may 2015, the date on which he was released following use of the remedy provided by section 11 of law no.16.  the eleventh applicant, saeed hamo moradyan, was detained in the prison hospital from 8 february 2013 until 27 january 2016, the date on which he was released on the basis of section 12 of law no.17.  the twelfth applicant, antonios oikonomakos, was detained in the prison hospital from 27 november 2013 until 30 september 2015, when he was released, having served one tenth of his sentence, on the basis of section 12 of law no.21.  the sixteenth applicant, dimitrios samlidis, was detained in the prison hospital from 8 july 2014 until 26 february 2015, when he was released, after having made use of the remedy provided for by article 110a of the criminal code.23.  the eighteenth applicant, chrisovalantis tsiriklos, was detained in the prison hospital from 4 july 2013 until 8 july 2015, when he was released after having made use of the remedy provided for by article 110a of the criminal code.27.  the applicants acknowledged that the conditions of their detention had improved in mid-2016 and that the medical-staff numbers had increased, resulting in conditions which met the requirements of article 3 of the convention but only for the period after june 2016.29.  according to the government, the prison hospital’s official capacity was sixty patients and at the time of the applicants’ detention the hospital had held between 180 and 220 patients.specifically as regards the applicants, some of them had been detained in wards 7 and 8 on the first floor of the hospital and some others in wards 1, 2 and 3 on the second floor.33.  according to the government, detainees were not obliged to spend all day in the wards; on the contrary, they could move along the corridors and spend time in the yard.the government specified that all the above-mentioned improvements had made the prison hospital a detention facility significantly different to the image given in the greek ombudsman’s (συνήγορος του πολίτη) report, which had been prepared on the basis of a visit in february 2012, that is to say on a date that had no relevance to the present case.
7.  on 10 march 2010 the oslo city court (tingrett), finding that there were reasonable grounds for suspicion (skjellig grunn til mistanke) in respect of the charges, decided at the request of the prosecuting authority to authorise that a search be carried out at the applicant’s premises, including his office.12.  by a letter of 16 february 2011 the applicant’s lawyer disputed the lawfulness of what he categorised as the “seizure” (“beslag”), arguing that there had been no reasonable grounds for suspicion against the applicant and requested that the city court quash the “seizure” decision and order that the collected material be returned to him.14.  in response to the letter from the applicant’s lawyer of 16 february 2011 (see paragraph 12 above), the city court wrote a letter of 11 may 2011, pointing out that the procedure applicable to material allegedly covered by legal professional privilege had been set out by the supreme court (høyesterett) in its decision of 3 march 2011, reported in norsk retstidende (rt.)no seizure had been decided – the court was at the time carrying out the task of reviewing the material collected in order to decide on what should be made available to the prosecuting authority for it to search.the city court would obtain the views of the parties in a hearing before making a formal decision as to whether to authorise the search of the prosecution.it also reiterated its disagreement with the applicant’s view that before carrying out its perusal of the material it ought to consider anew whether there were reasonable grounds for suspicion against him, failing which its examination of the material would be unlawful, and that in the absence of such grounds it ought to return all the material to him with the seals intact.18.  the high court, as had the city court, reiterated that the relevant procedure for the search and seizure of material allegedly subject to legal professional privilege had been thoroughly examined by the supreme court in rt.19.  from the above it was apparent, in the high court’s view, that the applicant was not at that stage of the procedure entitled to have the question of whether to maintain the “seizure” in force (spørsmålet om opprettholdelse av beslaget) under article 208 reviewed (see paragraph 37 below), and it could not see how him disputing the existence of reasonable grounds for suspicion in his case could lead to a different result.nor could the high court find that there were other grounds, even if regard were had to articles 6, 8, 10 and 13 of the convention, as invoked by the applicant, suggesting that the accused had a wider right to judicial review in cases where he or she disputed the grounds for suspicion.20.  the high court also noted that the code of criminal procedure contained several provisions conferring on the accused a right to judicial review in respect of enforcement measures taken in the form of search and seizure, inter alia could a decision by a court to the effect that documents were to be handed over to the prosecution authorities after perusal of the documents in accordance with article 204 (see paragraph 37 below) – which was what the city court was doing at the time – be appealed against.24.  on 20 december 2011 the appeals leave committee of the supreme court (høyesteretts ankeutvalg), whose jurisdiction was limited to reviewing the high court’s procedure and interpretation of the law, rejected the applicant’s appeal in both respects.30.  the applicant appealed against the decision to the high court, which on 8 january 2013 ordered that the mirror copies were to be returned to the applicant unless the prosecuting authority promptly (relativt omgående) requested that the city court examine them.it quashed the high court’s decision in order for that court to further assess the prosecuting authority’s submissions that the copies should instead be kept with the city court, as the high court had not sufficiently considered that possibility.33.  when, on 20 may 2014, the high court contacted the prosecuting authority, its decision concerning the mirror copies having been quashed by the supreme court (see paragraph 31 above), the authority responded by informing the high court of the developments in the criminal case against the applicant (see paragraph 35 below).the applicant argued that the case should not be dismissed and requested that the high court examine the merits of his application to have the mirror copies returned, in order for him to have a judicial review of whether his convention rights had been violated.
the second applicant is the former spouse of the first applicant and the third and the fourth applicants are their children.the first, the third and the fourth applicants live in lviv.5.  in august 2001 the second applicant, a military officer at the material time, was provided with a two-room flat for himself and his family in an accommodation hall owned by the lviv military academy.since 2001 (and as at the time of the observations exchanges between the parties), the household was paying the relevant maintenance charges and other tenancy-related fees, which were calculated on the premise that the flat was occupied by four persons.the dismissal order stipulated that he was eligible for priority allocation of social housing from the waiting list managed by the ministry of defence.7.  in 2005 the first and the second applicant divorced and the first applicant and her children were placed on the waiting list for social housing managed by the municipal authority.he referred, essentially, to the fact that the accommodation hall belonged to the military academy and was designed for the temporary housing of military personnel.meanwhile, none of the applicants had any connection to the military or the military academy, which owned the building.it found that the applicants had lawfully obtained the tenancy in connection with the second applicant’s previous military service.regard being had to the applicable legal provisions concerning the social protection of former military officers and their families, they could not be evicted from the accommodation hall without first being provided with other housing.in addition to that, the fourth applicant had still been a minor at the material time, and further legislation applicable to the protection of minors warranted the protection of her housing rights.10.  following an appeal by the prosecutor, on 17 september 2013 the lviv regional court of appeal quashed this judgment and ordered the applicants’ eviction.this fact extinguished the applicability of the legal provisions cited by the first-instance court concerning the social protection of retired military officers, their families and minors.lastly, the applicants referred to the judgment of the european court of human rights in the case of kryvitska and kryvitskyy v. ukraine (no.30856/03, judgment of 2 december 2010), and alleged that their eviction would be in breach of the principles established in that judgment, according to which the courts had to assess whether the eviction was necessary in a democratic society.
8.  on 21 july 1998 the applicant addressed a letter (kërkesë) to the kavaja district court (“the district court”) and the kavaja district prosecutor (“the district prosecutor”), stating that he had engaged a., a lawyer, to represent him before the district prosecutor during the investigation and during the trial proceedings.10.  on an unspecified date the two other co-accused and the prosecutor appealed against the district court’s decision of 1 november 1999.it appears that the applicant was not informed of the appeals of the two other co-accused and the prosecutor, but apparently a. was so informed.12.  on 28 february 2000 the durrës court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) quashed the district court’s decision and remitted the case for re‑examination.13.  on 21 april 2000 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s appeal lodged by a. against the durrës court of appeal decision of 28  february 2000.15.  on 10 september 2001 and 14 december 2001 the court of appeal and the supreme court, respectively, upheld the decision of 26 december 2000. the applicant had been represented in those proceedings by a new, court-appointed lawyer.it appears from the supreme court’s decision of 9 july 2010 (see paragraph 18 below) and the constitutional court’s decision of 25 february 2011 (see paragraph 21 below) that an application for review was rejected by the supreme court.18.  on 4 november 2005, 29 september 2006 and 9 july 2010 respectively, the district court and the court of appeal dismissed, and the supreme court rejected, his application.the domestic courts held that the applicant should have known of the proceedings as he had been represented by a lawyer of his own choosing, a., who had been informed of the prosecutor’s appeal, and as his mother had appointed a lawyer to make an application for review.19.  judge a.h., who had been a member of the district court’s bench that had delivered the judgment of 26 december 2000, also sat in the district court’s bench of 4 november 2005 that dismissed the applicant’s application.and sh.m., who had been members of the court  of  appeal’s bench that on 10 september 2001 had upheld the decision of 26 december 2000, also sat in the court of appeal’s bench that dismissed his appeal on 29 september 2006.20.  on an unspecified date the applicant, represented by his lawyer, lodged a constitutional complaint in respect of the alleged unfairness of the proceedings in absentia and the lack of impartiality of the district court and the court of appeal.21.  on 16 march 2011 the applicant’s lawyer was informed of the constitutional court’s decision of 25 february 2011 to dismiss the applicant’s constitutional appeal.the constitutional court, noting that a. and the applicant’s mother had had knowledge of the trial proceedings, stated that there had been no exceptional circumstances which had prevented the applicant from attending the proceedings in person.it did not examine the applicant’s claim about the impartiality of the district court and the court of appeal
5.  the united civil aviation trade union (“the first applicant”) is a trade union registered in budapest.6.  on 12 october 2012 the second applicant applied to the budapest police department for authorisation to hold a demonstration on the road leading to budapest ferenc liszt international airport.he stated that the demonstration would be held on the hard shoulder of the road, which was not ordinarily used for traffic.the declared objectives of the demonstration were, inter alia, to draw the public’s attention to the precarious financial situation in which the employees of the airport would find themselves if salary cuts envisaged by the company managing the airport were carried out.the event was scheduled to be held between 3 p.m. and 5 p.m. on 17 october 2012. the second applicant also specified that it was expected that about fifty to 100 persons would participate in the event and that it was intended that speeches would be given and that an open letter would be read out.7.  on 14 october 2012 the budapest police department registered the application and informed the second applicant that, in order to clarify details regarding the programme of the demonstration and the number of police officers that would be required to secure the event, it was necessary to schedule a meeting with the organisers.8.  the second applicant and the vice-president of the united civil aviation trade union met with the representatives of the monor police department on the same day.the representative of the police department suggested that the demonstration be held at another location, since the planned venue would endanger traffic.the second applicant assured the police that the demonstrators would respect traffic rules, would only occupy the part of the road not used for traffic and would distribute flyers to car passengers, and that the organisers would call off or halt the demonstration if it was not in compliance with the relevant legal provisions.9.  on 14 october 2012 the monor police department forbade the demonstration.it was of the view that the planned demonstration would endanger traffic and would render the airport inaccessible, infringing passengers’ right to leave the country.in any event, the demonstration would breach the traffic code, since those parts of the road not used for traffic were not supposed to be accessed by pedestrians or be used for parking.10.  on 17 october 2012 the applicants requested judicial review of the decision, relying on their right to freedom of expression and to freedom of assembly.they argued that a demonstration could only be forbidden on the grounds of a need to ensure traffic safety if there were no alternative means of access to the airport.11.  by a decision of 19 october 2012 the budapest surroundings high court (budapest környéki törvényszék) dismissed their complaint, endorsing in essence the police department’s reasoning (see paragraph 9 above).
7.  on 30 december 2011 the applicant applied to the pensions and disability insurance institute of the republic of slovenia (“the institute”) for a disability allowance in respect of a physical impairment (nadomestilo za invalidnost – hereinafter “disability allowance”).8.  on 12 march 2012 the first-instance disability commission of the institute, located in nova gorica, issued a report to the effect that the applicant was not suffering from any physical impairment stipulated in the self-management agreement on the list of physical impairments (samoupravni sporazum o seznamu telesnih okvar – hereinafter “the list”; see paragraph 22 below).the commission – composed of an occupational medicine specialist, an orthopaedic specialist and a physical medicine and rehabilitation physician – based its opinion on an examination of the medical records submitted by the applicant and a clinical examination of the applicant.9.  on 15 march 2012 the nova gorica unit of the institute, relying on the opinion of the first-instance disability commission, dismissed the applicant’s application for a disability allowance.10.  on 15 may 2012 the second-instance disability commission of the institute, located in ljubljana, composed of an occupational medicine specialist and an orthopaedic specialist, examined the applicant’s medical file and again issued a report to the effect that no physical impairment stipulated in the list could be found.11.  on 7 june 2012 the central office of the institute, referring to the conclusions of the second-instance disability commission, dismissed the applicant’s appeal.12.  on 12 july 2012 the applicant initiated court proceedings against the institute before the ljubljana labour and social court seeking the annulment of the above-mentioned decisions taken by the institute, arguing that the facts had been wrongly established, and that the procedure had not been properly conducted.after taking into account the documents in the file and the hearing of the applicant, the court found that the institute had correctly established the facts.referring to the findings of the disability commissions and its own direct observation of the applicant at the hearing, it concluded that the impairment to the applicant’s health did not amount to a physical impairment within the meaning of the law.she argued that the impairment to both of her arms, her psychological illness and her headaches meant that the normal functioning of her organism was inhibited and that she had to exert greater efforts in order to perform daily tasks; that the list, which was out of date, could not possibly contain a complete list of all illnesses and injuries; that the first-instance court should not have relied on the opinions of the disability commissions and a doctor (opinions which the applicant had disputed); that the first-instance court should have appointed a medical expert, as requested by the applicant; that the applicant could not have explained all her medical issues at the hearing and that the court had not been in a position to assess the flexibility of her arms.it also found that the refusal of the applicant’s request for the appointment of an expert had not undermined the legality of the decision as that decision would not have been any different had an expert been appointed.the higher labour and social court further found the following: “a court in a judicial social dispute ... assesses the correctness and lawfulness of the impugned administrative decisions [in question] and having regard to the dispute of the full jurisdiction [the court] when quashing [the administrative decisions] alone decides on the merits.within the context of the judicial review of the administrative decisions [the court] is of course not obliged to accept evidence [submitted by] a forensic medical expert if the expert opinions of the disability commissions at first and second instance allow for the conclusion that the negative administrative decisions are correct and lawful because they are based on an assessment by both commissions which is convincing in view of the available medical documentation and the report of [the relevant] medical examination.such a procedural situation is found in the present case, because in the opinion of the appeal court the expert bodies in the pre-judicial administrative proceedings correctly determined that the applicant had no physical impairment.” 17.  the court furthermore found that physical impairments could not be determined contrary to what was provided in the list.the higher labour and social court agreed with the court of first instance that the disability commissions in the pre-judicial administrative proceedings had made the right assessment when concluding that the applicant had not suffered from any physical impairment.
6.  on 9 july 2002, following proceedings in absentia, the gjirokastër district court convicted the applicant of attempted armed robbery, negligent homicide and premeditated murder in relation to another criminal offence, and sentenced him to twenty-five years’ imprisonment.7.  on 7 october 2002, following an appeal by the three other defendants, the gjirokastër court of appeal upheld the decision in the applicant’s absence.8.  on 10 october 2007, upon the applicant’s extradition to albania, the district court accepted his application for leave to appeal out of time.the district court stated in its reasoning that the postal service had noted that the applicant was living in italy and that as a consequence he had not been aware of his conviction.in the first place, he requested that his case be re-examined separately from that of his co-defendants on the grounds that he had not sought the use of the summary procedure.thirdly, he maintained that the authorities had failed to inform him about the judicial proceedings before the first-instance court.10.  on 17 december 2007 the gjirokastër court of appeal upheld the applicant’s conviction in absentia.the court ruled that the applicant had not put forward new evidence to change the outcome of those proceedings.in upholding the conviction, the court relied on forensic evidence produced in 1997 and 1999 and on witness statements made in 2001 and 2002. the court further stated that the applicant had been duly informed as the authorities had issued a public notice.it finally noted that the summary procedure had been applied equally to all the defendants in accordance with the supreme court’s unifying decision of 29 january 2003 (see “relevant domestic case law below”).11.  on an unspecified date the applicant lodged an appeal against the court of appeal’s decision.he stressed the fact that in his appeal to the court of appeal he had asked for evidence to be obtained, including an identification parade, the questioning of a fourth person who had been present at the events, a face-to face confrontation between himself and the other co-defendants and so on.the applicant also maintained the other complaints he had raised in his court of appeal case.12.  on 5 march 2010 the supreme court dismissed the appeal, finding that it lacked any grounds of appeal as prescribed by law.14.  on 9 may 2011 the applicant’s lawyer was notified of the constitutional court’s decision that his appeal was inadmissible.
6.  the applicant was born in qesarat, tepelenë, in 1977. he is currently serving a prison sentence.7.  on 14 january and 10 november 2005, following proceedings in absentia, the gjirokastër district court and the court of appeal, respectively, convicted the applicant of attempted theft resulting in death in collusion with others and sentenced him to seventeen years’ imprisonment.that decision became final on 9 february 2007 after the supreme court dismissed an appeal by the applicant’s lawyer.it appears that the applicant was represented by a lawyer appointed by his family throughout the court proceedings.8.  it appears that on 30 march 2007 the applicant was extradited from greece to albania.9.  on 3 may 2007 the gjirokastër district court allowed a request by the applicant to appeal out of time and he lodged an appeal against his conviction in absentia.10.  on 12 november 2007 the gjirokaster court of appeal while requalifying the charges against the applicant on the basis of the evidence obtained during the proceedings in absentia, upheld the applicant’s conviction, ruling that it had become res judicata.11.  by a final decision of 7 october 2009 the supreme court upheld the applicant’s conviction as decided in the gjirokastër district court’s decision of 2005, ruling that it had become res judicata and that the facts and law in the case had been examined previously.it further noted that leave to appeal out of time should not have been granted as the case had become res  judicata.12.  on 21 february 2011 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal with the constitutional court against the supreme court’s decision, complaining, inter alia, about the fact that the domestic courts had not given him the possibility of a fresh factual and legal determination of the criminal charge.13.  on 9 may 2011 the applicant’s lawyer was notified of the constitutional court’s decision to dismiss his appeal.
720/95 of 8 august 1995 provided for a programme of gradual reform of the caes through the issuance to their current and former members of shares of land, that is to say land entitlements in the form of shares of the whole land mass of the cae expressed as a number of hectares but without a specific physical location or defined boundaries.in particular, according to the transcript, at the opening of the debate member of parliament v. asadchev expressed his concern that, if rules of the code concerning the transfer of land into private hands were to be adopted, this would create a few large landowners (десять латифундистів) and transform the rest of the population into hired agricultural labour (батраки).in presenting the draft code for the vote, ms k. vashchuk, chairwoman of the parliamentary committee for land affairs and agriculture, stated that, in order to address concerns such as those expressed by the mp, the draft suspended the operation of all provisions concerning the sale of land until 2005, until laws on the creation of a land cadastre, land registration and others were passed and a state land bank was established.date of the law end date of the ban changes in the scope of the moratorium and other related changes summary of the reasons given in the explanatory note to the draft law 1 06/10/2004 01/01/2007 swap transactions involving land, including swaps of land for equity in companies, prohibited legislation governing the land market had not yet been developed by the cabinet of ministers; technical work was needed to prepare the administrations for processing land transactions.contracts and powers of attorney envisaging future (after expiry of the moratorium) transfers of land subject to the moratorium declared invalid legislation aimed at preventing circumvention of the moratorium through the issuance of powers of attorney by land owners to third parties authorising them to dispose of the land subject to the moratorium[4] 3 19/12/2006 01/01/2008 moratorium extended, in addition to land for commercial agricultural production, to individual smallholdings (see paragraph 18 above); any change of designated use of the land subject to the moratorium forbidden; swap transactions involving a swap of one land plot for another allowed again develop private land ownership, ensure the unrestricted exercise of owners’ rights, and ensure free circulation of land except in the cases provided for by law.change of designated use was allowed where land was allocated to an investor under a production-sharing agreement encourage investment under production-sharing agreements, particularly in the field of the exploration and extraction of hydrocarbons 10 20/11/2012 until entry into force of the cala, but not before 01/01/2016 the law extending the moratorium instructed the cabinet of ministers to produce the draft cala and submit it to parliament within six months.an “extension” of the moratorium was needed to develop an effective mechanism for sales and overseeing sales of land and to prevent possible abuses 11 10/11/2015 the same as in row 10, but not before 01/01/2017 the law extending the moratorium instructed the cabinet of ministers to produce the draft cala and submit it to parliament by 01/03/2016 lifting the moratorium in times of war and economic crisis would be a threat to national and food security and the threat of a loss of land, as an important national resource.in order to solve these and other problems created by the moratorium, the cala had to be passed and the land eventually introduced into circulation 12 06/10/2016 the same as in row 10, but not before 01/01/2018 draft cala to be submitted by 01/07/2017 apparently no such draft was submitted by the cabinet of ministers by this or the previously set deadlines, although two drafts of the cala were submitted in 2016 by certain mps (see paragraph 43 below) while the creation of a land market was a necessary element of the development of a market economy, the market had to be transparent and fair, competitive and efficient, and be able to prevent shadow transactions.the prohibition on the sale of agricultural land was a barrier for attracting investment in the agricultural sector since land could not be used as security for loans, but its lifting could not be the end in itself and needed to be thought of as a measure to encourage investment in the agricultural sector without, at the same time, leading to landlessness among the rural population[9] 22.  as at today’s date, the transitional provisions of the land code prohibit alienation in any form of most agricultural land, including of the categories owned by the applicants, except in cases of inheritance, swap transactions and expropriation for public use.[10] they invoked articles 13, 14, and 41 of the constitution set out above as well as articles 8 (the principle of the rule of law), 24 (non-discrimination), 42 (the right to enterprise), 48 (the right to a sufficient standard of living), and 64 (general provision concerning the restriction of constitutional rights) of the constitution.[16] 37.  coalition agreements of 22 june 2006 and 29 november 2007[17] and an action programme of the cabinet of ministers of 16 january 2008[18] stated, in nearly identical terms, that the coalition and government had the following priorities: creation of the conditions for the functioning of the land market (issuance of ownership certificates, demarcation of boundaries of plots of land, putting the land cadastre into operation, land valuations, introduction of the mechanism for land market regulation) and then revocation of the moratorium.38.  on 17 june 2009 the cabinet of ministers approved the outline of a state programme for the development of land relations until 2020. it noted a number of problems in land relations and listed a number of measures to resolve them, including the gradual introduction into circulation of land and rights to it and the creation and development of a land market.41.  on 3 july 2012, in his annual address to parliament on the state of the nation, the president of ukraine stated that that year, before revocation of the moratorium, a mechanism for the effective protection of the interests of agricultural producers and of food security of the country needed to be created and their effective functioning secured.i am asking you to set, i invite you to set, a specific date when all of this could be launched, even if not today.”[23] 43.  on 3 april 2017 the cabinet of ministers approved its mid-term action plan for up until 2020 and its priority action plan for 2017. the 2020 plan describes the continuing maintenance of the moratorium as one of the main problems in the agricultural sector that deprives a large number of ukrainian citizens of the opportunity to exercise their constitutional right to property and obstructs the development of the agricultural market.46.  although twenty-two of the thirty-two member states surveyed have undergone a land-reform programme since 1990 (armenia, azerbaijan, bosnia and herzegovina, croatia, the czech republic, estonia, finland, germany (after unification), greece, hungary, latvia, lithuania, the republic of moldova, montenegro, poland, romania, the russian federation, serbia, slovak republic, slovenia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia), none of those states have since that time imposed such a general ban, even though some used to impose time-limited restrictions on the resale of land acquired as a result of privatisation, for example three years in armenia and ten years in russia (according to pre‑2001 legislation).
12.  the first applicant initiated a procedure under the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction of 25 october 1980 (“the hague convention”) for the return of the second applicant to the czech republic.13.  in october 2009 the ivano-frankivsk regional department of justice, acting in the interests of the first applicant, lodged a claim with the ivano-frankivsk town court for the return of the second applicant to the czech republic, pursuant to the hague convention.14.  on 2 july 2010 the court granted the claim, finding that the removal of the second applicant from the czech republic and his retention in ukraine had been wrongful within the meaning of article 3 of the hague convention.19.  further to its earlier decision granting the parents alternating custody of the second applicant, the prague 10 district court reconsidered the matter in the light of new developments in the case, especially the child’s abduction by b., his retention in ukraine, and the first applicant’s lack of access to the child.the court noted that the judgment of 2 july 2010 ordering the return of the child had not been enforced, and found that the child had in the meantime settled in a new environment in ukraine.22.  the first applicant appealed against that decision, arguing that the ukrainian court did not have competence to determine the child’s place of residence because the custody rights had to be determined by the czech authorities.23.  on 6 march 2014 the ivano-frankivsk regional court of appeal upheld the decision of the first-instance court, finding that the child had settled in a new environment since his arrival in 2009 and that b. was entitled to bring that action in order to ensure the best interests of the child.25.  on 27 september 2010 the bailiffs of the halych district department of justice started proceedings to enforce the judgment ordering the return of the child and contacted the parties to that effect.29.  as b. and the child could not be found at their residence and the child’s whereabouts were unknown, the bailiffs requested that the court put the child on the search list and place him temporarily in care.however, on 29 september 2011 the ivano-frankivsk regional court of appeal examined an appeal lodged by b. and partly quashed that decision as regards the temporary placement of the child in care, considering – in view of the submissions by the local childcare authority – that such a measure would be excessive and detrimental to the child.31.  as b. and the child were not present at their address when the bailiffs made further visits, the bailiffs applied to the court to have them put on the search list and to have the child placed in temporary care.on 5 march 2012 the ivano-frankivsk town court refused to grant the requests, holding that the bailiffs had not taken sufficient steps to identify the whereabouts of b. and that the child was living in suitable conditions which made it unnecessary to place him in temporary care.the court heard b., who was present for the hearing and who informed the court that she and the child were living in kalush in a flat of suitable quality and that the child was still attending school no.33.  on 5 july 2012 the ivano-frankivsk town court refused to grant the bailiffs’ requests to put b. and the child on the search list and to place the child in temporary care.it found that the judgment of 2 july 2010 to return the child to czech republic did not include the requirement to remove the child from b., who was “the debtor” in the enforcement proceedings.
12.  consequently, following his request of 17 august 2012, by a decree of 22 august 2012, the court of magistrates granted the applicant bail subject to the following conditions: that he appears for all the scheduled hearings in the criminal proceedings; that he does not go abroad or abscond; that he does not contact or approach, directly nor indirectly, witnesses for the prosecution; that he does not commit a crime of a voluntary nature while released on bail; that he present himself at the district police station every day between eight a.m. and eight p.m.; that he be home not later than ten p.m. and that he does not leave home before six a.m. of the following day; that he inform the police of any change of address by not later than twelve hours of such a change; that he deposit by way of security the amount of 15,000 euros (eur) in the court registry; and that he undertake a personal guarantee of eur 25,000. in the event of any bail condition being breached, the entire amount of eur 40,000 would be forfeited in favour of the state.he requested the court to set a higher deposit reflecting the nature of the crimes with which the applicant was accused and to amend the conditions by disallowing the applicant to be in locality r. where the victim and her family resided.15.  by a decision of 7 september 2012 the criminal court, having examined the documents submitted by the applicant, rejected the attorney general’s request to increase the deposit but added the condition that the applicant could not be in the vicinity of locality r. it also rejected the applicant’s request considering that the court of magistrates had correctly applied its discretion.17.  on 10 october 2012 the attorney general objected to the applicant’s new request, noting that the applicant was not reliable, and that his inability to pay the deposit showed that he would be unable to pay the personal guarantee if he were to breach his conditions.20.  on 7 december 2012 the court again rejected the applicant’s request; it noted that its previous decisions had determined the deposit in order to strike the requisite balance between, on the one hand, the seriousness of the crime and the potential punishment, and, on the other hand, the obligation of the accused to fulfil the imposed conditions.the attorney general requested that the applicant submit relevant evidence of the inheritance and the value of the property and that the court hear relevant witnesses in this connection, before making his final submissions.such property was to serve as a guarantee for the applicant observing the conditions imposed; in the event of a breach of any of those conditions, the property would be forfeited in favour of the government of malta.28.  in the meantime on 6 february 2013 the applicant instituted a new set of constitutional redress proceedings, complaining of a violation of article  5 § 3 of the convention in connection with the “exorbitant sum” requested (in particular reference to the sum set as deposit) which did not allow him to effectively enjoy bail.nevertheless, the applicant had only provided copies of self-assessment forms for purposes of income tax for the years between 1998 and 2011. according to the court, if an applicant argued that the deposit was too high, he had to show the court what he could afford by providing a list of his assets and property, even if this meant that he had to conduct researches in the public registry, and provide the relevant documentation.30.  in the court’s view, in the present case, bearing in mind the seriousness of the crime and the potential punishment, the applicant had not brought enough evidence before the courts of criminal justice to substantiate his claim that those courts had imposed excessive conditions (including that referring to the amount of deposit).12050/04, § 79, echr 2010) as well as the constitutional court’s judgment salvatore gauci v. attorney general, of 31 july 1998, where it had been held that in establishing the amount to be deposited as security, the court must also consider other circumstances such as the seriousness of the offence and the danger to society.it noted that although the applicant’s mother did not own the tenement she had used for the purposes of the guarantee, it was already in her possession for a period of time before the last application for the reduction of the amount was filed.although the applicant relied on the court’s judgment of iwanczuk (cited above), where a violation had been found on the basis that it took four months for the polish authorities to adjust the conditions for bail, the constitutional court held that (even if this were the case), the applicant – who was legally represented ‑ had not explored all avenues to satisfy the courts with an adequate guarantee for the observance of the conditions of bail.36.  on the fixing of the amount of the deposit, the constitutional court referred to article 576 of the criminal code (see relevant domestic law below) which provided the factors to be considered for this purpose.the constitutional court considered that although the law also referred to the financial situation of the person accused, this factor was not to be taken in isolation – it was for the court fixing the amount of deposit to consider all the factors taken together and not separately.
it appeared from the telephone records that on 4 november 2007 x had communicated only with a person using a certain telephone number, from which a message of an explicitly sexual nature had also been sent to x. after the telephone directory was checked it was established, presumably by the police, that the telephone in question belonged to a woman who happened to be the applicant’s grandmother, with whom, as established on the basis of the official records, the applicant lived.19.  on 12 december 2008 the koper higher court, after an appeal by the applicant, quashed the first-instance judgment, finding that the lower court had failed to clarify the facts surrounding a possible shoe imprint on the victim’s back, which could have indicated the presence of a third person at the scene of the crime.20.  in the retrial proceedings, several hearings were held and the applicant lodged an application for the exclusion of all evidence from (i) the records of the crime-scene investigation until (ii) the records of the last hearing in the first set of proceedings, on the grounds that that evidence had allegedly been tainted by the unlawful examinations of his and x’s telephones.in view of (i) the expert opinions regarding the shoe traces on x’s back which had led to the conclusion that the presence of another person at the crime scene prior to x’s death could not be excluded, and (ii) the fact that the knife with which x had been stabbed and cut had not been found, the koper district court held that there was insufficient proof that the applicant had stabbed and cut x. however, the court found on the basis of the forensic medical evidence that x had still been alive before he had been run over by the car and that the injuries to x’s chest, spine and aorta, which had been the direct cause of his death, had been caused by the applicant having intentionally run him over with his car.it further found it proven on the basis of the evidence at the scene – such as (i) a piece of rubber tube belonging to the applicant’s car, (ii) the applicant’s biological traces found on x’s body, (iii) x’s biological traces found on, inter alia, the applicant’s clothing (which was blood-stained) and on the outside of the applicant’s car – that the applicant had been beyond doubt at the crime scene and had had contact with x. referring, in particular, to the findings of the experts in vehicle science, who had performed reconstructions at the scene testing the applicant’s versions of events, the court discounted the possibility that the applicant had run over x by accident.22.  as regards the procedural decisions taken during the proceedings the court gave the following explanation: - it refused a request lodged by the applicant for access to the police notes on the examination of his telephone because it would have been unlawful to include in the file evidence obtained without a court order.- in view of the foregoing conclusion that the examination of the applicant’s telephone could have not been admitted to the file, the court refused as unnecessary a request by the applicant for the examination of the officers who had seized the applicant’s telephone (see paragraph 20 above).- as regards the exclusion of evidence (see paragraph 20 above) the court explained that the applicant had become a subject of investigation following the examination of the data in x’s telephone, which had not interfered with the applicant’s rights under article 37 of the constitution (see paragraph 32 below).he further stated as follows: “it is irrelevant that the police, by [their] unlawful interference with [x]’s mobile telephone, did not directly violate the appellant’s right under article 37 of the constitution [“privacy of correspondence and other means of communication”], because the fact remains that the police obtained that evidence (data from [x]’s mobile telephone) without a court order – that is to say unlawfully.” 24.  the applicant moreover argued that the examination of x’s telephone alone had not adduced enough evidence to arrest the applicant and that that had been possible only after the applicant’s telephone had been examined.26.  as regards the examination of x’s telephone the higher court found that, regardless of whether the police officers had examined x’s telephone before the issuance of the court order, what was crucial was that they had received the court order for the telephone records to be produced before they had identified and located the applicant.as regards the examination of the applicant’s mobile telephone, the higher court agreed with the lower court that “the examination of the applicant’s telephone [had been] ... unconstitutional, but this violation had not been important in the evidentiary sense”.moreover, the district state prosecutor and the duty investigating judge had been present at the scene of the crime when the police had discovered the telephone in x’s car, and the applicant had been arrested only after the court order for the examination of x’s telephone had been issued.however, in the supreme court’s view, the information on whether the text message with sexual content had been sent from the applicant’s telephone would have inevitably been discovered, either (i) by means of a simple call to the number from which the message had been sent, (ii) by checking the applicant’s telephone’s sim card (for which, in the supreme court’s view, no court order would have been necessary), or (iii) on the basis of a court order, which had in point of fact later been issued.in view of this conclusion, the supreme court considered that, regardless of the fact that the police had examined the applicant’s telephone without a court order, the identification of the applicant’s mobile telephone number as the one from which the text message in question had been sent did not constitute inadmissible evidence that should have been excluded from the case file.in particular, as regards the examination of x’s telephone, the applicant argued that he “had not sought redress for the violation of x’s right to privacy (mental integrity) and freedom of communication as he had not been entitled to do so [... but rather] had exclusively pointed out that the violation had occurred and the [trial] court had based its decision [to convict the applicant] on the consequences of that violation ...” in this connection he, referring to x’s “right to piety” (pravica do pietete), disputed the supreme court’s view that x’s right to privacy had ceased with his death and pointed out that a court order had been nevertheless subsequently issued.
7.  in 1998 the applicant was implicated in the commission of the criminal offence of setting up and being a member of an armed gang and of other criminal offences.8.  on 4 february 1999 the prosecutor charged him with the offences of membership of an armed gang, attempted intentional murder and other crimes.the notification of the prosecutor’s charges was acknowledged by the applicant’s officially appointed lawyer.11.  on 19 february 1999 the elbasan district court declared the applicant a fugitive from justice after unsuccessful attempts to locate him.13.  on 28 may 1999 the supreme court transferred the case for examination to the durrës district court.14.  on 2 june 1999 the applicant’s father appointed a lawyer to represent the applicant before the domestic courts.15.  the trial proceedings against the applicant were conducted in absentia and he was represented by a lawyer appointed by his family in accordance with article 48 § 3 of the code of criminal procedure (“ccp”).16.  on 15 february 2000 the durrës district court convicted the applicant in absentia of establishing and participating in an armed gang and attempted intentional murder.17.  the applicant’s family-appointed lawyer and the other co-accused appealed against the conviction to the durrës court of appeal (“the court of appeal”).on 19 april 2000 the court of appeal declined to examine the applicant’s appeal on the grounds that the applicant’s family had not given any express authority to the lawyer for such a procedure.however, the court of appeal examined the applicant’s case as part of its overall examination, having regard to the appeals of the other defendants.it convicted the applicant of the same offences as before and sentenced him to thirteen years’ imprisonment.18.  on 7 december 2000 the supreme court dismissed appeals by the applicant and other co-accused against the court of appeal’s decision of 19 april 2000.19.  on 16 september 2005 the applicant was arrested by the czech authorities on the basis of an arrest warrant issued by albania.23.  on 24 october 2007 the constitutional court, sitting in camera, declared the appeal time-barred as the two-year time-limit had started to run on 7 december 2000. the constitutional court’s reasoning stated that throughout the proceedings the applicant had been represented by a court‑appointed lawyer or a family-appointed lawyer and that accordingly he had had the opportunity to become acquainted with the proceedings brought against him.
6.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.7.  on 6 november 2000, in inheritance proceedings following the applicant’s grandmother’s death, the applicant’s relative, m.j., and the applicant’s father were declared the beneficiaries in respect of a house, which was not registered in the land register, by a decision of the zabok municipal court (općinski sud u zaboku).8.  on 18 october 2007 m.j. brought a civil action against the applicant in the zabok municipal court (općinski sud u zaboku) asking that court to recognise his ownership of a share of half of an inherited piece of property and to order the applicant to allow him to register his ownership in the land register.9.  in the proceedings before the first-instance court, on 5 november 2007 the applicant contested the value of the dispute and suggested that it be set at hrk 300,000.10.  at the hearing held on 23 january 2008 the applicant, inter alia, withdrew her objection to the value of the dispute as indicated by the claimant, and stated that she agreed with it.12.  the applicant lodged an appeal with the zlatar county court (županijski sud u zlataru) and on 16 september 2009 the second-instance court dismissed her appeal as ill-founded, upholding the first-instance judgment.13.  on 24 november 2009 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law with the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske), challenging the lower courts’ judgments.it interpreted m.j.’s civil action as being composed of two separate claims arising from different factual and legal bases - the first one for recognition of ownership, and the second for obtaining an order securing the registration of his ownership in the land register (hereinafter “the issuance of a clausula intabulandi”).the supreme court thus halved the value of the dispute and held that the value of each claim did not reach the necessary ratione valoris threshold of hrk 100,001 (approximately 13,300 euros (eur)) for an appeal on points of law to be admissible.the relevant part of this decision reads as follows: “the claimant in his civil action indicated the value of the dispute as hrk 110,000. pursuant to section 37(2) of the cpa [(civil procedure act)], if the claims in the civil action arise from a variety of grounds, or different claimants put forward individual claims or individual claims are raised against several defendants, the value of the dispute must be established in accordance with the value of each individual claim.in the instant case the claimant made two non-monetary claims, one concerning property rights - for recognition of ownership -, and a claim under the law on obligations - for the issuance of a clausula intabulandi , namely for obtaining an order securing registration of his ownership in the land register.therefore, the value of the dispute has to be established in relation to the value of the dispute of each claim.consequently, the value of the dispute of each claim ... has to be established by dividing the indicated unique value of the dispute by [these] two [claims].given that the claimant indicated the [unique] value of the dispute as hrk 110,000, and that this amount should be divided by [the number of the claims], the value of the dispute of each claim does not exceed the amount of 100,000. it follows that an appeal on points of law by the defendant is inadmissible.” 15.  the applicant then lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske), arguing that m.j.’s action had two aspects which could not be separated, and that the supreme court’s decision finding that the case concerned two separate claims had therefore been arbitrary and had violated her right to a fair hearing, in particular her right of access to the supreme court, as guaranteed under article 29 of the constitution.it held that the applicant in her constitutional complaint “did not demonstrate that the supreme court had failed to respect the provisions of the constitution concerning human rights and fundamental freedoms, namely that it had applied relevant law in an arbitrary manner” and that therefore “the present case did not raise a constitutional issue.” its decision was served on the applicant’s representative on 3 march 2011.
an extract from the decision of the prison board issued to the applicant noted that the prison board had “examined [the applicant]” and had decided to apply handcuffs.no further reasons were given and the length of the period for which the measure was to apply was not specified.9.  in a letter dated 26 september 2011 the prisons department informed the applicant, in response to his request, that the use of handcuffs and other restraints was prescribed by the regulation concerning the serving of sentences, adopted by government decision no.10.  also on 26 september 2011 the applicant challenged the prison board’s decision before the investigating judge, arguing that he had been sanctioned twice for the same offence, contrary to the express legal requirements, and that he had not been informed of the reasons for the decision to handcuff him.he noted that handcuffing was a sanction and relied on the reply of the prisons department (see the preceding paragraph) in arguing that that sanction could only be applied on the basis of the regulation and not some secret order.none of the circumstances in respect of which the regulation provided for the use of handcuffs had been cited by the prison board.11.  in their submissions to the court, the prison administration argued that the sanction had been lawfully applied and that the applicant had been properly informed.the prosecutor, who also participated in the hearing, added that the sanction had been necessary in order to prevent the applicant posing any danger to other detainees.15.  under article 95 of the regulation, as modified on 26 september 2008, persons serving life imprisonment shall be handcuffed when moving outside their cells if it is established during the last evaluation that the absence of such a measure will pose an immediate danger to other detainees, prison staff or other persons.16.  under article 219 of the regulation, a detainee may be handcuffed if (i) he or she physically resists prison staff or “is infuriated” (until he or she calms down), (ii) he or she refuses to move under escort, (iii) there are grounds for believing that there is a risk of the detainee escaping, (iv) he or she attempts suicide or self-mutilation, or attacks other detainees (until the detainee calms down), or (v) during the escorting of a detainee after his or her escape and subsequent apprehension.4 of the prisons department adopted on 13 january 2009 provides, in section 39/1, that the prison board may decide on whether there is any need to handcuff a person sentenced to imprisonment for life or whether to remove handcuffs from such a person, depending on the degree of danger posed by him or her.18.  the european prison rules (annex to recommendation rec(2006)2 of the committee of ministers to member states of 11 january 2006), in so far relevant, read as follows: “... 68.2 handcuffs, restraint jackets and other body restraints shall not be used except: a. if necessary, as a precaution against escape during a transfer, provided that they are removed when the prisoner appears before a judicial or administrative authority, unless that authority decides otherwise; or b. by order of the director, if other methods of control fail, in order to protect a prisoner from self-injury [or] injury to others or to prevent serious damage to property, provided that in such instances the director shall immediately inform the medical practitioner and report to the higher prison authority....” 19.  the relevant parts of the 25th general report (april 2016) of the european committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment (cpt/inf (2016) 10) provide as follows: “the basic objectives and principles for the treatment of life-sentenced prisoners 74. in the cpt’s view, the objectives and principles for the treatment of life-sentenced prisoners enunciated by the committee of ministers in recommendation rec (2003) 23 on the management by prison administrations of life sentence and other long-term prisoners remains the most pertinent and comprehensive reference document for this group of prisoners.in summary, these principles are: ... - the normalisation principle: life-sentenced prisoners should, like all prisoners, be subject only to the restrictions that are necessary for their safe and orderly confinement; ... conclusion 81. the cpt calls upon member states to review their treatment of life-sentenced prisoners to ensure that this is in accordance with their individual risk they present, both in custody and to the outside community, and not simply in response to the sentence which has been imposed on them.in particular, steps should be taken by the member states concerned to abolish the legal obligation of keeping life-sentenced prisoners separate from other (long-term) sentenced prisoners and to put an end to the systematic use of security measures such as handcuffs inside the prison.”
6.  the background facts relating to the planning, conduct and dispersal of the public event at bolotnaya square are set out in more detail in frumkin v. russia (no.the event had been approved by the city authorities in the form of a march followed by a meeting at bolotnaya square, which was supposed to end at 7.30 p.m. the march was peaceful and held without any disruptions, but when the marchers arrived at bolotnaya square it turned out that barriers installed by the police had narrowed the entrance to the meeting venue, allegedly restricting the space allocated for the meeting.to control the crowd the police cordon forced the protestors to remain within the barriers.at 5.30 p.m. the police ordered that the meeting finish early and began to disperse the participants.8.  on the same day the moscow city department of the investigative committee of the russian federation opened criminal proceedings to investigate suspected acts of mass disorder and violence against the police (articles 212 § 2 and 318 § 1 of the criminal code).on 18 may 2012 the file was transferred to the headquarters of the investigative committee for further investigation.the applicant’s complaints concerning the grounds and the length of his detention on remand, the poor conditions of detention and the lack of medical assistance in the remand prison were examined in the case kovyazin and others v. russia (nos.on 4 may 2012 he received an assignment from the newspaper chief editor to attend the “march of millions” on 6 may 2012 at bolotnaya square and to take a video footage of the event.11.  according to the applicant, on 6 may 2012 he arrived at bolotnaya square, filmed the event and did not take part in any disorder or clashes with the police.after the events in question the applicant continued to live at his usual address and to work for the newspaper.he was accused of having breached public order during the demonstration on 6 may 2012, in particular, of having turned over portable toilet cabins and having piled them on the road to build a barrier obstructing the riot police.14.  on 24 may 2013 the applicant’s criminal case was transferred to the zamoskvoretskiy district court of moscow for the determination of criminal charges.from mid-september 2013 to the end of 2013 the hearings continued at the nikulinskiy district court of moscow in hearing room no.16.  on 18 december 2013 the state duma passed the amnesty act, which exempted persons suspected and accused of criminal offences under article 212 §§ 2 and 3 of the criminal code from criminal liability.17.  on 19 december 2013 the applicant requested the termination of the criminal proceedings against him by operation of the amnesty act.
according to the report, the pistol, the hand grenade and the motorbike were then taken away by the four officers in order not to hinder the flow of traffic and to prevent panic among the public, as the incident had occurred on a busy street.on the same day the hospital informed the prosecutor that the clothes had been given to the police officers at the hospital when the injured person had been taken into the operating theatre.one of the persons had stood up and started to run away and a person who had come out of the unmarked vehicle had put his knee in the small of the back of the person on the ground and fired two bullets into his back.25.  on 7 july 2004 the police headquarters forwarded to the prosecutor the names of the eight officers who had taken part in the incident of 28 may 2004 and who had also prepared the incident report on the same day (see paragraphs 7‑8 above).denied the allegation that he had put his knee in the small of the back of the person on the ground and fired two bullets into his back (see paragraph 21 above), and told the prosecutor that if he had not shot the person, the person would have shot him.29.  a security guard who had been on duty at the hospital on 28 may 2004 told the prosecutor on 14 july 2004 that the applicant’s son had been taken into the operating theatre with his clothes on and that shortly afterwards the personnel in the operating theatre had removed those clothes and given them to plainclothes police officers from the anti-terrorism department waiting at the hospital.he alleged that the police officers had been covering their tracks by destroying the evidence and that the clothes his son had been wearing at the time of his shooting had been taken away and lost by the police officers.moreover, although according to the report prepared by those police officers both pistols, the hand grenades and the motorbike had been taken away by them before the arrival of the crime-scene officers, according to the crime‑scene officers’ report the motorbike had still been at the scene on their arrival (see paragraph 12 above).in this connection the applicant argued that it was highly suspicious that the bullet and the spent bullet case discharged from the defendant police chief’s pistol had not been recovered; in fact, there was no mention in any of the crime scene reports that the forensic authorities had even searched for that bullet or the spent bullet case.it was also stated in the post-mortem report that the applicant’s son had been shot through his clothes and that the distance from which he had been shot could not therefore be calculated, since the clothes worn by the deceased at the time of his shooting would have to be examined in order establish that distance.38.  subsequently the applicant’s lawyers informed the trial court that at their instigation an investigation had been opened into their allegations against the police officers and that a number of people working at the hospital at the time of the events had been questioned by a prosecutor.the lawyers argued that the insistence of the police officers on taking the clothes away and their subsequently losing them proved that there had not been a shootout between şiyar perinçek and the police officers but that the police officers had shot şiyar perinçek at close range.the clothes worn by the applicant’s son at the time of the shooting had got lost during “the commotion at the hospital” and it had not therefore been possible to establish the distance from which he had been shot.given that there was a large amount of evidence in the file showing that the clothes had been taken away from the hospital by the police officers, the conclusion reached by the trial court, namely that the clothes had got lost during “the commotion at the hospital”, was clearly wrong.45.  in the meantime, the criminal proceedings which had been brought against three police officers and a private security guard for having neglected their duties by losing şiyar perinçek’s clothes ended in their acquittal on 7 february 2007. the applicant appealed against their acquittal on 8 february 2007. on 6 june 2011 the court of cassation declined to examine the appeal as the offence in question had become statute-barred, and discontinued the criminal proceedings.
the applicants took the bodies from the morgue in order to take them to the city of siirt, where they wanted to bury them and where their graves had already been prepared with the help of the municipal officials.7.  on the same date the governor of siirt issued a decision stating that crowds had gathered at the cemetery in siirt and had attacked the municipal workers who were preparing the graves.therefore, “in order to prevent any unwanted consequences”, the governor decided to order the burial of the applicants’ children in the two villages named in the respective birth register records of the two deceased.8.  while the applicants, together with the coffins of their two children, were on their way to siirt, their vehicles were stopped by gendarme soldiers who told the applicants that they were not allowed to bury their children in siirt.the soldiers told the applicants that, in accordance with the decision taken by the siirt governor, the bodies would be buried in two other villages.the applicants told the soldiers that they had no connection with the two villages in question which, in any event, had been evacuated by soldiers in the 1990s.9.  the same day the second applicant made an official request to the office of the governor and asked for permission to bury the children in the city of batman instead.this request was refused but the governor amended his decision so that the applicants’ children could be buried in the same cemetery in the town of eruh, instead of being buried in two separate villages as he had previously ordered.the news that their children would not be buried in siirt and that their bodies had been confiscated by the soldiers had caused an upsurge of emotion in the people waiting at the cemetery in siirt and as a result they had attacked members of the security forces and local shops with sticks and stones.it noted that the governor’s decision had been based on section 11/c of the law on the administration of provinces, which provided that the governor had a duty to maintain peace and public order in the province under his responsibility.the decision had been taken because the people who had gathered at the cemetery in siirt and who were waiting for the bodies to arrive had thrown stones at municipal workers and members of the security forces.the administrative court considered that, although the applicants had the right to bury their children in a cemetery of their choice, the refusal to permit them to do so had been in compliance with the restrictions set out in the second paragraphs of articles 8 and 9 of the convention and in section 13 of the turkish constitution.12.  the applicants appealed against the decision and maintained that the incidents at the cemetery referred to by the administrative court had only occurred after the crowds had found out about the authorities’ refusal to allow them to bury their children in siirt.13.  the request for an interim measure was rejected by the supreme administrative court on 13 december 2006. in a decision of 24 october 2008 the supreme administrative court also rejected the appeal lodged by the applicants against the decision of the diyarbakır administrative court.in reaching its conclusion the supreme administrative court stated that the incidents at the siirt cemetery had begun when the people who had gathered there had insisted that the applicants’ two children be buried next to the graves of members of the pkk.
8.  on 30 may 2005 he wrote to the prosecutor general’s office, listing the many complaints that he had previously lodged with various authorities (including the police) of having been ill-treated by his ex-wife and children, the destruction of his property by them, and the failure of the local police to react in any manner.11.  the applicant lodged another complaint with the edineț prosecutor’s office on 31 august 2006, stating that he had been again attacked by his children and ex-wife; during that attack they had also threatened to kill him and destroy or throw away his property if he did not leave the house.12.  in a letter dated 12 december 2006 the head of edineț police station informed the applicant’s brother that, on a date not indicated in the letter, “a cautionary discussion” had been conducted with the applicant’s ex-wife and that she had been “officially warned to change her conduct” towards the applicant and his brother.on 29 january 2007 the investigating judge of the edineț district court dismissed the applicant’s complaint, finding that the facts complained of were being investigated by the edineț police.on 10 april 2007 t., the doctor who had seen the applicant on 28 december 2006 (see paragraph 14 above), was questioned as a witness and declared that he had seen a contusion on his body and another contusion on the left elbow, but had not identified any broken bones.he stated that the description contained in the medical report dated 29 december 2006 of the x-ray images taken on 28 december 2006 (see paragraph 14 above) was incomplete, as it did not indicate the exact location of the broken bone.18.  on 2 may 2007 the prosecutor ordered another medical report to be prepared by a medical commission, because the applicant’s wife disagreed with the results of the first two reports and argued that he had been fit after the alleged assault.on 7 may 2007 the head of the forensics department at the centre of forensic medicine (“the centre”) asked the prosecutor to submit the x-rays of the applicant’s elbow in order to allow the report to be prepared.20.  on 4 december 2007 the centre returned all relevant documents to the prosecutor, informing him that, in the absence of the applicant’s x-ray results, it had been impossible to carry out the examination.21.  on 19 march 2008 the prosecutor discontinued the investigation, finding that the applicant had often provoked quarrels with his ex-wife and children, and that they denied having caused him any injuries (they were examined as witnesses on 19 january and 8 february 2007, and on 15 march 2008.)the prosecutor also referred to the statement given by doctor t. (see paragraph 17 above), whom the applicant had asked for help and who had found bruising on the applicant’s body and on his left elbow, but no bone fractures.the judge found that the investigator had ignored the prosecutor’s conclusion in the decision of 10 april 2008 and had limited his investigation to interviewing the applicant’s children and members of his ex-wife’s family, who all had a hostile relationship with him and who, moreover, had given somewhat different versions of the incident of 27 december 2006. furthermore, one of the doctors (t.) had been interviewed only superficially, another doctor who had seen the applicant after the incident had not been interviewed at all, and a third doctor who had taken the x-ray of the applicant’s elbow had also not been interviewed.27.  on 30 june 2010 the prosecutor discontinued the investigation, essentially for the same reasons as those for which he had discontinued it previously, adding that the medical reports did not exclude the possibility that the injury had been self-inflicted.28.  on 25 july 2011 the investigating judge of the bălți district court upheld the decisions of 30 june and 17 december 2010. the judge found that the investigator had undertaken all possible measures to investigate the case, and that the witnesses had not confirmed the applicant’s version of the events and had even contradicted it by stating that on 12 january 2007 they had been out cutting wood with the applicant and had not observed any injury to his elbow.29.  in a medical report dated 15 august 2007 a doctor recorded an oval light-violet ecchymosis measuring 6 cm by 4 cm on the applicant’s forehead and an excoriation measuring 2 cm by 1 cm and covered with a red crust, as well as pain in the cervical column and the right side of the thoracic region.
8.  on 31 october 1988 company s. granted the applicant a specially protected tenancy of a flat measuring 65.08 square metres in the zagreb suburbs, with the right to occupy it together with her husband and two daughters.however, since that decision was not yet final, company s. entered into an agreement with the applicant on 7 december 1988 giving her the right to move into the flat with her family and to care for that flat.9.  the decision to grant the applicant a specially protected tenancy was challenged by three other employees and quashed by the zagreb basic court of associated labour (osnovni sud udruženog rada u zagrebu).competence in the matter was subsequently transferred to the zagreb municipal court, which on 3 february 1999 dismissed the claims on the merits since there was no possibility under the relevant law to bring such an action at all.12.  on 23 june 2004 the zagreb county court amended the judgment of 3 february 1999 so as to declare the actions inadmissible on the same grounds, namely that the priority list could not be challenged before a court of law.13.  meanwhile, on 3 june 1991 parliament had enacted the protected tenancies (sale to occupier) act (zakon o prodaji stanova na kojima postoji stanarsko pravo), which abolished the specially protected tenancies and regulated the sale of socially owned flats previously let under a specially protected tenancy.14.  on 29 november 1995 the applicant asked the zagreb municipality as the owner of the flat to conclude a contract for the sale of the flat with herself as the buyer.15.  on an unspecified date in 2005 the applicant re-submitted to the zagreb municipality her request to purchase the flat she occupied.16.  on 26 september 2005 the applicant brought a civil action against the city of zagreb, which in the meantime had become the owner of the flat she occupied, seeking a judgment in lieu of the contract of sale of the flat in question.17.  the claim was dismissed by the zagreb municipal court on 18 june 2007 on the grounds that the applicant had not acquired a protected tenancy of the flat in question, since the priority list did not constitute a decision on the granting of protected tenancies within the meaning of the housing act.18.  the judgment was upheld by the zagreb county court on 8 april 2008. the court held that the applicant did not have a final decision on allocation of the flat to her.the only reasons she had not been formally granted a specially protected tenancy of the flat she had been occupying were the challenge of the priority list by her co-workers and the delay in the civil proceedings before the zagreb municipal court.the one-year validity of the priority list was to be counted from the date of its being confirmed, which in the applicant’s case had occurred when the national courts had dismissed all the objections concerning that list.by not recognising her right to a specially protected tenancy, the national authorities had deprived her of the possibility to purchase the flat she occupied under favourable conditions.20.  on 11 may 2012 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint on the grounds that the findings of the lower courts that she had not acquired a specially protected tenancy of the flat at issue had been correct.
9.  the prison authorities informed the moldovan ministry of justice, the president’s office, the organization for security and co-operation in europe (osce), the red cross and the council of europe, as well as local human rights organisations, with a view to obtaining assistance in resolving the problem arising from the disconnection from the town’s utilities network.10.  on 12 august 2003 the bender prosecutor’s office (which forms part of the official moldovan authorities) informed the helsinki committee for human rights in moldova (“the chdom”), for which the applicant’s representative worked, that, as a result of pressure from the osce, the bender authorities had reconnected the prison to the electricity and water supply systems on 23 february 2003. on 10 july 2003 the last of the people who were ill with tuberculosis were transferred to a newly-built hospital wing in pruncul prison hospital, situated in moldova.13.  on 29 august 2003 the chdom asked the bender district court (which is part of the moldovan court system) to order the prosecutor’s office to remedy the human rights violations taking place in prison no.8. that letter was forwarded to the moldovan ministry of justice, the president of the republic of moldova and the prosecutor general’s office, along with a request to take all necessary steps to immediately improve the conditions of detention.20.  on 20 april 2004 the prosecutor general’s office informed the chdom that it had lodged an extraordinary appeal with the supreme court of justice against the decisions of 31 october 2003 and 18 december 2003. on 3 august 2004 the supreme court of justice upheld those decisions.21.  on 1 june 2009 the chdom asked the prosecutor general’s office what actions had been undertaken after the judgment of the supreme court of justice of 3 august 2004. on 14 july 2009 the bender prosecutor’s office replied that the actions of the “mrt” authorities could not be investigated by the moldovan authorities as long as the “mrt” authorities de facto controlled the territory of the “mrt”.8, including the applicants, the chdom lodged a civil action against the ministry of justice, asking for the finding of a violation of the rights guaranteed under article 3 of the convention.on 14 july 2004 the bender court of appeal set aside the decision of 18 june 2004 and ordered the urgent examination of the case by the bender district court.26.  after february 2005 many of the 141 detainees who were plaintiffs in the above-mentioned civil action were transferred to other prisons in various parts of the country, which made it more difficult for the chdom to obtain confirmation of each individual’s power of attorney, as requested by the bender district court.on the same date the anenii-noi district court declined to examine the claim because the powers of attorney issued by the detainees in favour of the chdom had expired.the same thing occurred on 29 october 2008. the court also informed the chdom that, in a letter dated 2 july 2007, the ministry of justice had informed the court that a representative of the russian federation could only be summoned via the ministry of justice.none of the complaints made to the state authorities had resulted in an improvement in the conditions of detention until much later, as established in 2008. the court acknowledged a breach of the applicants’ right not to be held in inhuman conditions of detention, and increased the award in favour of each of them to mdl 20,000 (eur 1,266 at the time).it analysed in detail the length of the civil proceedings (between 22 march 2004 and the date of adopting its own judgment on 27 april 2010), the complexity of the case, how the parties and the courts had contributed to the length of the proceedings, as well as the significant interest at stake for the applicants.the court found that, despite the applicants’ representatives’ actions contributing to the overall length of the proceedings (twenty-six out of the sixty-seven months), a breach of the right to a trial within a reasonable time had taken place, requiring additional compensation which it set at mdl 6,000 (approximately eur 358 at the time).8 in tighina/bender specifically, raising in particular the issue of the prison being disconnected from utilities within the framework of the “5+2” negotiations process (between the osce, russia, ukraine, the european union and the usa, in addition to moldova and the “mrt”) and with various international organisations.
9.  on 8 june 2009 the applicant sought the reopening of her case in view of the judgment of the constitutional court of 27 february 2009. after an initial refusal, on 24 september 2009 the st petersburg city court quashed the judgment of 5 april 2004 and remitted the applicant’s case for a fresh examination.the lawyer supported his complaint with a copy of the power of attorney that the applicant had issued to him on 21 june 2005 for her application to the court.on 9 february 2009 the primorskiy district court of st petersburg (“the primorskiy district court”) dismissed the complaint, having noted that the applicant lacked legal capacity to appoint a lawyer.it relied on the applicant’s medical history since 2001 and her state of health leading to her hospitalisation in 2008. the experts further stated that during her stay at the hospital, the applicant had been avoiding contact; she had been complaining about her confinement; she had remained suspicious and negative and had maintained her delusional ideas about her neighbours, doctors and other patients.the applicant’s doctor presented to the court the expert commission’s report of 10 march 2009 and her own opinion confirming that the applicant needed compulsory treatment in the hospital.18.  on 8 june 2009 the applicant asked the court to reset the time-limit for lodging an appeal against the judgment of 10 march 2009. on 30 june 2009 the district court rejected the request.19.  on 15 september 2009 the st petersburg city court quashed the decision of 30 june 2009 and reset the time-limit for lodging an appeal against the judgment of 10 march 2009. on 30 september 2009 the st petersburg city court examined the appeal and found the applicant’s involuntary treatment lawful.22.  on 27 june 2012 the constitutional court of russia examined a complaint lodged by the applicant in relation to her incapacitation and invited parliament to amend the legislation and introduce the possibility of partial incapacitation (see paragraph 39 below).on 6 march 2013 the kochubeyevskiy district court of the stavropol region (“the kochubeyevskiy district court”) dismissed the applicant’s request.28.  on 20 january 2013 the applicant appealed against the judgment of 27 january 2009, having asked a court to reset the time-limit for lodging the appeal as he had not been informed about the incapacitation proceedings, had not attended them and had not received a copy of the judgment.30.  on 7 august 2003 the dmitrovskiy district court of the moscow region (“the dmitrovskiy district court”) divested the applicant of full legal capacity in his absence.31.  the applicant allegedly learnt that he had been stripped of legal capacity only in 2012. on 24 december 2012 he asked the dmitrovskiy district court to reset the time-limit for lodging an appeal against the judgment of 7 august 2003. on 22 january 2013 the dmitrovskiy district court dismissed the request.32.  on 29 may 2013 the moscow regional court examined an appeal lodged by the applicant against the decision of 22 january 2013. it reset the time-limit and at the same hearing examined the merits of an appeal lodged by the applicant against the judgment of 7 august 2003. having found that in 2003 the dmitrovskiy district court had examined the applicant’s case in his absence despite the lack of any information on the applicant’s ability to attend, the moscow regional court quashed the judgment of 7 august 2003. it then proceeded to re-examine the merits of the case.34.  the applicant allegedly only learned about that judgment in 2013. she asked the court to reset the time-limit for lodging an appeal in view of the lack of notification about the proceedings and her absence from the hearing.35.  on 24 october 2013 the zyuzinskiy district court refused to reset the time-limit, having also noted that the russian law in force at the material time had not called for the mandatory presence of the applicant at the court hearing.
the court held that there was a reasonable suspicion that the applicant had committed the offence with which he was charged, that the offence had been committed in an organised way, and that therefore there was a risk that he could put pressure on witnesses, contact other perpetrators and tamper with evidence.the court relied on the testimony of p.p., who allegedly had been warned by one of the applicant’s accomplices about instructions from the applicant not to cooperate with the police.9.  on 22 december 2006 the pezinok special court (špeciálny súd, hereafter “the special court”), where the case had been transferred in the meantime owing to the organised nature of the crimes, dismissed an application by the applicant for release.10.  on 16 march 2007 the special court extended the applicant’s detention until 3 october 2007. in addition to the reasons mentioned above, it relied on a reasonable suspicion that the applicant was the leader of a criminal group which had been operating for several years, and that not all of the members of that criminal group had been identified.it held that it was reasonable to suspect that, if released, the applicant would continue his criminal activities, taking into account: the motives for such activities and their duration and extent; the methods of intimidation and violence used by the criminal group; the hierarchical and organised nature of the group; and the fact that not all of the members of the group had been identified.15.  on 17 march 2008 the applicant’s detention was extended until 7 july 2008. the special court added that his detention assisted the investigation, since the victims were willing to testify, but still not all of the members of the criminal group had been identified.it pointed out that, according to the indictment, he was allegedly the leader of a criminal group, a group which had been conducting criminal activities for six years against people who were victims and witnesses in the trial, by means of threats and the use of physical and psychological violence.18.  on 6 october 2008, when conducting a preliminary examination of the bill of indictment, the special court again reviewed the grounds for the applicant’s detention and ruled that he should remain in detention.20.  on 27 may 2010 the special court extended the applicant’s detention until 13 december 2010. the court limited the grounds for his detention to the risk of his reoffending, because the trial court had already heard all witnesses.27.  on 17 december 2010 he filed another constitutional complaint, alleging a lack of speediness in relation to the judicial review of his detention by the decisions of the special court of 13 september 2010 and the supreme court of 6 october 2010 (“the second constitutional complaint” – see paragraph 23 above).29.  on 18 january 2011 the constitutional court accepted the second constitutional complaint for further examination, and joined the proceedings relating to the first and the second constitutional complaint.although the supreme court had examined in detail the applicant’s arguments regarding the grounds for his detention, it had failed to respond to his other arguments, such as one about the impartiality and independence of the tribunal reviewing his detention, and another about alleged shortcomings in his representation during the judicial review, and thus the court had breached article 5 § 4 of the convention.the constitutional court further held that the judicial review of the applicant’s detention between 13 september and 6 october 2010 had not been sufficiently speedy, and found another violation of article 5 § 4 of the convention on this account.the constitutional court considered it unnecessary to examine the rest of the applicant’s complaints, including the one under article 5 § 3 of the convention regarding the length of his detention.32.  between the lodging of the indictment with the trial court and the applicant’s conviction by the court of first instance, the trial court held hearings over the course of fifty-one days.
the second and third applicants are heirs of the other members of the group.7.  in a decision of 24 june 2002 the braşov county court allowed in part the action lodged by the applicants against company r., and ordered the latter to pay to the first applicant 2,284,679,617 romanian lei (rol), an amount representing compensation for the use, between 1985 and 1988, of the invention patented in 1975. the second and third applicants appealed, and in a decision of 8 november 2002 the braşov court of appeal also awarded them compensation – rol 2,230,620,676 to the second applicant and rol 1,669,759,157 to the third applicant.8.  on 10 march 2004 the applicants and company r. signed an agreement for the payment of the compensation awarded by the court.9.  on 5 may 2005 the high court of cassation and justice took note of the terms of the agreement of 10 march 2004 and concluded that company r. had withdrawn its appeal on points of law against the decision of 8 november 2002 (see paragraph 7 above), which thus became final.11.  on 28 april 2004 the bacău county court allowed the application, started the reorganisation proceedings and nominated a judicial administrator.the applicants’ claims were accepted by the county court and recorded in the register of claims compiled by the judicial administrator in conformity with the provisions of the applicable law (tabloul creditorilor, hereinafter “the register of claims”).in an interlocutory judgment of 8 december 2004 the bacău county court validated the plan after examining the objections raised by the unsecured creditors (creditori chirografari).14.  on 11 october 2007 the braşov county court held a hearing on the objections to the register of claims lodged by the applicants.on that date, in the applicants’ absence, it adjourned delivery of the judgment to 1 november 2007. the county court gave its judgment on 1 november 2007; it found against the applicants.15.  on 23 january 2008, in accordance with the rules on notification in relation to court documents in insolvency proceedings (see paragraph 20 below), the judgment of 1 november 2007 was published in the bulletin of insolvency proceedings (buletinul procedurilor de insolvenţă, “the bulletin”).16.  on an unspecified date the applicants enquired about the judgment’s date of delivery and asked the county court to provide them with a copy of the judgment, which was sent to them on 31 january 2008; they received it on 4 february 2008. on 13 february 2008 they lodged an appeal by post.17.  before the braşov court of appeal, the applicants argued that, as they had not had access to the bulletin, they had not been able to know on which date the judgment had been published.18.  in a final decision of 17 april 2008 the court of appeal dismissed that argument and concluded that the appeal had been made out of time, as it had been lodged more than ten days after 23 january 2008, the date on which the braşov county court’s judgment had been published (see paragraph 15 above).1137 of 4 december 2007 (see paragraph 21 below), the court of appeal considered that the notification procedure via the bulletin had offered sufficient safeguards to the participants in the proceedings, and had been justified by the nature of the insolvency procedure.19.  on 21 june 2010 the county court closed the insolvency proceedings and noted that company r. had complied with all the obligations set out in the reorganisation plan (see paragraph 13 above), and thus it no longer had any debts.
searches were conducted at the applicant’s home and at the headquarters of his company and numerous documents, computers and mobile phones were seized by the investigators.11.  the need for the applicant’s detention was justified by the prosecutors in the following way: that the applicant could abscond; he could influence witnesses; he could collude with other co-accused persons; and because the offence imputed to him was sanctioned with imprisonment of up to ten years.all of the prosecutors’ applications for the prolongation of the applicant’s detention were identical.13.  on 10 april 2015 the buiucani district court issued a detention order for a period of thirty days arguing that the applicant did not produce guarantees in favour of an undertaking not to hinder the good unfolding of the investigation if no detention was applied.that decision was later upheld by the chișinău court of appeal, which added that there was also a risk of the applicant’s reoffending.the applicant’s appeal was rejected by the court of appeal on 14 may 2015. the court of appeal used the same arguments as the first time and added that one of the reaosons to hold the applicant in custody was to protect other persons involved in the proceedings from his violent actions.the court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeals arguing that the applicant’s defence did not prove the fact that the applicant did not intend to abscond or hinder the investigation.in a decision of 11 june 2015 the court of appeal held for the first time that there was a risk of the applicant’s absconding.it argued that the risk of absconding was justified by the gravity of the offence and that the prosecutor had presented evidence in support of the claim that the applicant may hinder the investigation.17.   on 8 october 2015 the court of appeal examined the appeals lodged by the applicant against the decisions of 29 september 2015 and 6 october 2015. in its first judgment it dismissed the applicant’s appeal after finding that all the risks enumerated by the first-instance court persisted.however, when examining the appeal against the second decision, the same panel of judges considered that the risk of the applicant’s absconding was no longer justified and that there were no new reasons to consider necessary the applicant’s continued detention.18.  on 4 november 2015 the applicant lodged a habeas corpus request and asked for the revocation of the house arrest.on the same date the buiucani district court accepted the applicant’s request and ordered his release from house arrest.19.  on 9 april 2015, on the second day of his detention, the applicant felt an accute pain in the region of his lower back.23.  at 2 p.m. the administration invited several doctors from the institute of neurology and neurosurgery who confirmed the initial diagnosis and the urgent need for hospitalisation.
4.  the applicants were born in 1939 and 1944 respectively and live in dumbrăvița, timiș county.5.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the applicants, refer to the same context and domestic criminal proceedings as those described in association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos.6.  between 17 and 28 december 1989 many people, including the applicants’ son, participated in anti-communism demonstrations in timișoara, bucharest and other cities in romania.8.  in 1990 the military prosecutor’s office opened several investigations into the december 1989 armed crackdown on the anti-communism demonstrations.a main criminal investigation concerning the use of violence against civilians in bucharest and other cities was also registered with the highest prosecutor’s office – the military prosecutors section − under no.9.  in cases concerning the events in timișoara, a separate investigation was carried out under file no.11/p/1996, culminating in the referral to court and subsequent conviction of senior military officers by a decision of the high court of cassation and justice of 3 april 2007, which became final on 15 october 2008. as is apparent from the documents submitted by the parties, the death of the applicants’ son did not form part of this investigation, but in the court proceedings the first applicant nonetheless lodged a civil claim regarding his son’s death during the december 1989 events.the court dismissed it on the grounds that he had failed to submit documents substantiating this claim.10.  as acknowledged by the government, both applicants are parties in the main criminal investigation file.on 26 june 2013 they brought civil claims before the prosecutor requesting the right to participate, being civil parties in this file.the applicants had first made statements and raised civil claims in criminal investigation files other than file no.97/p/1990 (current number 11/p/2014) on 11 january 1990 and 1 march 2000. the parties did not inform the court whether these files had been joined to the main criminal investigation (see paragraph 8 above).11.  the most important steps taken by the prosecutors in the main criminal investigation are summarised in association “21 december 1989” and others (cited above, §§ 12-41) and anamaria‑loredana orășanu and others v. romania ([committee] nos.12.  on 14 october 2015 the prosecutor’s office closed the main investigation, finding that the offences of homicide and instigation to homicide of which the applicants’ son had been a victim had become statute‑barred.13.  although the parties have not communicated any information regarding the lodging of an appeal against this decision, it is apparent from the prosecutor’s office website that it was subsequently quashed and to date the main criminal investigation is still ongoing (see anamaria‑loredana orășanu and others, cited above, § 11).
5.  according to the applicant’s submissions, he left kazakhstan in 2008 and lived in saudi arabia and syria as a student until june 2011. he did not wish to return to his country as a number of people had been detained on charges of religious extremism in kazakhstan and some of his friends had left the country after coming under pressure from the kazakhstan government because of their political and religious identity.according to the report of 22 november 2011, the police officer who had interviewed the applicant found that the latter had failed to submit any concrete evidence concerning his nationality, identity and the problems he had experienced in kazakhstan.the officer, however, found it established that the applicant feared to be returned to his country and that it was known to the turkish authorities that he would be prosecuted if returned to kazakhstan.12.  on 12 january 2012 the applicant lodged an application to be allowed to leave turkey with the denizli security headquarters and informed the police that he had been offered a visa to enter and live in egypt.14.  according to a document dated 6 january 2012 sent by the deputy director of the general police headquarters to a number of police authorities, during a meeting held on 4 january 2012 the ambassador of kazakhstan in ankara requested the turkish interior minister to extradite kazakhstan nationals who had been involved in terrorist acts and in respect of whom kazakhstan had issued wanted notices (“red notices”) via interpol.a formal extradition request in respect of such persons was submitted by the kazakhstan embassy in ankara to the ministry of foreign affairs on 31 december 2011. according to the document prepared by the embassy, the applicant and four other persons were members of the “islamic jihad union”, a terrorist organisation which carried out terrorist attacks in the western region of kazakhstan.the kazakhstan authorities considered that these five persons had been in the process of preparing a new terrorist attack in their country and that following their release four of them had organised a terrorist attack in the atyrau province of kazakhstan, in co-operation with another terrorist organisation, jund al-khilafa (“soldiers of the caliphate”).15.  on 19 january 2012, while he was waiting at istanbul atatürk airport to board a flight to egypt, the applicant was taken into police custody on the basis of the extradition request submitted to the turkish authorities by the kazakhstan embassy.16.  on 23 january 2012 the interpol-europol department attached to the general police headquarters informed the ministry of justice and a number of security departments that a red notice had been issued by kazakhstan via interpol in respect of the applicant on the basis of terrorism-related offences.according to the reasoning contained in the court’s decision, in his defence submissions the applicant had contended that he had been wrongly accused of being a member of al‑qaeda or islamic jihad and had asked the court not to extradite him to kazakhstan.the bakırköy assize court held that the applicant could not be extradited to kazakhstan because the charge against him in kazakhstan fell within the scope of one of the offence categories, precluding extradition, listed in article 18 § 1 (b) of the criminal code, as in force at the material time (see paragraph 30 below).23.  on 12 march 2012, while in detention, the applicant appointed his representatives to undertake the necessary legal and procedural actions on his behalf before the domestic authorities and the court by way of a issuing a power of attorney before a notary public.24.  according to the applicant’s submissions, on 21 march 2012, when mr yılmaz, one of his representatives, went to the kumkapı foreigners’ removal centre to meet him, he was orally informed by officers at the centre that the applicant had been deported to kazakhstan on 12 march 2012.25.  upon a request by the applicant’s lawyer, on 31 may 2012 the istanbul police headquarters sent a letter to the applicant’s lawyer informing him that the applicant had been deported to kazakhstan on 12 march 2012.28.  the government submitted that the kumkapı foreigners’ removal centre, where the applicant had been held, had a capacity of 300 persons and that a total of between 100 and 140 persons had been held during the period between 28 february and 12 march 2012. detainees were accommodated on three floors: the first two floors were reserved for male detainees, and the third floor for females.
in january 2010 he was asked to go to a police station as a friend of his had informed the police that the applicant had witnessed a fight between him and another friend of the applicant.14.  on 5 july 2011 one of the applicant’s representatives, mr a. yılmaz, lodged an objection to the decision to reject the applicant’s asylum application with the police department responsible for foreigners, borders and asylum attached to the istanbul police headquarters.16.  on 16 august 2011 the police conducted a second interview with the applicant, during which he claimed that he would be exposed to a real risk of death and duress at the hands of the police if deported to kazakhstan.he submitted that the applicant was being sought for by the kazakhstan authorities for political reasons and that he would be persecuted on the basis of his religious convictions and subjected to torture and ill-treatment if deported to his country.in support of his petition dated 22 august 2011, the applicant’s lawyer submitted a document showing that the applicant was being sought for by the public authorities in atyrau on suspicion of having committed the offence of “hooliganism”, proscribed by article 257 § 3 of the kazakhstan criminal code, as in force at the material time.21.  on 3 november 2011 the interpol‑europol department attached to the general police headquarters requested the foreigners, borders and asylum department (also attached to the general police headquarters) to provide information regarding the applicant, noting that he was sought for by the prosecuting authorities and the interpol bureau of kazakhstan as he was suspected of having committed an offence in that country.on 1 december 2011 the deputy head of the foreigners, borders and asylum department informed the interpol‑europol department that the applicant had requested asylum and was residing in sakarya and that on 24 october 2011 a further entry ban had been issued in respect of him after the applicant had been prosecuted for “hooliganism”.the foreigners, borders and asylum department requested the interpol‑europol department not to provide any information to the kazakhstan authorities, in the interests of the safety of the applicant and his family members in kazakhstan.26.  on 22 march 2012 mr a. yılmaz lodged an application with the ankara administrative court for the annulment of the decisions of the ministry rejecting the applicant’s asylum application and to deport the applicant from turkey.in support of his petition, the applicant’s lawyer submitted a number of documents to the ankara administrative court, including a document downloaded from the atyrau police department website, according to which an arrest warrant had been issued in respect of the applicant.the document, which was also submitted to the court, contained the applicant’s name, photograph and the charge brought against him (“hooliganism”, under article 257 § 3 of the kazakhstan criminal code).28.  on 13 february 2013 the ankara administrative court dismissed the application lodged by the applicant on 22 march 2012. in its judgment, the administrative court noted that according to information obtained from the national intelligence organisation (milli i̇stihbarat teşkilatı), the applicant was involved in international terrorism and had carried out terrorist activities when he had been in turkey.the ankara administrative court further noted that the applicant’s asylum application had been rejected as the administrative authorities had found that there had not been any basis for the applicant’s fear of persecution and that he had not met the conditions for being considered a refugee.on the basis of the documents in the case file, the administrative court concluded that the administrative decision to reject the applicant’s asylum application and to deport the applicant from turkey had been lawful.31.  the government submitted that the kumkapı foreigners’ removal centre where the applicant had been held had a capacity of 300 persons and that a total of between 100 and 150 persons had been held during the period between 9 june and 13 september 2011. detainees were accommodated on three floors: the first two floors were reserved for male detainees, and the third floor for females.
he was charged with the offence of robbery, taking of hostages and blackmail while in ukraine, in 1997 and 1998. the applicant was residing at the material time in brussels, belgium.each time, the reasons for his detention were that it was an exceptional case, that there was a reasonable suspicion that he had committed serious offences punishable by imprisonment, that the criminal case was complex and that if released the applicant could interfere with the investigation, influence the witnesses and victims, re-offend or abscond (as he had earlier been declared a wanted person).the applicant’s lawyer also raised a complaint about the impossibility to consult the applicant during the court hearings while not seated at the same desk next to him.he also complained about the denial by the court’s registry of the applicant’s request to receive copies of his case file.on 17 june 2010 the court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s lawyer’s claims and on 21 june 2010 it prolonged the applicant’s detention warrant for another ninety days, relying on exactly the same reasons as before.13.  on 6 april 2012 the prosecutor’s office lodged an appeal on points of law against the judgment of 22 february 2012. in the appeal the prosecutor’s office made reference to article 439 of the code of criminal procedure.14.  the proceedings ended on 30 december 2015, when the buiucani district court found the applicant guilty, but discontinued them on the ground of statutory time-limit.in particular, the applicant describes his conditions of detention as follows: the cell was equipped with twelve wooden beds, it was not heated, the quality of food was very poor, there was a lack of ventilation, worsened by the inmates’ smoking directly in the cell, and poor lighting.11 (bălți), where he was detained until the date of his acquittal by the bălți court of appeal on 22 february 2012. on the date of his arrival he was not fed.the applicant described his conditions of detention as follows: toilet insufficiently separated from the cell, lack of a washstand, lack of water and ventilation, lack of adequate lighting, damp and cold cell.20.  on 30 december 2010 the applicant lodged a complaint with the prosecutor’s office complaining about the poor conditions of detention.in a reply dated 10 january 2011, the prosecutor’s office informed the applicant that his complaint about the poor conditions of detention was well founded and that following a control carried out in prison no.the applicant was detained along with fifteen to seventeen other inmates and they had to sleep in turns as the cell was equipped with only twelve beds.22.  the applicant complained to the domestic courts and the investigating authority about the inhuman and degrading conditions of detention.on 20 january 2011 the bălți prosecutor’s office acknowledged the existence of the inhuman conditions of detention in prison no.
she was placed in the detention centre of the general directorate for fighting organised crime of the ministry of the interior (“the gdfoc”).9.  according to the government, the applicant was transferred from the detention facility of the ministry of the interior to prison no.12.  according to the applicant, while being detained in the detention facility of the gdfoc, her medical treatment was interrupted and the gdfoc administration refused to transfer her to a hospital.following an enquiry lodged in december 2013 by the applicant’s lawyer about the medical care received by the applicant while in detention, the prisons authority replied on 14 february 2014 that she had been registered as an oncology patient since 5 june 2013 and had been provided with medical treatment in line with her diagnosis.14.  according to two extracts from the applicant’s medical records dated 26 june 2014 and 9 july 2015 and signed by the head and the deputy head of the medical unit of prison no.16.  the court refers to the relevant material cited in its previous case-law concerning the republic of moldova (see, for instance, shishanov v. the republic of moldova, no.17.  in its reports for 2013, 2014 and 2015 on conditions of detention, the centre for human rights in moldova (“the human rights centre”, which also acts as the moldovan ombudsman) found serious problems in prison no.18.  the relevant parts of the european committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment (“the cpt”) report concerning its visit to the republic of moldova between 14 and 25 september 2015 read as follows: “44.the delegation was informed during the 2015 visit that the opening of a new 1,500-place remand prison in the chișinău area, financed in large part by a loan from the council of europe development bank, was now envisaged for june 2018. chișinău prison, with an official capacity of 1,000 places, remains the largest prison establishment in the republic of moldova and operates primarily as a remand facility, with a very high turnover of prisoners (according to the management, between 13,000 and 15,000 prisoners were admitted to the prison every year).... 45.  at the time of the 2015 visit, the moldovan prison population had increased by some 1,300 inmates as compared to the cpt’s previous visit in 2011 and stood at approximately 7,770 (some 20% on remand).the moldovan authorities recognised that the size of the prison population and the resulting overcrowding in prisons constituted a major challenge.indeed, the delegation observed for itself that the national standard of at least 4 m2 of living space per prisoner was far from being met in most of the prison establishments visited; in particular at chișinău and soroca prisons, the levels of overcrowding had reached disturbing proportions.in this context, the delegation was told by the authorities that the increase in the number of prisoners was largely attributable to the rising re-offending rates and excessive resort to remand detention, as well as to reluctance on the part of judges to grant early conditional release.46.  the cpt recommends that the moldovan authorities make vigorous efforts – in consultation with the prosecutorial and judicial authorities – to eradicate prison overcrowding, in the light of the above-mentioned remarks.in so doing, the authorities should be guided by the relevant recommendations of the committee of ministers of the council of europe: recommendation r (99) 22 concerning prison overcrowding and prison population inflation, recommendation rec(2000)22 on improving the implementation of the european rules on community sanctions and measures, recommendation rec(2003)22 on conditional release (parole), recommendation rec(2006)13 on the use of remand in custody, and recommendation rec(2010)1 on the council of europe probation rules.
he found that the applicant had a cephalohaematoma (κεφαλαιμάτωμα) in the right temporal region; abrasions in the parietal area; abrasions and mild oedema on his nose; bruising of his lower lip; a broken upper incisor (σπασμένο/διατομή πρόσθιου άνω τομέα οδόντος); a bruise on the left hemithorax with sensitivity and a few abrasions; oedema and abrasions on both wrists (πηχεοκαρπικές αμφώ); a few abrasions on the knees, with no evidence of inflammation; pain during the examination of the movement of the right knee; sensitivity of the upper thoracic vertebra and the upper lumbar spine.(xi)  constable m.p., who had interviewed the applicant at the station, in his statement of 17 march 2011 stated that the applicant had had abrasions on the face and when he had asked the applicant how the latter had got them, the applicant had told him that he had been hit during his arrest.the most relevant statements were as follows: (i)  sergeant p.h., who had made no mention of the applicant’s appearance in his previous statement, in his statement of 26 august 2011 stated that when the applicant had been brought to the detention facilities he had noticed that he had been upset (αναστατωμένος) and red in the face.(v)  constable m.n., who had guarded the applicant from 7.40 p.m. to 10.30 p.m. at the hospital, in his statement of 31 august 2011 stated that he had noticed that the applicant had had various injuries (χτυπήματα) but he could not remember whether they had been on the face or the body.(vi)  constable i.k., who had guarded the applicant from 7.40 p.m. to 10.30 p.m. at the hospital, in his statement of 1 september 2011 stated that the applicant had been in a wheelchair at one point because he had claimed he had not been able to walk and that he had, with the assistance of the other officer guarding him, helped him onto a bed.- based on the police officers’ testimony, the investigator noted that on the day of the arrest, the officers who had arrested the applicant had been in uniform and had not had batons as they had been simple traffic officers.- the applicant had alleged that the ill-treatment had continued until 3 p.m., but in his prisoner record it had been recorded that he had been taken to a cell in the detention facilities of the station at approximately 1.45 p.m. - the applicant had claimed that the doctor at the hospital had refused to give him painkillers but this had been refuted by dr a.k.50.  the investigator considered it unlikely that officers of the cps would have interrogated a suspect for offences under the authority of the another unit, the ecid, and that they would have ill-treated the applicant in the car given the close distance between the scene of arrest and the police station, which was only about 1 to 1.5 km.63.  by a letter dated 7 march 2012 to the attorney general, the applicant’s lawyer expressed his disappointment concerning the conclusions of the investigation and pointed out that no explanation had been given, at least in respect of the ill-treatment the applicant had been subjected to at the police station while handcuffed and as a result of which he had ended up in hospital.furthermore, his office had been informed by the investigator a.s. that after the conclusion of the investigation, he had had an informal conversation with inspector i.s, the head of the ecid of the limassol cps, who had confided in him that the applicant had been ill-treated while at the police station.these included, inter alia, photographs from the area near the atm, cctv footage from the bank relating to the day of the alleged ill-treatment, copies from police diaries kept at the police station and the record of the criminal proceedings before the district court of limassol and the supreme court.denied the occurrence of a discussion between him and the investigator a.s. 76.  at the end of their investigation the investigators prepared a lengthy report on the investigation procedure and their findings 77.  in their report the investigators pinpointed a number of deficiencies in the investigation of the case from the very beginning on the part of the police and the first investigation by the iaiacap.had failed to ask the officers about the applicant’s injuries and how they had happened; nor had he asked constable p.p., who had been the first officer to receive the applicant at the police station at 9.30 a.m., if the applicant had had any injuries on him at the time; he had merely filed (αρχειοθέτησε) p.p.’s statement; he had also not taken any investigative steps with regard to the applicant’s injuries – he had filed the medical report of the pathologist dr a.k., which referred to the applicant’s injuries and had not sought to obtain a medical report by dr s.j., who had visited the applicant in hospital.235/1990 (see paragraph 98 below) was applicable in the case: it was presumed that the person responsible for ill‑treatment was the person in charge of the police station and the questioning for the investigation of the case in relation to which an arrest and/or detention was made unless an explanation was given for the cause of the injuries.88.  lastly, they referred to the findings of the domestic courts in the criminal proceedings against the applicant noting that the applicant had not substantiated his ill-treatment allegations in the proceedings and pointed to the serious inconsistencies in his evidence and the failings by the applicant’s defence counsel.
7.  the accident report – prepared on the same day by the traffic police on the basis of their findings and the statements of the first applicant – indicated that after the first applicant had lost control of the vehicle on the bend, it had first crashed into the metal barrier alongside the road, and had then fallen over the barrier into an empty canal.when, at the same time, he had noticed another car approaching him from behind on his left, he had first applied the brakes and had then swerved his car to the right, at which point he had lost control of the car and hit the crash barrier on the right side of the road.told the police that as he had been driving down the opposite side of the road, he had seen the first applicant’s car suddenly swerve to the right, after which it had hit the crash barrier on its right-hand side and had dropped down the side of the road.12.  at the first hearing held before the i̇zmir assize court on 15 december 2008 the first applicant stated that as he had been driving along the road at a normal speed, his car had started skidding to the left for an unknown reason, and that he had swerved the car to the right to avoid hitting the car approaching him from the opposite lane on the left.he did not ask the court to carry out an additional investigation into the incident, but stated that the fatal accident had taken place as the crash barrier alongside the road, which was supposed to have been able to stop the car, had been badly damaged.13.  at the same hearing, the i̇zmir assize court decided that although the first applicant had been charged with causing death and bodily injury by negligence and that his negligence in that regard had been established, there was no need to subject him to a criminal penalty as it could be accepted that he had been aggrieved by the accident, which had resulted in the death of his wife, to a sufficient degree within the meaning of article 22 § 6 of the turkish criminal code.14.  in the meantime, on 17 november 2008 the first applicant applied to the i̇zmir magistrates’ court for a declaratory judgment in order to establish (i)  whether and to what extent the state of the crash barrier alongside the road had contributed to the fatal accident and whether the barrier had been repaired after the accident; and (ii)  whether there had been any structural problems with the road, such as unusual sloping.15.  the expert report submitted to the i̇zmir magistrates’ court on 5 december 2008 made the following findings: -  the crash barrier at the bend in question had been damaged prior to the accident and the damaged parts of it had not been repaired after the accident; -  there was a slight dent in the road right by the damaged barrier; however, there was no structural problem with the slope of the road surface.16.  on 2 march 2009 the first applicant applied for compensation from the general directorate of highways (“the general directorate”) and the municipality of i̇zmir (“the municipality”) in connection with the road traffic accident that had claimed his wife’s life.according to him, it was evident from the traffic accident report that the crash barrier at the site of the incident had been damaged prior to the incident, which suggested that other road accidents had taken place at that same spot.he argued that the defective state of the barrier, which had been put in place to prevent cars from dropping down the side of the road in the event of impact, had greatly aggravated the outcome of the accident.18.  on 20 may 2009 the applicants brought an action for compensation before the i̇zmir administrative court against the municipality alone, arguing that the latter had been responsible for yeşim çakır’s death on account of its failure to repair the crash barrier in a timely manner, as well as the possible structural problems with the road.19.  the municipality once again denied responsibility for the maintenance of the crash barrier in question, but also stated that in any event, sole responsibility for the accident lay with the first applicant, who had lost control of his car despite the road signs warning of a sharp bend ahead.20.  in their response to the municipality, the applicants repeated that the state of the roadside barrier showed that other accidents had happened at that exact spot on previous occasions, which in turn suggested a structural problem with the road, such as an unusual sloping towards the side.23.  relying mainly on the findings in the traffic accident report and the statements of the first applicant, on 27 may 2010 the i̇zmir administrative court found that the first applicant bore sole responsibility for the accident in question, as he had lost control of his car while taking the bend, despite a sign warning of the sharp bend ahead.
6.  the facts of the applicant’s ill-treatment in police custody were established in a judgment of the novocheboksarsk town court of the chuvash republic (“the town court”) of 22 august 2008 and upheld on 11 november 2008 by the supreme court of the chuvash republic.at the police station a district police officer (участковый уполномоченный милиции), officer m. from the novocheboksarsk town police station, who wore a police uniform, threatened the applicant by saying that a criminal case against him would be opened, grabbed him by his clothing, violently pushed him backwards against a wall several times and punched his left ear.9.  officer m. was convicted under article 286 § 3 (a) of the criminal code (abuse of power with the use of violence) and sentenced to three years’ imprisonment and a two‑year ban on exercising official power.10.  in january 2009 the applicant brought a civil claim in the amount of 312,487 russian roubles (rub) against the ministry of finance of the chuvash republic in respect of non-pecuniary damage.he argued, inter alia, that his ill‑treatment by the police had amounted to inhuman and degrading treatment proscribed by article 3 of the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (“the convention”), and that, in accordance with the plenary supreme court resolution no.5 of 10 october 2003, the domestic courts were to apply the convention in accordance with the case-law of the european court of human rights (“the court”).he also argued that, in calculating the amount of compensation due in respect of non‑pecuniary damage for a violation of the convention, the domestic courts therefore had to take into account the sums awarded by the court under article 41 of the convention in similar cases.he stated that his claim had been calculated based on the sum awarded by the court in the case of ribitsch, in which a violation of article 3 of the convention had been found on account of inhuman and degrading treatment in police custody (see ribitsch v. austria, 4 december 1995, series a no.it noted that, under article 61 § 4 of the code of civil procedure, a judgment in a criminal case which had become enforceable was binding on a court examining the civil-law consequences of the acts of a person against whom the judgment had been delivered, in so far as it established whether those acts had taken place and whether they had been committed by that person.relying on articles 1099-1101 of the civil code of the russian federation and section 8 of the plenary supreme court resolution no.10 of 20 december 1994, the town court held that rub 20,000 would be just and reasonable satisfaction for the applicant’s mental suffering as a result of his ill-treatment by the police officer, treatment which had undermined his honour and dignity and caused him insignificant health damage.on 6 may 2009 the supreme court of the chuvash republic upheld the judgment on appeal, fully endorsing the town court’s calculation of the amount of compensation in respect of non‑pecuniary damage.it disagreed with the applicant that, in determining the amount of compensation for non‑pecuniary damage, the domestic courts had to be guided by the amounts of such compensation awarded by the court in similar cases, stating as follows: “indeed, in accordance with article 15 § 4 of the constitution of the russian federation, commonly recognised principles and norms of international law and international agreements of the russian federation are an integral part of [the russian federation’s] legal system.however, this does not mean that the amount of compensation for non-pecuniary damage determined by the european court of human rights in a specific case has a binding effect on national courts examining other cases where a violation of similar norms and principles can be found.the determination of the amount of compensation for non-pecuniary damage in specific cases is the prerogative of national courts examining such cases.”
5.  by decision of 9 may 2003, which became final and binding on 4 september 2003, the human rights chamber for bosnia and herzegovina (“the chamber”) found that the federation of bosnia and herzegovina (an entity of bosnia and herzegovina) had discriminated against the applicant in its enjoyment of the right to freedom of religion guaranteed by article 9 of the convention.in order to remedy the situation it ordered the federation of bosnia and herzegovina to ensure the relocation of public schools housed in the archdiocese high school building in travnik, and to reinstate the applicant in the premises within one year.the chamber rejected a request by the applicant for pecuniary and non-pecuniary damages.6.  by an agreement of 21 may 2004, the federation of bosnia and herzegovina undertook to reinstate the applicant in the impugned premises by 1 july 2006. shortly thereafter, the travnik municipal council adopted the implementing decisions, and also one of the public schools was moved from the premises.on 5 october 2011 the travnik cantonal court quashed that decision and remitted the case for reconsideration.on 17 october 2011 the travnik municipal court held that it lacked jurisdiction to deal with the case.on 16 may 2012 the travnik cantonal court quashed that decision and remitted the case for reconsideration.on 3 july 2012 the travnik municipal court held that the decisions of the chamber were not subject to enforcement proceedings.at the date of the latest information available to the court (28 august 2017), the travnik cantonal court had not yet ruled on the matter.8.  on 30 october 2012 the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina determined that the federation of bosnia and herzegovina had not yet fully enforced the decision of 9 may 2003.9.  on 17 february 2017 the applicant initiated civil proceedings against the public school remaining in its premises, requesting its relocation, as well as damages for the use of the premises for the period between 1 february 2014 and 1 june 2017.10.  on 14 july 2017 the municipal court in travnik rendered a judgment in the applicant’s favour, rewarding in full its claims finally specified in the proceedings, namely 270,360 convertible marks (bam)[1] for pecuniary damages and 6,713 bam for costs and expenses.the municipal court also ordered the respondent to vacate the applicant’s premises within 30 days from receiving the judgment.on 20 december 2017 the cantonal court in novi travnik upheld the judgment of the first-instance court.at the date of the latest information available to the court (20 february 2018), the central bosnia canton submitted a revision petition to the supreme court of the federation of bosnia and herzegovina against the final judgment in these proceedings.
4.  the facts, as submitted by the parties, are similar to those in association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos.5.  the applicants or their close relatives participated in demonstrations and were injured or killed by gunfire during the events of december 1989 in bucharest, brașov and vișina which led to the fall of the communist regime.6.  in 1990 the military prosecutor’s offices from several cities opened criminal investigations into the use of violence against the demonstrators, including the applicants’ injury or their close relatives’ death during these events.the main criminal investigation was recorded in file no.in a number of cases the prosecutor decided between 1991 and 1996 not to open an investigation or to discontinue the proceedings.these cases were further examined in the main criminal investigation file irrespective of a formal decision ordering re-opening, applicants being questioned by the prosecutor and raising civil claims, according to the circumstances of each case.7.  the most important procedural steps were described in association “21 december 1989” and others (cited above, §§ 12-41), and also in ecaterina mirea and others v. romania (nos.subsequent relevant domestic decisions are shown below.8.  on 14 october 2015 the military prosecutor’s office closed the main investigation, finding that the complaints were partly statute-barred, partly subject to an amnesty, and partly ill-founded.it also found that some of the occurrences could not be classified as offences and some were res judicatae (see anamaria-loredana orășanu and others v. romania [committee], no.9. the decision of 14 october 2015 was annulled by a prosecutor general’s decision of 5 april 2016, confirmed by the high court of cassation and justice on 13 june 2016. it was noted that the investigation in file no.11/p/2014 was incomplete and that the facts could not be established based on the evidence gathered up to that date.10.  on 1 november 2016 the military prosecutor ordered the initiation in rem of a criminal investigation for the offence of crimes against humanity in respect of the same circumstances of fact.up to february 2017 further steps were taken in gathering information from domestic authorities, the prosecutor’s office contacting 211 civil parties, questioning members of the political party which took over the presidency at the time of events, planning the hearing of military officers and other participants in the events, verifying the activity of the relevant military units and the audio/video recordings broadcast by radio and television.11.  at the date of the latest information available to the court (submitted by the parties on 13 april 2017 and 19 may 2017), the criminal investigation was still ongoing.
12.  on 11 august 2006 the applicant was charged with possessing an item prohibited under the prison regulations (the offence proscribed by article 378 § 2 of the criminal code), and on 4 september 2006 the prosecutor sent the case to the tbilisi city court for trial.he brought the court’s attention to the fact that the charge against him was based only on the statements of the prison officers who had conducted the search in question, and who had already been summonsed as witnesses for the prosecution, and that the cellmates had never been interviewed at the pre-trial stage.the applicant referred in that regard to the principle of the equality of arms and his right to have witnesses on his behalf give testimony under the same conditions as those against him, within the meaning of article 6 §§ 1 and 3 (d) of the convention.he also cited article 18 of the code of criminal procedure, pursuant to which the trial court was obliged to take all necessary procedural measures aimed at the establishment of the relevant circumstances of the case in a comprehensive and objective manner.17.  as is apparent from the transcript of the trial, when questioned in the period between 12 and 21 february 2007 by the trial court as witnesses for the prosecution, the prison officers gave statements concerning the exact circumstances in which the knife had been discovered that were somewhat different.in particular, one of the officers submitted that the knife had been found “in the bed, between the mattress and the blanket, closer to the footboard” while another stated that it had been hidden “in [the applicant’s] bed, between the mattress and the sheet, closer to the headboard, near the pillow”; yet another officer stated that “the knife fell onto the floor the moment we took the mattress off the bed”.the prison officers also submitted that, in so far as the door of the cell had been left open during the search, the cellmates could have observed the process from the adjacent corridor (see paragraph 10 above).19.  the applicant further complained during his last pleading before the trial court on 23 february 2007 of the inability to have the witnesses on his behalf, the seven cellmates, examined under the same conditions as those for the prosecution.notably, he argued that, even assuming that the knife had indeed been found in his bed by the prison officers, that fact did not necessarily mean that he had owned it; the prohibited item could have been discreetly planted in his bed by a cellmate or cellmates the moment the prison officers entered the cell with the intention of conducting a search.the court confirmed that the prison officers’ statements, the video recording and the written record of the search of the cell and the seizure of the knife constituted the incriminating evidence.reiterating his previous arguments as to why he considered the cellmates to be important witnesses (see paragraph 19 above), he argued that, without examining them, it would not be possible for the appellate court to establish objectively the real circumstances surrounding the search of 8 august 2006. the applicant also requested that the video recording be reviewed by the appellate court as it did not necessarily establish that the knife had been found in his bed.notably, given the stages of the two diseases at that time and the known side-effects of the anti-tb and anti-hcv drugs, the doctors recommended that the applicant firstly be provided with anti-tb medication under the dots programme (directly observed treatment, short-course – the treatment strategy for detection and cure of tb recommended by the world health organisation).only upon completion of the anti-tb treatment, could the applicant start receiving, in the doctors’ view, antiviral drugs for his hcv, such as interferon alpha-2b and ribavirin; the exact dosage of the intake of the latter drugs were to be determined in due course.30.  according to his medical file, the applicant started receiving the anti-tb medication under the dots programme from 13 november 2007. during the intensive period of the treatment, which lasted three months, the applicant was kept in the prison hospital under the close supervision of medical personnel with the appropriate training.the results of those tests showed that the sputum culture was already negative and also established that the applicant’s tb bacteria were still sensitive to the administered antibiotic drugs, which confirmed the suitability of the ongoing treatment.
7.  as the applicant denied that he was the father, z.’s legal guardian brought proceedings on her behalf in the jihlava district court (okresní soud) for a declaration of paternity.9.  on 23 april 1970 the district court found that the applicant was z.’s father and ordered him to contribute to her maintenance.in addition, it established that the applicant had had intercourse with the mother sometime between 300 and 180 days before z.’s birth.in such cases, a presumption of paternity arose under article 54 of the family code, unless there were clear grounds to rebut the presumption.another man had also had intercourse with the mother at the crucial time, however, the blood test established that he was not the father.the regional court denied the request because the facts had been proved to a sufficient degree.12.  in 2011 the applicant requested that the prosecutor general (nejvyšší státní zástupce) challenge his paternity in court.by a letter of 21 june 2011 he was informed that the requirements of article 62 of the family code to initiate such proceedings had not been met.z., by that time an adult, did not want to challenge paternity, it was not in her interests and the applicant had not produced any expert evidence credibly disproving it.14.  on 9 may 2012 the applicant submitted a new request to the prosecutor general to challenge his paternity in court.15.  on 12 september 2012 the prosecutor general informed the applicant that the determination of his paternity had been decided by the jihlava district court under article 54 of the family code and that therefore the prosecution service could not initiate proceedings under article 62 and 62a of the family code.the prosecutor general only had that specific competence as regards statutory presumptions of paternity under articles 51 § 1 and 52 of the family code.when paternity had been established by a judicial declaration under article 54 of that code and the judgment had come into legal force, as in the applicant’s case, the law did not provide for any possibility to challenge it.16.  relying on his rights under article 6 § 1 of the convention, the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint (ústavní stížnost) against the prosecutor general’s decision of 12 september 2012. he maintained that he had proved that he was not z.’s biological father and requested that the constitutional court (ústavní soud) order the prosecutor general to initiate proceedings and challenge his paternity.it noted that his paternity had been established by a judicial decision which had come into legal force and stated, inter alia, that the competence of the prosecutor general could only apply if all the legal requirements had been fulfilled, which was not, however, the applicant’s case.
it appears from the transcripts of the court hearings before the nasimi district court available in the case file that the applicants denied the charges against them, stating that their arrest was related to their social and political engagement.moreover, in respect of the first applicant, the judge also noted that the first applicant had avoided the investigation until his arrest on 14 march 2013 because he had been wanted by the police since 10 march 2013 on the basis of the investigator’s decision charging him with a criminal offence under article 228.3 of the criminal code.the first applicant also submitted that he had never been informed of any decision of the investigator charging him with a criminal offence until his arrest on 14 march 2013. in that connection, he pointed out that between 10 and 14 march 2013 he had not gone into hiding and had actively participated in the political life of the country, giving an interview to a newspaper and participating in the gathering of a political movement.in that connection, the appellate court held that the nasimi district court had correctly taken into account the seriousness of the criminal offence attributed to the applicants and the likelihood that if released they might abscond or obstruct the normal functioning of the investigation.21.  on 30 may 2013 the nasimi district court extended the first applicant’s detention pending trial until 7 september 2013. the court substantiated the need for the extension by the complexity of the case, the gravity of the charges, and the likelihood that if released the first applicant might abscond or obstruct the investigation by influencing those participating in the criminal proceedings.29.  on 24 june 2013 the nasimi district court extended the second applicant’s detention pending trial by three months, until 1 october 2013. the court substantiated the need for the extension by the complexity of the case, the gravity of the charges and the need for additional time to carry out further investigative measures.the prosecutor gave as the reason for the need to extend the detention the complexity of the case and the need for more time for the accused and his lawyer to familiarise themselves with the material in the case file.36.  on 18 september 2013 the nasimi district court extended the second applicant’s detention pending trial by two months, until 1 december 2013. the court substantiated the need for the extension by the complexity of the case, the gravity of the charges, the need for additional time to carry out further investigative measures and the likelihood that if released the second applicant might abscond or obstruct the investigation by influencing those participating in the criminal proceedings.42.  on 20 june 2013 the prosecutor in charge of the criminal case lodged a request with the court asking for an extension of the third applicant’s pre-trial detention for a period of three months, submitting that more time was needed to complete the investigation.43.  on 22 june 2013 the nasimi district court extended the third applicant’s remand in custody by three months, until 30 september 2013. the court substantiated the need for the extension by the gravity of the charges, the risk of his reoffending, and the likelihood that if released he might abscond or obstruct the investigation.53.  on 20 june 2013 the prosecutor in charge of the criminal case lodged a request with the court asking for an extension of the fourth applicant’s pre-trial detention for a period of three months, submitting that more time was needed to complete the investigation.54.  on 24 june 2013 the nasimi district court extended the fourth applicant’s remand in custody by three months, until 30 september 2013. the court substantiated the need for the extension by the complexity of the case, the need for additional time to carry out further investigative measures and the possibility of the fourth applicant’s absconding or influencing persons participating in the criminal proceedings.60.  it appears from the documents in the case file that on an unspecified date in september 2013 the prosecutor in charge of the criminal case lodged a request with the court asking for an extension of the fourth applicant’s pre-trial detention for a period of two months.63.  it appears from the documents in the case file that on 4 october 2013 the baku court of appeal upheld the nasimi district court’s decision of 18 september 2013. the government did not make a copy of the appellate court’s decision available to the court.66.  on 6 may 2014 the baku court of serious crimes found the applicants guilty on all counts and sentenced the first applicant to seven and a half years’ imprisonment, the second applicant to eight years’ imprisonment, the third applicant to seven years’ imprisonment and the fourth applicant to eight years’ imprisonment.
as to the risk of absconding and reoffending, the judge relied on the gravity of the charges, the potential penalty, the circumstances under which the alleged offences had been committed and the links between the suspects.as to the risk of the applicant’s absconding, the panel, in addition to the gravity of the charges and the potential penalty, took into account his previous history of being in “conflict with the law” (и претходно доаѓал во судир со законот) and the fact that there were parallel criminal proceedings against him for similar criminal offences.in the light of all the circumstances, the court was of the opinion that a further extension of the applicant’s detention had been warranted.11.  appeals by the applicant were dismissed by the skopje court of appeal (апелационен суд скопје, “the court of appeal”) on 8 february 2010. the court of appeal reiterated that the gravity of the charges, the severity of the penalty and the fact that the suspects had acted as a well‑organised group indicated a risk of flight and of reoffending if the applicant were to be released.in the course of the proceedings, the prosecutor withdrew the charge of abuse of office and amended the extortion charge to one of violence (насилство).the panel excluded the risk of interference with the investigation from the list of grounds for the detention since the investigation had been completed and an indictment lodged.however, the court of appeal upheld the panel’s finding regarding the risk of absconding and held that a further extension of the detention order had been justified on the basis of the gravity of the charges and the potential penalty.16.  three-judge panels ordered further extensions of the pre-trial detention of the applicant and the other co-accused on 23 april, 19 may, 21 june, 22 july, 20 august, 20 september, 20 october, 18 november, 17 december 2010 and 17 january 2011. in each order the panel provided the following reasoning regarding the risk of absconding: “the material and verbal evidence adduced so far corroborates the reasonable suspicion that the accused have committed the crimes with which they are charged.having regard to the nature, character and type of offences with which the accused have been charged, as well as the gravity of the charges and the potential penalty ... the panel considers that there is a real risk of flight if the accused are released.the risk of flight is further supported by the financial circumstances of the [accused] ... [the applicant] ... has been in conflict with the law ... the panel has taken into consideration the fact that the accused have families and children, and that [the applicant] has immovable property in his name, but it considers that the accused’s family and material situation are insufficient guarantees of their presence at trial ...” 17.  the applicant appealed against the extension orders, arguing, inter alia, that the panels had not given sufficient reasons to substantiate the risk of his absconding, given that they had only relied on the gravity of the charges and the potential penalty.in decisions dated 13 may and 16 december 2010 the court of appeal stated: “the court considers that the circumstances related to the type, gravity and the specific circumstances of the criminal offences with which the accused has been charged, the manner in which the criminal offences were committed and the potential penalty, indicate a risk of flight if the accused is released in order to avoid eventual criminal responsibility for the criminal offences in question, as the first-instance court rightfully decided, providing sufficient reasoning, which this court finds acceptable.in that connection, the court took into account the accused’s request to replace detention with house arrest or another, more lenient, measure ... but the court has dismissed that request because in its view, at this stage of the proceedings, custody in prison is the only effective measure to exclude the risk of the accused absconding ...” 19.  meanwhile, the applicant made several unsuccessful applications for release on bail.it held that the guarantees offered by the applicant were not sufficient to ensure his presence during the proceedings, given the gravity of the charges, the potential penalty and the complexity of the proceedings, which involved many defendants and a large volume of evidence.on 30 september 2010 the court of appeal dismissed an appeal by the applicant, relying on the gravity of the charges, the severity of the penalty and the complexity of the proceedings.the court of appeal considered that the proposed bail was a sufficient guarantee of the applicant’s presence during the proceedings, given his personal circumstances and the gravity of the charges.
he stated that, on the morning of 13 march 1998, he and the other applicant had planned to go for coffee in plovdiv city centre, that he had also decided to invite s.d., with whom he had previously had an intimate relationship, and that she had accepted the invitation.stated that while he was out, she had had consensual sex with mr dimitrov and that later on, after drinking the coffees brought back by mr momin, the three of them had taken a taxi and she had returned home.12.  on 1 february 1999 the investigator sent the file to the district prosecutor’s office, attaching his opinion to the effect that the criminal proceedings could be discontinued in the absence of a criminal offence.the taxi had dropped them off at a café that was being refurbished in plovdiv city centre; she had tried to escape, but mr dimitrov had hit her on the neck and pushed her inside, where he had forced her to undress and had hit her on the head several times.the lawyer had persuaded her to sign the letter retracting her original statement and withdrawing her complaint, and the letter had then been sent to the prosecutor in charge of the investigation (see paragraph 14 above).in addition, it heard the opinion of a medical expert on the nature and origin of the injuries found on s.d.’s body during her medical examination on 14 march 1998. the applicants, represented by lawyers of their choosing, challenged the evidence against them, adduced evidence in their defence and sought their acquittal.it based that conclusion in particular on the two defendants’ statements, part of s.d.’s statement, the findings of the expert medical opinion and the statements of the other witnesses questioned.in that connection, the court noted that the victim had changed her account during the investigation, that it had not had the opportunity to examine her in person, that the other witnesses had portrayed s.d.in a negative light, that her statement had been given two years after the events and that it contradicted the other statements and the findings of the medical examination performed on s.d.28.  the plovdiv regional court heard the case between 27 june and 4 july 2007. it ordered two expert medical opinions on the basis of the evidence to establish the process and causes of an episode of hypoglycaemia, and to check the accounts given by s.d.31.  the regional court based its findings of fact on s.d.’s statement of 19 december 2000, the statements by the three police officers who had attended to her at the police station the day after the events and had carried out the initial investigative steps, the statement by s.d.’s husband and a certain v.m., part of the statements by the applicants and mr dimitrov’s employer, the findings of the site inspection report and the photographs taken in the course of the inspection, various items of documentary evidence, the findings of the initial medical examination of the victim and the two additional medical examinations, and the two psychiatric examinations of the applicants.34.  next, the regional court found that the statement in question was credible in that it was consistent with those given by the police officers who had registered the victim’s complaint and had observed her psychological and physical state on the day after the events.it found that her alteration of her version of events in the course of the investigation had been due to the pressure exerted on her by the applicants and people close to them.38.  in a judgment of 7 january 2008 the supreme court of cassation dismissed the applicants’ appeals as to the establishment of the facts and the defendants’ guilt, and upheld the regional court’s judgment in respect of those issues.it further held that the regional court had established the facts on the basis of all the evidence and that, on that basis, s.d.’s statement was “an important element, but not the only element” in establishing mr dimitrov’s guilt and “the main evidence” in establishing mr momin’s guilt.
9.  in 1993, the competent authorities published a notice in the national press announcing the intention to classify twelve sites, including castlemaine harbour, as a special protection area (spa) within the meaning of the domestic legislation transposing council directive 79/409/eec of 2 april 1979 on the conservation of wild birds (“the birds directive”, oj 1979 l 103, p. 1).... [r]egarding the aquaculture programmes, the commission relies, essentially, on the review of the aquaculture licensing system in ireland carried out in 2000 by birdwatch ireland as the basis for its view that ireland has systematically failed to carry out a proper assessment of those projects situated in spas or likely to have effects on spas, contrary to article 6(3) and (4) of the habitats directive.238.  it should also be borne in mind that, under the first sentence of article 6(3) of the habitats directive, any plan or project not directly connected with or necessary to the management of the site is to be made subject to an appropriate assessment of its implications for the site in view of the site’s conservation objectives if it cannot be excluded, on the basis of objective information, that it will have a significant effect on that site, either individually or in combination with other plans or projects (case c‑127/02 waddenvereniging and vogelbeschermingsvereniging [2004] ecr i‑7405, paragraph 45).243.  under article 6(3) of the habitats directive, an appropriate assessment of the implications for the site concerned of the plan or project implies that, prior to its approval, all aspects of the plan or project which can, by themselves or in combination with other plans or projects, affect the site’s conservation objectives must be identified in the light of the best scientific knowledge in the field.the applicant company was informed of the situation by an official of the department on 6 june 2008. it wrote to the taoiseach (prime minister) that same day to underline the threat to the livelihood of those affected.23.  at a meeting in february 2008 between the npws and the eu commission, the latter underlined the need to comply with the judgment by conducting the requisite assessments for aquaculture, and in so doing addressing the cumulative effects of other activities that could adversely affect natura 2000 sites.what happened from then onwards, the annual allocation of seed collection authorisations and the constant refurbishing of the plaintiffs business gave rise to a pattern of events where the plaintiffs had good reason to rely upon the comfort given to them that there would not be a summary closure of their business without some good scientific reasons or without some consultation process before doing so.” 39.  the high court also found that there had been “operational negligence” due to the failure of the authorities to carry out the necessary scientific tests or monitoring that would have provided the data required by eu law.... 10.10  next, reliance is placed on the fact that, as found by the trial judge, the ongoing activities of [the applicant company] were carried out to the knowledge of the minister and on the basis of annual legal measures put in place by the minister which facilitated the so-called opening of the harbour.the fact that the minister was mistaken in his view that traditional activities, of which the minister undoubtedly knew, could continue provided that the minister put in place the appropriate legal measures, and was also in error about the fact that those legal measures could be put in place in conformity with european law without carrying out an appropriate assessment, cannot create a legitimate expectation to the effect that that situation would continue.if the detailed surveys complained of were necessary to establish the baseline, one is only left to speculate as to how these surveys could have been carried out without exactly the same or similar cessation of activity in the harbour, albeit in earlier years.” 45.  he then referred to the legislative complexity of the situation, which involved provisions of eu law, as well as primary and secondary domestic legislation, and to the complexity of the situation that the state faced in the aftermath of the infringement judgment of the cjeu.he did not consider that the minister had owed a duty of care to the plaintiffs in 2008. the minister had been aware of their situation, but also of the situation of other businesses in other parts of the country which had been placed in the same predicament.49.  writing for the minority, clarke j considered that the high court judgment, insofar as it concerned negligence, should be upheld as regards the events of 2008. concerning the events of 2010, he noted that the applicant company had not provided evidence allowing a causal link to be established between the alleged failure on the part of the minister and its inability to conduct its business that year.the real question was therefore: “15.4  ... in the light of developments in european law, did the minister owe a duty of care to those who, to his knowledge (and up to then with his permission), were carrying out activities in protected areas, to ensure that he had appropriate survey(s) and other scientific evidence available to enable a decision to be made for the purposes of considering whether to permit the continuance of traditional activities and, should appropriate evidence be found to be present, to allow those activities to be authorised?” 51.  he considered that on the facts of the case the necessary elements of foreseeability and proximity were present.in that eventuality, there would be an immediate problem due to the absence of the necessary scientific data for the appropriate assessment to be made, leading to at least the temporary interruption of the activities of the applicant company and others operating in protected areas.but the actions and decisions in 2008 and later were not relevant to the duty of care as he had defined it: “15.31  ... [t]he minister got it wrong by failing to put in place measures to secure the appropriate scientific data to enable an appropriate assessment to be carried out long after it had become clear, by reason of the position adopted by the commission, that there was, to put it at its mildest, a significant doubt as to whether the minister’s position was correct.
5.  the list of applicants is set out in the appended tables.6.  the applicants were employees of a municipal education institution.7.  on 13 june 2001 they brought proceedings before the kolomna town court of the moscow region (“the town court”) against their employer and the town administration seeking recovery of unpaid wages and taxes to various social funds.8.  on 13 july 2004 the kolomna town court issued a first-instance judgment on the merits of the case.on 22 september 2004 the moscow regional court quashed the judgment on appeal and remitted the case for a fresh examination.9.  on 7 july 2005 the town court granted the applicants’ claims awarding each of them a certain amount against their employer (see appendix i).the judgment was upheld on appeal by the moscow regional court on 28 september 2005.10.  between 26 june 2001 and 7 july 2005 the court hearings were adjourned twenty-five times due to the respondents’ or one of the respondents’ failure to appear, eighteen times on the claimants’ request and eleven times pursuant the requests by the defendants; four times the first‑instance court adjourned the case as the respondent authorities had been requested to submit additional documents.moreover, on 11 june 2002 the proceedings were suspended pursuant to a decision by the domestic court on account of the claimants’ alleged failure to appear; on 4 february 2003 that decision was quashed by the appeal court, due to the first-instance court’s failure to notify the applicants of the hearing date.thus, the period attributable to the authorities amounts to over one year.11.  on an unspecified date in 2005 the employer institution was liquidated.on 18 october 2005 the relevant record was made into the state register of legal entities.12.  according to the government’s submissions of 19 july 2011, on 30 june 2006 the judgment of 7 july 2005 was partially enforced in respect of certain applicants, as specified in appendix i.
20.  however, the court observed that, according to the real estate register, the area covered by forest on the applicants’ plot amounted to 0.187 hectares and not 0.25 hectares as claimed by the prosecutor, and the data of that register had to be considered accurate until proven otherwise.25.  on 1 september 2008 the prosecutor lodged a further claim with the vilnius regional court, seeking to have i.b.’s property rights to another 1.73 hectares of the 5.40 hectares given to him annulled (see paragraph 13 above), on the grounds that it was covered by a forest of national importance, as well as to have the applicants’ property rights to that part of the plot annulled.the court observed that even though restoration of property rights was a continuous process and included the preparation of various documents, the final decision to restore property rights had to comply with the law in force at the time of the adoption of that decision.according to the applicants, on 19 october 2010 they sent a letter to the national land service (the institution which took over the relevant functions of the vca after an administrative reform  hereinafter “the nls”) stating that they were of advanced age and did not “have the energy or state of health to look for vacant land in the vilnius area”.it also stated that there was no more vacant land in the former village of kryžiokai and that i.b.’s property rights could be restored by: (i) assigning a plot of land or forest equal in value to the land held previously; (ii) providing securities; (iii) discharging liabilities to the state; (iv) transferring, free of charge, a new plot of land equal in value to the land held previously for the construction of an individual home in the city or rural area where the previously held land was situated; or (v) providing monetary compensation (see paragraph 92 below).they submitted that the annulment of their property rights to 1.98 hectares of land had caused them pecuniary damage in the amount of 331,000 lithuanian litai (ltl  approximately 95,900 euros (eur)), according to an assessment of the value of the land carried out in may 2012. in the applicants’ view, being put on the list with 4,806 other candidates and being made to wait for an undetermined period of time for restitution was unacceptable.the prosecutor noted that the forest in question had been included in the plan of forests of national importance adopted by the government in 2002 (see paragraph 12 above), that is before the vca had adopted its decision to give that forest to the applicant and g.d. accordingly, the vca’s decision had to be declared unlawful and its effects annulled.it argued that at the time when the vca had adopted the decision to give the forest to the applicant and g.d., the forest had officially been urban forest (see paragraph 10 above) and had been included in the list of forests of national importance (see paragraph 12 above).54.  on 13 december 2010 the nls informed the applicant that, in accordance with the law, her property rights could be restored by assigning her a plot of land equal in value to the land held previously or by providing securities, but that there was no possibility of her receiving a plot of land for the construction of an individual home in a city.it argued that the applicant’s property rights had been restored in accordance with the legislation in force at the material time, and that the decision had been taken in coordination with various authorities, including the ministry of environment and the vilnius forest authority, which had not presented any objections.the court noted that the applicant had retained the right to restoration of her property rights, and that the restitution process had to be “continued at the expense of the vca or its successor, by finalising (and not starting afresh), in the same order of priority, the restitution process that had already begun”.it observed that it had no authority to directly order the vca to complete the restoration of the applicant’s property rights within that period of time, but that “the activity of the vca or its successor in the restitution process could constitute grounds for reducing the possible expenses of that institution, if [the applicant and j.s.]72.  the court of appeal further observed that even though the unlawful restoration of property rights had been the result of a decision adopted by the vca, under the law it was not possible to order the vca, and not the applicant, to return the money paid for the plot in question to j.s.it stated that there was no more vacant land in kryžiokai and that her property rights could be restored by: (i) assigning a plot of land or forest equal in value to the land held previously; (ii) providing securities; (iii) discharging liabilities to the state; (iv) transferring, free of charge, a new plot of land equal in value to the land held previously for the construction of an individual home in the city or rural area where the previously held land was situated; or (v) providing monetary compensation (see paragraph 92 below).according to the minutes of the meeting approved by the nls and signed by the applicant, she refused the plot which was offered to her and stated that she wished to wait for the decision of the european court of human rights in her case.
the fms referred to a report of 26 january 2006 on a check carried out by the agencies of the interior, according to which the first applicant had never properly acquired russian citizenship and therefore had no right to be in possession of a russian passport.15.  in a response of 27 october 2006 the volgograd region prosecutor’s office stated that the fms was not competent to seize passports, something which only the agencies of the interior could do; that the first applicant’s passport had been seized in breach of the law; and that the prosecutor’s office recommended that the fms rectify the situation.38.  according to the government, owing to doubts as to whether the second applicant had been issued with a russian passport in accordance with the established procedure, the fms of the centralniy district of kostroma sent a request to the fms of the rostov region.39.  on 30 june 2010 the fms of the rostov region issued a certificate which reads, in so far as relevant: “on 19 february 2002 [the second applicant] was issued with [a russian passport] following the exchange of [his passport] issued on 21 december 1981 by the chkhorozkuskiy department of the interior of the republic of georgia.a copy of [the second applicant’s] passport issued on 21 december 1981 by the chkhorozkuskiy department of the interior of the republic of georgia contains a [glued] insert issued by the department of the interior of the leninskiy district of rostov-on-don on 21 december [year illegible] to the effect that [the second applicant] is a citizen of the russian federation in accordance with section 13(1) of the russian citizenship act of 28 november 1991. on 29 january 2010 ... a request was sent to [the fms of the rostov region] to confirm that [the second applicant] had russian citizenship.according [to the information received], the issue of the above insert to [the second applicant] and its lawfulness or otherwise is [not] [section illegible] confirmed ... the decision to issue [the second applicant] with [a russian] passport was made ... by [v.], former head of the passport and visa directorate of police office no.accordingly, [v.] ... issued [the second applicant] with a russian passport in the absence of documents confirming that he was a russian citizen, and without checking the documents presented for the issue (exchange) of the passport, in breach [of the rules] then in force.on the basis of the foregoing, [it is proposed] ... to consider that [the second applicant’s passport] was issued in breach of the established rules ...” 40.  on 22 july 2010, when the second applicant turned 45, in accordance with the applicable procedure, he applied to the fms to exchange his passport.with reference to the certificate of 30 june 2010 issued by the fms of the rostov region, the decision stated, in particular, that according to the enquiries carried out, the second applicant’s russian passport had been issued in breach of the applicable rules.it further stated that it had proved impossible to obtain documentary evidence that the second applicant had been living in russia on 6 february 1992, and the stamp in his passport only confirmed that he had been registered as resident in the rostov region from 15 february 2002 to 17 february 2010. the decision also noted that the database of the ministry of foreign affairs contained no information as to whether the second applicant had obtained russian citizenship.47.  at a hearing on 20 october 2010 a representative from the fms of the centralniy district of kostroma stated, in particular: “on the basis of the written instructions from the fms that there should be an urgent check on all passports previously issued to individuals not born in the territory of the russian federation, we sent a request for information to the fms of the rostov region.it noted that, as a result of a check carried out pursuant to sections 51 and 52 of the 2002 regulation on the examination of issues related to citizenship of the russian federation, the fms had found that the second applicant had been issued with a russian passport in breach of the applicable rules, and was not entitled to russian citizenship.the court also noted that the reports of the checks carried out by the fms had not been appealed against or set aside in accordance with the established procedure, and that they were not the subject of the court’s examination in those proceedings.the appeal court noted, in particular, that the certificate issued by the rostov region fms on 30 june 2010 showed that a russian passport had been issued to the second applicant on the basis of a certificate of 23 december 1998 issued by the department of the interior of the leninskiy district of rostov-on-don confirming that he was a russian citizen in accordance with section 13(1) of the 1991 law on citizenship of the russian federation.it further noted that, according to the results of the enquiries carried out in the places indicated by the applicant as his places of residence in russia between 1989 and 2002, no confirmation of his registration and residence as of 6 february 1992 had been received with respect to any of the addresses indicated.
10.  on 13 august 2009 the fsb informed the applicant about a decision it had made on the undesirability of his presence (residence) in russia and on prohibiting him from re-entering the country until july 2014 (hereinafter “the exclusion order”).11.  on 13 november 2009 the applicant appealed against the exclusion order to the oktyabrskiy district court in krasnodar, which forwarded it for examination to the krasnodar regional court (hereinafter “the regional court”), which had jurisdiction under domestic legislation to look at cases involving state secrets.13.  also at the hearing on 24 march 2010, the applicant’s counsel requested that the court examine the factual grounds for the exclusion and allow him to access the documents which had served as its basis.42086/05, 6 december 2007), he pointed out that the authorities had to provide evidence proving the applicant was a threat to national security, given that the sanction against him, the five-year exclusion, would lead to the disruption of his family life.from the documents submitted to the court, it is unclear whether the fsb presented the regional court with any evidence concerning the applicant’s case, other than its letter to the applicant of 13 august 2009 (see paragraph 10 above) and copies of the relevant legal provisions governing the activities of the fsb and the applicable immigration regulations.its decision stated, amongst other things, the following: “ ... in july 2009 the federal security service took a decision on the undesirability of mr zezev’s presence (residence) in the russian federation and on prohibiting his re-entry into the country until july 2014 ... in his complaint, mr zezev seeks to have the decision of the federal security service declared unlawful and for it to be overruled, referring to the following: he has resided in the russian federation for five years.the fsb’s decision is unlawful and unsubstantiated ... ... [according to the applicant] the court should examine [his] case in the light of the right to respect for his private and family life and respect for a citizen’s choice of the place for his family life.there is no evidence of any alleged criminal activities ... ... the fsb decided on the undesirability of mr zezev’s presence (residence) in russia and on prohibiting his re-entry into the country until july 2014. the application of such preventive measures is within the federal security service’s scope of discretion.the decision [in respect of the applicant] was taken by fsb officials within the scope of their authority and the procedure defined by federal legislation and was approved by the competent official.given the circumstances, mr zezev’s request to have the fsb’s decision on the undesirability of his presence (residence) in russia and on the prohibition on his re-entry until july 2014 declared unlawful should be rejected ...” 15.  on 5 april 2010 the applicant appealed against the above decision to the supreme court of the russian federation (hereinafter “the supreme court”).the applicant further stated that even though he was a kazakh national he was an ethnic russian, did not speak kazakh, and had nowhere to live in kazakhstan as his parents had also moved to russia in 2005. he further stressed that he had married a russian national in 2007 with whom he had had a son in 2009 and that all his family members were russian nationals.16.  on 2 june 2010 the supreme court upheld the regional court’s judgment stating, amongst other things, the following: “...on 22 july 2009 the federal security service issued a decision on the undesirability of the presence (residence) of the kazakh national mr zezev in the russian federation and on the prohibition of his re-entry ... in the cassation appeal mr zezev seeks to have the judgment of the krasnodar regional court overruled as unlawful.in those circumstances, the chamber finds that the applicant’s right to a proper defence was fully complied with and that the reasons for the decision concerning the undesirability of his presence (residence) in russia and on the prohibition of his re-entry, which was taken owing to the real threat he posed to national security, have been confirmed by concrete facts.as for the applicant’s arguments concerning a violation of his private interests as a result of the decision on the undesirability of his presence (residence) in russia and on the prohibition of his re-entry, the chamber does not agree with him as it finds that in the circumstances of the case public interests should outweigh private interests.26.  in reply to a request by the court for a copy of the documents which served as the basis for the decision to exclude the applicant, the government only furnished a thirteen-page copy of the transcript of the hearing of the applicant’s appeal by the krasnodar regional court on 24 march 2010 (see paragraphs 12-14 above).
the decision stated, in particular, that in view of information received from the fsb, the applicant’s residence permit must be revoked under section 9(1)(1) of the federal law on the legal status of foreigners in the russian federation (hereinafter “the foreigners act”), which provided that a resident permit issued to a foreign national should be revoked if he or she advocated a radical change in the constitutional order of the russian federation or otherwise posed a threat to the security of the russian federation or its citizens.18.  on 14 august 2014 the applicant’s counsel asked the district court to request a copy of the fsb report of 18 march 2014 (see paragraph 9 above) on which the decision to revoke the residence permit had been based.in its decision, the court did not refer to any documents which had served as the basis for the impugned decision, other than mentioning that the measure had been imposed following the fsb’s recommendation of 17 june 2014 (see paragraph 11 above).it emphasised that the factual information which had served as the basis for the decision was not amenable to judicial scrutiny and that the scope of the court’s review was limited to assessing whether the statutory procedure had been complied with.as to whether the measure amounted to an interference with the applicant’s family life, the court noted that it was open to the applicant to obtain a visa so that she could come to russia to visit her family.the court neither examined the effect of the impugned measure on the applicant’s family life, nor balanced the public and private interests involved, but stated, in particular: “... given that the residence permit of ms gaspar was revoked on the basis of her actions representing a threat to the security of the russian federation ... which necessitates taking measures by the russian federation for the protection of its interests and those of its citizens, the court believes that when taking the impugned decision, the federal migration service balanced public and private interests.” 20.  the applicant’s counsel appealed against the above-mentioned decision to the city court, stating, amongst other things, that the district court had unlawfully refrained from judicial scrutiny of the factual circumstances which had served as the basis for the measure imposed on the applicant.21.  on 12 november 2014 the city court upheld the decision of 19 august 2014, stating that the district court had duly examined the necessary legal basis for the measure and that its decision had been lawful and reasonable.as for the interference with the applicant’s right to respect for family life, the court stated: “... the allegations of the applicant’s representative that the implementation of the impugned decision [to revoke the residence permit] would lead to the destruction of the family, cannot serve as the basis for overruling it.these arguments were examined by the court of first instance and were duly rejected.” 22.  on 9 october 2014 the applicant’s counsel challenged the legality of the fsb report of 18 march 2014 and its recommendation of 17 june 2014, claiming that those documents had been the basis for the decision to revoke the residence permit.at the hearing, the applicant’s counsel asked the city court to examine the factual grounds for the decision to exclude the applicant and to urge the fsb to produce evidence showing that the applicant indeed posed a threat to national security.the city court dismissed the request, stating that as the matter was within the fsb’s exclusive competence, it fell outside of the scope of judicial review and that “the evidence presented to the court did not disclose a violation of the applicant’s rights by the fsb”.in its decision, the court stated, in particular: “... the allegations of the applicant’s representatives concerning the failure of the representatives of the federal security service to submit proof showing the necessity to send the impugned letter [recommending that the residence permit be revoked] to the federal migration service are unsubstantiated, as the federal security service’s information note on ms gaspar as presented to the court does not contain any such information.” 25.  the applicant’s counsel appealed against the above-mentioned decision to the supreme court of the russian federation (hereinafter “the supreme court”).counsel stated that neither he nor the applicant had been given the chance to familiarise themselves with the contents of the fsb report or with any other documents containing details concerning the nature of the applicant’s activity which allegedly posed a risk to national security.in response to the applicant’s grounds for appeal, the supreme court held as follows: “... the applicant’s argument concerning a violation of her right to respect for private and family life by the [fsb] decision cannot be taken into account, as this decision did not concern the applicant’s entry into the russian federation to see her family members who were russian nationals in russia ... ... the state has the right to take decisions limiting certain rights of foreign citizens, including the right to request residence permits and the right to request the nationality of that state, in the interests of the public, including that of national security.therefore, the impugned decision is lawful and substantiated, and the appeal against it does not provide reasons to overrule it ...” 27.  in reply to the court’s request for the information and documents that served as the basis for the decision to revoke the applicant’s residence permit, including the fsb’s recommendation of 17 june 2014, the government furnished copies of two documents totalling six pages: the fms’s decision to reject the applicant’s russian citizenship application of 28 march 2014 (see paragraph 10 above), and the decision of 21 july 2014 to revoke her residence permit (see paragraph 12 above).
the cheque bore the applicant’s name underneath the name of the company of which he was president of the executive board, and the address of the company on the cheque was indicated as being “... bakırköy / istanbul”.9.  on 6 october 1999 the trial court sent a copy of the bill of indictment, together with the notice of the first hearing, to the address written on the cheque.11.  within the context of the enquiries to find out what the applicant’s new address was, it appears that the bakırköy public prosecutor’s office asked the police and the mayor of the neighbourhood (muhtarlık) to collect information.16.  on 26 may 2003 the trial court once again attempted to serve the summons at the address written on the cheque, but failed to do so for the same reasons.that judgment was served on the applicant on 30 october 2004. the seven-day time-limit for lodging an appeal against the judgment expired, and in the absence of an appeal it became final.the applicant, who was unaware of any criminal proceedings against him, requested the details of the judgment in question and applied to the registry of the bakırköy criminal court of first instance for further information.20.  upon examining the relevant case file at the registry of the first-instance court, the applicant discovered that he had been charged and convicted in absentia for issuing an uncovered cheque on 27 april 1999 and sentenced to a fine of try 500[2], an amount corresponding to the amount of the cheque.21.  on 5 may 2006 the applicant lodged an appeal with the bakırköy criminal court of first instance, challenging the judgment in question on the grounds that it had been delivered in his absence and the accusations against him were ill-founded.he emphasised that he had not received any notice of the criminal proceedings or the judgment, not even when he had gone to the bakırköy public prosecutor’s office three months prior to the delivery of the impugned judgment to obtain his criminal record details for an unrelated matter.he emphasised that, although his accurate address details could easily have been obtained from the mayor of the neighbourhood, the judgment of october 2004 had been served at the address which his company had moved out of on 15 april 1999. in his absence, it had apparently been posted on the door of the building.24.  on 21 september 2006 the principal public prosecutor at the court of cassation delivered her opinion on the applicant’s appeal, where she requested that the first-instance court’s judgment of 5 may 2006 be quashed on account of the unlawful service of the initial judgment rendered in his absence.25.  on 2 october 2006 the court of cassation upheld the lower court’s decision, holding that the judgment in question had been duly served on the applicant in accordance with section 35 of law no.26.  on 8 november 2006, in accordance with article 308 of the code of criminal procedure, the applicant requested that the principal public prosecutor at the court of cassation lodge an application to have the court of cassation’s decision set aside.27.  it appears that the applicant was imprisoned on 24 november 2006 on account of his failure to pay the fine of try 500 imposed by the bakırköy criminal court of first instance on 13 october 2004.29.  on 1 december 2008 the principal public prosecutor at the court of cassation rejected the applicant’s application under article 308 of the code of criminal procedure, maintaining that the applicant’s arguments had already been examined by the court of cassation in its decision of 2 october 2006.
the psychiatrists recommended that the children not be questioned further [during those criminal proceedings] in order to avoid the applicant exerting an influence on the children’s testimony, bearing in mind the fact that – while visiting the children in the children’s home – he had already asked them not to recount his actions.the prosecutor also refused the applicant’s request that the material relating to his previous criminal conviction be added to the file pertaining to the instant case, noting that the judgment regarding his earlier conviction (nuosprendis) had been added to his case file, but holding that other material from the earlier criminal case file had not constituted evidence directly relevant to the circumstances being investigated in the instant criminal case.39.  however, the trial court acquitted the applicant of crimes listed under articles 153 and 309 § 4 of the criminal code because the applicant had denied committing those crimes and it was impossible to establish from the children’s testimony which pornographic films the applicant had shown to the children and when he had shown them.he was also dissatisfied with the fact that during both the pre‑trial investigation and the trial the authorities had denied him the possibility to add to the new criminal file the material from the previous criminal proceedings (see paragraphs 8 and 9 above).the applicant claimed that the reports by child psychiatrists ordered during proceedings in respect of the earlier case against the applicant contained information about the applicant’s behaviour towards his children in 2009. he stated that in those reports the psychologists had confirmed that the children had described the situation openly, without hiding anything.similarly, although requested by the applicant, so far it had not been necessary to call and question the forensic experts who had examined the two children (see paragraph 19 above), because the reports issued by those experts had been provided and the court had a right to examine them and to rely on them.lastly, the appellate court deemed that the applicant’s request for the addition to the current case file of materials – the minutes of court hearings and the children’s psychological reports from the applicant’s earlier criminal case file (see paragraph 8 above) – was without purpose (netikslingas) because those materials concerned the applicant’s earlier crime.as for the applicant’s request that his neighbours, his sons’ teachers and his work colleagues be questioned in order to prove that in 2009 he had worked long hours and had therefore had no practical opportunity to sexually abuse his children, the court of appeal deemed that there was no reason to believe that the testimony given by those people would outweigh the entirety of the rest of the incriminating evidence in the case, which for that court was consistent.he argued, inter alia, that there had been a violation of article 6 § 3 (d) of the convention, in that the trial and appellate courts had refused his request that the witnesses for the defence be summoned and examined under the same conditions as those under which the prosecutor’s witnesses had been examined.to make matters worse, she had also withheld from the court the fact that the boys had been in the care of the state between 2009 and 2011, and had claimed child support for this period during which she had not been actually taking care of them.monthly child support of 300 lithuanian litai (ltl – approximately 90 euros (eur)) in respect of the applicant’s child, ro.k., to be paid by the applicant until he came of age, as well as child support in the amount of ltl 1,200 (eur 350) due for the four-month-period between march and july 2011 (that is to say from the day on which the boy had ceased to be cared for by the state until the day on which v.k.as to the other child, ra.k., the court held that v.k.’s claim had to be dismissed because, in the light of the established circumstances, the record in the case file testifying to the applicant being ra.k.’s father was not sufficient to give rise to legal consequences, since the purpose of that record was not to confirm the paternity but to obtain welfare benefits.the committee forwarded the applicant’s complaint to the prosecutors, and it reached the kaunas regional prosecutor’s office on 2 january 2012. afterwards, on 25 january 2012 the prosecutor wrote to the applicant that a pre-trial investigation officer would resolve the issue.the applicant also stated that the kaunas remand facility had not had an ophthalmologist on its staff, and that the pre-trial investigator had not allowed him to be sent to lukiškės remand prison in vilnius (which had had an ophthalmologist) on the grounds that this would extend the criminal investigation.the court considered that there was no proof in the file that the applicant had asked for the return of his spectacles earlier than on 20 march 2012. in sum, since the inconvenience caused to the applicant could have been easily resolved had he shown some initiative, and given that his need for spectacles had not been proved, the appellate court considered that an acknowledgement that the spectacles had been taken away constituted sufficient compensation for the damage suffered.
6.  the applicant was registered for the purposes of the value added tax act (the “vat act”) and declared vat on all invoices issued.this made it possible for the applicant company periodically to request vat deductions from the state, which it did (in accordance with the rules of the “tax credit” system).7.  until the subsequent events, the applicant company had been submitting regular tax returns to the tax authorities, notifying the state of its vat calculations, payments and deductions.the state had processed the tax returns without indicating any wrongdoing or additional amounts due on the part of the applicant company.8.  on 22 september 2009 the internal revenues office, regional directorate – skopje (управа за јавни приходи, регионална дирекција скопје – “the iro”) issued an order to audit the applicant company for the purposes of vat.it was established that the applicant company’s suppliers were registered for the purposes of vat but some of them had not declared or paid vat to the state, even though it had clearly been declared in the invoices sent to the applicant company.lastly, the audit found that all invoices from the suppliers had been paid in full by the applicant company and that vat had been declared on all invoices from the applicant company.on account of the above issues related to the applicant company’s suppliers, the audit concluded that the applicant company had failed to meet the conditions necessary to benefit from the vat deductions it had received.11.  the applicant company lodged an appeal with the minister of finance against the decisions of 9 december 2009. in the appeal it stated that it had met all of its vat obligations stemming from the suppliers’ invoices and that it could not be held responsible for the suppliers’ mistakes.16.  by a decision of 28 march 2011 the administrative court remitted the case to the ministry of finance, having found that the second-instance decision had been issued by an unauthorised person acting in the name of the minister.17.  on 26 may 2011 the ministry of finance again dismissed the appeal of the applicant company, reiterating the findings from the audit.specifically, the income of the applicant company was created by companies which failed to meet their legal obligations in relation to the payment of vat ... in the deliberations the court took into account the claims by the appellant that it was wrongfully deprived of the right to claim vat deductions because the errors found in the tax assessment had pertained to other [companies] ... these claims were rejected by the court ... inter alia taking into account that it is in the interests of every taxpayer to know and be aware of those with whom they engage in business.” 20.  on 17 september 2013 the applicant company appealed to the higher administrative court (виш управен суд).21.  in a final judgment of 13 march 2014 the higher administrative court upheld the findings and conclusions of the tax authorities and stated the following: “... [t]he appellant failed to fulfil the cumulative conditions prescribed in sections 33 and 34 of the vat act to obtain a vat deduction specifically because the monetary inflow of the appellant as a taxpayer was done by other taxpayers who failed to meet their obligations to declare or pay tax.... the court examined the complaint that all of the outstanding issues in the audit reflected errors committed by third parties and that the appellant should not be forced to bear the obligations of third parties ... but dismissed them ... having in mind that every taxpayer has an interest to enter into relations with other subjects.” 22.  on 2 february 2017 the applicant company was removed from the register of companies and ceased to exist.according to a document issued by the register of companies, it was removed in accordance with section 552-b of the companies act (закон за трговски друштва), specifically for not having submitted an annual financial statement (завршна сметка) to the authorities for the year 2014.
in may 2003 the audit agency in its report concluded that while the advertising and marketing expenses incurred in 2001 (755,000 latvian lati (lvl), approximately 1,074,268 euros (eur)) and 2002 (lvl 555,000, approximately eur 789,694) had been greater than in previous years (in 1998 the figure had been lvl 374,000, approximately eur 532,154; in 1999, lvl 324,000, approximately eur 461,010; and in 2000, lvl 640,000, approximately eur 910,638), this could be explained by the fact that the bank had been in the process of changing its corporate identity during the period under consideration.14.  in their submissions to the court, the parties disagreed on the manner and form in which the applicant had provided the respective information to the nra journalists.“[the applicant] confirmed to [nra] that the advertising agency, z., the creator of latvia’s first party’s advertising campaign, is one of the companies to which the former management of krājbanka transferred more than [lvl] 200,000 at the beginning of [2002] without documentary certification as an advance payment for advertising services.[nra] was informed by [the applicant] that ... at the last meeting of the supervisory board, a member of ‘a.l.’s group’, v.d., asked him in a forthright manner: ‘have the folks from ventspils insured your property?’ ‘this is an unprecedented event – the chairman of the bank’s supervisory board being blatantly threatened!’ admitted [the applicant].is now speculating that he will soon be afforded immunity as a member of [parliament], preventing him from being criminally prosecuted without a majority vote of [the parliament] ... commenting on the value of marketing, advertising and public relations contracts, [the applicant] admitted that even though it is necessary to carry out in-depth market research, during a.l.’s era various procedures were breached and payments were made whose sums currently cannot be precisely determined ... nra has already written that [lvl] 522,000 has been transferred [to finance krājbanka’s] advertising and marketing activities since the beginning of the year 2001, in respect of which no documentation – the relevant contracts, delivery/acceptance deeds, etc.the nine articles had also contained other information provided by the applicant – that during a.l.’s time in office, there had been breaches not only in relation to the advertising expenses, but also other breaches in respect of banking operations, payments without approval, the administration of certificate accounts against the interests of the bank and the state.21.  the appellate court stated that the information contained in those articles about the use of krājbanka’s funds and transactions had been provided by the applicant (who had mentioned specific sums), and that the articles had contained references to his statements.23.  the court also held that the journalists had not had a responsibility to verify the accuracy of the provided information, since the applicant’s status as the chairman of the supervisory board of krājbanka had created a legitimate expectation that the provided information was correct.25.  given the above, and in view of the seriousness of the interference and the applicant’s position in the bank, the court ordered the applicant to pay compensation to a.l.his allegations regarding the misappropriation of krājbanka’s funds could only have infringed the interests of the bank as a legal entity; it could not have offended the honour and dignity of certain executives, who had been under an obligation to inform the supervisory board and the mass media of the truth.the relevant parts of the judgement read as follows: “[the appellate court’s] conclusion that the applicant had disseminated defamatory and false information was supported by the applicant’s own submissions before the first-instance court, in which he admitted that he had provided incorrect information to [the journalists] ... .having examined the testimony of [the nra journalists], the appellate court found that the false information provided by the applicant had related not to krājbanka’s management, as the applicant indicated, but specifically to a.l., as the then president of the bank, thus infringing his honour and dignity.... [the appellate court] found that the journalists had had no reason to doubt the credibility of the information, as it had been provided by the applicant [in his capacity as] chairman of the supervisory board of krājbanka, and his position had undoubtedly created a legitimate expectation that this information was true ... accordingly, the appellate court rightly held that the journalists had had no obligation to verify the accuracy of the information provided by the applicant.by granting his claim, the [appellate] court, taking into account the scope of the distributed information and its audience, rightly considered it justified.” the senate of the supreme court also upheld the claim against preses nams alone in respect of one other article; they held that a.l.’s honour and dignity had not been offended in other articles.referring to section 2352a of the civil law and section 29(3) of the law on the mass media, the senate of the supreme court ordered the applicant (who had disseminated that defamatory information), and not preses nams, to retract the relevant parts of the articles in question (see paragraph 15 above).
4.  the applicant was born in 1991 and lives in mersin.5.  on 30 december 2011 the applicant was taken into custody on suspicion of membership of a terrorist organisation and of making propaganda for that organisation.6.  on the same day, the applicant was brought before the investigating judge who ordered his detention on remand taking into account the nature of the offences, and the strong suspicion that he had committed the alleged offences, and the risk of absconding.7.  on 28 march 2012 the applicant’s lawyer lodged an objection against the decision dated 30 december 2011 ordering the applicant’s detention and requested his release.on 29 march 2012 the mersin magistrates’ court dismissed the objection on the basis of the case file, without holding a hearing.on 16 april 2012 the applicant’s lawyer filed a further objection against that decision.on 17 april 2012 the mersin criminal court with general jurisdiction dismissed the objection on the basis of the case file, without holding a hearing.8.  on 5 september 2012 the applicant was released from detention on remand.9.  on 10 september 2012 the adana public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment against the applicant, accusing him of being a member of a terrorist organisation and of making propaganda in its favour.10.  according to the latest information in the case file, the proceedings against the applicant are still pending before an assize court.
4.  the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in podgorica.5.  between 3 december 2002 and 15 september 2003 the daily newspaper dan published several articles about a human trafficking case in montenegro, in which the applicant’s name was mentioned in various contexts.6.  on 22 october 2004 the applicant instituted civil proceedings against the publisher of the said newspaper, seeking compensation for non‑pecuniary damage due to violation of his honour and reputation caused by the publishing of untrue information about him.7.  on 4 june 2010, following a remittal, the podgorica first instance court ruled partly in favour of the applicant, ordering the publisher to pay the applicant 8,000 euros (eur) in non-pecuniary damages and to publish the judgment in dan, the daily newspaper in question.8.  on 22 october 2010 the podgorica high court amended this judgment by awarding the applicant eur 4,000 as compensation for the non-pecuniary damage suffered, which judgment was served on the applicant on 29 november 2010.9.  the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal on 14 january 2011.10.  on 7 april 2011 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal.this decision was served on the applicant on 19 may 2011.
4.  the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in siirt.5.  on 9 january 2009 the applicant was taken into custody on suspicion of membership of a terrorist organisation and disseminating its propaganda.6.  on 13 january 2009 the applicant was brought before the siirt magistrates’ court, who ordered his detention on remand taking into account the strong suspicion that he had committed the alleged offences.7.  on 3 august 2009 the applicant’s lawyer filed an objection against the above decision on the applicant’s detention and requested his release.8.  on 6 august 2009 the diyarbakır public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment, charging the applicant with disseminating terrorist propaganda, and aiding and abetting a terrorist organisation.9.  on 10 august 2009, at the end of the preparatory hearing, the diyarbakır assize court decided to prolong the applicant’s detention on the basis of the case-file.10.  on 8 september 2009 the diyarbakır assize court ex officio examined the applicant’s detention on remand on the basis of the case-file and decided to extend it.11.  on 1 october 2009, at the end of the first hearing before the diyarbakır assize court, the applicant was released pending trial.12.  on 31 december 2009 the diyarbakır assize court acquitted the applicant of the charges against him.no appeal was filed and the judgment became final on 8 january 2010.
at the time of the events giving rise to the present application, he was the editor‑in-chief of ülkede özgür gündem, a daily newspaper published in turkey.stated his views on the role of abdullah öcalan, the leader of the pkk (an illegal armed organisation), a number of organisations associated with the pkk in regional and international politics and political developments in turkey.7.  on 8 july 2004 the public prosecutor at the istanbul assize court filed a bill of indictment, charging the applicant with disseminating propaganda in favour of the kongra-gel[1] under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no.3713) on account of the article published on 6 july 2004. in the indictment, the public prosecutor quoted the following passage from the article: “... abdullah öcalan, who has contributed to the essential dynamic of the kurdish movement and the hpg[2], the pja[3] and the kongra-gel, organisations which have acted as military, political and ideological leaders and which have represented his leadership,... [must be well understood]”.the public prosecutor stated that a photograph of abdullah öcalan in which he was standing in a rural area holding a weapon had been published in the newspaper, next to the article.the public prosecutor considered as a result that the applicant had disseminated propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation inciting others to violence or other methods of terrorism.8.  during the proceedings the applicant maintained that the article in question had been a news article and had not contained propaganda inciting to violence.9.  on 24 may 2005 the istanbul assize court convicted the applicant of disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk/kongra-gel under section 7(2) of law no.in its judgment, the istanbul assize court held that the content of the article and the publication of abdullah öcalan’s photograph amounted to dissemination of propaganda in favour of the pkk/kongra-gel.in his appeal petition, referring to a number of the court’s judgments, the applicant claimed that he had not had the intention of disseminating propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation and that his criminal conviction had been in breach of articles 6 and 10 of the convention as he had been exercising his right to impart information.11.  on 16 may 2006 the principal public prosecutor at the court of cassation returned the case file to the first-instance court and requested that the latter revise its judgment in the light of the recent legislative amendments.12.  on 28 september 2006 the istanbul assize court once again convicted the applicant under section 7(2) of law no.3713, with the same reasoning that it had adopted on 24 may 2005. the court sentenced the applicant to a fine of 1,802 turkish liras (try).14.  on 18 november 2009 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of 28 september 2006.15.  according to a document dated 15 january 2010, signed by the president of the istanbul assize court and the istanbul public prosecutor, the applicant was required to pay the fine of try 1,802.
7.  the applicants were born in 1987 and 1985, respectively, and live in the hozat district of tunceli.8.  on 5 april 2007 the applicants attended a concert performed by a band called “grup yorum” in hozat.during the concert they chanted certain slogans, such as “revolutionary prisoners are immortal” (“devrimci tutsaklar ölümsüzdür”), “revolutionary prisoners are our honour” (“devrimci tutsaklar onurumuzdur”).9.  on 17 october 2007 the malatya public prosecutor filed an indictment with the malatya assize court charging the applicants with disseminating propaganda in favour of the “dhkp/c” (revolutionary people’s liberation party/front), an illegal armed organisation, under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no.the public prosecutor noted that the first applicant had chanted the slogan “revolutionary prisoners are our honour” (“devrimci tutsaklar onurumuzdur”) during the concert.as regards the second applicant, the public prosecutor alleged that he had chanted the following slogans during the same concert: “mahir, hüseyin, ulaş; fight until emancipation”[1] (“mahir, hüseyin, ulaş; kurtuluşa kadar savaş”); “martyrs of the revolution are immortal” (“devrim şehitleri ölümsüzdür”); “revolutionary prisoners are our honour”, “victory on mountains, emancipation at the front; long live victory, long live resistance” (“dağlarda zafer, cephede kurtuluş; yaşasın zafer, yaşasın direniş”).10.  during the criminal proceedings against them, the applicants stated that they had attended the concert of 5 april 2007 and had sung along with the musicians but had not chanted the slogans noted in the indictment.11.  on 6 march 2008 the malatya assize court convicted the applicants as charged and sentenced them to ten months’ imprisonment each.in its judgment, the assize court considered it established, on the basis of a police video recording of the concert of 5 april 2007, a report on the video recording, the indictment, the applicants’ defence submissions and the public prosecutor’s observations on the merits of the case, that the applicants had chanted the slogans noted in the indictment.the court considered that the concert in question had become a propaganda activity in favour of the dhkp/c and that the applicants had chanted slogans that were used by that organisation.the malatya assize court concluded that the applicants had committed the offence of dissemination of propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation.12.  the applicants appealed.13.  on 4 july 2011 the court of cassation upheld the first-instance court’s judgment.14.  on 13 and 14 september 2011 the applicants were informed that they had to start serving their prison sentences within ten days.according to the applicants’ submissions, which were not contested by the government, upon receipt of the summons to serve the prison sentences, both applicants duly served them.
6.  on an unspecified date the applicant was invited to istanbul to take part in a television programme that was due to be broadcast live on a public channel on saturday 31 march 2001. the programme consisted of a debate on the topic of “the cultural structure of the european union and the traditional structure of turkey – comparing identities and modes of behaviour – likely problems and suggested solutions”.8.  on the same day the course director wrote to the dean of the faculty informing him that the applicant had been invited to take part in a television programme.in his letter he also expressed doubts as to whether there was a link between the applicant’s specialist field and the subject of the programme and whether the applicant’s invitation to take part in a personal capacity was in keeping with the university’s principles.9.  on 30 march 2001 the dean of the faculty informed the director of the translation course that it had been decided that the applicant’s participation in the programme in question was not appropriate.11.  in letters dated 2 and 5 april 2001 to the dean of the faculty, the applicant asked why his participation in the broadcast of 31 march 2001 had not been considered appropriate in spite of his past work on the subject covered by the programme.12.  in a letter to the applicant dated 9 april 2001 the dean of the faculty replied that the applicant had not been entitled to take part in the event without the authorities’ permission.he added that the director of the translation course had expressed misgivings as to whether the applicant was sufficiently familiar with the topic of the programme of 31 march 2001, and that the view of the course director had been taken into account in the decision to refuse authorisation.13.  on saturday 14 april 2001 the applicant took part in another programme in the same series, following an international conference held in istanbul from 11 to 13 april 2001 which the dean of the faculty had authorised him to attend.it noted at the outset that the applicant had been authorised to take part in events outside his city of residence on twelve occasions during the 2000/01 academic year, but that his request for authorisation concerning the programme of 31 march 2001 had been refused in view of the opinion of the course director, who considered that the topic of the programme was not directly linked to the applicant’s specialist field.as to the applicant’s participation in the broadcast of 14 april 2001, the commission noted that the dean of the faculty had authorised the applicant to attend an academic gathering to be held from 11 to 13 april 2001 in istanbul, and that this authorisation had not covered 14 april 2001. the commission considered in that regard that not even research professors should take part in programmes of this type without supervision or authorisation, and that universities had to uphold academic ethics.it went on to find that the applicant’s participation in two television programmes in istanbul on 31 march and 14 april 2001, without authorisation from his university, amounted to leaving his city of residence without authorisation, an offence punishable under regulation 8(g) of the disciplinary regulations for managers, lecturers and officials in higher education institutions (“the disciplinary regulations”).18.  on 8 august 2001 the vice-chancellor decided to lift the sanction of a reduction in salary and to impose a less severe penalty on the applicant, in the form of a reprimand under regulation 16 of the disciplinary regulations.lastly, he argued that the programme of 14 april 2001 had been a follow-up to the conference of 11 to 13 april 2001, which he had been authorised to attend, and that the people invited to appear on the programme had been participants in the conference.the court noted in that regard that it was beyond dispute that, on 31 march 2001, the applicant had left his city of residence despite the refusal of his request to take part in the television programme in question.it found that the reasoning of the decision had been in conformity with the procedure and the law and that there were no grounds for quashing the decision.
15.  on 30 november 2010 a lawyer acting on behalf of the first applicant’s wife wrote to the minister of the interior requesting a visitor’s residence permit for her based on humanitarian grounds, a permit of the same duration as that held by her husband.the lawyer noted that the couple had a young daughter, that both the wife and the daughter were supported by the first applicant, and that she could not return to sri lanka without him, as she did not have family there with whom she and her daughter could stay.the lawyer informed the authorities that the couple’s intention was that the whole family would return to sri lanka upon the expiry of the first applicant’s temporary residence permit.23.  on 7 january 2011 the police arrested all nine sri lankans, including the applicants, on the basis of arrest warrants issued on the same day by the nicosia district court under section 18 of the criminal procedure law (cap.the applicants were remanded in custody for six days under section 24 of the criminal procedure law and article 11(5) and (6) of the constitution, to enable the investigation into the commission of various criminal offences to be concluded.the nicosia crime investigation department informed the attorney general that that there was sufficient evidence against all the nine individuals arrested, including the applicants, in relation to the offence of taking part in a fight in a public place contrary to section 89 of the criminal code, but not as regards the remaining offences, which were more serious.the third applicant had also committed the offence of staying in cyprus unlawfully, as his temporary resident permit had expired on 12 february 2009. at the suggestion of the police, the attorney general decided not to prosecute the applicants, but to deport them instead.26.  on 14 january 2011 the residence permits of the first and second applicants were revoked by the director of the civil registry and migration department under section 6 of the aliens and immigration law (cap.deportation and detention orders were issued against the applicants on the same day: under section 6(1)(g) of the above law in respect of the first and the second applicants, on the grounds of public order, and under section 6(1)(k) in respect of the third applicant, on the grounds of unlawful stay.the letters stated that the applicants were illegal immigrants: the first and second applicants under section 6(1)(g) of the aliens and immigration law, because their “conduct had been considered dangerous for reasons of public order”, and the third applicant by virtue of section 6(1)(k), on the grounds of “illegal stay”.28.  consequently, on 14 january 2011, upon the expiry of the remand warrant, the applicants were released but re-arrested at once on the basis of the deportation and detention orders that had been issued against them.although the government did not have evidence as to the exact date on which the applicants were notified of the letters of 14 january 2011 or the exact manner in which they were notified, this happened sometime between 14 and 18 january 2011.29.  on 18 january 2011 a cypriot lawyer acting on behalf of the applicants sent two letters by fax to the minister of the interior, referring to the letters of 14 january 2011 sent to the applicants.30.  the government submitted that the applicants’ case had then been reviewed by the minister of the interior, who had noted their lawyer’s objection, read the administrative file and maintained the decision to deport the applicants.33.  there were signed notes by a police officer on the copies of the letters of 14 january 2011 stating that the letters had also been served on the applicants on the day they were deported.
she was successful in the examination and on an unspecified date she was informed by the state personnel department attached to the prime minister’s office that she had been appointed to the post of security officer in the kilis branch of tedaş (türkiye elektrik dağıtım a.ş.8.  on 4 september 2000 the applicant lodged an action against tedaş with the gaziantep administrative court requesting the annulment of the decision of the kilis branch of tedaş not to appoint her to the post in question and a stay of execution of this decision.12.  on 28 january 2002 tedaş lodged an appeal against the judgment of 4 october 2001, requesting that the supreme administrative court order a stay of execution of the judgment of the gaziantep administrative court and subsequently quash it.13.  on 12 april 2002 the twelfth division of the supreme administrative court granted the stay of execution of the judgment of 4 october 2001.15.  on 26 december 2002 the twelfth division of the supreme administrative court quashed the judgment of 4 october 2001. the supreme administrative court considered that given that there had been a requirement of “having completed military service”, the post had been reserved for male candidates only.the supreme administrative court therefore found that the decision not to appoint the applicant to the post had been in accordance with the law.17.  the applicant appealed against the decision of 23 october 2003 and argued that the supreme administrative court’s interpretation, namely that the post in question must have been reserved only for male candidates given that there was a requirement to complete military service, ran counter to the principle of equality and the state’s positive obligation to ensure non‑discrimination between men and women.in support of her arguments, the applicant maintained that this obligation was set out not only in article 10 of the constitution but also in article 2 § d of the united nations convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women as well as article 3 of the international covenant on economic, social and cultural rights.she further argued that it was of no importance to dwell on whether the post in question had been reserved for male candidates only, since such a reservation itself would be contrary to the prohibition on discrimination on the basis of sex in access to employment as set out in the relevant international instruments and european union regulations.on 16 november 2017 the twelfth division of the supreme administrative court unanimously upheld the decision of 23 october 2003, without replying to the arguments of the applicant.18.  on 6 december 2007 the supreme administrative court’s general assembly of administrative proceedings divisions (danıştay i̇dari dava daireleri genel kurulu), the composition of which included some members of the twelfth division, delivered a decision in favour of r.b., who, like the applicant had been a female candidate for tedaş whose application to be appointed to the post of security officer had been rejected by tedaş on account of not fulfilling the requirements of “being a male” and “having completed military service”.relying on the right to a fair hearing, she argued that her submissions concerning the prohibition of discrimination were also supported by the findings of the supreme administrative court’s general assembly of administrative proceedings divisions in its decision concerning the case of r.b.20.  in the rectification proceedings the judge rapporteur of the twelfth division submitted his written opinion on the merits of the case and argued, inter alia, that the decision of 16 november 2007 should be rectified in the light of the decision of the supreme administrative court’s general assembly of administrative proceedings divisions of 6 december 2007 in the case of r.b.he also noted in that connection that turkey had ratified the united nations convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women and that pursuant to its article 11, the state was bound to take all appropriate measures to ensure, inter alia, the right to the same employment opportunities on a basis of equality of men and women, including the application of the same criteria for selection in matters of employment.21.  on 24 june 2009 the twelfth division of the supreme administrative court dismissed the applicant’s application for the rectification of its previous decision, holding that none of the reasons put forth by the applicant for rectification fell within the exhaustive list of permissible grounds for rectification indicated in section 54 (1) of the administrative procedure act (law no.
5.  the applicant was sentenced to twenty years imprisonment in november 2011. as it transpires from documents in the file, pursuant to an order of the prison governor referring to section 248(1)(1) of the 2009 execution of punishments and pre-trial detention act (see paragraph 18 below), on 29 july 2011 the applicant was placed in isolation in burgas prison, in a permanently locked cell without the possibility to take part in collective activities.the heating was insufficient in winter and the temperature was excessively high in the cell in summer.also, the light in his cell was kept on during the entire night, the cell was infested with rats and cockroaches, and the latter sometimes also reached his food.6.  the applicant was sentenced to life imprisonment in a final decision by the supreme court of cassation of 10 november 2005. he complained about the conditions under which he has been serving his sentence since 12 july 2007 when he had been transferred to plovdiv prison.he has had to use a bucket to comply with the needs of nature in his cell; he has also been taking his food in the cell.in the summer the temperatures were very high and in the winter the heating was switched off at around 6 p.m. as a result of which it became very cold in his cell.according to the applicant, while his regime was formally changed from “special” to the lighter “strict” one on 6 june 2011, in reality the restrictions and inadequate conditions in which he has been detained did not change.the period of detention of this applicant before that date was subject to examination in an earlier court’s judgment in which it found a violation of article 3 on account of the excessively strict prison regime and poor conditions of detention (see iordan petrov v. bulgaria, no.10.  as to the material conditions in which he has been kept since 24 january 2012, the applicant submitted that, although a toilet had been installed in his cell in august 2012, it stands at about 45 cm from his bed.as the toilet has not been separated from the rest of the space, he has had the intrusive feeling of living in a toilet.the overall hygiene in the cell and the common spaces has been extremely poor, with cockroaches and rats roaming about.11.  on 10 june 2011 the first instance court sentenced the applicant to a whole-life sentence, which was confirmed by the appellate court on 27 june 2013. the supreme court of cassation upheld the whole-life imprisonment sentence in a final judgment of 21 may 2014.12.  the applicant submitted, and the government did not comment on, that he has been kept in a permanently locked cell in pazardzhik prison, isolated from the rest of the prison population and only allowed to communicate with other life prisoners during the one-hour daily physical exercise he took outside his cell.the hygiene in the cell has been very poor and there have been cockroaches and bed bugs, and the prison administration has done nothing to get rid of them.while the natural light which reached the cell has been extremely weak, the artificial light has been kept on throughout the night.
13.  it can be seen from the judgment of the investigation division of the rennes court of appeal of 12 december 2014 (paragraphs 39-41 below) that a certificate drawn up by argenteuil hospital on 10 june 2009 at about 12.30 p.m. recorded the following details of mr ziri’s condition when he arrived in intensive care: “a reactive coma with non-reactive bilateral mydriasis, abolition of corneal reflexes, no coughing, persistence of spontaneous ventilation, periorbital bruising to right eye with skin abrasion of the right cheekbone, skin abrasion on the right kneecap, bruising on the left side of the lower thorax, 1 cm bruise on the left forearm, and an alcohol concentration of 2.4 grams per litre of blood at 11.30 p.m.” 14.  it can be seen from the same judgment that later that day, on 10 june 2009, at 2 p.m., mr ziri was also examined by dr r., a forensic medical examiner.he observed that the neurological prognosis was negative owing to a lack of signs of awakening and the duration of the coma, noted the same bruising and skin abrasion as those indicated on the medical certificate, and recorded the hypothesis of the intensive care unit staff that mr ziri had succumbed to “hypoxia linked to choking in the context of vomiting with cardio-respiratory arrest then coma”.in their report of 31 august 2009 they indicated that they had found the following, based on a review of the anatomical pathology slides taken from the autopsy samples, a study of the hospitalisation report and their own observations: the presence of multiple bruises on the back, right side of the chest and lower limbs, some of which may be related to restraint; no traces of alcoholism in the liver; no signs of intra-bronchial regurgitation; absence of mendelson’s syndrome in anatomical pathological examinations; cardiac lesions consisting of an area of old sub-endocardial fibrosis with some small isolated areas, without recent myocardial ischemia and without significant coronary impairment.they thus concluded: “ziri ali, aged 69, died of hypoxic cardiac arrest by multifactorial suffocation (pressure on the back and front and known vomiting).” 25.  on the same day, observing that it could be presumed from the autopsy that the cause of mr ziri’s death arose before his arrival at the hospital and could in particular be related to his arrest, the investigating judge ordered the transfer of the file to the public prosecutor.he was asked, in the light of all the evidence in the judicial investigation file and mr ziri’s medical records, to determine the causes of death, to ascertain whether any actions taken by the police during the arrest, transfer and custody could have caused the death, and to indicate whether the hospital treatment and medical procedures had followed the rules or could have contributed to the death.in view of the charges against mr [ziri] (rebellion), his manifest state of drunkenness (2.4 grams of alcohol per litre of blood), his age (69 years), the fact that he was handcuffed behind his back and was sitting in the back of a police vehicle stationed in the yard of a police station, the commission took the view that he posed no danger, neither for himself nor for the ten officials present around the vehicle.it is possible that the arresting officers’ collective reading of the interview records before the commission, in the presence of the chief superintendent, head of district (according to whom ‘those documents being personal, they can use them as they see fit’), in the corridors of the commission, is not unconnected with the question of the consistency of the accounts made before it.the commission has serious doubts about the statements of the officers who put mr [ziri] in the van that would take them to hospital, according to which mr. [ziri] was sitting on the back seat, where he had remained without difficulty for the entire journey, while all the officers present at the police station say that he was not able to sit or stand, thus explaining why he was lying on the floor all the time.and v.p (or in the case of the first two, at least as assisted witnesses); they also asked the judge to order, in the presence of all the ordinary witnesses, of any assisted witnesses, of any individuals under judicial investigation, of the public prosecutor, of the lawyers of the civil parties and of dr l. and t., a viewing of the video of the arrival at the police station and a reconstruction of the events.34.  those requests were rejected by the judge’s decision of 22 july 2011, on the grounds that testimony had already been taken in a precise and detailed manner and that the civil parties had not indicated any points which had not been raised, that it was for the investigating judge to decide on the choice of status – whether a person should be placed under judicial investigation or be an assisted witness – without this having any bearing on the establishment of the truth, that the viewing of the video in the presence of witnesses was capable of undermining the sincerity of their testimony, and that, in the absence of any person under judicial investigation or assisted witness, a reconstruction could not take place solely in the presence of witnesses or experts.his state of extreme agitation inside the vehicle is confirmed by the fact that the driver, unusually, placed a call by radio to request the opening of the gate to the police station courtyard, which was normally opened by a member of the patrol who would get out of the vehicle to type in the access code, and it is also confirmed by lieutenant [s.m.]it can be seen from those particulars that in the light of the state of agitation and rebellion of the individuals arrested, whose conduct, in the confined space of a vehicle, close to the driver, was highly dangerous for the safety of all passengers and other road users, the immobilisation techniques applied for a few minutes by the police officers, whose professional attitude is not in doubt and is attested by the witnesses to the arrest, did not constitute excessive restraint.it is, moreover, at odds with the facts for the commission to state that ali ziri was placed on his back on a stretcher in the hospital, from which it inferred that this unsuitable and dangerous position had favoured the occurrence of aspiration and the inhalation of gastric fluid, which had contributed to the death; whereas, in reality, he had placed himself or had been placed by the police officer, with the approval of the nurse ... in a safe lateral position, and choking by aspiration is not the cause of death.while the commission expresses the opinion that inhuman and degrading treatment was constituted as a result of the precipitation and violence with which ali ziri was extracted from the vehicle, and also by the fact of leaving the two men, aged 60 and 69, lying on the floor of the police station, handcuffed behind their backs, in their vomit, within view of all the officials for about an hour, it does not follow from this opinion, given the circumstances of the arrival at the police station analysed above, that any of the acts in question could have led to the death of ali ziri.43.  on 16 february 2016 the criminal division of the court of cassation dismissed the appeal by a judgment giving the following reasoning: “... in upholding the discontinuance decision, the judgment notes that it could be seen from the statements of the police officers who were part of the patrol team, from the recording of the messages exchanged during the journey between the place of the arrest and the police station, and the testimony of the police officers who intervened on arrival at the police station, that this journey had been particularly agitated and that the acts of restraint used against [m. ziri] had been made necessary by the state of agitation and rebellion of those arrested, whose conduct, in the confined environment of a vehicle, close to the driver, was highly dangerous for the safety of all the passengers and of other road users; the court added that the immobilisation techniques applied for a few minutes by the police, whose professional conduct could not be called into question and was attested by the witness to the arrest, did not constitute an excessive degree of restraint.
according to the information available to the court, the applicant company has been in liquidation since november 2016 and the proceedings have not yet been terminated.the applicant company and if were related to each other; the management board partly consisted of the same persons and staff employed by the applicant company were provided to if.7.  due to a significant, successive loss in value of the shares purchased in if, starting from the second half of 2007, numerous court proceedings were instituted against the applicant company.had not been adequately informed about the risks of such a share purchase by the a. company and that the applicant company was to be held accountable for the inadequate information given, having regard to the close professional ties between these two companies.13.  on 17 june 2013 the supreme court (the second section), sitting as a five-judge panel, granted the ordinary appeal on points of law and restored the commercial court’s judgment of 6 april 2012. it considered that due to the close professional ties, the applicant company had had a significant interest in selling if shares.it claimed that judge n., who had been one of the five judges sitting on the supreme court’s panel, had been biased because he had himself purchased shares in if whose value had dropped, following advice by the a. company.according to the respective decisions, judge n. had even considered filing an action on account of the losses he had suffered due to his acquisition of the shares, with the applicant company being one of the parties against whom such an action might potentially be introduced.15.  the applicant company further explained that it had only learned about the composition of the panel – and thus the involvement of judge n. in the proceedings at issue – when the supreme court’s judgment had been served on the applicant company.it had thus not been possible for the applicant company to challenge judge n. for bias prior to the delivery of the supreme court’s judgment.16.  on 4 september 2013 the supreme court (the seventh section) excluded judge n. from taking part in the proceedings concerning the applicant company’s action for nullity.18.  following these explanations, the supreme court rejected the applicant company’s action for nullity, holding that a decision which had become final could only be contested under section 529 of the code of civil procedure on the ground that a judge who had taken part in the decision had been excluded by law from exercising his or her office (see paragraph 25 below).the supreme court pointed out that it had recently held, in a case concerning arbitration law, that only in particularly grave cases, where the reason for challenge came close to a reason for exclusion under section 20 of the act on exercise of jurisdiction, could an exception be made (see paragraph 27 below).in the present case, however, no such particularly grave reason had been shown, since the participation of a judge who had in the past considered filing an action against one of the parties to the proceedings was not comparable to a ground enumerated in section 20 of the act on exercise of jurisdiction (see paragraph 21 below).19.  in other proceedings concerning an action brought against the applicant company (by a different person) in connection with the purchase of shares in if, the applicant company filed an extraordinary appeal against a judgment of the court of appeal of 29 november 2012 with the supreme court and subsequently challenged judge n. for bias in those proceedings.the fact that judge n. had in the past withdrawn from two comparable cases due to the acquisition of shares in the same company gave rise to doubts as to his impartiality, notwithstanding that he no longer intended to file any civil action in this regard.
5.  mr ts.mihalev, father of the first applicant and grandfather of the second applicant, owned a machinery factory in gabrovo, which was nationalised in 1947. after the nationalisation the property was allocated for use to a state-owned enterprise, which in 1991 was transformed into a state-owned company named t.. under domestic law, such a transformation entailed the newly-created company becoming, in principle, the owner of the assets which had until then been allocated to it for use and management; some assets allocated to state-owned enterprises or companies could nevertheless be the subject of restitution (see paragraph 15 below).6.  after the restitution of ownership of nationalised real property act (hereinafter “the restitution act”, see paragraphs 15-16 below) came into force in 1992, the first applicant and his brother asked the mayor of gabrovo to strike the factory building out of the register of state properties.on that basis in 1993 the first applicant and his brother obtained a notary deed, which also stated that the property had been subject to restitution under the restitution act.7.  in 1994 the first applicant and his brother concluded a rent contract with company t., which undertook to pay rent in exchange of the use of the building.the term of the contract was extended on several occasions, the last of which in 2002.9.  after the entry into force of the compensation of owners of nationalised real property act (hereinafter “the compensation act”, see paragraph 17 below), in january 1998 the first applicant and his brother applied to receive compensation for moveable properties such as industrial equipment and materials which had been nationalised together with the factory.in a decision of 21 december 1999 the minister of economy awarded them compensation for these properties, noting in addition that the factory building had been the subject of restitution and no compensation was due for it.that decision was upheld in a final judgment of the supreme administrative court of 17 september 2002, after the first applicant and his brother sought its judicial review, contesting the manner of compensation.10.  company t. was privatised in 2003 and the new management stopped paying rent to the applicants for the factory building, arguing that it had in fact never been subject of restitution.it argued that the restitution of the property had not taken place, because the preconditions under the restitution act had not been complied with, and that it had become the owner of the building as a result of its transformation into a company (see paragraph 5 above).however, on 17 may 2010 the veliko tarnovo court of appeal quashed the lower court’s judgment and allowed the action against the applicants, finding that the preconditions for restitution had indeed not been met.on the basis of expert evidence and witness testimony, it concluded that after the nationalisation the building had been modified in a manner and to a degree which meant that in 1992 it had not existed in its state prior to 1947. accordingly, the applicants could not rely on restitution and company t. had become the owner of the building on the strength of its transformation from a state-owned enterprise into a company in 1991 (see paragraph 5 above).13.  in june 2011 the applicants applied to the gabrovo regional governor to receive compensation for the factory building under the compensation act.after the applicants applied for its judicial review, the governor’s decision was upheld in a final judgment of the supreme administrative court of 14 june 2012.
the execution of the sentence was suspended following an appeal by the applicant after the pronouncement of the judgment.8.  on 28 september 2013 the director of the aliens subdivision of attica ordered the applicant’s expulsion on the grounds that he had entered the country illegally, did not possess a valid residence permit, was considered to pose a danger to public order, and had been convicted by a criminal court for possession of false documents.moreover, that authority decided not to give the applicant a deadline to leave the country of his own free will, but to keep him in detention until the expulsion order was executed, for a period not exceeding six months, because the applicant posed a danger to public order, for the reasons mentioned above.9.  according to the applicant, he was informed of those decisions on 30 september 2013. he also claimed that he had submitted objections to his detention via a fax sent by his lawyer on 27 september 2013, objections which had not been registered.10.  on 4 october 2013 the applicant appealed against the expulsion decision to the director of the aliens division of attica, submitting at the same time a request for international protection.in her reasoning, she noted that it was not clear whether the applicant had in fact submitted the first objections, that up to that date he had not submitted any proof that he was syrian, and that he could request asylum before the head of zografou police station.she also noted that the legality of the applicant’s detention was not affected by the conditions of his detention, which in any event were tolerable, taking into account the difficult financial situation of the country and the fact that little time had elapsed since the applicant’s arrest (judgment no.on the same date the director of the attica aliens directorate issued a decision modifying the legal basis of the applicant’s detention and basing it instead on the grounds that he posed a danger to public order and/or national security and that his detention was necessary for the speedy determination of his application for asylum.in her reasoning, she observed that the applicant had not yet been registered as an asylum-seeker, but the procedure was ongoing, taking into account a document dated 24 october 2013 from the aliens division of attica which said that the applicant had expressed his wish to request asylum on 7 october 2013, but this had not yet been registered by the new asylum service.she also noted that the lease did not prove that the applicant had a permanent address, because he could easily change his address in view of the fact that he had already been arrested for an offence (judgment no.he referred to a deterioration of his health and asked to be released on the additional grounds that, in accordance with a circular order issued by the greek police, even syrians who had not requested asylum should not be put in detention.in her reasoning, the president of the court noted that the applicant had been admitted to hospital on 9 november 2013 and had been discharged with medication, showing “no signs of major active psychopathology”.21.  on 27 november 2013 the applicant lodged an application for annulment of the decision dated 28 september 2013 of the director of the aliens subdivision of attica by which it had been decided that he would be returned to his country of origin and that he would be detained with a view to being expelled.the number of detainees at the time the applicant had been held there had varied; however, it had never exceeded the capacity of nine detainees.26.  the applicant’s needs had been taken care of; in particular, he had been transferred to the psychiatric ward of sotiria hospital in athens, where he had been examined by a psychiatrist.
10.  the applicant challenged the lawfulness of the above-mentioned decision, claiming that in violation of domestic law, the record of his arrest had been drawn up nine hours after he had been brought to the police station instead of three hours.the court acknowledged the fact that the record of the applicant’s arrest had been drawn up after the expiry of the three hours permitted by domestic law.the latest relevant decision was taken on 28 april 2008. on 30 june 2008 the district court examined an appeal lodged by the applicant against the decision of 28 april 2008. the court established that the applicant had been taken to the police station at about 4 a.m. on 28 june 2007 and that the arrest record had been drawn up at 6 p.m. the same day.on the basis of the testimonies given by the applicant and police officers, the court found that the applicant had spent a considerable time in the hallway of the police station without attempting to leave it.drew up his arrest record at 6 p.m. on 28 june 2007. regard being had to the above and on the basis of the inquiry conducted, the investigator k. has rightfully concluded that [the applicant] when present at [the police station] had not been restricted in movement and that he had been able to leave the premises.22.  on 27 june 2005 the applicant had sought the criminal prosecution of the police for unlawful detention, alleging ill-treatment from 23 to 27 september 2004. his request had been refused on 7 july 2005 and the applicant had challenged the refusal before a court.31.  on 10 january 2008 the tsentralnyy district court of orenburg convicted the applicant and sentenced him to a term of imprisonment running from 16 march 2007. the applicant appealed against the judgment, complaining of, among other things, his unrecorded detention for two days, ill-treatment by police officers during those two days and the inadmissibility of evidence collected during those days.32.  the police arrested the applicant at about 12 noon on 8 july 2011. his arrest record was drawn up at 9.25 p.m. 33.  on 10 july 2011 the zasviyazhskiy district court of the ulyanovsk region (“the district court”) ordered the applicant’s detention.the district court rejected the argument about the actual time of arrest on the grounds that at 12 noon the applicant had been “conveyed” to a police station rather than arrested.the district court also rejected the applicant’s request for release on bail using his mother’s flat as a caution because he had not produced documents proving the kinship between the applicant and his mother, nor had he proved that she owned the flat or that she was prepared for it to be used as a guarantee.the regional court found that the fact that the applicant had no criminal record, had a permanent residence, employment, positive references and an under-age child, had formerly participated in military service and was undergoing hospital treatment were insufficient to warrant his release in view of the severity of the charges against him.40.  on 20 may 2015 the presidium of the volgograd regional court (“the presidium”) quashed the judgment of 31 may 2011 and the appeal decision of 26 july 2011 on the grounds that the trial judge had earlier adjudicated the case of his co-accused.45.  on 18 october 2011 the regional court found the applicant guilty and sentenced him to a term of imprisonment starting from 27 november 2010. the trial court considered that despite the arrest record of 30 november 2010, the applicant had actually been arrested on 27 november 2010. on 27 march 2012 the supreme court of russia upheld the judgment on appeal.the court omitted to examine the lawfulness of the applicant’s detention prior to 1 january 2013. on 24 january 2013 the tyumen regional court dismissed an appeal lodged by the applicant against the detention order, having found that his arrest and detention had been lawful.53.  on 25 september 2014 the troitskiy district court of moscow ordered the applicant’s detention in view of the gravity of the charges against him, his permanent residence outside of moscow, and the fact that he was unemployed and had no dependants.
5.  on 28 may 2005 the applicant, who was walking home after an evening drinking, was stopped on the street by police officers from the patrol and inspection service and driven to the sovetskiy district police station of orsk (советское ровд г. орска).he attempted to run away, but was stopped and assaulted by the police officers, who kicked him in the stomach.3634 of 25 july 2005, the applicant had blunt abdominal trauma with a ruptured intestine, which had provoked the development of serofibrinous peritonitis.this injury had been caused by impact with a hard, blunt object, possibly one to two days before the applicant’s hospitalisation, and had caused him “serious health damage”.the applicant also had abrasions on his back and forearms, and circular abrasions on his wrist joints, which had originated from impact with hard, blunt objects during the same period, and had not caused him any “health damage”.the expert considered that the injuries had been caused several hours to several days before the applicant’s hospitalisation.the expert excluded the possibility that they had been caused as a result of him falling over.9.  on 29 may 2005 the orsk police received information about the applicant’s hospitalisation in town hospital no.10.  on 14 june 2005 an investigator from the orsk sovetskiy district prosecutor’s office opened a criminal case under article 111 § 3 of the criminal code (physical assault causing “serious health damage”).12.  on 14 october 2005 the preliminary investigation into the criminal case was suspended under article 208 § 1 (1) of the code of criminal procedure, owing to the inability to identify the individuals to be charged.13.  on 31 january and 25 april 2012 the preliminary investigation into the criminal case was restarted, in view of the need to take additional investigative measures.14.  on 1 march and 18 july 2012 the preliminary investigation into the criminal case was suspended again, on the same grounds as before.15.  in 2012 the applicant brought a civil claim against various state authorities, including the russian ministry of finance, seeking 6,000,000 russian roubles (rub) in compensation for his ill‑treatment at the police station and the lack of an effective investigation into his complaint.16.  on 24 july 2012 the leninskiy district court of orsk allowed the applicant’s claim in part and awarded him rub 150,000 (the equivalent of about 3,800 euros) in compensation.it established that the applicant had been taken into police custody in good health and that his injuries had been caused at the police station, since the state authorities had failed to provide a plausible explanation for the injuries or any evidence showing that he could have sustained them elsewhere.
when the host of the show questioned the authenticity of the information on the cd, o.o.the show followed a day of discussions and explanations about the leak of secret documents given by the minister of defence, the chief of the armed forces and the head of the information department of the army before the defence commission of the senate.16.  on 7 february 2006 the prosecutor’s office attached to the high court of cassation and justice opened of its own motion an investigation on the basis of the articles published the same day in românia liberă and ziua (see paragraph 13 above).21.  the prosecutor established that at the beginning of july 2005 o.s., a journalist specialised in military issues, working for local newspapers in focşani, had received on a cd a copy of the secret military documents leaked in 2004. at that time, three people, including p.i., had been in possession of the above-mentioned documents.23.  the investigation further established that by the end of 2005 the applicant had shown the content of the cd to a few people and had given a copy of the cd to e.g. and i.m., who the applicant believed were former members of the police.25.  on 2 july 2007 the head of the romanian armed forces informed the chief prosecutor of the prosecutor’s office attached to the high court of cassation and justice that the documents which formed the object of the investigation and which had been issued by the romanian army, and had been compromised by their publication in the media, had been de-classified.from the elements in the file, the prosecutor concluded that the purpose of the applicant’s actions was just to make himself more visible as an investigative journalist and not to serve the public interest.however, the prosecutor considered that the crimes committed by the applicant and the other four suspects were not serious enough to require the pursuit of the criminal investigation.the prosecutor also mentioned that the actions undertaken by o.s and the applicant in order to gather information concerning the content, nature and importance of the secret documents in question, by contacting active or reserve members of the armed forces or other journalists were part of the working methods of investigative journalists and did not necessarily present a danger for society.invoking article 10 of the convention, the applicant submitted that the court had already decided that once information concerning national security had entered the public domain, it was difficult to justify the imposition of sanctions for its publication.the court held that the facts established during the investigation had led to the conclusion that the applicant had secretly transmitted the cd containing secret information to other people he knew, avoiding handing it over to the competent authorities of the ministry of defence or the romanian intelligence service.the court further held: “the accused’s capacity as a journalist cannot exonerate him from the commission of this crime because anyone who finds out about secret military information does not have the right to publish it since this might endanger the lives of soldiers, officers in the conflict environment.the accused did not even wish to use his profession in order to bring to the public’s knowledge the leak of information, as he failed to ask the newspaper for which he worked to make public the breach of state secrets in the military (obviously the military secret information could not have been published).the freedom of the press invoked by the accused cannot give a journalist the right to make public, to unofficial people, secret military information, because this may endanger the right to safety of certain military structures.” 32.  the applicant was ordered to pay court fees in the amount of rol 50 (eur 13).considering that the information in question had not been in the public domain, the court held that journalists coming into possession of such information must submit it to the competent authorities and were allowed by law to share with the public only the failure of the institution concerned to protect its confidentiality.
the prosecutor appended a list of questions to be submitted to the psychiatric expert and informed the applicant and her lawyer that they had the right to submit additional questions and material for the assessment, as well as to ask for the appointment of a particular expert.14.  it transpires from the parties’ submissions that on the morning of 15 april 2014 the applicant was present at the tauragė police station for unspecified reasons, when two police officers handcuffed her, took her to a police car and drove her to the court psychiatric centre in klaipėda, approximately 110 kilometres from tauragė.15.  a report drawn up on that same day by one of the officers who had seized the applicant read as follows: “i hereby inform that on 15 april 2014 during the general morning meeting of the prevention sub-division, an oral instruction was received from [the chief] to execute the order of the tauragė district court, which ordered that [the applicant] be brought (atvesdinti) to the klaipėda court psychiatric centre where she was to undergo a psychiatric assessment, in connection with an ongoing pre‑trial investigation.as [the applicant] continued disobeying officers’ lawful orders, with the help of [three other officers] [she] was handcuffed and taken to a [police] car.” one of the other officers who had participated in the applicant’s seizure submitted a report with essentially the same wording.she speaks loudly about the criminal allegations against her, denies them and blames the victim, her parents and the surroundings.” 19.  the report concluded that the applicant had a chronic mental disorder ‑ schizo-affective disorder with a type of mania (lėtinis psichikos sutrikimas ‑ šizoafektinis sutrikimas, manijos tipas), that because of that disorder she had been incapable of understanding and controlling her actions at the time of the alleged criminal offence, and that those circumstances persisted at the time of the assessment.relying on the abovementioned psychiatric assessment (see paragraphs 18 and 19 above), the court discontinued the administrative proceedings on the grounds that the applicant could not be held liable for the offence.he gave the following responses to the questions submitted to him by the judge and the applicant’s lawyer (the questions were not included in the minutes of the hearing): “i stand by my responses given in the assessment report.” “as of this moment, i cannot say if procedural steps can be conducted with [the applicant].it then referred to the findings of the psychiatric assessment that the applicant had a chronic mental disorder which rendered her incapable of understanding and controlling her actions, unable to participate in the pre-trial investigation and the hearing, and for which she required hospitalisation (see paragraphs 18 and 19 above).the applicant pointed out that the psychiatrist interviewed by the court had acknowledged that he had been unable to comment on her mental condition at the time of the hearing (see paragraph 26 above).she submitted that the court had not assessed whether she had posed a danger to society – the applicant submitted that the offence which she had committed had not been serious and that she had committed it because of the pre‑existing conflict between e. and herself and not because of her mental disorder, so the disorder had not made her a danger to others.30.  in the appeal the applicant also raised complaints about being taken for a psychiatric assessment without her consent on 15 april 2014. she submitted that she had not been informed that a psychiatric assessment had been ordered and had not been provided with a court order to that effect, that a record of provisional arrest had not been drawn up, a lawyer had not been present during the assessment, and she had not been informed about her right to request the removal of experts.the court considered that the danger posed by the applicant to society had been proved by the conclusions of the psychiatric assessment (see paragraphs 18 and 19 above) and the psychiatrist heard by the first-instance court (see paragraph 26 above).the appellate court considers that the arguments in [the applicant’s] appeal confirm that she cannot critically assess her disorder [and] does not understand the danger presented by her mental condition, nor the need for treatment (apeliaciniame skunde nurodomi argumentai patvirtina, jog ji nėra kritiška savo ligos atžvilgiu, nesuvokia savo psichinės būklės pavojingumo ir poreikio gydytis).” the court did not address the arguments presented in the applicant’s appeal (see paragraphs 29 and 30 above) any further.on 22 may 2015 the rokiškis district court ruled, on the basis of the information provided by the hospital, that her mental health had not sufficiently improved, and extended the hospitalisation; the applicant did not appeal against that decision.according to the information submitted to the court, the applicant appealed against that decision and at the time of the present judgment the appellate proceedings were pending.
the prosecutor based the decision on the nature of the crimes under investigation and the need to recover the damages, as well as on the need to investigate possible money-laundering crimes.10.  on 25 march 2014 the second applicant, represented by two lawyers of her choice, lodged a complaint with the caraş-severin county court against the prosecutor’s decision of 17 march 2014. she claimed that the seizure of assets for the purpose of subsequent special or extended confiscation provided for by article 249 of the criminal procedure code, taken together with articles 112 and 1121 of the criminal code, could be ordered only with respect to assets belonging to a suspect or accused.11.  on 10 april 2014 the caraş-severin county court decided with final effect that the seizure decision of 17 march 2014 had been in compliance with the provisions of article 249 § 4 of the criminal procedure code (see paragraph 36 below), which clearly stipulated that measures such as seizure may be ordered with respect to assets belonging not only to the suspect or accused, but also to any other person.therefore, taking into account also the fact that the prosecutor mentioned in the impugned decision that there were suspicions of money laundering, the court concluded that the seizure measure had been lawful and justified for all the assets concerned.and his wife, the first applicant, amounted to eur 35,000, whereas the value of the assets acquired by the family in the preceding five years – the equivalent of eur 300,000 in bank accounts or in cash, fifteen flats and plots of land, five garages and four vehicles – grossly exceeded their lawful income.356 of 25 june 2014 of the constitutional court (see paragraph 37 below), the district court explained that the confiscation measure would apply only to the assets acquired after april 2012. the court therefore decided to lift the seizure order in respect of the assets belonging to the family which did not fall within the scope of the case, having been acquired before april 2012.20.  in her reasons for appeal, the third applicant explained that she had asked her uncle, s.t., to keep for her the eur 40,400 she had obtained from the sale of her flat in 2013. she claimed that that amount had been found in s.t.’s residence during the search of 13 march 2014 and had been wrongfully confiscated by the arad county court.the report concluded that there were serious discrepancies between the first applicant’s lawful income and her assets, and said that the information would be sent to the commission for the verification of assets of the timişoara court of appeal for a decision on the further steps to be taken.with respect to the first applicant, the lawyer applied to the court for an accountant’s report in order to establish the exact difference between her lawful income and the value of the property confiscated from her, taking into account the family’s expenses.26.  the court of appeal decided to refuse the requests, holding that there were enough elements in the file allowing for the exact calculation of both the family’s income and the value of their assets.29. in the meantime, the first and second applicants submitted written pleadings complaining that the second applicant had never been summoned to appear before the arad district court and had never been asked by the courts to submit evidence on how she had acquired the confiscated property.the court of appeal further observed that it was clear from the evidence in the file that part of the confiscated goods were the direct proceeds of s.t.’s crimes, whereas other assets belonged to the first and second applicants.the court concluded that it could be inferred from an analysis of the lawful income of the first applicant and the lack of income of the second applicant that the assets found in their names had also been acquired through s.t.’s criminal activity.as a result of this criminal conviction, the first-instance court considered that the requirements of article 1121 of the criminal code had been fulfilled and ordered the extended confiscation of money, flats and vehicles, items which had a value exceeding the income of the defendant and his family in the last five years .... as regards the income of the defendant and his family, the court observes that he submitted an accountant’s report showing the family’s income starting with january 1991, but without mentioning their expenses for the same period.in order to establish whether there was a discrepancy between the family’s income and their properties and other goods acquired, the court must compare the amounts of money spent during the period of the acquisition of the properties in question with the income.
72/2009); and 2) the directive on personal coefficients for the calculation and payment of salaries to individuals employed within the ministry of justice’s directorate for the execution of criminal sanctions (uredba o koeficijentima za obračun i isplatu plata u upravi za izvršenje krivičnih sankcija, published in the official gazette of the republic of serbia -og rs- no.8.  under article 262 of the execution of criminal sanctions act, the director and other employees of the directorate for the execution of criminal sanctions are entitled to an accelerated accumulation of pension rights: this means that twelve months of full-time employment is counted as sixteen months of full-time employment in the civilian economy when their old-age pensions are calculated.9.  in accordance with article 7 § 3 of the directive, in the period between 1 january 2007 and 14 january 2011 the personal coefficients of the applicants and their colleagues were increased by 10% instead of 30% as provided by the execution of criminal sanctions act.16.  in the above-mentioned decisions the courts of appeal upheld the claimants’ requests, stating that the applicants’ colleagues should be paid the differences in their salaries together with interest on the unpaid amounts, and the contributions in respect of the their old-age pensions, for the period during the which unconstitutional norm had been applied.rev.2 393/2013 of 26 september 2013 17.  given the differences in adjudication on the matter, on 27 march 2013 the novi sad court of appeal requested, in accordance with article 395 of the civil procedure act (zakon o parničnom postupku, published in the official gazette of the republic of serbia – og rs – 125/04 and 111/2009), that the supreme court of cassation amend its judgment no.983/2012 of 26 september 2013, state organs [were engaging in what had to be considered] unlawful work, as the constitutional court failed to adopt a decision [regarding] in which manner the consequences of the unconstitutional norm should have been overcome[, and] the government of the republic of serbia, as the regulatory authority, within the scope of their jurisdiction did not secure the execution of the impugned decision of the constitutional court concerning the disputed period during which the claimant’s salary was unconstitutionally and illegally reduced, the claimant had a right to lodge a claim for compensation for damage with the civil courts, and the civil courts are in charge of deciding on the matter in accordance with article 1 of the civil procedure act.” (cited from the judgment no.relying on article 6 of the convention or articles 32 and 36 of the constitution (provisions that correspond to article 6 of the convention) the applicants asked the constitutional court to find that there had been a breach of the principle of legal certainty as an integral part of the right to a fair trial.27.  the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal on 25 november 2013 complaining, inter alia, of the existence of inconsistent domestic case-law of serbian courts, in particular the rejection of her own claim and the simultaneous acceptance of identical claims lodged by her colleagues, and asked the constitutional court to find that there had been a breach of the principle of judicial certainty as an integral part of her right to a fair trial.29.  on 23 october 2014 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s constitutional appeal and decided not to evaluate the decision of the supreme court of cassation of 26 september 2013 because it had been adopted after the judgment of the belgrade court of appeal of 3 october 2013 had been adopted in the applicant’s case (ustavni sud nije posebno cenio imajući u vidu da ona potiče iz perioda nakon donošenja osporene presude apelacionog suda u beogradu gž1 556/13 od 3. oktobra 2013.32.  on 23 october 2014 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s constitutional appeal for the same reason as in the case of the first applicant.44.  on 30 october 2014 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s constitutional appeal for the same reason as in the case of the first applicant.47.  on 23 october 2014 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s constitutional appeal for the same reason as in the case of the first applicant.62.  on 23 october 2014 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s constitutional appeal for the same reason as in the case of the first applicant.40646 (ms nevenka bijelić – the fifteenth applicant; ms vesna vulević – the sixteenth applicant; and ms zorica jovanović – the seventeenth applicant) 66.  at the relevant time, the fifteenth, the sixteenth and the seventeenth applicants were employees of the women’s prison in požarevac.71.  on 25 march 2015 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s constitutional appeal for the same reason as in the case of the first applicant.
it summarised the suspicions against him, referred to police reports, an autopsy report, the victim’s medical documents, examinations of various exhibits and witness testimonies, and concluded that there was a reasonable suspicion that the applicant had poisoned the victim on 8 april 2010. the court found it established that there was a need for the applicant’s detention, because otherwise he would tamper with evidence by exerting pressure on the witnesses, as evidenced by his previous conduct whereby he had threatened them.9.  on 21 march 2011 the buda central district court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention until 26 may 2011. it noted again that because of the severity of the possible punishment and the fact that the applicant had neither a permanent address nor a regular income, there were grounds to believe that he would abscond.as regards the risk of collusion, the court dismissed an argument by the applicant’s lawyer that the prosecution authorities should have questioned all the witnesses by that stage of the proceedings.17.  furthermore, on 24 february 2012 the budapest high court held that the unclarified financial situation of the applicant and the seriousness of the crime substantiated the risk of his absconding.on 8 march 2012 the budapest court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal, stating that the investigation was being conducted in a timely manner and witness testimonies had previously evidenced that the applicant had tried to exert pressure on the witnesses.18.  on 25 april 2012 the applicant’s pre-trial detention was extended by the budapest high court until 26 june 2012. the court maintained that, under article 129 § 2 (b) of the code of criminal procedure, his detention was still necessary because of the risk of his absconding.the court also considered that although it was likely that the applicant’s acquaintances and relatives had tried to influence witnesses in the two years following the commission of the crime, there was no reliable information that this had actually taken place, and a hypothetical risk of further attempts to do so could not substantiate the risk of collusion.it also found that the hosting declaration of the applicant’s family member, the fact that he was raising a child who was a minor, and the fact that his legal residence had also been clarified were irrelevant, and did not diminish the risk of his absconding.24.  on 21 december 2012 the applicant’s detention was extended; the budapest high court again referred to the fact that, at the time of his arrest, the applicant had been unreachable at his permanent address and had been earning a living from temporary jobs, which, taken together with the severity of the potential punishment, substantiated the risk of his absconding.according to that decision, besides the suspicion against the applicant, the only grounds for restricting his liberty were the risk of his absconding, given the gravity of the offence, and this in itself could not justify his continued pre-trial detention.on appeal, the budapest court of appeal reversed the first-instance decision and placed the applicant in detention on 28 march 2013. it noted that, given the seriousness of the offence, there was a danger of his absconding, irrespective of his family ties.28.  on 25 june 2013 the budapest high court extended the applicant’s detention until the date of the first-instance court’s judgment, under article 129 § 2 (b) of the code of criminal procedure (risk of absconding), for essentially the same reasons as those given before.29.  on 28 january the applicant applied for release, but the application was dismissed on 18 february by the budapest high court on the grounds that, given the gravity of the offence and the complexity of the case, pre‑trial detention did not constitute an anticipated punishment.that decision was upheld on appeal by the budapest court of appeal on 18 february 2014. a further application by the applicant of 18 april 2014 was dismissed on 8 april 2014 (the dismissal was upheld by the second-instance court on 24 april 2014) on the grounds that the applicant had not relied on new circumstances warranting his release.it held that the gravity of the offence, the applicant’s lack of financial resources and essential ties, and the fact that he had only notified the authorities of his place of residence once he had been placed in detention substantiated the risk of his absconding.
27.  on 28 may, 3 and 11 june 2004 respectively, three private individuals, n., a lawyer practising in kyiv, s. and kh., members of parliament, lodged with the golosiivskyy district court of kyiv three separate administrative law complaints against the decisions of the fund and the state commission on securities and the stock market concerning the organisation of the 2004 bidding competition, contending that those decisions had violated the right of every citizen to participate in the privatisation of state property.32.  on 25 june 2004 consortium industrial group, the losing party in the 2004 bidding competition, instituted proceedings in the kyiv commercial court against the applicant company, the fund, the ministry of industrial policy and the state commission on securities and the stock market, challenging the validity of the authorities’ decisions adopted in connection with the privatisation of kryvorizhstal and the contract of 14 june 2004. it contended that the 2004 bidding competition had been unlawful and unfair.33.  in particular, consortium industrial group argued that the shares in kryvorizhstal had not been issued in accordance with the law; that the competition had not been announced in due time; that the conditions of the competition had been too narrow and restrictive, thereby limiting the circle of potential bidders and disrespecting the statutory right of every citizen to participate in the privatisation of state assets; that the shares should have been sold through the stock exchange; and that its total offer, including the money it had planned to invest in kryvorizhstal, had been higher than the amount paid by the applicant company for the shares in the enterprise.40.  on 7 february 2005 the prosecutor general lodged a cassation appeal in the interests of the state with the supreme court, alleging that the contested decisions of the kyiv commercial court and the higher commercial court concerned the rights and obligations of the cabinet of ministers.44.  on 21 march 2005 the deputy prosecutor general lodged with the kyiv commercial court, to which the case had been remitted, a claim in the interests of the state and on behalf of the fund against the applicant company, the ministry of industrial policy, and the state commission on securities and the stock market.his claim was directed against the decisions concerning the privatisation of kryvorizhstal and the contract of 14 june 2004. he also sought the return of the kryvorizhstal shares to the fund, and asked the court to seize the shares as a temporary measure until the dispute was finally resolved.52.  the court held that the fund had failed to announce the competition in due time; that it had unlawfully introduced a condition concerning the production of charcoal and steel; that the fund had failed to set out specific conditions of sale of certain number of the kryvorizhstal shares outside the bidding competition; that the fund’s decisions issued between 8 and 14 june 2004 in relation to the competition had been invalid, as the complaints of three private individuals against the decisions concerning the organisation of the 2004 bidding competition had been ongoing before the courts during that period; and that the applicant company and consortium industrial group had unlawfully been allowed to participate in the competition.54.  the applicant company appealed against the judgment of 22 april 2005 and the ruling of 28 april 2005. according to the text of the kyiv commercial court of appeal’s decision of 2 june 2005 (see paragraph 56 below), the applicant company contended that the kyiv commercial court had wrongly established the circumstances of the case, and that it had erred in applying the law.55.  in the appeal proceedings, the applicant company asked the kyiv commercial court of appeal to suspend the proceedings before the commercial courts pending the outcome of the proceedings before the courts of general jurisdiction (see paragraphs 81-87 below).according to the text of the judgment of the kyiv commercial court of 22 april 2005 and the decision of the kyiv commercial court of appeal of 2 june 2005 (see paragraphs 51-52 and 56‑57 above), the applicant company’s procedural applications were rejected as unsubstantiated.it will be evidence not only of the court’s objectivity, but also of the [past] negotiations behind closed doors between various representatives from the authorities and the business...” 65.  in july 2004 consortium industrial group instituted proceedings in the pecherskyy court against the applicant company, the fund, the ministry of industrial policy and the state commission on securities and the stock market, challenging the validity of the authorities’ decisions issued in connection with the privatisation of kryvorizhstal and the contract of 14 june 2004. consortium industrial group relied mainly on the same circumstances and considerations referred to in its claims before the commercial courts.74.  the representatives of the applicant company requested leave to consult the case file and the adjournment of the hearing on the grounds that they had not been informed about the merits of the application before the hearing, and accordingly had not been able to prepare for it.75.  the judge rejected the applications by the applicant company’s representatives, and read out the application by n. 76.  the applicant company’s representatives objected to the application, arguing that n. was not entitled to ask for a review of the case, since she had not been a party to the original proceedings, and there were no newly discovered circumstances or other reasons capable of warranting the reopening of the proceedings.it found that the right of every citizen, including that of n., to participate in privatisation and challenge its lawfulness had been confirmed by the judgment of the constitutional court of 1 december 2004. it also held that the ruling of 8 june 2004 on n.’s complaint concerning the 2004 competition had not entered into force at the time when the competition had taken place, and thus it could not have served as one of the grounds for rejecting the claims by consortium industrial group.85.  by decisions of 20 and 27 july 2005, the kyiv court of appeal quashed the ruling of 21 april 2005, stating that, in the light of newly discovered circumstances, the ruling of 17 february 2005 was not to be reviewed, and that, with regard to article 6 of the convention, the pecherskyy court had unlawfully limited i.’s and n.’s right of access to a court.
the same day the secretariat informed the first applicant that no completion of plots could be done given that the revision of the dup was ongoing at the time, which meant “urbanistic re‑consideration of the area” at issue.22.  in the course of these proceedings, on 2 september 2016 the secretariat enquired at the property administration if the same urban plot of land, as it had existed at the time when the first applicant had first filed a request for completion, could be formed again.on 19 may 2017 the chief administrator upheld this decision, considering that due to the changes of the planning documents the completion of the said plot of land could not be done and that therefore the first applicant’s request had been correctly dismissed.24.  on 11 july 2005 the first applicant requested the agency for construction and development of podgorica (agencija za izgradnju i razvoj podgorice; “the agency”), a legal successor of the development land social fund, to calculate the final communal charges for the urban plot no.28.  in the course of the proceedings the applicant repeated its request to the agency on several occasions, including between 5 and 14 october 2005, submitting that the construction ban as the basis for refusal was unlawful and/or the ban was not in force at the relevant time.29.  by 1 december 2005 the applicant’s request had been refused by the agency at least four times on the grounds that construction was banned pursuant to either the decision to change the dup of 6 june 2005 or the decision of 6 october 2005. the agency also held that the calculation could not be done as the first applicant had no building permit.the court considered in particular that the first decision to change the dup, which prohibited construction, had entered into force on 7 july and expired on 5 october 2005, while the next decision had entered into force on 14 october 2005. therefore, there had been no construction ban before 7 july 2005 or between 5 and 14 october 2005, when the first applicant requested the communal charges to be calculated and when the agency was bound to calculate them.the court also noted that the agency’s reasoning for refusing the first applicant’s request, notably that “the calculation [could] not be done as the first applicant had no building permit” was illogical, since the calculation of charges was a pre-condition for getting a building permit.the supreme court held, inter alia, that the first applicant had been granted the location for construction by the competent ministry before it was decided that the dup would be changed and that a decision to change the dup could not affect the investors who had already been granted a location.39.  on 16 february 2009 the agency informed the commercial court that the first applicant had no objections in respect of the calculation itself, and noted that no statute provided for an obligation or a possibility for the first applicant to sign the calculation.45.  on 29 december 2005 the administrative court dismissed the first applicant’s claim on the grounds that there was no contract between the first applicant and the agency concerning the communal charges, that the first applicant had failed to submit all the evidence required by the relevant statutory provision in order to obtain a building permit, and it had failed to obtain an adjacent plot of land as required by the urban technical conditions.46.  on an unspecified date thereafter the first applicant lodged a request for judicial review before the supreme court, maintaining that there was a contract between itself and the agency concluded in 1998. it also submitted that the courts had blamed the first applicant for not paying the charges and completing the plot, even though it had done everything it could to comply with these requests, and had actually complained about the unlawfulness of the relevant state bodies’ refusal to cooperate in these matters.49.  between 15 august 2005 and 20 september 2006 the first applicant filed three motions with the constitutional court for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the decisions to change the dup issued on 6 june 2005, 20 january and 21 july 2006 respectively.52.  the dup in the area at issue was subject to changes in 1990, 1996, 1997, 1999 (the changes in 1999 were done pursuant to the first applicant’s request to that effect), 2002 (entered into force in 2003), 2004 (entered into force in 2005), 2006, 2010 and 2013. the purpose of the land also changed over time, from “sports and recreation” to “central activities” (centralne djelatnosti).the ministry further explained that a decision on ‘a construction ban’ related exclusively to a ban on issuing a decision granting a location, as a document on the basis of which a building permit was issued, and that in a case where the decision on location had been issued prior to the construction ban, the competent body had a duty to issue a building permit to an investor, provided that the conditions provided in section 34 of the construction act (zakon o izgradnji objekata) were fulfilled, regardless of whether the construction ban in the relevant area was in force.
8.  the applicants lodged several applications for the reopening (wiederaufnahme) of the proceedings, the most recent of which was submitted in 2004 and rejected in 2005. in the context of those proceedings the applicants contacted the press, providing them with documents connected to the reopening proceedings and other unspecified documents.16.  the court of appeal further stated that the fact that the applicants had turned to the public during the most recent reopening proceedings in 2005 – thereby giving rise to reports on them and on those proceedings – did not alter its conclusions, as the applicants had acted in a specific context which had ended with the completion of the reopening proceedings.the federal court of justice began by observing that the provision of the impugned material constituted interference with the exercise of the applicants’ right to protection of their personality (allgemeines persönlichkeitsrecht) and their right to privacy under articles 1 § 1 and 2 § 1 of the basic law and article 8 of the convention.owing to its particular nature, the scope of the right to protection of personality was not defined in advance but had to be assessed by weighing it against the divergent interests at stake; in order to do so the courts had to take into account, in particular, the specific circumstances of the case and the rights and freedoms protected by the convention.19.  in the view of the federal court of justice, the court of appeal had not taken sufficient account of the radio station’s right to freedom of expression and of the public’s interest in being informed, which formed part of the radio station’s mission.referring to the criteria established in that regard by the federal constitutional court and its own case-law, the federal court of justice observed in particular that truthful reports could infringe personality rights where the damage they caused outweighed the public’s interest in knowing the truth, for instance when dissemination had a significant impact or when the report stigmatised the person concerned and thus had the effect of isolating him or her socially.the courts were called upon to consider the seriousness of the infringement of the right to personality and the offender’s interest in resocialisation; in that regard, account had to be taken of the way in which the person concerned was presented in the report and, in particular, the extent of its dissemination.it acknowledged that the applicants’ interest in no longer being the subject of reports concerning their crime was considerable, since the crime had been committed a long time previously and they had been released from prison, the first applicant in august 2007 and the second in january 2008. however, in the view of the federal court of justice, in the circumstances of the case the impugned passage from the report of 14 july 2000 did not affect the applicants’ personality rights in a significant manner (erheblich), as it was not liable to cause them to be “pilloried for all time” or to draw them into the spotlight (ins licht der öffentlichkeit zerren) in a way that would stigmatise them again as criminals.in the view of the federal court of justice, the passage in question did not stigmatise the applicants as the perpetrators of the crime or as murderers, but stated that the two brothers had been convicted of murder after a six-month criminal trial based entirely on circumstantial evidence and that they continued to protest their innocence; this left it open to the reader to conclude that they had been wrongly convicted.the federal court of justice found that there was therefore no doubt that, on the day on which the transcript of the report had been posted on the radio’s website, the identification of the applicants in the radio programme had been justified in view of the seriousness of the crime, the fact that the victim had been well known, the considerable public attention the crime had received and the fact that the applicants had tried after 2000 to have their convictions quashed using all conceivable remedies (alle denkbaren rechtsbehelfe).if they were deprived of the possibility of collecting, processing and using personal data without the consent of the person concerned, neither the press nor radio stations would be able to carry out their work as journalists and would thus be unable to perform the tasks recognised and guaranteed by article 5 § 1 of the basic law, article 10 § 1 of the convention and article 11 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.38.  applying these criteria to the case before it, the federal court of justice noted that the photos showed, firstly, the applicants in the dock in the courtroom of the regional court; secondly, the first applicant accompanied by a prison officer; and, finally, the second applicant with w.s.it considered that the photos illustrated the articles and underlined the authenticity of the reports, and that, since they had been taken in the context of the event being reported on (the criminal trial), a fact which generally made their publication lawful, they did not affect the applicants more than a photo showing their profile and taken in a neutral context.the federal court of justice concluded that, in view of all the circumstances of the case, the applicants had no legitimate interest, within the meaning of section 23(2) of the copyright act, in prohibiting the publication of the photos.in a judgment of 22 february 2011 concerning the second applicant and relating to an article published in the frankfurter allgemeine zeitung daily newspaper on 14 january 2005, the federal court of justice noted that, according to the findings of the regional court, the applicant had contacted the süddeutsche zeitung daily newspaper in august and november 2004 and requested it to continue reporting on him.
6.  on 1 december 2005 a certain individual, ms k., applied to the governor of the marneuli region for the permit necessary for the construction of a petrol station on a plot of land situated in the region.the governor assigned the examination of the application to the applicant, his deputy, who was responsible for the development of the region’s infrastructure and the management of state lands.according to the official version of events, during the meeting, when ms k. enquired about the necessary documents and applicable procedure for the issuance of the construction permit, the applicant replied that, apart from the necessary formalities, she would also need to make a pay-off (ქრთამი) to the amount of 30,000 united states dollars (usd); of this amount, usd 20,000 would be the share of the governor himself, whilst the rest would be divided between the applicant and representatives from the various agencies involved.8.  on 6 december 2005 ms k. informed the department of constitutional security of the ministry of internal affairs (“the dcs”) that the applicant had requested a bribe from her in return for a promise to assist her in obtaining the requisite construction permit.on the same day, the applicant contacted a notary and the head of the land registry of the marneuli region, requesting them, respectively, to certify the sales agreement and to register, in an expedited manner, the plot in ms k.’s name.the applicant furthermore admitted to having received money to the amount of usd 10,000, from the applicant, but added that the sum had been meant to be transmitted to a construction company as an advance payment for its upcoming construction of the petrol station.as to the sum of usd 10,000, ms k. stated – reiterating the applicant’s version of events – that it had been intended that the money would be paid through the applicant’s offices to a private construction company in relation to the ongoing construction project of a petrol station.19.  on 2 may 2006 the prosecutor in charge of the applicant’s criminal case instituted criminal proceedings against ms k. for giving conflicting witness statements, on the grounds of the alleged inconsistency between the statements that ms k. had originally given to the dcs during the investigation stage and those given before the trial court on 20 april 2009.she submitted that the statements she had given to the trial court on 20 april 2006 had been truthful and had fully reflected the content of her several meetings with the applicant, which could have been verified by examining the relevant secret video and audio recordings.22.  when questioned by the trial court on 23 june 2006, both the notary who had certified the sales agreement and the head of the land registry of the marneuli region confirmed that the applicant had been urging them to expedite the registration of ms k.’s title to the plot of land on which a petrol station was scheduled to be constructed.namely, she testified that the applicant had clearly requested her to pay “unofficially” the sum of usd 30,000 in return for promised assistance with the construction project, of which sum usd 20,000 was supposed to go, according to the applicant, to the governor.she further stated before the trial court that she had already acted as an undercover agent of the dcs when she had approached the applicant for the first time on 1 december 2005. she stated that the initial objective of that undercover anti-criminal operation, led by the dcs, had been to expose the criminal activity of the governor of the marneuli region.26.  on 7 july 2006 the applicant requested the trial court to summon ms n. as an additional witness so that he could question her in relation to her purported collaboration with the dcs and role in the sequence of the events which had led to the initiation of the criminal proceedings against him (see the preceding paragraph).the court stated that the collection of the evidence in the case file – the statements given during the trial by ms k., the notary and the head of the land registry; the judicially authorised secret video and audio recording; and the results of the personal search of the applicant on 13 december 2005 and of the forensic chemical and phonoscope examinations – confirmed the applicant’s guilt beyond reasonable doubt.as regards the applicant’s statement that the money discovered on his person (usd 10,000) had not been a bribe but a valid advance payment for preparatory works associated with ms k.’s construction project, the district court answered that this was not supported by the totality of the collected evidence; it did not provide any additional explanation in that respect.
6.  in december 2007 the applicant published an article in a local newspaper, chortiatis 570. the article’s title was “the ludicrousness of power” and stated, inter alia, the following: “it is known to more or less all of us how some people, fellow citizens or neighbours, especially the latter, act when they think that interests of any kind which they have had ‘since the beginning of time’ are affected ... when these same people get involved in politics and take up a little post, owing to there being a lack of other interested people who are all too often more capable.because those people will serve petty political – but mostly their own personal – interests much more readily in order to impose themselves more easily than others, others whose vote they wormed out by making many promises ... those are the totally (un)worthy, squeaky clean people in proper clothes every sunday ... those who, when placed in paid positions in charge of local executive bodies, and especially in the local municipality of filyro, are the same people who consider that their land has suddenly become bigger, and claim a little of the public space between their land and the street.in this space, which they consider to belong to their yard, they plant trees, as if they suddenly have a mania for saving the environment ... they construct their buildings (in our case, a gazebo with a tiled roof) a little further from the limits of their land, saying with impudence that it is not they who are to blame for this, but ‘the bad albanian’ to whom they assigned [the building work].so, in order to hinder any ‘reckless’ neighbours or other visitors who [have] the audacity to park their cars in the area between the limits of their land and the street, that is to say in the remaining public space, they put trees-obstacles.because they care about any accidents that may happen – not, of course, owing to someone’s choosing to walk or park his or her car there, but owing to the fact that the height of this construction, which accidently (as they claim) juts out of their land, is such that any unsuspecting person runs the risk of getting head injuries when he or she steps out of his or her car ... as they are bailiffs, like spies, they also find out the names of the people who come into the pavlidis area in philyro in order to work, from the number plates of the cars.the court held that the complainant could be identified from the content of the article, and found the applicant guilty of slanderous defamation via the press.the applicant appealed on points of law on grounds including, inter alia, a lack of sufficient reasoning as to the rejection of his argument under article 367 of the criminal code, which he had repeated in the court of appeal.10.  on 5 may 2010 the court of cassation (άρειος πάγος) quashed the judgment which had been appealed against, on the grounds of a lack of reasoning, and remitted the case to the court of appeal (decision no.the appeal court rejected the applicant’s argument and held the following: “... considering the above-mentioned content of the article and the then ongoing dispute between the parties and especially their personal confrontation at the city council, it is at the outset clear and without a doubt that the references (facts and characterisations) solely and exclusively concern the complainant.furthermore, from the impugned article it is apparent that in it the following facts are included: that the complainant 1) had built a gazebo with a tiled roof on her land and that a part of the roof jutted out onto the street; 2) had built a pavement and had planted trees in a public space; 3) threatened to sue persons (who were proven to be the drivers of the defendant) who dared to park in a place where other residents also parked their cars.it was proved that the above-mentioned facts which the defendant disseminated to others via the local press were true, as the complainant admitted ... it was also proved that a) the above-mentioned facts that the defendant disseminated in the above-mentioned way could harm, seen objectively, the honour and reputation of the complainant, also in view of her aforementioned capacity in conjunction with the fact that the dissemination took place via the local press and became known to an indefinite number of people; b) the defendant knew that the disseminated facts were capable of harming the honour or reputation of the complainant, and c) the defendant wanted to make such a dissemination harming her honour and reputation.it follows that, in the present case, the above-mentioned elements objectively and subjectively constitute the criminal act of simple defamation (article 362 of the criminal code) which, however, goes without punishment, under article 366 § 1 (a) of the criminal code.in particular, the court bases its conclusion on the fact that the applicant presented the above-mentioned true facts along with unacceptable value judgments and references to the complainant’s public post, such as, ‘because those people will serve petty political – but mostly their own personal – interests much more readily in order to impose themselves more easily than others, others whose vote they wormed out by making many promises’, and unfamiliar characterisations such as, ‘those are the totally (un)worthy, squeaky clean people in proper clothes every sunday’, or, ‘as they are bailiffs, like spies, they also find out the names of the people from the number plates of the cars’.lastly, the defendant’s separate argument that he committed this act with a legitimate interest must be dismissed as unfounded, as the above-mentioned expressions included in the article ‘the ludicrousness of power’, which the defendant published in the newspaper chortiatis 570, indicate that he intended to insult the complainant.these phrases were not necessary in this case for the expression of the defendant’s desire to protect the legitimate interest upon which he relied, and he could have used other phrases such as: ‘they try to serve their [own] personal interests’ instead of, ‘because those people will serve petty political – but mostly their own personal – interests much more readily in order to impose themselves more easily than others, others whose vote they wormed out by making many promises’; or the phrase, ‘the elected public persons’ instead of, ‘those are the totally (un)worthy, squeaky clean people in proper clothes every sunday’; as well as the expression, ‘as bailiffs, they know how to find other people’s data’, instead of, ‘as they are bailiffs, like spies, they also find out the names of the people from the number plates of the cars’ ...” 12.  based on the above, the court of appeal found the applicant guilty of insult via the press and sentenced him to a two-month suspended prison sentence (judgment no.
47/1985 and illegal, the bari district court ordered, in accordance with section 19 of that law, the confiscation of all the developed land at punta perotti, including that belonging to the applicant company, together with the buildings thereon, and the incorporation of the property, without compensation, into the estate of the municipal authority of bari.the court of cassation also took into account the conduct of the administrative authorities, and in particular the following facts: on obtaining the building permits, the defendants had been reassured by the director of the relevant municipal office; the site-protection prohibitions with which the construction project was at odds did not appear in the land-use plan; and the competent national authority had not intervened.29.  in the same judgment the court of cassation ordered the confiscation of all the buildings and plots of land, on the ground that, in accordance with its case-law, the application of section 19 of law no.32.  on 15 february 2001 the bari municipal authority informed the applicant company that, following the judgment of the court of cassation of 29 january 2001, the ownership of the land at punta perotti, including that belonging to the applicant company, had been transferred to the municipality.it alleged that, in line with case-law of the court of cassation, the confiscation of property belonging to a third party in relation to criminal proceedings could be ordered only to the extent that the latter had participated in the commission of the offence, in terms of either material or mental elements.he first observed that the company’s grievances concerned neither the existence nor the formal lawfulness of the impugned measure, which was a mandatory administrative sanction that the criminal court was also entitled to impose in respect of the property of third parties which had not taken part in the commission of the offence of unlawful site development offence.47 of 1985 was a mandatory administrative sanction imposed by the criminal court on the basis of the incompatibility of the situation of the property in question with the legislation on unlawful site development, even where the defendants had been acquitted.in a decision of 12 march 2013 the preliminary investigations judge of that court revoked the confiscation measure and ordered the return of the land on account of the fact that, first, the court had found a violation of article 7 of the convention in sud fondi s.r.l.it reproached the municipal authority for: (1) failing to adopt an alternative to the land-use plan; (2) failing to clarify the existence of the constraints arising as to the authorised use of the areas concerned by the site development at issue; and (3) approving site development procedures which had apparently been lawful but had led to the confiscation of the land and had caused a significant economic loss.in conclusion, the district court ordered the confiscation of the property previously placed under a restraining order and the transfer of ownership to the municipality of golfo aranci within the meaning of section 19 of law no.71.  as regards, in particular, the charge of fraud, the court took the view that the offence was not made out because there had been no financial loss to the municipality, since the cost of the infrastructure work remained the same even if the intended use changed.as to the charge of fraud, the court of appeal upheld the acquittal of the applicant companies’ legal representatives on the basis of the same considerations, on this point, as those of the district court.shortly before that, on 21 may 2015, a resolution of the municipality of golfo aranci had acknowledged the genuine interest of the community in keeping the confiscated complex, referring in particular to the possibility of using the housing to cope with situations of urgency in the event that the local authorities should decide to assign the use of the property, directly or indirectly, for rent by persons with low income.80.  on 10 february 1998 the mayor of reggio di calabria cancelled the order suspending the work on the ground that the discrepancies in relation to the initial construction project could be regularised by means of the amended plan submitted in respect of ongoing work under section 15 of law no.86.  in a judgment of 22 april 2010, deposited in the registry on 27 september 2010, the court of cassation quashed the judgment of the court of appeal without remitting it, finding that the change in purpose of the constructions was proved by statements made by third parties and by documents in the file.
6.  the cases concern the 1982 state internal premium loan bonds (облигации государственного внутреннего выигрышного займа 1982 года - “1982 premium bonds”) which are in the applicants’ possession.7.  on 30 december 1980 the ussr cabinet of ministers decided to issue bonds of an internal premium loan to finance certain state programmes.their period of circulation was set at twenty years, from 1 january 1982 to 1 january 2002, and they were redeemable at any time during the term of the loan with interest at 3% per annum.the average monthly wage in 1982 was sur 177.30 across all branches of the economy plus sur 68.70 in various social benefits (people’s economy of the ussr 1982, a statistical yearbook by the ussr central statistics directorate, moscow, 1983).in january 1991 the ussr government freed 40% of prices and carried out a monetary reform eliminating the largest banknotes in circulation and restricting the withdrawal of money from bank deposit accounts to sur 500 a month.142-n of the supreme soviet of the ussr.the declaration invited the heads of newly independent states to reflect on the issues of succession.97, recognising its succession in respect of the obligations of the former ussr under the 1982 loan: “1.to confirm succession of the [russian] government in respect of the obligations of the former ussr vis-à-vis russian federation citizens arising out of the bonds of the 1982 state internal premium loan.... 6.  to give russian federation citizens who are holders of bonds of the 1982 state internal premium loan the right to voluntarily exchange their bonds against state securities, including 1992 russian internal premium loan bonds, shares in the savings bank ... and also to credit the proceeds of sale of the bonds into deposit accounts open in the savings bank ... from 1 october 1992 ...” 11.  between 1995 and 2000 a series of russian laws and regulations were passed which provided for the conversion of soviet securities, including the 1982 premium bonds, into special russian promissory notes nominated in “promissory roubles” (dor) (for details, see yuriy lobanov v. russia, no.12.  from 2003 to the present day, the application and implementation of those laws and regulations have been continuously suspended, most recently for the period 1 january 2017 to 1 january 2020, by law no.13.  the applicants applied to the russian financial authorities and the courts, seeking the redemption of their bonds.632-o of 3 april 2012, the constitutional court declared it inadmissible, finding that it was not competent to rule on the issue of an alleged failure of federal lawmakers to enact laws guaranteeing the protection of savings which had been recognised as russia’s internal debt.in its view, the federal lawmakers had adequate discretion to legislate on those issues in the interests of everyone, taking into account the specific social and economic conditions prevailing in russia and the balance between the rights and lawful interests of various categories of citizens, including those who acted as creditors of the state and others in respect of whom the state had public policy obligations.the legislature was entitled to restrict the rights, including property rights, of some people for the protection of rights and lawful interests of others.
(...).” 9.  in a decision of 15 june 2012 (hereinafter “the contact order”) the county court took note of the parents’ agreement as to the visiting schedule and considered that it was beneficial for the child to maintain contact with her father.it found: “the consolidation of the relationship between the applicant and the minor by means of complying with the county court’s decision is even more necessary since, from the report of the interview with the minor, it appears that the minor had been visiting her father after the parents’ separation until about six months before the hearing, [when the mother] stopped allowing her to talk on the phone with the applicant; from the same report it appears that the minor does not wish to see her father in order not to upset her mother.in these circumstances, the [county court] has correctly decided that the visits should take place in the applicant’s home, in order to allow the normal parental ties to develop and to avoid the possibility of inculcating feelings of hatred towards the father, which would run counter to the child’s harmonious psychological development.” 11.  as n.e.c.on 3 may and 7 june 2013 and on 7 march 2014 he went to her home together with the applicant, the police and representatives of the vâlcea directorate general on social welfare and child protection (“the child protection authority”).13.  on 11 april 2013, at the applicant’s request, the bailiff lodged with the brezoi district court an application for penalties against n.e.c., under the provisions of article 905 of the code of civil procedure (“the ccp”, see paragraph 27 below).to pay a fine of 500 romanian lei (ron – approximately 115 euros (eur) at the relevant time) for each day of non-enforcement of the contact order, starting from the date on which the district court decision was notified to her.the court concludes that the non-enforcement of the obligation set down in the contact order is caused exclusively by the debtor and there is no evidence to show that the minor herself would refuse in absolute terms contact with the creditor or that she would manifest aversion towards him.” 14.  on 21 august 2013, acting on an application lodged by the bailiff under article 188 § 2 of the ccp (see paragraph 27 below), the brezoi district court fined n.e.c.16.  the applicant objected to the stay of execution and asked the brezoi district court to compel the bailiff to continue the enforcement proceedings.he also argued that the provisions of the ccp allowing the bailiff to stay the execution while a criminal complaint was ongoing were unconstitutional in so far as it allowed the debtor − in bad faith − to stay or obliterate the enforcement efforts and to manipulate the child’s behaviour to the point of rejecting the non-custodial parent.on 22 may 2015 the brezoi district court dismissed his objection on the grounds that it had become objectively impossible to enforce the court order and that the bailiff had correctly stayed the enforcement once the prosecutor’s office had taken over the case.maintained that it had been the applicant who had distanced himself from the child and that due to the break-up of the father-daughter relationship it was impossible to comply with the contact order at that time.on 9 january 2015 the child protection authority refused to intervene since the bailiff had not recorded in his report that the child had opposed the enforcement “in absolute terms”, as required by article 912 of the ccp (see paragraph 28 below).the child protection authority advised as follows: “in view of the fact that for the past four years your relationship with your daughter has only consisted of a few isolated encounters, we consider that reinitiating the father‑daughter relationship must be done gradually, bearing in mind the child’s wishes, her school programme and her extra-curricular activities.in the light of the above, we consider that it is important for the child that both you and your former spouse try to improve your communication and that you change your current attitude (complaints before courts and other institutions, enforcement proceedings (...)), in order to overcome the conflicts and to offer your daughter the support and reassurance that she requires at this age.” 20.  acting upon the criminal complaint lodged by the bailiff on 18 august 2014 (see paragraph 15 above), the prosecutor’s office attached to the vâlcea county court started an investigation into the commission of the offence of a breach of a court judgment (nerespectare a hotărârii judecătoreşti).however, in a decision of 3 october 2017 the râmnicu vâlcea district court allowed a complaint lodged by the applicant, quashed the prosecutor’s decision and sent the case back to the prosecutor’s office for further examination.
he is currently serving his sentence in ik-7 in the village of areyskoye, krasnoyarsk region.6.  the applicant, his partner and his mother were living in oryol when the applicant was charged with drug-related crimes.7.  on 2 december 2009 the federal penal authority (“федеральная служба исполнения наказаний”, “the fsin”) of russia sent a telegram to the fsin department for the oryol region (“the oryol fsin”) instructing the latter to send each month up to forty people detained in remand prisons and sentenced to a term of imprisonment in a strict-regime facility to the krasnoyarsk region.8.  on 7 december 2009 the sovetskiy district court of oryol convicted the applicant of drug-related crimes and sentenced him to twelve years’ imprisonment in a strict-regime post-conviction detention facility.on 2 february 2010 the oryol regional court upheld the conviction on appeal.9.  acting on the basis of the fsin of russia’s instruction of 2 december 2009, on an unspecified date the oryol fsin decided, in view of the overcrowding in the post‑conviction detention facilities in the oryol region, that the issue of which particular facility the applicant would be transferred to should be resolved by the fsin department for the krasnoyarsk region (“the krasnoyarsk fsin”).the latter allocated the applicant to ik-7, a strict-regime post-conviction detention facility in the village of areyskoye, krasnoyarsk region (about 4,200 km from oryol), to serve his sentence.10.  the applicant has repeatedly asked the penal authorities at different levels to transfer him to a detention facility located closer to oryol so that he could effectively maintain family ties while serving his sentence.11.  on 12 november 2010 the fsin of russia rejected the applicant’s request, informing him that, under article 81 of the code on the execution of sentences (“the ces”), in the absence of exceptional circumstances convicts were to serve their prison term in its entirety in the same detention facility, and that there were no such exceptional circumstances in the applicant’s case.they noted as follows: “[a]s regards maintaining the convict’s social ties, the right to receive visits and parcels as well as the right to correspondence and phone calls should be realised in accordance with the laws on execution of sentences in force and does not depend on the place in which he is serving the sentence.” 12.  the applicant brought civil proceedings against the oryol fsin, claiming compensation for pecuniary and non‑pecuniary damage caused by their decision to transfer him to a penal facility in the krasnoyarsk region in breach of his right, under article 73 § 1 of the ces, to serve his prison sentence in his home region, which had adversely affected his capacity to maintain his family and social ties.13.  on 3 august 2012 the zavodskoy district court of oryol dismissed the claims for damages with reference to article 73 § 2 of the ces and ruling no.the court held that the oryol fsin’s decision had been lawful because between december 2009 and february 2010 the penal facilities in the oryol region had been overcrowded.it also noted that the defendant had acted in accordance with the fsin of russia’s instructions.the court did not address the applicant’s argument regarding his difficulties in maintaining family ties because of the distance between his family home and the detention facility.while in ik-7, the applicant received a number of parcels and phone calls from his mother and partner.
4.  the applicants were born in 1965 and 1954 respectively and live in bucharest.5.  both applicants were ill-treated and injured on 21 december 1989 during the events which led to the fall of the communist regime in bucharest.the first applicant suffered injuries that needed eight days of medical care and the second applicant was beaten by militia forces on the same occasion.6.  in 1990 the military prosecutor’s office opened ex officio investigations into the illegal detention, ill-treatment and injury suffered by the applicants and other participants in the events of december 1989 in respect of several offences as mentioned below.the main criminal investigation was recorded in file no.7.  in the meantime, an ex officio investigation concerning the offences of illegal deprivation of liberty, illegal arrest and abusive investigation of a large number of persons, including the applicants, culminated in the referral to court and subsequent conviction of senior military and public officials by a decision of the supreme court of justice of 10 may 1991, which became final on 14 november 1991. the injured parties, including the applicants, did not participate in that procedure, as the government acknowledged.8.  as regards the offence of abusive conduct, the military prosecutor’s office decided on 9 march 1994 (in respect of the first applicant) and 28 october 1994 (in respect of the second applicant) not to open a separate ex officio investigation on the grounds that the offence of abusive conduct fell under a subsequently enacted amnesty law; that decision was communicated only to the second applicant on 4 october 2001. no decision was adopted in respect of the applicants’ injury.9.  further, without a formal decision to overturn the decisions issued by the military prosecutor’s office (see paragraph 8 above) and to reopen the applicants’ respective cases, in the main criminal investigation, the prosecutor heard the applicants who reiterated their complaints regarding the offences of illegal deprivation of liberty and homicide as an attempt raised on account of their ill-treatment and injury during the events of december 1989. thus, the first applicant requested on 5 january 2005 and on 4 august 2008 to participate in these proceedings as a civil party and for the investigation of his case to be pursued by the military prosecutor’s office.in the main criminal investigation, the second applicant gave a statement on 4 october 2001 and lodged a civil claim on 17 may 2005, asking for the punishment of those responsible.10.  the relevant procedural steps taken in the main criminal investigation were described in association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos.33810/07 and 18817/08, §§ 12-41, 24 may 2011) and anamaria‑loredana orășanu and others v. romania ([committee] (nos.11.  on 14 october 2015, as regards the second applicant, the military prosecutor’s office issued a decision only in respect of the offence of instigation to illegal deprivation of liberty by closing the main criminal investigation on the grounds of res judicata in relation to the supreme court of justice’s decision of 10 may 1991, failing to decide the offence of homicide as an attempt or her injury, as complained of (see paragraph 7 above).no decision was taken in respect of the first applicant.12.  although the parties have not communicated any information regarding the lodging of an appeal against this decision, it can be seen from the military prosecutor’s office website that it was subsequently quashed.thus, on 1 november 2016 the military prosecutor’s office ordered the initiation in rem of a criminal investigation regarding the offence of crimes against humanity in respect of the same circumstances of fact.
the court stressed the need to ensure the proper conduct of the proceedings, given that extensive evidence had still to be obtained in the case.the court further relied on the likelihood that a severe penalty would be imposed on the applicant.on 15 february the district prosecutor refused the request, finding that the grounds for the imposition of this measure remained valid.8.  the applicant’s detention was further extended by decisions of the gdańsk regional court (sąd okręgowy) of 20 march, 19 june and 21 august 2007. the applicant appealed against all of those decisions.the courts repeatedly relied in their decisions on the strong suspicion that the applicant had committed the offence in question, the likelihood of a severe prison sentence being imposed on him and the need to secure the proper conduct of the investigation, especially the need to obtain further expert evidence.10.  on 27 november 2007 the gdańsk regional court further extended the applicant’s detention until 31 march 2008. the applicant appealed, unsuccessfully.15.  on 13 may 2009 the gdańsk court of appeal quashed the impugned judgment and remitted the case for retrial (case no.16.  the applicant’s detention was continually extended by the domestic courts, pending his appeal and in the course of the retrial.on 23 september 2009 the gdańsk court of appeal upheld the impugned decision, finding that the reasonable suspicion that the applicant had committed the offence in question persisted, despite the fact that the judgment convicting the applicant had been quashed.the court of appeal further considered that the regional court had correctly relied on the severity of the anticipated penalty as the principal ground for the applicant’s continuing detention and on the risk of the obstruction of the proceedings.18.   on 10 november 2010 the gdańsk court of appeal quashed the judgment and remitted the case for retrial (case no.19.  on 23 march 2012 the gdańsk regional court further extended the applicant’s detention, reiterating the grounds given in its initial decisions.22.  on 26 october 2012 the gdańsk regional court extended the applicant’s detention until 30 december 2012. on 13 november 2012 the gdańsk court of appeal upheld the impugned decision.it considered that the applicant’s involvement in the offences with which he had been charged had been supported by the non-final judgment of 12 july 2012, in which he had been convicted and had received a severe sentence.the court also held that further detention on remand was the only preventive measure capable of securing the proper course of the proceedings until the delivery of a final judgment.
7.  the police were called to the scene and drew up an official “note” (службена белешка) in which the event was described as a fight involving the applicant, r. and a certain p. 8.  on 11 june 2012 an investigating judge (истражен судија) opened an investigation against the applicant, with oral evidence being provided by the applicant, r., and witnesses j. and k., the latter being friends of r.’s.9.  in the course of the investigation, on 6 september 2012 the applicant gave an oral statement and proposed that an eyewitness, p. (see paragraph 7 above), be questioned as a witness on his behalf.in his statement he claimed that during the initial provocations by r. and his friends, p. had been in the toilet but that towards the end of the altercation p. had been present and had witnessed the event and had even grabbed hold (“да придржи”) of one of the witnesses.testify as an eyewitness to the event and b. testify to the fact that the applicant had come under attack by the same group on a previous occasion, which b. had prevented.14.  at a public hearing before the trial court which took place on 12 february 2013, evidence was given by the applicant, and by r., j. and k. in his statement, witness j. said that during the altercation, p. (the witness proposed by the applicant) had launched himself (“му се фрли”) at k., the other witness.at the same hearing, the trial court accepted a request from the defence to examine the official police note of the event (see paragraph 7 above).it was also requested that a neuro-psychiatric specialist prepare an expert opinion in respect of the applicant’s psychological state on the evening of the altercation in order to establish his mental capacity at the time of the events in question.17.  at the same hearing the trial court refused all requests by the defence, stating: “the defence’s request to question witnesses m.r., p. and m.k.is refused for the same reasons as stated in the minutes of 12 february 2013. since there has already been an expert report commissioned in the case, further requests for the commissioning of additional expert reports are refused, and the court is already in possession of sufficient evidence to establish the facts in the case.” 18.  closing arguments were also delivered at that hearing, in which the applicant complained that all the evidentiary testimony proposed on his behalf had been rejected by the trial court and he had therefore been prevented from proving his case.the trial court based its findings on the expert report, the statement given by r. and the statements given by the two witnesses j. and k. although the trial court in its reasoning accepted that there had been a third person, the applicant’s friend, involved in the altercation, it considered that the defence’s arguments contradicted the other evidence put before it sufficiently, thereby showing that the applicant was guilty of the offence he had been charged with.20.  the applicant submitted two appeals, one through a lawyer on 17 april 2013 and another personally on 22 april 2013. in the appeals it was stated that none of the witnesses proposed by the defence had been questioned by the trial court and none of the expert opinion requests had been accepted, effectively rendering the taking of evidence in the case completely one-sided.it was further stated in the appeals that the commissioned expert opinion was inconclusive with regard to the type of injury suffered by r., meaning that the trial court could therefore not ascertain whether that type of injury contained the elements of “grievous bodily injury”.at the hearing a representative of the high prosecutor’s office (вишо јавно обивнителство) proposed that the appeals should be allowed and the case remitted because of omissions made by the trial court in respect of the expert report.22.  on the same day the appellate court dismissed the appeals and confirmed the trial court’s judgment in its entirety.the relevant parts of the judgment read as follows: “in the appeals it is stated that the defence’s request to question p. as a witness was wrongfully rejected and that it could have significantly contributed to different conclusions with regard to the facts ... [t]his court finds that the request was rightfully rejected by the lower court because the witness p. was not an eyewitness to the event in question, which is supported by the statement of the accused given at the investigation stage ... ... from the statement [of r.] ... which finds support in the statements given by j. and k., it can be concluded that on the evening in question the accused insulted r., the accused then hit r. over the head with a glass.
6.  at the time of the events in question the first applicant was registered as a sole trader.9.  in september 2006 other companies which were creditors of k., including e., applied for the commencement of insolvency proceedings against k. their request was allowed in a judgment of 17 november 2006 of the plovdiv regional court (hereinafter “the regional court”), which declared company k. insolvent, opened insolvency proceedings and appointed a trustee.it noted that k. had ceased its payments to e. and other creditors in october 2005, and held that the initial date of the company’s insolvency was therefore 30 october 2005.10.  in january 2007 the trustee prepared the first list of k.’s creditors, which included company e. 11.  in may 2007 company e. brought proceedings against the first applicant under section 646(2) of the commerce act, as in force at the time (see paragraph 25 below), seeking to have the payments k. had made to her during the so-called “suspect period” – the period between the initial date of insolvency as declared by the plovdiv regional court and the commencement of the insolvency proceedings (the payments described in paragraph 7 above) − declared null and void and the sum received by her returned to the insolvency estate.12.  the action was allowed in a judgment of the regional court of 31 october 2007. observing that it was undisputed that k. had paid the first applicant bgn 22,043.23 during the “suspect period”, and without analysing the matter any further, it ordered her to pay back this sum to the insolvency estate, plus default interest.14.  the court of appeal’s judgment was enforceable and, at the request of k.’s trustee, a bailiff opened enforcement proceedings against the first applicant for the sums due to the insolvency estate.15.  in the judicial proceedings against the first applicant, in a final decision of 21 january 2009 the supreme court of cassation refused to accept for examination an appeal on points of law lodged by her.16.  in april 2007 company e. brought proceedings against the second applicant under section 646(2) of the commerce act, as in force at the time (see paragraph 25 below), seeking to have the payments k. had made to it during the “suspect period” between 30 october 2005 and 17 november 2006 (payments described in paragraph 8 above) declared null and void and the sum received by the applicant returned to the insolvency estate.while it acknowledged that the transactions between the second applicant and k. had not damaged the latter’s interests, because k. had received equivalent goods in exchange for its payments to the applicant, the regional court added that the commerce act “did not take account” of such considerations.it thus ordered the second applicant to pay back to the insolvency estate the sum of bgn 33,344.05, plus default interest.18.  upon appeal by the second applicant, on 10 june 2008 that judgment was upheld by the court of appeal, which stated once again that section 646(2) of the commerce act did not require any proof that the contested payment had damaged the interests of k.’s remaining creditors; such damage, as well as the knowledge about it, were to be considered “presumed”.19.  since the court of appeal’s judgment was enforceable, a bailiff opened enforcement proceedings against the second applicant for the sums owed by it to the insolvency estate.20.  in the main judicial proceedings against the second applicant, in a final decision of 29 july 2009 the supreme court of cassation refused to accept for examination an appeal on points of law lodged by it.21.  in the insolvency proceedings against k., the majority of its assets were distributed among its creditors between november 2007 and october 2008. in two decisions delivered in november and december 2008 the trustee in bankruptcy added the state to the list of creditors, with claims exceeding bgn 5,000,000. as the state was a privileged creditor, almost all payments from the insolvency estate after that were made to it, but a substantial proportion of the debts owed to it by k. nonetheless remained unpaid.22.  the applicants did not make use of the possibility afforded to them by section 648 of the commerce act (see paragraph 29 below) to join the insolvency proceedings as creditors of k. two other companies in a similar situation – they had also been obliged to return sums to the insolvency estate on the basis of section 646(2) of the commerce act – did join the insolvency proceedings, but received no part of the sums owed to them.
5.  the applicants, who are husband and wife, were born in 1970 and live in chișinău.6.  on 29 january 2008 the applicants were involved in a street protest as a result of which they were arrested and detained for six hours and forty‑five minutes.on 18 december 2008 the first applicant was again involved in a street protest, as a result of which he was arrested and detained for approximately four hours and a half.later both applicants were acquitted and the actions of the police were found to be unlawful.the facts concerning those protests were described in detail in mătăsaru and saviţchi v. moldova, no.38281/08, §§ 6-58, 2 november 2010.7.  on 29 january 2009 the first applicant organised again a street protest and was arrested again and detained for some six hours.later the applicant was acquitted and the actions of the police were found to be unlawful.8.  on 2 november 2010 the court adopted a judgment in the case of mătăsaru and saviţchi (cited above), in which it declared inadmissible the applicants’ complaints concerning the alleged breaches of their rights guaranteed by articles 5 and 11 of the convention on the ground of their failure to exhaust domestic remedies (see mătăsaru and saviţchi (cited above, § 75).9.  after that, the applicants brought a civil action under law 1545 (on compensation for damage caused by illegal acts of the criminal investigation bodies, the prosecution authorities or the courts) seeking compensation in respect of the breach of their rights guaranteed by articles 5 and 11 of the convention in regard to all three street protests of 2008 and 2009.10.  by a final judgment of 6 february 2013 the supreme court of justice acknowledged the breach of the applicnts’ rights guaranteed by articles 5 and 11 of the convention and awarded them the equivalent of 900 and 270 euros (eur), respectively.
according to the applicants’ submissions, which were not contested by the government, at the time of the lodging of the application, they were serving the prison sentences arising out of their criminal convictions which gave rise to the present application.7.  on 17 and 18 june 2005 seventeen members of the maoist communist party (hereinafter “the mkp”), an illegal organisation, were killed in a rural area within the administrative jurisdiction of the town of ovacık, near the city of tunceli, by members of the security forces.university students from the samsun ondokuz mayıs üniversitesi, including the applicants, gathered in front of the building of the black sea fundamental rights and freedoms association (karadeniz temel haklar ve özgürlükler derneği) where a press statement was read out.the press statement concerned the killings of 17 and 18 june 2005, the arrest of a number of persons subsequent to the reading out of the press statement on 21 june 2005 and the alleged unlawful killing of a detainee by the police.10.  on 21 february 2007 the ankara public prosecutor initiated criminal proceedings against twenty-three people, including the applicants, charging them with disseminating propaganda in favour of the mkp, under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no.the public prosecutor further noted that mr ahmet doğan had participated in the gathering of 8 june 2005, during which the following slogans had been chanted: “no emancipation alone, either all of us or none of us.” (“kurtuluş yok tek başına, ya hep beraber ya hiçbirimiz.as regards the gathering of 21 june 2005, the assize court found it established that the slogan “martyrs are immortal” had been chanted by mr kürşad arslan, ms dilek kömpe, mr olcay bayraktar and mr ahmet doğan and that the slogans “the murderer state will pay the price”, “revolutionary martyrs are immortal” and “long live revolutionary solidarity” had been chanted by mr yaşar çalışkan, mr kürşad arslan and ms dilek kömpe.the court also found it established that all the applicants except for mr olcay bayraktar had chanted the slogan “we have paid a price; we will make them pay a price” and that mr ahmet doğan had carried a banner bearing the slogan “ovacık martyrs are immortal”.as regards the gathering of 8 july 2005, the court noted that mr ahmet doğan had chanted the slogans “arrests, provocations and coercion cannot discourage us.”, “we will resist and succeed” and “we have paid a price; we will make them pay a price.” during that public gathering.12. in its judgment, the ankara assize court referred to article 10 of the convention as well as to the court’s judgment in the case of sürek v. turkey (no.26682/95, echr 1999‑iv) and the report of the european commission of human rights in the case of karataş v. turkey (no.the court held that by chanting the above-mentioned slogans the applicants had not exercised their democratic rights but had glorified terror by adopting the style of discourse of terror organisations and that they had not distanced themselves from violence.in the court’s view, by chanting those slogans the applicants had not intended to find a solution to a problem but had praised and glorified the source of the problem, that is to say, the terrorist organisations concerned.the ankara assize court concluded that chanting the slogans in question could not be considered as falling within the scope of the right to freedom of expression.13.  on 8 july 2010 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of 31 march 2009 in so far as it concerned the applicants’ conviction.
4.  the applicant was born in 1977 and was detained at the kırıkkale f‑type prison when the application was lodged.5.  on 1 october 2004 the applicant was taken into police custody on suspicion of being member of a terrorist organisation.6.  on 5 october 2004 the applicant was brought before the judge at the ankara assize court who placed him in detention on remand taking into consideration the nature of the offence, the state of evidence and the severity of the envisaged penalty.7.  on 15 march 2005 the ankara public prosecutor filed an indictment with the ankara assize court, charging the applicant with membership of a terrorist organisation.8.  on 31 january 2008 the ankara assize court convicted the applicant as charged and sentenced him to 15 years’ imprisonment.the court ordered the continuation of his detention.9.  on 6 may 2009 the court of cassation quashed the judgment.the case was accordingly remitted to the ankara assize court for further examination.10.  on 10 november 2009 the 11th chamber of the ankara assize court held a further hearing, in which both the applicant and his lawyer were present.at the end of that hearing, the court ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention.11.  on 10 december 2009 the applicant’s lawyer filed an objection against the decision of 10 november 2009. on 21 december 2009 the 12th chamber of the ankara assize court dismissed this objection without holding a hearing.in delivering its decision, the court took into consideration the written opinion of the public prosecutor, which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative.12. on 28 august 2012 the ankara assize court once more convicted the applicant and sentenced him to fifteen years’ imprisonment.13. on 8 july 2013 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the first instance court.
the second applicant left turkey subsequent to his criminal conviction giving rise to the present application.6.  on 21 august 2006 the applicants took part in a religious ceremony (mevlüt)[1] on the premises of the altındağ district branch of the party for a democratic society (demokratik toplum partisi – “the dtp”) in ankara, at which they paid tribute to three members of the pkk, an illegal armed organisation, who had been killed by the security forces.one of the deceased was the first applicant’s nephew.the second applicant was the head of the ankara branch of the dtp at the relevant time.the third applicant was a member of the dtp and a friend of the first applicant.7.  on 23 november 2007 the ankara public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment with the ankara assize court, charging the applicants and a number of other persons with dissemination of propaganda in favour of the pkk, under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no.3713), on account of their participation in the ceremony of 21 august 2006. according to the indictment, during the ceremony photographs of the deceased and the pkk’s flag were displayed at the venue and a film about the lives of the deceased was shown.in addition, the second applicant, the head of the ankara branch of the dtp, made the following statement: “our fears and worries continue.people are still being killed.in such a context, we would like this mevlüt to be a moment of peace and fraternity.” 8.  on 24 september 2008 the ankara assize court convicted the applicants of disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk and sentenced them to ten months’ imprisonment each.in its judgment, the assize court observed, firstly, that the persons in whose memory the ceremony had been held were members of a terrorist organisation and that they had been killed by the security forces during an operation against that organisation.it also took the view that the choice of venue for the ceremony – the premises of a political party – and the fact that the pkk flag had been spread over the tables and photographs of members of the organisation had been displayed, contributed to raising serious doubts as to the applicants’ submissions that they had taken part in the ceremony in observance of their religious duties.the court considered that the applicants had committed the offence of dissemination of propaganda given that they had shared the feelings of mourning and sorrow for the deceased who had been involved in terrorism.it further considered that the venue where the ceremony had been held had turned into a propaganda venue in favour of the pkk.9.  following an appeal lodged by the applicants, their conviction was upheld by a final decision of the court of cassation on 8 march 2010.
in addition, the court noted that the case against the applicant was complex and of a large scale, and that a number of investigative actions had to be carried out, including the determination of the applicant’s role in the criminal organisation and his relationship with other suspects.the court also observed that although during the applicant’s detention no investigative actions had been carried out with regard to the applicant, the records of the pre-trial investigation showed that various investigative actions had been performed in order to establish grounds for the suspicion in respect of the applicant (vehicles had been inspected, a chemical analysis of the substances found during the search of the applicant’s flat had been performed, expert conclusions had been received, and other suspects – who had given testimony about the applicant – had been questioned).the court also noted that in the course of the past three months, numerous procedural actions had been carried out: a number of suspects had been questioned, eyewitnesses had been identified, additional questioning of suspects had taken place, verification of testimony given at the crime scene had taken place, items significant for the pre-trial investigation had been examined, additional tasks (including the investigation of certain objects) had been scheduled, descriptions of the suspects had been collected.in addition, the court held that there were over forty suspects in the case; numerous investigative actions had been performed: suspects had been arrested and questioned; witnesses had been questioned; eyewitnesses had been identified; items relevant for the investigation had been examined; characteristics of the suspects had been collected; and material gathered in the pre-trial investigation had been divided into two parts (and the material gathered in the first part had already been transferred to a court for examination on the merits).the court also stated that the applicant’s argument that he had only been questioned twice during the pre-trial investigation could not be assessed in the light of a delay in the proceedings caused by the extreme complexity of the case and the intensity of the pre-trial investigation.on 14 september 2011 the court of appeal upheld the decision of the vilnius regional court of 18 august 2011. the court, however, decided that the first-instance court had wrongly concluded that the applicant might interfere with the proceedings and removed this ground from the list of grounds for extending the applicant’s detention.in addition, it stated that the case file comprised ninety-six volumes of material; the standpoints of the co-accused were not clear because all of the co-accused had stated that they would give their testimony at the end of the proceedings; and the hearings were planned in advance and their schedule was extremely intense.30.  on 14 june 2012 the court of appeal upheld the decision of the vilnius regional court of 17 may 2012. the court held that it could not conclude that the proceedings had been protracted because the case had been transferred to the vilnius regional court for examination on the merits and because of that, in the course of criminal proceedings the duration of the applicant’s detention on remand had not been limited.on 21 december 2012 the court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal and upheld the lower court’s findings that the applicant might abscond, that the criminal case was complex (it had 106 volumes and thirty‑three co-accused), and that it was not possible to achieve the purpose of article 119 of the code of criminal procedure.45.  between the transfer of the case to the vilnius regional court for examination on the merits on 1 august 2011 and the decision on 17 february 2014 to impose house arrest on the applicant, a total of sixty‑five hearings were coordinated in advance and scheduled, and nineteen of those hearings were either cancelled or adjourned: (a)  from 1 august 2011 until 26 june 2012 twenty-two hearings were scheduled (one each month from october 2011 until january 2012, three in february 2012, three in march 2012, four in april 2012, three in may 2012 and five in june 2012); four of them were adjourned (one in february 2012, two in april 2012 and one in june 2012) and one was cancelled (in may 2012); (b)  from 12 september 2012 until 7 june 2013 thirty-three hearings were scheduled (three each month from september 2012 to march 2013, six in april 2013, three in may 2013 and three in june 2013); seven of them were adjourned (one in december 2012, one in february 2013, three in march 2013 and two in april 2013), and three of them were cancelled (one in february 2013 and two in april 2013); (c)  from 13 september 2013 until 17 february 2014 ten hearings were scheduled (two each month from september 2013 until november 2013, one in january 2014, and two in february 2014); three of them were adjourned (one in september 2013, one in october 2013, and one in february 2014) and one of them was cancelled (in october 2013).46.  the main reasons for the adjournment or cancellation of hearings were illnesses of members of the court, lawyers or co-accused or the failure of some of the co-accused to appear; on one occasion one of the co-accused did not have a lawyer, on one occasion one of the members of the court had to attend a funeral, and on several occasions lawyers for the co-accused were unable to attend (for various reasons).the prosecutors asked the court to re-categorise the applicant’s offence and to hold that he had participated in a criminal organisation armed with firearms and that he had possessed a very large amount of narcotic and psychotropic substances with the intention to distribute them, and to increase the length of the imposed prison sentence to thirteen years.he claimed that there was no evidence that he had committed the offences at issue, that the lower courts had failed to examine all the relevant circumstances of the case, that their judgments had been based on incorrect assumptions, and that he had not known about any arms used by the criminal organisation or about narcotic and psychotropic substances being kept in the flat that he had been living in.the first‑instance judgment had been delivered on 22 may 2014, and the case had been received at the court of appeal on 10 november 2014. however, at the first hearing on 19 february 2015 the court of appeal had decided to adjourn the case until 7 october 2015. during the hearing on 6 november 2015 the court of appeal had decided to apply to the relevant german authorities to be allowed to question one witness in germany, and the next hearing was scheduled for april 2016. the reply from germany had been received by the court of appeal on 10 february 2016; however, during the hearing on 7 april 2016 the next six scheduled hearings had been cancelled owing to the fact that the lawyers of eleven of the co-accused had been involved in other cases.the supreme court held that in accordance with the case-law of the court, the fact that the applicant had been held in detention on remand for such a long period of time, required particular diligence on the part of the authorities dealing with the case to administer justice expeditiously.
according to the materials of the domestic judgments, the applicants found out that a person from the transdniestrian region of moldova, p., intended to come to chișinău on 8 december 2010, carrying a large amount of cash money, in order to conclude a transaction concerning immovable property.in court the applicants argued that the allegations presented by the public prosecutor were not supported by any facts or materials and that no materials whatsoever were presented by the prosecution.the court found that in view of the gravity of the accusations against the applicants, of the fact that the investigation was at its initial stage and of the applicants’ position in the ministry of internal affairs, there was a serious risk of absconding and of interfering with the investigation by influencing witnesses, misleading the investigation and increasing the volume of work.the court found that the materials in the file provided sufficient grounds for a reasonable suspicion that the applicants had committed the crimes they were charged with.the risk of interference with the investigation was determined by the fact that the investigation had just started and the risk of absconding resulted from the fact that the applicants were police officers and thus knew how the investigating authorities operated.the court of appeal did not answer the applicants’ complaint about the alleged lack of access to the materials in the case-file, relied upon by the first instance court to order their detention.the court noted that on this occasion the applicants’ representative had been given access to the materials in the file.14.  the applicants appealed and argued, inter alia, that the investigation was not advancing as claimed by the public prosecutor and that the risk of interference could just as well be mitigated by the applicants’ house arrest.on 14 march 2011 the chișinău court of appeal upheld the decision of the centru district court of 5 march 2011 for the same reasons as it had done earlier.17.  on 7 april 2011 the applicants lodged a habeas corpus request, arguing that the risk of interfering with the investigation was no longer valid because the criminal investigation had been concluded and that there had not been any evidence indicating that the applicants might abscond.18.  the same day, judge v. of the rîșcani district court extended the applicants’ detention by ninety days considering that the three risks invoked by the public prosecutor resulted from the character of the charges against the applicants.20.  on 20 april 2011 the chișinău court of appeal upheld the decision of the rîșcani district court of 7 april 2011. the court relied on the fact that the applicants were police officers and considered that they could influence the witnesses or destroy evidence.the court rejected the applicants’ habeas corpus request of 6 june 2011 by noting that none of the previous grounds for detention had lost their validity because the trial had not yet started.25.  on 6 july 2011 the applicants appealed and argued, inter alia, that the court had not examined their habeas corpus requests “speedily” as required under article 5 § 4 of the convention and had not replied to their contention that the detention order of 7 april 2011 had been unlawful because it had been ordered by judge v. who lacked impartiality.26.  on 15 july 2011 the chișinău court of appeal upheld the decision of the rîșcani district court of 5 july 2011 for the same reasons as it had done before.
in the indictment, the public prosecutor noted that the applicants had participated in two demonstrations organised by trade unions and non-governmental organisations held on 17 december 2005 and 19 february 2006 with the authorisation of the governor’s office.he further noted, on the basis of video footage provided by the police, that the applicants had carried banners on behalf of the esp (the socialist platform of the oppressed) and the sgd (socialist youth association), which, according to information on the internet, were connected to the mlkp.as to the documents, periodicals, books and cds found in their homes, the applicants maintained that none of the material they had had was illegal, and that they did not accept the content of the search-and-seizure reports prepared after the searches conducted in their homes, as those reports had not been drafted in their presence.12.  on 17 january 2007 the assize court convicted deniz bakır, metin kürekçi, necla çomak and alihan alhan of membership of a terrorist organisation under article 314 § 2 of the criminal code, on the basis of articles 220 § 7 and 314 § 3 of the same code.13.  on 27 september 2007 the court of cassation quashed the judgment, holding that the applicants had not had an opportunity to submit their defence submissions in relation to the classification by the assize court of their acts under section 7(2) of law no.on 22 october 2008 the court issued a judgment containing the same conclusions and sentences as in its judgment of 17 january 2007. it also ordered the release of metin kürekçi, necla çomak and alihan alhan, taking into account the period of time that they had spent in detention and the length of the sentences imposed on them.the court observed that members of the esp and sgd regarded members of the mlkp who had been killed by the security forces or during hunger strikes as “martyrs” and that they had organised commemorative ceremonies for them.the court further observed that the declarations issued by the mlkp on the internet were consistent with the aims of the esp and the sgd.the court hence considered that the esp and the sgd appeared in the legal domain on behalf of the mlkp and had an organic relationship with it.the court found it established, on the basis of the conduct of members of the esp and the sgd and having regard to the documents found in the accused’s homes, that esp and sgd members were carrying out activities in line with the strategies of the mlkp and had been holding legally authorised demonstrations in favour of that organisation on the pretext of exercising their democratic rights.16.  in convicting the applicants, the ankara assize court noted that all the applicants except selçuk mart had participated in the demonstration of 17 december 2005. as regards selçuk mart, the court observed that he had attended the demonstration of 19 february 2006. the court found it established that the applicants had chanted the following slogans during the demonstration held on 17 december 2005: “m-l-k-p”, “yaşasın partimiz mlkp” (“long live our party, mlkp”), “devrimin zaferi, biji mlkp” (“victory to the revolution, long live the mlkp”), “i̇şçiler partiye, mlkp’ye” (“workers join the party, join the mlkp”).17.  the assize court further noted that metin kürekçi and mehmet ali tosun had been wearing clothes and carrying pennants with “esp” on them during the demonstration of 17 december 2005, and that uğur güdük and selçuk mart had been wearing clothes and hats with “sgd” on them.the court found it established that those applicants had directed the crowds, incited people to chant slogans in favour of the mlkp, carried banners, prepared organisational documents and been previously involved in activities in favour of the mlkp.20.  as regards levent çakır, uğur güdük, latife canan kaplan, serdar kır, selçuk mart, mehmet ali tosun, filiz uluçelebi and mesut açıkalın, the assize court noted that they had chanted slogans and carried banners and flags in favour of the mlkp during the demonstrations of 17 december 2005 or 19 february 2006 and had been in possession of banned books and documents in favour of that organisation.the court decided to reduce the sentences imposed on metin kürekçi, alihan alhan, deniz bakır and necla çomak pursuant to article 314 § 2 of the criminal code, on the basis of articles 220 § 7 and 314 § 3 of the same code, to two years and one month’s imprisonment.
some of the articles also stated that information provided by the moroccan intelligence agency (the general directorate of surveillance of the national territory – “the dgst”) to the aivd had led to the person’s arrest in the netherlands.16.  in support of his claim, the applicant referred to various press articles about the criminal proceedings against him in the netherlands, as well as to several internet news articles written in dutch, moroccan and english about a terrorist cell in salouin ‒ the town where he had been living before going to the netherlands ‒ which had been dismantled by the moroccan authorities in april 2015. some articles also mentioned that a member of that terrorist cell who was residing in the netherlands had been arrested.... question 5: a)  no, at the time of the investigation [the applicant] was not being searched for by the moroccan authorities in the context of the criminal investigation as referred to in question 2. b)  no, at the time of the investigation, there was no charge against [the applicant].c)  no, at the time of the investigation [the applicant] was not being searched for by the moroccan authorities in the context of a criminal investigation into offences other than those as referred to by question 5a.” 20.  by letter of 12 january 2016, in reply to a request for further clarification, the minister of foreign affairs stated: “there are no indications that [the applicant] is being searched for by the moroccan authorities in the context of the criminal investigation referred to in question 2a of your letter of 15 october 2015. there are also no indications of a charge against [the applicant] or indications that [the applicant] is being searched for by the moroccan authorities in connection with a criminal investigation of facts other than those referred to in question 2a of your letter of 15 october 2015.” 21.  the asylum application was rejected by the deputy minister on 21 july 2016. in addition, an entry ban (inreisverbod) of twenty years was imposed on the applicant, the deputy minister holding that he posed a threat to public safety on account of his criminal conviction and information from the netherlands security service that he posed a danger to national security.in the email message from [the appellant’s] moroccan lawyer submitted by [the appellant], this lawyer reports that [the appellant] will be tried when transferred to morocco, even though he has already been tried in the netherlands, and refers to two decisions in which the same person was convicted both in france and in morocco for the same facts.6.3.1.  according to the constant case-law of the administrative jurisdiction division (afdeling bestuursrechtspraak) (including the ruling of 29 july 2016, ecli:nl:rvs:2016:2171), an official report from the minister of foreign affairs about the situation in a country is an expert opinion for the deputy minister for the exercise of the latter’s powers.although in the case of an asylum application this falls short of due care, the court finds that in this case [the deputy minister] did not have to see reason for not taking into account in the decision making the person-specific official report of the ministry of foreign affairs, as [the deputy minister] has given sufficient reasons for holding that the interests of [the appellant] were not harmed by this failure to exercise due care.[the deputy minister] has indicated that the use of a trusted local advisor is to ensure that the authorities of the country of origin are not informed of the alien’s stay in the netherlands and of his asylum application, whereas in this case it can be assumed that the moroccan authorities, due to reports in the media there, are already aware [of this circumstance].finally, it has been included in the person-specific official report that at the time of the investigation [the appellant] was not being searched for by the moroccan authorities in connection with the criminal investigation into the dismantled terror cell, that at the time of the investigation no charge had been brought against [the appellant] and that at the time of the investigation [the appellant] was not being searched for by the moroccan authorities in connection with a criminal investigation into other facts.moreover, it follows from question 5 in the letter from [the deputy minister] to the ministry of foreign affairs of 15 october 2015 that the ministry has been asked both whether [the appellant] is being searched for by the moroccan authorities in connection with the criminal investigation into the arrested terror cell and whether [the appellant] is being searched for by the moroccan authorities in connection with a criminal investigation into other facts.also, the unclear assertions made by [the appellant] about the names of the persons arrested, mentioned in the person-specific official report and the notion ‘at the time of the investigation’ offer no concrete reasons to doubt the accuracy of the person-specific official report.the term ‘at the time of the investigation’ cannot be read otherwise than that the question has been answered by the investigating judge on the basis of the state of affairs at the time of the investigation.6.4.  in addition to the person-specific report of the ministry of foreign affairs, [the deputy minister] has also referred to experiences made with young moroccan men (including members of the hofstad group) who had been the subject of a terrorism trial in the netherlands and/or constituted a danger to dutch national security in connection with involvement in islamic terrorism and/or jihad and for that reason [had been] returned to morocco.6.5.  the court concludes that it follows from the person-specific official report of the ministry of foreign affairs that [the appellant] is not being searched for by the moroccan authorities in connection with the criminal investigation concerning the dismantled terror cell or other facts and that [the appellant] has not put forward any concrete arguments for [the court] to doubt the correctness of this information.30.  the government informed the court that in the context of the criminal proceedings against the applicant information had been exchanged between the moroccan and the dutch authorities through a legal assistance request submitted by the dutch authorities on 5 november 2014 and a supplementary request on 20 april 2015 (see paragraph 9 above).
at the time of the events giving rise to the present application, he was the head of the batman branch of the people’s democratic party (dehap) and subsequently the party for a democratic society (dtp).6.  in particular, when he was questioned on 18 october 2005 the applicant was asked about his participation in an event commemorating a number of deceased members of the pkk (kurdish workers’ party, an illegal armed organisation) held on 22 august 2005. the applicant responded that he had become aware of that event when demonstrators had started to march to the cemetery where the deceased were buried.as he was the head of the batman branch of dehap, he had attended the march in order to keep the demonstrators under control and to prevent any possible disturbances in the town.7.  when questioned on 6 december 2005, the applicant stated that on 17 august 2005 he had been the head of the dehap branch in batman and that he had not praised the leader of the pkk in his speech.he stated that he had participated in several demonstrations and readings of press statements in his capacity as the head of the batman branch of dehap and the dtp, and that he had not committed any offence during those events.11.  on 24 march 2006 the batman public prosecutor decided to transfer the investigation to the diyarbakır public prosecutor’s office, holding that the offence which the applicant had committed, namely membership of a terrorist organisation and carrying out membership activities, was not within his office’s jurisdiction.12.  on 26 april 2006 the diyarbakır public prosecutor filed an indictment with the diyarbakır assize court, charging the applicant and a certain m.g., under article 220 § 8 of the criminal code, with disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk on ten occasions.the applicant stressed that in general he attended such public meetings at the request of the security forces, since the latter asked him to be present in order to prevent any possible clashes between themselves and the demonstrators.15.  on 26 september 2006 the diyarbakır assize court held the fourth and the last hearing in the case and convicted the applicant and his co‑accused of membership of an illegal organisation under article 314 § 2 of the criminal code on the basis of articles 220 § 7 and 314 § 3 of the same code, finding it established that the applicant had knowingly and willingly aided the pkk.the judgment of the assize court, insofar as relevant, reads as follows: “in the indictment dated 26 april 2006 it was alleged that abdulcelil i̇mret had committed the following acts: 1.  attendance at the reading out of a press statement and an illegal march held on 19 february 2005 in the mem-u zin park in batman during which the demonstrators chanted slogans in favour of the pkk and abdullah öcalan; 2.  attendance at the event commemorating a deceased pkk member held in the batman cemetery on 31 march 2005, making a speech in kurdish and making participants say prayers in kurdish; 3.  attendance at the reading out of a press statement at the batman branch of dehap on 16 august 2005 regarding the petition campaign entitled “i accept abdullah öcalan as a political actor”; 4.  attendance at the illegal demonstration held on 22 august 2005 to commemorate seven members of the pkk killed by the security forces in an armed clash which had occurred in batman; 5.  attendance at the demonstration organised by dehap and held on 9 november 2005, during which the demonstrators chanted illegal slogans, and making a speech in kurdish addressed to the press and the demonstrators; 6.  attendance at the demonstration held on 16 november 2005 during which the demonstrators chanted slogans in favour of the pkk and abdullah öcalan and carried banners, and making a speech in kurdish addressed to the press and the demonstrators; 7.  attendance at the demonstration held on 30 november 2005 protesting against the attempts to close down roj tv, the alleged solitary confinement of abdullah öcalan and the statement by deniz baykal, the leader of the chp (people’s republican party) regarding the events that had occurred in yüksekova during which the demonstrators chanted slogans in favour of abdullah öcalan, and making a speech in kurdish addressed to the press and the demonstrators; 8.  attendance at the reading out of a press statement and at a march held on 21 december 2005 protesting against the solitary confinement of abdullah öcalan, during which the demonstrators chanted illegal slogans and carried banners, and making a speech in kurdish addressed to the press and the demonstrators; 9.  attendance at the march and the reading out of a press statement held on 8 february 2006 in batman, during which illegal slogans were chanted, and making a speech in kurdish; 10. attendance at the illegal demonstration and the reading out of a press statement held on 16 february 2006 close to the dtp batman branch, during which illegal slogans were chanted and banners were carried, and making a speech in kurdish; ... in his defence submissions abdulcelil i̇mret stated that he had participated in the demonstrations and the reading out of press statements mentioned in the indictment but that he had neither chanted slogans nor carried banners.on the basis of the evidence in the file, it has been understood that during all the demonstrations and marches held in batman which abdulcelil i̇mret attended, slogans in favour abdullah öcalan were chanted and the demonstrators carried banners.although the accused submitted that their aim had been to prevent clashes between the demonstrators and the security forces and [that they] had not had the intention of disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk when they had participated in the demonstrations and marches in question, taking into account the content of the case file and their acts during those meetings, their defence submissions have been found to be baseless.as a result of the trial and in the light of the evidence, it has been established that abdulcelil i̇mret worked as the head of the batman branch of dehap and that subsequent to the closure of dehap he was the head of the batman branch of the dtp.... it has been established that all of those marches and demonstrations were organised in line with the ‘democratic political struggle’ strategy adopted by the pkk recently; that the media broadcasts in line with the pkk’s strategies had announced those marches and demonstrations prior to them, and that the same media organs had used those demonstrations as propaganda materials after they had been held.taking into account the continuity and nature of their acts, it is considered that those acts went beyond the offence of dissemination of propaganda in favour of a [terrorist] organisation and amounted to the offence proscribed by article 220 § 7 of the criminal code, that is to say, ‘knowingly and willingly aiding an illegal organisation without being in the hierarchical structure’.
4.  the list of applicants and the relevant details of the applications are set out in the appended table.3436/15, on 31 october 2013 the levokumskiy district court of the stavropol region found the applicant guilty of three counts of an attempted drug sale “committed with the same intent” on 10 and 17 may and 19 june 2013, as well as declared him guilty of unlawful purchase and storage without an intent to sell of a large quantity of drugs, seized from him on 19 june 2013. the applicant was sentenced to ten years and a month of imprisonment.the conviction and sentence were upheld on appeal by the stavropol regional court on 23 january 2014. in may 2015 the deputy prosecutor of the stavropol region asked the presidium of the regional court to amend the conviction by excluding episodes of 17 may and 19 june 2013 “in view of the lack of a criminal conduct [in the applicant’s actions]” and to uphold the conviction in respect of the episode on 10 may 2013. the deputy prosecutor argued, in particular, that the “operative experiment” in the course of which the applicant had sold drugs on 10 may 2013 had been properly authorised by the acting head of the district police department and had been recorded, and thus there was no need to perform subsequent “operative experiments” in the form of the test purchase on 17 may and 19 june 2013. on 30 june 2015 the presidium of the stavropol regional court accepted the deputy prosecutor’s request for the revision of the final conviction by virtue of article 401 of the russian criminal code, annulled the conviction in respect of the two episodes of drug sale on 17 may and 19 june 2013, declared the applicant guilty of an attempted drug sale on 10 may 2013 and sentenced him to eight years and one month of imprisonment.the presidium noted that having conducted “the operative experiment” on 10 may 2013 the police had already established and recorded the applicant’s criminal activity.the presidium concluded that the applicant’s conviction of episodes of 17 may and 19 june 2013 had therefore been based on unlawfully obtained evidence and thus should be voided.as regards the episode on 10 may 2013, it observed a video recording of the “test purchase” and noted that the applicant had talked about future drug sales.the presidium concluded that there was no indication of the police entrapment on 10 may 2013. domestic law and practice 6.  title 3, section xiii of the code of criminal procedure (here and after – the ccrp) of 2002 (“procedure for review at second instance”) (часть 3, раздел xiii “производство в суде второй инстанции”) stipulates in article 390 § 2 that the decisions taken by the second-instance courts on appeal acquire binding force immediately.paragraph 3 of the same article introduced a one‑year time-limit for lodging a cassation appeal against a judicial act which had become final and provided for a possibility to reset that time‑limit on certain grounds.9.  the new article 401.6 provided safeguards against cassation revision of final judgments and decisions where revision could aggravate the situation of a convicted person, an acquitted person, or a person in respect of whom a criminal prosecution had been terminated.second, the cassation appeals were further restricted by the substantive criterion allowing a review only if a judgment breached the law “to an extent which distorted the essence and meaning of a judicial decision as an act of administration of justice”.518-fz, approved by the council of the federation on 25 december 2014, and signed by the president on 31 december 2014. the law amended article 401.2 of the code by removing any time bars for lodging cassation appeals.final judgments ... may be annulled and the proceedings in a criminal case reopened due to new or newly discovered circumstances ... ... 4. new circumstances are ... ... 2) a finding by the european court of human rights of a violation of [convention provisions] during consideration of a criminal case by a russian court ...” article 415. initiation of [revision] proceedings “5.the presidium of the supreme court of the russian federation revises ... [judgments] under circumstances listed in subparagraphs 1 and 2 of article 413 of the code upon application by the president of the supreme court of the russian federation within one month.having considered the [above] application, the presidium ... annuls or alters the judicial decisions in a criminal case in line with ... the judgment of the european court of human rights ...” article 419. proceedings in a criminal case after annulment of judicial decisions “judicial proceedings in a criminal case after annulment of judicial decisions due to new or newly discovered circumstances and the lodging of appeals against new judicial decisions follow the general rules [established by the code].” 12.  in 2016 the russian supreme court published an extensive report summarising the legal positions of the european court of human rights in cases where a violation of article 6 § 1 of the convention has been found in view of the applicants’ conviction as a result of the police entrapment.in addition, relying on article 415 § 5 of the russian code of criminal procedure, the presidium of the russian supreme court has regularly authorised the re-opening of criminal proceedings in view of the fact that the european court of human rights found a violation of article 6 § 1 of the convention following the russian courts’ failure to effectively conduct the review of the defendants’ arguments that the criminal offence had been committed as a result of the police entrapment (see for example the presidium’s decision no.
5.  in march 2002, the applicant, who was a working as a civil servant, was dismissed due gross misconduct.he applied to the administrative courts to have the annulment of that decision.in the course of the proceedings, on 4 july 2006 law no.accordingly, in the light of this new amnesty law, on 10 april 2009 the supreme administrative court decided that there was no need to examine the merits of the case.6.  in the meantime, on 30 september 2005 the criminal proceedings initiated against the applicant had ended with the decision of the criminal court, convicting him of abuse of office.7.  following the entry into force of the amnesty law, the applicant applied to the administration and asked to be reinstated.his request was refused on 19 december 2006. the applicant initiated proceedings to have the annulment of that decision.8.  by a decision dated 8 january 2008, the ankara administrative court found in line with the applicant’s claims and decided to annul the decision of the authorities by which they had refused to reinstate the applicant.9.  following appeal, the case was transferred before the supreme administrative court.in the course of the proceedings, the chief public prosecutor at the supreme administrative court filed his written opinion.this opinion included substantial grounds on the merits of the case with a proposal to quash the decision of the first instance court.on 25 may 2009, relying also on the opinion of the chief public prosecutor, the supreme administrative court quashed the decision of 8 january 2008. in particular, the appeal court referred to its previous leading case which had been delivered on 17 october 2008 on a similar case and held that the amnesty law did not put an obligation on the administration to reinstate the applicant.10.  the case was accordingly remitted before the ankara administrative court.on 9 october 2009 the first instance court adhered to the judgment of the appeal court and dismissed the applicant’s case.this decision was served on the applicant on 13 november 2009.
4.  the applicants were born in 1990, 1988 and 1957, respectively and live in chișinău.5.  the first and the second applicants were arrested on 8 and 9 april 2009, as a result of the mass protest which took place in chișinău after the elections of 5 april 2009. they were placed in detention for ten and seven days respectively.later the charges against them were dropped.6.  the third applicant was accused of fraud and placed in detention pending trial between 15 and 18 april 2004 and between 28 july and 3 august 2005, i.e. for nine days.later the charges against him were dropped.the government disputed the fact that the third applicant was detained between 28 july and 3 august 2005.7.  on different dates the applicants brought civil actions under law no.1545 (on compensation for damage caused by illegal acts of the criminal investigation bodies, the prosecution authorities or the courts) seeking 115,000 moldovan lei (mdl) (the equivalent of 6,765 euros (eur)), mdl 600,000 (the equivalent of eur 36,700) and mdl 80,000 (the equivalent of eur 4800), respectively, in compensation for non‑pecuniary damage.on 11 december 2013, 3 july 2013 and 28 may 2014 respectively, the supreme court of justice concluded that the applicants’ detentions had been unlawful and in breach of article 5 of the convention and awarded them mdl 15,000 (the equivalent of eur 835), mdl 7,000 (the equivalent to eur 428) and mdl 6,000 (the equivalent of eur 317) respectively as compensation for the damage caused.the domestic courts found inter alia that the third applicant had been detained between 15 and 18 april 2004 and between 28 july and 3 august 2005.8.  in addition, the first and the second applicants were part of a group of persons considered to be victims of the events of april 2009 and were awarded by two government decisions mdl 10,000 (the equivalent of eur 625) and mdl 7000 (the equivalent of eur 444), respectively.
4.  the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in kayseri.5.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.6.  the applicant, who was a sergeant in the army had a traffic accident in 2007 and was declared “disabled” (adi malül”).7.  on unspecified date, the applicant requested the general directorate of pension fund (the fund) (“emekli-sandığı”) to modify his retirement statute as service-disabled (“vazife malülü”), but the fund rejected that request.8.  on 9 august 2007 the applicant brought an action before the supreme military administrative court seeking the annulment of the fund’s decision.9.  on 22 may 2008 the supreme military administrative court dismissed the applicant’s request.10.  on 11 september 2008 the applicant’s rectification request was rejected.11.  during the proceedings, namely on 12 may 2008 and 29 july 2008 the public prosecutor at the supreme military administrative court filed lengthy written opinions on the case.however these opinions were not communicated to the applicant.
the contents of a computer disk holding detailed information on the applicant’s background, which had been obtained by the security forces in a house belonging to hizbullah, and police statements of four people, all of whom were accused of being members of the same illegal organisation, were read out to him during the questioning.8.  on the same day the applicant gave statements before the investigating judge of the diyarbakır state security court, this time together with his business partner, who was accused of being a member of the same illegal organisation.he reiterated his submissions given to the public prosecutor and added that the fact that he had provided legal assistance to some members of the illegal organisation might have been perceived as a demonstration of support by certain people.11.  on the same day the public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment with the diyarbakır state security court, accusing the applicant of membership of an illegal organisation.13.  at the hearing on 30 may 2000 the applicant’s lawyers once again challenged the use of the background information obtained from the computer disk, arguing that it was unreliable in that the disk had been de-encrypted and the information extracted in their absence.during the same hearing, the court noted that the four witnesses, who had mentioned the applicant in their police statements, had denied those submissions during the subsequent stages of the proceedings against them.he argued that the applicant’s guilt was proven by various items of evidence, namely the background report prepared in respect of him, which contained detailed personal information, as well as the background reports and police statements of several other members of hizbullah.in that connection, he referred to the statements of a certain n.s., who had maintained before both the police and the public prosecutor that the applicant had been a recruiter for the illegal organisation, had given courses to new members and had been in charge of certain cells.17.  on 18 november 2003 the applicant’s lawyer applied for the expansion of the investigation and the cross-examination of the witnesses who had confirmed the applicant’s membership of hizbullah.had claimed to have taken courses run by the applicant until the latter started his military service and asked the trial court to obtain information as regards the dates the applicant had served in the army in order to prove that those allegations were not credible.18.  on 27 january 2004 the court refused the application for the expansion of the investigation, without stating anything as regards the cross-examination of witnesses.20.  during the course of the proceedings, the state security courts were abolished and the case was transferred to the diyarbakır assize court.21.  at the hearing on 21 february 2006 the assize court read out the police statements of ş.a., in which he had claimed that the applicant had acted as a mentor within the illegal organisation and had given courses to other members, including him, which had ended when the applicant had started his military service.had reiterated his submissions in so far as they concerned himself before the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, he had not mentioned the applicant after his questioning by the police.the court relied on certain information obtained from the computer disk, namely the background report on the applicant and reports concerning other members, as well as the statements of n.s.
5.  mr vasilevskiy was born in 1973 and lives in blagoveshchensk.6.  mr vasilevskiy stayed in detention for longer that he should have because the sentencing courts did not count the time he had spent in pre-trial detention towards the overall duration of his sentence, in breach of the applicable domestic provisions.in response to mr vasilevskiy’s repeated complaints, on 7 may 2007 the belogorskiy district court in the amur region corrected the error and acknowledged that his sentence had expired on 26 february 2006. mr vasilevskiy was released on 13 june 2007. he sought compensation for 472 days during which he had been wrongfully detained.7.  on 13 december 2013 the blagoveshchensk town court in the amur region awarded him 150,000 russian roubles (rub – 3,320 euros (eur) at the then-applicable exchange rate) in respect of non-pecuniary damage.mr vasilevskiy lodged an appeal, submitting in particular that that sum was substantially lower than that which the court would have awarded in a similar case.8.  on 28 february 2014 the amur regional court dismissed his appeal.as regards the level of compensation, it held that the town court had “had regard to the case-law of the european court but had correctly determined the amount of compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damage in the light of the requirements of russian law”.9.  mr bogdanov was born in 1981 and lives in the novgorod region.10.  on 30 march 2007 mr bogdanov was convicted of supplying drugs on four separate occasions in 2006 and sentenced to twelve years’ imprisonment.on 20 march 2013 the supreme court of the russian federation acknowledged, referring to the court’s case-law under article 6 of the convention, that the police had incited mr bogdanov to commit the last three of the four offences.it declared that part of evidence inadmissible, voided his conviction in that part, reduced his sentence to six years’ imprisonment and ordered his immediate release.11.  by that time, mr bogdanov had spent 119 days in custody over and above the adjusted six-year sentence.12.  on 13 march 2014 the valdayskiy district court in the novgorod region awarded him rub 80,000 (eur 1,576).however, on 9 july 2014 the novgorod regional court reduced the award to rub 15,000 (eur 324), referring to the “circumstances in which the criminal proceedings had been instituted” and the “category of offence that mr bogdanov had been charged with”.on 30 september 2014 the regional court rejected a cassation appeal lodged by mr bogdanov.
7.  on 25 and 19 september 2002 respectively the applicants were arrested in grozny in the chechen republic and taken to the operational‑search division of the north caucasus operations department of the chief directorate of the russian ministry of the interior in the southern federal circuit (орб-2 скоу гу мвд рф по юфо  hereinafter “orb-2”).17.  on 25 november 2003, during the course of the trial, the applicants complained to the court that during their unrecorded detention (between 25 and 30 september in respect of the first applicant and between 19 and 24 september in respect of the second applicant) they had been subjected to torture involving electric shocks, gas masks, beatings and threats by officers of orb-2 and forced into making a confession.the decision, in so far as it concerns the applicants, reads as follows: “[s.] submitted that he had been in charge of the pre-trial investigation of the criminal case [against the applicants] and that operational assistance had been provided by officers of [orb-2], including the chief operational officer, yakh.on each occasion the [applicants’] arguments were not objectively confirmed and it was decided [that a criminal investigation would not be instituted]; he could not remember the dates of the relevant decisions ... [the applicants made their statements of their own free will; they were not subjected to any violence; all investigative measures were carried out with the participation of legal aid lawyers].submitted that ... no physical violence had been used against [the applicants] by the officers of [orb-2], and that [the applicants] had made their statements of their own free will.” 20.  on 9 december 2003 the presiding judge received a copy of the above-mentioned decision and read it out in court.23.  during the submissions the presiding judge allowed the prosecutor to amend one of the charges against the applicants in so far as it concerned a change to the date of the alleged murder of p. (from 30 to 29 may 2001).the applicants’ conviction was based on self‑incriminating statements given by the defendants during the pre-trial investigation in the period between september and december 2002 while they had been on the premises of orb-2 (records of their questioning as suspects, records of their questioning as accused, records of confrontation between the parties, records of crime-scene examinations), and the findings of forensic medical examinations.25.  the applicants appealed, claiming, inter alia, that they had been subjected to ill-treatment during the pre-trial investigation and convicted on the basis of evidence obtained under torture, that they had not been afforded an opportunity to examine the prosecution witnesses and the victims, and that during the submissions the presiding judge had allowed the prosecutor to amend one of the charges against them, thereby violating their right to defence.i was not questioned during the pre-investigation inquiry, nor [did i] give any depositions to anybody except the lawyer [representing the applicants during the trial].” 26.  on 18 august 2004 the supreme court of russia upheld the judgment on appeal and reduced the applicants’ sentences to twenty-three and twenty‑four years’ imprisonment respectively.the court held that the applicants’ allegations had been reasonably found to be unsubstantiated, and that the difficult social situation in chechnya could account for the inability to secure the attendance of the prosecution witnesses and victims.the appellate court found that the amendment of one of the charges against the applicants had not violated the applicants’ right to defence since, in any event, in the statements made during the pre-trial investigation they had mentioned having committed the crime “in around the spring of 2001” and furthermore during the trial had denied committing it at all.28.  following communication of the applicants’ complaint of ill‑treatment to the government in october 2011, on 6 december 2011 the prosecutor of the leninskiy district of grozny quashed as unlawful and unsubstantiated the decision of 8 december 2003 refusing to institute a criminal investigation into the applicants’ complaints of ill-treatment.an additional pre-investigation inquiry was ordered, so that the applicants could be questioned concerning the circumstances of the alleged ill‑treatment, the identity of the alleged perpetrators, the injuries allegedly sustained as a result of the ill-treatment and any requests made for medical assistance in this connection.30.  following the applicants’ conviction, in september 2004 their families requested the head of the rostov regional department of the russian federal penal authority (“the fsin”) to allocate them to penal facilities in regions adjacent to their home region, the chechen republic.34.  the second applicant and his family lodged requests with the omsk regional prosecutor, the head of the fsin, the prosecutor general of russia and the ombudsman for the omsk region seeking the applicant’s transfer to a less remote penal facility.
at the material time, the applicants were the legal representatives of abdullah öcalan, the leader of the pkk, an illegal armed organisation.the first interview was included in two articles in the issue of 29 april 2004 entitled “lawyers convey abdullah öcalan’s opinions concerning developments within the kongra-gel[1]” and “the pain of change”.7.  in their interviews published on 29 april 2004 in the two articles cited above, the applicants commented on the following issues: the difficulties they encountered in getting to i̇mralı island, where abdullah öcalan was detained, their need to have a meeting with their client prior to the hearing to be held before the european court of human rights on 9 june 2004, their client’s state of health , the alleged fake news published in some newspapers regarding the applicants’ meetings with their client, their client’s opinions regarding the current state of politics in turkey, in particular his view that democrats in turkey should form a coalition with a view to establishing social peace and enabling turkey’s access in european union, abdullah öcalan’s views on the conflicts occurring within the kongra‑gel, and in particular, his views that democratisation of the “kurdish organisations” would allow the state of turkey to be more democratic, his opinions on the pro-kurdish legal political parties, and his view that individuals should liberate themselves before trying to liberate others.8.  in the interview published the following day, 30 april 2004, the applicants made statements on the following issues: abdullah öcalan’s criticism of the failure of the pro-kurdish political groups during the municipal elections held on 28 march 2004, the view of abdullah öcalan and his lawyers that “the kurdish movement” had failed to take into account abdullah öcalan’s opinions and projects, the criminal and disciplinary investigations and the criminal proceedings instituted against the applicants for disseminating their client’s views, abdullah öcalan’s criticism of “kurdish organisations”, problems between abdullah öcalan and the leaders of the “kurdish movement”, the applicants’ role both as legal and political representatives of abdullah öcalan and their meetings with individuals close to the state of turkey as well as representatives of foreign states on behalf of their client, and the applicants’ view that abdullah öcalan’s opinions offered an opportunity for resolving the kurdish issue in a democratic/political manner and that his opinions had transformed the state of turkey.9.  on 30 april 2004 the public prosecutor at the now defunct istanbul state security court filed a bill of indictment under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no.3713), charging the applicants with disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk/kongra-gel on account of the interview published on 29 april 2004. in the indictment, the applicants were accused of acting on öcalan’s instructions and conveying messages from him about the pkk’s strategy.10.  on 7 may 2004 the istanbul public prosecutor filed a second bill of indictment against the applicants, again charging them with disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk under section 7(2) of law no.3713 on account of the interview published in the 30 april 2004 issue of the newspaper.11.  on 24 august 2004 the istanbul assize court decided to join the two sets of criminal proceedings against the applicants owing to the factual and legal similarities between them.12.  during the proceedings the applicants maintained that they had made the statements with a view to providing information to the press, since the case against abdullah öcalan had attracted media interest, but that they had been misquoted to a certain extent in the newspaper.13.  on 18 february 2010 the istanbul assize court convicted the applicants of disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk/kongra‑gel under section 7(2) of law no.14.  in its judgment, the istanbul court held that the applicants had overstepped the limits of the lawyer-client relationship and made statements in a manner that induced and promoted the adoption, dissemination and enrootment of abdullah öcalan’s opinions in society.the first-instance court considered that in the light of the applicants’ role, the readers they targeted, the aim of the publication, and the manner in which their applicants’ interviews were perceived by the readership, the interviews could not be deemed to be protected by the right to freedom of expression or the privilege of the lawyer-client relationship.the court further considered that the right to freedom of expression carried with it duties and responsibilities and could be restricted for the purpose of protecting national security and territorial integrity in a democratic society.the istanbul assize court concluded that the reported interviews were aimed at disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk/kongra-gel and found the applicants guilty.
7.  on 2 october 1972 the yugoslav people’s army awarded the applicant’s husband, as a serviceman, a socially-owned flat in šimićeva street in split, with a surface area of 62 square metres, with a view to satisfying the housing needs of him and his family (the applicant and their two sons, who were both less than two years old at the time).8.  the applicant, her husband and their two sons moved into that flat some time in 1973. pursuant to the relevant legislation (see paragraph 45 below), the applicant thereby, as her husband’s wife, automatically became a co-holder of the specially protected tenancy of the flat in question.10.  the applicant stated that in may 1982 she had moved out of the flat in šimićeva street and returned to the flat in gajeva street to live there with her elderly mother and to take care of her.11.  on 22 june 1982 the applicant applied to the croatian pension fund, as the provider of the flat in gajeva street, for permission to exchange the flats in gajeva and šimićeva streets for a single, larger flat, a possibility provided for under section 49(3) of the 1974 housing act (see paragraph 48 below).that authority held: -  that she had permanently left the flat in in gajeva street in 1969, thereby losing her specially protected tenancy of that flat, -  that once her brother had moved out the applicant had indeed moved back into the flat in may 1982 (see paragraphs 9-10 and 14 above) but had not thereby re-acquired the specially protected tenancy of the flat.22.  the applicant then again brought an action for judicial review in the administrative court which, by a judgment of 22 december 1988, quashed the second-instance decision of 31 may 1988. the court held that the issue of whether the flat in šimićeva street had fully satisfied the applicant’s and her family’s housing needs had to be determined by applying relevant military housing standards and not general housing standards, given that the flat in question had been awarded to her husband as a serviceman (see paragraph 7 above).it also ordered the applicant to vacate the flat in gajeva street, finding that the flat in šimićeva street had satisfied the applicant’s and her family’s housing needs even according to the relevant military housing standards.the applicant appealed, arguing, inter alia, that her specially protected tenancy of the flat in gajeva street had never been terminated and that the first-instance housing authority had not taken into account her changed circumstances – that is to say her divorce and the fact that she had not been using two flats.the supreme court held that the administrative court and the administrative authorities had wrongly applied the relevant military housing standards to the facts of the case.the supreme court also held that the issue of whether the flat in šimićeva street had satisfied the applicant’s and her family’s housing needs had to be determined having regard to the circumstances existing at the time she had moved into that flat in in 1973 and that the subsequent change in circumstances was of no relevance.28.  in the resumed proceedings, by a decision of 6 december 1999 the first-instance housing authority again ordered the applicant to vacate the flat in gajeva street, finding that at the time that she had moved into the flat in šimićeva street the latter flat had satisfied her and her family’s housing needs, having regard to the relevant military housing standards.the supreme court held that, because the proceedings concerned the applicant’s eviction from the flat in gajeva street, the issue of whether the flat in šimićeva street had satisfied her and her family’s housing needs had to be determined in accordance with general and not military housing standards.40.  on 8 may 1992 the applicant obtained a declaratory judgment by the same court whereby she was declared the sole holder of the specially protected tenancy of the flat in gajeva street.purchased the flat in šimićeva street from the state and thereby became its sole owner – a possibility open to all holders of specially protected tenancies of socially-owned flats under the specially protected tenancies (sale to occupier) act of 1991. beforehand, on 27 november 1995 the applicant and her husband concluded an agreement whereby they both agreed that he was the sole holder of the specially protected tenancy of that flat.42.  it would appear that before selling the flat in šimićeva street to the applicant’s husband, on 13 november 1995 the ministry of defence, as the state authority responsible for management of the flat at the time, conducted an on-spot inspection of the flat.
5.  the applicant was born in 1971 and at the time of introduction of the application to the court he was detained in diavata prison.in addition, detainees had had barely any space to move within their cell and their bunk beds had been low, not allowing them to sit up comfortably.8.  apart from the overcrowding, the applicant submitted that the conditions of his detention had been very poor.heating had been provided only for one hour per day from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m., while hot water during winter had been provided for two hours per day and had not sufficed for all detainees.they had had to rely on visits from friends and family in order to obtain any newspapers or magazines, which had intensified their feeling of isolation.the hours that they had been allowed to spend in the corridors had been insufficient, taking into account that they had coincided with the meal times as well as with the times they had been allowed to receive visits or make phone calls.the yard had included a football field but no balls had been provided to the detainees and the yard had not offered any opportunities for spending time creatively.the applicant further complained of the quantity and the quality of the food, claiming that it had been repetitive and lacking any nutritional value.11.  the government, referring to a document provided by the prison authorities, submitted that diavata prison had a capacity of 358 detainees on the basis of allocation of 4 sq.at the time the applicant had been detained, the prison facility had exceeded its capacity by accommodating 460 to 500 detainees.m. the cell had had a capacity of ten detainees; however, following a new law in april 2015 aimed at relieving overcrowding in prisons, many detainees had been released and that had resulted in the applicant sharing the cell with four to six detainees.m. 12.  as regards the rest of the applicant’s complaints, the government argued that the prison had had a central heating system, in addition to the electric heating devices that had been provided to each cell.the cell in which the applicant had been detained had had large windows.13.  the government submitted the applicant’s medical file in order to prove that the applicant had already suffered from cardiac conditions when his incarceration had started.the applicant’s medical needs had been fully fulfilled during the time he had spent in diavata prison either by visits to the prison doctor or by his transfer to nearby hospitals.
9.  upon appeal, the regional court’s judgment was quashed on 19 april 2000 by the sofia court of appeal (hereinafter “the court of appeal”).finding serious breaches of the procedural rules, it remitted the case to the prosecuting authorities, so that it could be restarted from the stage of the preliminary investigation.however, as concerns the civil claims, the court of appeal quashed the lower court’s judgment and remitted the case for fresh examination.14.  the regional court examined the case for a third time, only in relation to the part concerning the civil claims, and on 6 april 2004 gave a judgment.and his employer, on 8 march 2006 the court of appeal quashed the lower court’s judgment in so far as it concerned the award made to the applicant, and discontinued the examination of her claim.it found that that claim was inadmissible, on the grounds that it had been submitted outside the time-limit provided for in article 61 § 4 of the 1974 code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 22 below).it pointed out that the requirement under that provision that a claim should be brought before the commencement of the examination of a case by a court had to be interpreted as referring to the initial examination by a court of first instance.it held that the applicant’s inadmissible civil claim brought in the context of the criminal proceedings could not have interrupted the running of the relevant limitation period, which was five years.in addition, even if the running of the limitation period could be considered to have been interrupted by the applicant’s bringing her claim in the context of the criminal proceedings, that interruption had been retroactively invalidated by the court of appeal’s decision of 8 march 2006 finding that the claim was inadmissible and discontinuing the proceedings.accordingly, the running of the limitation period – which had started in 1997 because the perpetrator’s identity had been known immediately after the accident in which the applicant’s daughter had died – had never been validly interrupted.the applicant had brought her claim before a tribunal, namely the criminal court, which had been barred from examining it; this meant that this tribunal had had to transfer the claim to the civil courts with jurisdiction, but this had not been done.19.  the applicant filed an appeal, which was dismissed by a judgment of the sofia city court of 13 march 2009. while it considered the applicant’s claim well-founded in principle, since the tort resulting in the liability of h.h.it pointed out that the applicant’s bringing her claim in the context of the criminal proceedings could only have interrupted the running of the relevant time-limit if the claim had been allowed.however, after the proceedings had been discontinued, in the absence of recognition of the applicant’s right to receive damages, the time-limit had to be considered to have never been interrupted.the applicant had to bear the adverse consequences of having brought her claim in the context of the criminal proceedings in breach of the rules, and this was so notwithstanding the fact that the claim had been, erroneously, initially accepted for examination by the regional court.
4.  the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in bielsk podlaski.5.  the facts of the case were not in dispute and may be summarised as follows.6.  the applicant was detained in siedlce prison from 26 january to 19 april 2007 and from 15 july to 15 october 2009.7.  the applicant submitted that, during his detention in siedlce prison, he had been held in cells where the amount of space per person had been below the polish statutory minimum standard of 3 m².he also submitted that he had been held in cells with smokers.moreover, he raised the problems of humidity, lack of hygiene and warm water and limited access to make telephone calls.8.  the domestic courts found that the applicant had been detained in an overcrowded cell during his detention in siedlce prison from 15 july to 15 october 2009 (91 days), when he had been assigned to cell no.9.  the courts further found that the toilet areas had been separated from the rest of the living space in the cells in compliance with the relevant law.the toilet annex had only cold running water.it was further noted that the cells were adequately equipped.the applicant was held in cells in accordance with his declaration about his tobacco habits.10.  on 13 july 2013 the applicant brought a civil action against the state treasury for infringement of his personal rights and for compensation on account of his detention in an overcrowded cell in siedlce prison.11.  on 30 may 2014 the siedlce district court (sąd rejonowy) dismissed the applicant’s action.it confirmed, however, that the applicant had been detained temporarily in an overcrowded cell, from 15 july to 15 october 2009.12.  on 17 february 2015 the siedlce regional court (sąd okręgowy) dismissed the applicant’s appeal.
5.  the applicant was born in 1979 and is detained in strzelce opolskie prison.7.  the applicant was detained in mysłowice remand centre from 20 april 2010 to 12 january 2011 and in wojkowice prison from 12 january 2011 to 9 march 2012 (1 year, 10 months and 20 days).8.  the parties’ statements relating to the conditions of the applicant’s detention from 20 april 2010 to 9 march 2012 are to a large extent contradictory.9.  the applicant submitted that throughout his detention in mysłowice remand centre and wojkowice prison, he had been held in overcrowded cells in which the space per person had been below the polish statutory minimum standard of 3 m².10.  in their observations, the government submitted that the applicant had been detained in overcrowded cells only on 20 april, 18 and 19 may 2009.11.  in the course of civil proceedings instituted by the applicant (see paragraphs 14-16 below), the domestic courts established, without giving any further details, that the applicant had been detained in overcrowded cells from 20 april 2010 to 9 march 2012 (1 year, 10 months and 20 days).12.  regarding the conditions of detention in mysłowice remand centre, the domestic court established that the overall conditions in cells were adequate.the applicant had one hot shower per week and one hour of outdoor exercise per day.13.  regarding the conditions of detention in wojkowice prison, as established by the domestic courts, the toilets were separated from the cell’s living area, every prisoner had his own bed, a stool and access to cold running water.14.  on 24 february 2012 the applicant brought a civil action for the infringement of his personal rights on account of inadequate living conditions in wojkowice prison from november 2005 to july 2006 and from january to march 2007, in mysłowice remand centre from 20 april 2010 to 12 january 2011 and, subsequently, again in wojkowice prison from 12 january 2011 to 9 march 2012. the applicant argued that he had been detained in overcrowded cells, where the space per person had been below the statutory minimum of 3 m².15.  on 18 december 2012 the katowice regional court dismissed the applicant’s action, finding that from 20 april 2010 to 9 march 2012 the applicant had been detained in cells above the minimum statutory standard.as regards the remainder of the period, the claim was time-barred as lodged outside the three-year period of statutory limitation.16.  on 27 june 2013 the katowice court of appeal overruled the lower court’s judgment and allowed the applicant’s action, finding that from 20 april 2010 to 9 march 2012 he had been detained in overcrowded cells.the court relied in this respect on the applicant’s submissions, holding that the state treasury had in fact acknowledged these by its multiple refusals to provide the first and the second instance courts with an official register of cells in which the applicant had been detained.it also granted the applicant pln 1,000 (eur 250) in compensation, holding that the breach of the statutory minimum standard had not been significant.
7.   according to the applicants, their actions were a response to the ongoing political process in russia and the highly critical opinion which representatives of the russian orthodox church, including its leader patriarch kirill, had expressed about large-scale street protests in moscow and many other russian cities against the results of the parliamentary elections of december 2011. they were also protesting against the participation of vladimir putin in the presidential election that was due in early march 2012.21.  on 5 march 2012 the taganskiy district court of moscow issued separate detention orders to remand the first two applicants in custody until 24 april 2012. in terms of the circumstances precluding the application of a less stringent measure to the applicants, the court cited the gravity of the charges, the severity of the penalty they faced, the “cynicism and insolence of the crime” the applicants were charged with, their choice not to live at their places of permanent residence, their lack of permanent “legal” sources of income, the first applicant’s failure to care for her child and the second applicant’s right to move to and reside in canada.those risks were linked by the court to the following considerations: the gravity of the charges, the severity of the penalty she faced, her unwillingness to identify other members of the band, her lack of a permanent legal source of income, and her use of an assumed identity while communicating with the police on previous occasions.the applicants were to remain in custody until 12 january 2013. the district court dismissed the arguments the applicants put forward pertaining to their family situation (the first two applicants had young children), the fragile health of the second applicant, the fact that the three applicants had registered their places of residence in moscow and that the criminal proceedings against them were already at a very advanced stage.49.  the district court based its findings on the testimony of a number of witnesses, including the cathedral employees and churchgoers present during the performance on 21 february 2012 and others who, while not witnesses to the actual performance, had watched the video of punk prayer – virgin mary, drive putin away on the internet or had been present at the applicants’ performance at the epiphany cathedral in yelokhovo (see paragraph 12 above).50.  the district court also relied on the expert report issued on 23 may 2012, rejecting the first two expert reports for the following reasons: “... [the expert reports issued on 2 april and 14 may 2012] cannot be used by the court as the basis for conviction as those reports were received in violation of the criminal procedural law as they relate to an examination of the circumstances of the case in light of the provisions of article 282 of the russian criminal code – incitement to hatred, enmity or disparagement, as can be seen from the questions put [to the experts] and the answers given by them.the reports do not provide a linguistic and psychological analysis of the lyrics of the song performed in christ the saviour cathedral, and the experts did not carry out a sentiment analysis and psychological assessment of the song’s lyrics in relation to the place where the crime had been committed (an orthodox church).given the lack of a linguistic and psychological analysis of the lyrics of the song performed in christ the saviour cathedral, the experts made an unfounded and poorly reasoned conclusion, which runs counter to the testimony of the eyewitnesses, the victims of the crime, who expressed an extremely negative view of the events in christ the saviour cathedral and of the video-recording.” 51.  on the other hand, the district court found the expert report of 23 may 2012 to be “detailed, well founded and scientifically reasoned”.... given the particular circumstances of the criminal offence, its nature, the division of the roles, the actions of the accomplices, the time, place and method of committing the offence of hooliganism, that is to say a gross violation of public order committed by a group of people acting in premeditated fashion and in concert, and which demonstrated an explicit lack of respect for society motivated by religious hatred and enmity and hatred towards a social group, the court is convinced that [the applicants] were correctly charged with the [offence] and that their guilt in committing [it] has been proven during the trial.the defendants’ arguments that their actions in the cathedral were not motivated by hatred or enmity towards orthodox churchgoers and christianity, but were governed by political considerations, are also unsubstantiated because, as can be seen from the victims’ statements, no political claims were made and no names of political leaders were mentioned during the defendants’ acts of disorder in the cathedral.” 53.  citing the results of psychological expert examinations commissioned by investigators, the district court noted that the three applicants suffered from mixed personality disorders, which did not affect their understanding of the criminal nature of the act they had carried out in the cathedral and did not call for psychiatric treatment.54.  as regards the punishment to be imposed on the applicants, the district court ruled as follows: “taking into account the gravity and social danger of the offence, the circumstances in which it was committed, the object and reasons for committing the offence, and [the applicants’] attitude towards their acts, the court believes that the goals of punishment, such as the restoration of social justice, the correction of people who have been convicted and the prevention of the commission of new offences, can only be achieved by sentencing them to prison and their serving the sentence ...” 55.  the two-year prison sentence was to be calculated from the date of arrest of each of the applicants, that is from 3, 4 and 15 march 2012 respectively.74.  on 20 november 2012 the zamoskvoretskiy district court dismissed her application, finding as follows: “ having considered [the third applicant’s] argument that a decision issued in response to the prosecutor’s request could affect [her] rights and obligations, the court finds this argument unsubstantiated because the judgment of 17 august 2012 issued by the khamovnicheskiy district court in respect of the third applicant became final on 10 october 2012; [she] was found guilty by that judgment under article 213 § 2 of the russian criminal code of hooliganism committed in a group acting in premeditated fashion and in concert.[the third applicant’s] argument that charges related to a criminal offence under article 282 § 2 (c) of the russian criminal code were severed from [the first] criminal case cannot, in the court’s opinion, show that [her] rights and obligations would be influenced by the court’s decision issued in respect of the prosecutor’s request because there is no evidence that [she] took any part in disseminating the materials published on the internet sites identified by the prosecutor [.]relying on sections 1, 12 and 13 of the suppression of extremism act and section 10(1) and (6) of the federal law on information, information technologies and the protection of information, the court gave the reasons for its decision and stated as follows: “according to section 1 of [the suppression of extremism act], extremist activity is deemed to be constituted by, inter alia, the stirring up of social, racial, ethnic or religious discord; propaganda about the exceptional nature, superiority or deficiency of persons on the basis of their social, racial, ethnic, religious or linguistic affiliation or attitude to religion; violations of human and civil rights and freedoms and lawful interests in connection with a person’s social, racial, ethnic, religious or linguistic affiliation or attitude to religion; public appeals to carry out the above-mentioned acts or the mass dissemination of knowingly extremist material, and likewise the production or storage thereof with the aim of mass dissemination.the court accepts the prosecutor’s argument that the dissemination of material of an extremist nature disrupts social stability and creates a threat of damage to the life, health and dignity of individuals, to the personal security of an unidentified group of individuals and disrupts the basis of the constitutional order of the state.
the first and second applicants live in chișinău and caușeni and the remaining applicants live in bender.6.  on 14 june 2006 officers mangîr, vasiliev and condrea, who were conducting a criminal investigation in tiraspol, were arrested by the secret service of the self-proclaimed “moldovan republic of transdniestria” (“mrt”)[1].7.  the other two applicants (officers daţco and pohila) went to tiraspol to clarify the reasons for the arrest of their colleagues, but were also arrested upon their arrival.after his release he was admitted for in-patient treatment in the hospital of the ministry of internal affairs of the republic of moldova, where he was diagnosedwith, inter alia, concussion.the head of the “mrt” secret service declared in an interview that the officers had been released after russian authorities had “given assurances” that moldovan authorities would not “kidnap people” in the “mrt”.12.  the applicants were accused in the “mrt” media of being members of “black squadrons” created for the purpose of kidnapping politicians and other persons causing nuisance to the moldovan authorities.according to the applicants, during their detention they were questioned by the “mrt” secret service and forced to declare that in tiraspol they had been trying to kidnap “mrt” politicians.officers pohila, daţco and vasiliev were allegedly beaten on the soles of their feet and threatened with the killing of members of their families, as well as with being transferred to cells occupied by common criminals, where they would be ill-treated or even killed.14.  the applicants described as follows their conditions of detention at the tiraspol remand centre.the cells in which they had been held had been in the basement and had not had access to natural light.in the absence of ventilation and because of overcrowding it had been difficult to breathe.officer condrea submits that he was detained in the same cell as that in which mr ilie ilaşcu had been detained (for more details see ilaşcu and others v. moldova and russia [gc], no.48787/99, echr 2004‑vii).15.  during their detention the applicants did not have any daily exercise and were not given access to a shower; they could not receive parcels containing food from their relatives, they did not have bed linen and they were not allowed to be seen by doctors.16.  after the applicants’ release the moldovan authorities initiated two sets of criminal proceedings concerning their unlawful detention and their alleged ill-treatment while in detention.
7.  in july 2012 the first applicant’s employer, the prosecutor’s office of the primorskiy region, provided him with a flat and concluded a tenancy agreement with him.the second applicant was included in the agreement as a member of the first applicant’s family.on the same date he applied to the general prosecutor of the russian federation with a request for the transfer of the title to the flat in question to him.11.  on 21 november 2014 the first applicant’s request for the transfer of the title to flat in question to him was refused.13.  on 26 november 2014 the first applicant’s brother received notice to vacate the flat (the notice was addressed by the prosecutor’s office to the second applicant).14.  in december 2014 the prosecutor’s office brought eviction claims against the applicants on the grounds that the first applicant no longer worked for the prosecutor’s office and that therefore, he and his family had to vacate the flat.in particular, the regional court found that the first applicant and his mother had been provided with a flat for the period of the first applicant’s service in the prosecutor’s office.under domestic law and the terms of the agreement, the tenants had had to vacate the housing after the termination of the agreement and in the event of their refusal they had had to be evicted with no alternative accommodation being provided.as at the date of the examination of the eviction claims the first applicant had not applied to the prosecutor general of the russian federation for title to the flat in question to be transferred to him; therefore, the district’s court conclusion as to the absence of any obstacles to the transfer of ownership of the flat in question to the first applicant was in conflict with the circumstances established in the case.as at the date of the examination of the prosecutor’s appeal the question regarding the transfer of ownership of the flat in question to the first applicant had not been decided.18.  the first applicant lodged a cassation appeal against that decision with the presidium of the regional court.19.  on 22 july 2015 a judge of the regional court refused to refer the first applicant’s appeal to the civil chamber of the regional court for examination on the merits.the first applicant lodged a cassation appeal with the supreme court of the russian federation.21.  on 30 september 2015 a judge of the supreme court refused to refer the first applicant’s cassation appeal to the civil chamber of the supreme court for examination.22.  in june 2015 the first applicant’s brother (mr d. pylayev) initiated court proceedings for the second applicant to be deprived of legal capacity and for him to be appointed as her guardian.
5.  the facts of the applicant’s ill-treatment were established in a judgment of the promyshlenniy district court of orenburg of 15 december 2011, as upheld on 14 february 2012 by the orenburg regional court, and are as follows.6.  at around 7 p.m. on 30 august 2009 the applicant was arrested at a bus stop by police officers of the criminal investigation unit and taken to a police station in orenburg (увд по г. оренбургу).from 8 p.m. to midnight on 30 august 2009, and from 12 noon to 6 p.m. on 31 august 2009, police officers k. and m. subjected the applicant to physical and psychological violence in order to obtain a confession from him about a drug-related crime which they suspected him of having committed.officers k. and m. pushed the applicant to the floor and punched and kicked him numerous times in the head, face, chest, arms and legs.as regards the ill-treatment on 31 august 2009, officers k. and m. punched the applicant numerous times in the head and threatened to detain him.8.  at 8 p.m. on 31 august 2009 the applicant was formally arrested on suspicion of possession of drugs and placed in a temporary detention facility.according to his medical records, he had abrasions on his forearms, a bruise under his right eye, a bruise in the left lumbar region and abrasions on his legs.6368, he had the following injuries: (i) a haematoma (swelling) of the soft tissues in the parietal region of the head, measuring 4 by 3 cm; (ii) four bruises of indefinite form on the right infraorbital region of the face, on his neck, on the left side of his chest and around the right iliac (hip) bone, measuring up to 4 by 3 cm each; and (iii) seventeen abrasions, some linear and some of indefinite form, on both forearms, his right hip and left lower leg, measuring from 0.8 by 0.5 cm to 2.5 by 1 cm each.the expert concluded that the applicant’s injuries had resulted from being struck repeatedly with a hard, blunt object with a limited surface area on the day of the alleged incident, and had not caused any “health damage”.they were also given a three-year suspended sentence with a three-year probation period, which required them to appear monthly before the service for the execution of sentences and disclose any change of place of work or residence.the fact that officer k. had a child under 14 years old was considered a mitigating circumstance, while the fact that he and m. had committed the crime with a group of other officers was considered an aggravating circumstance.it was further taken into account that k. and m. had positive references from their places of work and residence, had no previous convictions, and had led a law-abiding way of life without committing any administrative offences for more than two years since the crime had been committed.14.  on 31 november 2009 criminal proceedings against the applicant under article 228 § 2 of the criminal code (possession of large quantities of drugs) were terminated for absence of a crime, pursuant to article 24 § 1(2) of the code of criminal procedure.15.  in 2012 the applicant brought a civil claim against the russian ministry of finance, seeking 2,655,936 russian roubles (rub) in compensation for his unlawful detention and ill‑treatment in police custody by k. and m. 16.  on 28 june 2012 the leninskiy district court of orenburg allowed the applicant’s claim in part and awarded him rub 20,000. in determining the amount of compensation, the court found that the applicant had sustained injuries as a result of the police officers’ actions and had experienced physical and mental suffering, but that this had not caused him any “health damage”.17.  the applicant appealed against that judgment to the orenburg regional court, which on 19 september 2012 increased the amount of compensation to rub 80,000.
6.  according to the applicant, on 18 february 2005 the police carried out a search of the applicant’s flat in connection with the murder of a law‑enforcement officer, which took place during the night of 7-8 february 2005.7.  on 3 march and 10 march 2005 the police interviewed the applicant, in the presence of the applicant’s lawyer, about the circumstances of the murder case under investigation.312 at izhevsk police station, a police officer, m., obtained from the applicant a confession to the crime, in accordance with article 142 of the code of criminal procedure of the russian federation.in particular, the record stated that at the beginning of february 2005 the applicant had been drinking alcoholic beverages in the company of a certain s. after work.they began to fight, in the course of which the applicant hit the man several times on the head with a knife handle, and also punched and kicked him.the record further stated that the confession had been handwritten by the applicant himself without any coercion on the part of police officers, and that the applicant had been informed of article 51 of the constitution (the right not to give self-incriminating statements), which he had understood.he was formally assigned the status of a criminal suspect and was informed of all his rights, including the right to remain silent, the right to a lawyer and the right not to incriminate himself.the record contained the applicant’s handwritten note to the effect that he accepted his arrest, as he had committed a murder on 8 february 2005. the record further contains the applicant’s request for access to his lawyer.18.  on 25 july 2005 the criminal case against the applicant was submitted to the supreme court of the republic of udmurtiya for trial.20.  before the court the applicant denied committing the murder and reaffirmed that his confession had been given under pressure from police officers and in the absence of his lawyer.the court based the conviction on the following evidence: -  statements by a police officer, m., who had been involved in the investigation and who had submitted that (i) in the course of the investigation it had been determined that the murder had been committed by the applicant; and (ii) the latter had been apprehended and brought to izhevsk police station, where he had voluntarily confessed to having committed the murder of g. and had written a statement of surrender and confession (явка с повинной), describing the details of the committed crime; no violence had been exerted on the applicant; -  statements by a police officer, n., involved in the investigation of the murder, who submitted that (i) in the course of the investigation it had been determined that the crime had been committed by the applicant; (ii) in march 2005 the latter had been brought to the police station, where he had confessed to the murder; and (iii) a statement of surrender and confession had been drawn up in which the applicant had described in detail the circumstances under which he had committed the murder; -  statements by a police officer, o., who submitted that (i) on 8 february 2005 he had participated in the inspection of the scene of the murder of g.; (ii) it had been established that the applicant had been involved in the crime; (iii) in march 2005 the applicant had been brought to izhevsk police station, where he had confessed to the murder (his confession had been recorded in the statement of surrender and confession); and (iv) no violence had been applied to the applicant.-  a statement by a police officer, s., who had participated in the inspection of the crime scene on 8 february 2005 – he submitted that (i) during the check it had been established that a man nicknamed “gunya” [the applicant] could have committed the crime; (ii) the applicant had been apprehended by the police; (iii) the applicant had been interrogated at about 9 p.m. on 22 march 2005 by m., o., p. and himself; (iv) in the course of the interrogation the applicant had confessed to having committed the murder; and (v) no violence had been applied to him; -  statements by a police officer, nam., who submitted that he had learned from police officer m. that the applicant had confessed to having committed the murder of g.; the above statements were found to be confirmed by the applicant’s statement of surrender and confession of 22 march 2005 and by statements by independent witnesses in the case, specifically: -  statements by an anonymous witness, “akulov”, to whom the applicant had supposedly confided about the murder on 8 february 2005; during the trial “akulov” had been placed in a separate room, and questions from the parties had been asked through a court bailiff; the parties had heard the witness’s answers by means of a radio communication device with acoustic shielding; -  statements by a witness, m., who had been detained together with the applicant at izhevsk police station during the night of 22-23 march 2005, and whom the applicant had supposedly told about his having committed the murder of a police officer; -  statements by a witness, s., who submitted that (i) he had worked with the applicant as a painter and decorator since 2003; (ii) they had been drinking alcoholic beverages after work on 7 february 2005 until 10 p.m., after which they had each gone home; (iii) the following morning at 8 a.m. he had picked the applicant up and gone to work with him; (iv) he had found out about the murder of g. on the evening of 8 february 2005 from a certain m. and later from the police; (v) the applicant had had his right arm in plaster since january 2005, which had not prevented him from working; (vi) that the applicant had had a folding knife, which he had lost in january 2005; and (vii) that the applicant had been nicknamed “gunya”; -  statements by a witness, ts., the applicant’s colleague and neighbour, who submitted that (i) he had been drinking alcoholic beverages with the applicant and s. until 10 p.m. on 7 february 2005, following which he had left while the applicant and s. had stayed on; (ii) he had found about the murder on 8 february 2005 from the police; (iii) he had known that the applicant was suspected of that murder; -  statements by other witnesses with no interest in the outcome of the case; -  the applicant’s handwritten statement of 22 march 2005 addressed to the ustinovskiy district prosecutor’s office describing the circumstances of the murder; -  the record of the applicant’s arrest, in which the applicant noted that he accepted his arrest, as he had committed a murder; -  records of forensic biological examinations, which did not exclude the possibility that the traces of blood on the applicant’s coat could have been the victim’s; the conclusions of those forensic biological examinations were confirmed by the record of the crime-scene examination and the record of the forensic medical examination of the victim’s corpse; -  records of forensic chemical examinations of the fibres discovered at the crime scene, the origin of which could not be excluded as being from the clothes worn by the applicant at the time of the murder; -  the record of the forensic medical examination, which concluded that the applicant’s having a plastered right arm did not exclude the possibility of him administering active purposeful actions with that arm; -  the record of the applicant’s forensic psychiatric examination.22.  the court dismissed the applicant’s allegation that his confession had been obtained through ill-treatment, referring to the statements made by the police officers and to expert report no.it endorsed in full the trial court’s decision concerning the admissibility of the statement of the applicant’s surrender and confession.29.  according to the applicant, there had been a high percentage of hiv‑positive detainees in the facility, some of whom had worked with the applicant at the facility’s sewing workshop.
upon the completion of the police investigation the public prosecutor, on 15 june and 15 november 2012, dismissed the cases in accordance with article 145 of the act on criminal procedures, because the evidence which had been gathered was not sufficient or likely to lead to a conviction.a picture of the applicant was published on the front page, and in the interview the applicant discussed the rape accusation against him.when asked about the girl’s age, he responded that the girl had been in a club where the minimum age had been 20 years and that it had been a shock to find out later that she had been only 18 years old.he hoped that the police would see that it was important to have a formal conclusion in the case and that the documents in the case were “screaming” conspiracy.9.  on the same day a facebook page was set up for the purpose of protesting about the interview and encouraging the editor of monitor to remove the applicant’s picture from its front page.11.  on 17 december 2012, the applicant lodged defamation proceedings against x before the district court of reykjavík and asked for her to be punished, under the applicable provisions of the penal code, for publishing the statements in question.the applicant further requested that the statements “this is also not an attack on a man for saying something wrong, but for raping a teenage girl ...” and “it is permissible to criticise the fact that rapists appear on the cover of publications which are distributed all over town ...” be declared null and void.moreover, the applicant requested that x be ordered to pay him 1,000,000 icelandic krónur (isk; approximately 8,800 euros (eur)) in non-pecuniary damages under the tort liability act, plus interest, isk 150,000 (approximately 1,300 eur) for the cost of publishing the main content and the reasoning of the final judgment in the case in the media under article 241 of the penal code, and the applicant’s legal costs.however, the court dismissed the applicant’s claim for the imposition on x of a criminal punishment under the penal code, as well as rejecting the claim to have x carry the cost of publishing the main content and reasoning of the judgment in a newspaper.13.  the judgment contained the following reasons: “... the [applicant] claims damages in the amount of isk 1,000,000 and bases his demand on the general rules of tort law and on article 26 of act no.when assessing the possible damage to [the applicant], the distribution of the comments which was, as stated before, limited to the distribution entailed in publications on the said facebook page, together with hundreds or thousands of other comments, has to be taken into account.furthermore, [the applicant’s] claim to have [x] carry the cost of publishing the main content and the reasoning of the judgment in a newspaper will not be accepted.in light of the conclusion of the judgment, and taking account of all the facts, it is appropriate that each party bears its own legal costs [er rétt að málskostnaður falli niður].” 14.  by judgment of 18 december 2014 the majority of the supreme court (two out of three judges) upheld the district court’s decision to declare the statements null and void.in its assessment regarding that issue the supreme court referred to article 73 (3) of the constitution, the principle of proportionality and the reasoning of the district court.however, the judge found that the criteria set out in the tort liability act for the granting of non-pecuniary damages were fulfilled in the case and the applicant should be awarded 200,000 isk in non-pecuniary damages as well as his legal costs before the district court and the supreme court.
7.  on 1 september 2009 the first and second applicants and the father of the third and fourth applicants instituted civil proceedings against the state, seeking that they be recognised as owners of two plots of land in the coastal zone (u zoni morskog dobra).8.  on 2 march 2010 the real estate administration in tivat (uprava za nekretnine, područna jedinica tivat), acting upon the first applicant’s request, issued a decision allowing the division into two of an adjacent plot of land, a forest in the coastal zone, the registered owner of which at the time was the municipality.the municipality remained registered as the owner of one part of it, whereas the other part was registered in the name of the applicants’ predecessor (the father of the first and second applicants, and the grandfather of the third and fourth applicants).the court found that the land at issue had indeed been owned by their predecessors, notably their father, grandfather and grand-grandfather, but that they had not proved that they had inherited it when their last predecessor had died in 1997. notably, the court considered that the land at issue was in the coastal zone and thus state property pursuant to section 4 of the coastal zone act of 1992 and “section 13 and other sections” of the state property act (see paragraphs 21 and 24 below), and that the claimants could not claim the right to property in respect of such land.as regards the state’s submission that the land had been nationalised, the court noted that the contents of the decisions relied on by the state could not be clarified.they also submitted that: (a) section 30 of the coastal zone act had never been complied with even though it was indisputable that their predecessor had lawfully owned the land; and (b) the relevant legislation did not prohibit private ownership of land in the coastal zone, and referred to section 4 of the coastal zone act and section 20 of the property act 2009 (see paragraphs 21 and 19 below).they reiterated that the adjacent plot of land, also a forest in the coastal zone, was privately owned, by them, and submitted the decision of the real estate administration of 2 march 2010. they maintained that the first-instance court’s reasoning that the said decision was of no influence indicated legal uncertainty, given that the same legal issue was treated differently without any explanation in that regard.it found that the land at issue was indisputably forest in the coastal zone, that it was state property pursuant to section 13 of the state property act and that the claimants therefore could not claim ownership.the court further held that even assuming that the claimants had had ownership of these plots of land, they had lost it “in accordance with the state property act and the coastal zone act.in support of this was also section 30 of the coastal zone act, relied upon by the claimants, which provided that the owners of land in the coastal zone, who had obtained it in a lawful manner before that act entered into force and which was duly registered in the real estate register as private property, were entitled to compensation in case of an expropriation”.the high court made no reference to the decision of 2 march 2010 and the status of the adjacent plot of land, or as to whether the claimants could have inherited the land.the court made no explicit reference to the adjacent plot of land and the decision of 2 march 2010. it held as follows: “as the real estate at issue is in the coastal zone regime – common resource (dobro od opšteg interesa), the lower courts correctly applied the substantive law when they ruled in the said way.that provision regulated the rights of the owners of land in the coastal zone who had obtained the property thereof before that act entered into force by providing that they were entitled to compensation in case of an expropriation [...].in reaching this opinion, the supreme court analysed the relevant domestic legislation, including the constitution, the coastal zone act 1992, the property act and the state property act.it can also be concluded that the issue of lawfully acquired rights in respect of the coastal zone is not regulated in a precise and clear manner...”, but that it was a fact that there were lawfully acquired property rights over the coastal zone, as indicated by section 30 of the coastal zone act.
5.  the applicant was born in 1975 and is detained in the corradino correctional facility, paola, malta.7.  the applicant started to serve his prison sentence and on 10 december 2009 he had been placed in division 2 (cell no.he remained in various cells in division 2 to date, except for two brief periods in 2011 where he had been placed in division 6 (a high security unit) for nine and eleven days respectively, the latter ending on 4 december 2011. in particular after 4 december 2011 the applicant had been staying in cell no.8.  the applicant alleged that a huge amount of maintenance was needed to the area due to its old age (around 200 years old) and that it lacked both light and air.45, the applicant had had to suffer the fumes and excessive heat from the bakery close to his cell, which fumes and heat poured into his poorly ventilated cell.11.  according to the applicant, in division 2 the food was of a very poor quality, non-nutritious, and portions were too small.additionally, the food quality was so terrible that between 1 and 4 september 2015 prisoners had to be taken to hospital as a result of food poisoning.the applicant claimed that the kitchen was so dirty that mice were found dead in it.13.  as to the showers, hot water was often not available and the water was dirty.the applicant submitted that there were not enough showers, with one of the showers having a broken and cracked tray that could cause injury if one were not careful.he alleged that, for all the inmates in division 2, only one shower was available most of the time, with two showers being available during the summer months.14.  the applicant claimed that the cost to make telephone calls was very high and had been increased on 3 december 2014. he had complained to the prison authorities to no avail.16.  the applicant claimed to have suffered health issues and had even been confined to his bed because of illness for some time.the emergency buzzer in the cell never worked and when he had been confined to his bed because of illness and tried to ring it, no one came, since the buzzer did not work.it took thirty minutes for someone from the staff to show up, at which point he was told off by the staff member.
6.  on 10 july 2005 the body of b., a police driver with the ruza district police department of the moscow region (овд рузского района московской области), was found with multiple injuries near the village of baranovo in the ruza district.according to the applicant, the prosecutor of the ruza district denied r. access to him on the grounds that the latter was being examined as a suspect in the presence of the state-appointed lawyer at that moment.r., who represented the applicant at the hearing, submitted that the latter had been subjected to ill-treatment by the police officers from the moment of his arrest.12.  according to the applicant, during the hearing on 12 july 2005 he had informed the judge and the prosecutor of his ill-treatment by police officers and had showed them traces of the beatings.he stated that the applicant had been subjected to ill-treatment by the police at the ruza district police department and that the implicated police officers could interfere with the investigation of this incident.he sent a similar complaint to the moscow region prosecutor’s office on the following day, adding that three of b.’s brothers had worked at the ruza district police department at the time of the applicant’s detention in that facility.the expert recorded the following injuries: (i)  two bruises on the eyelids measuring 3 cm by 2.5 cm and 2.5 cm by 1.5 cm; (ii)  a bruise on the chin measuring 3 cm by 3 cm, with abrasions on its surface 1.5 cm by 1.5 cm in size; (iii)  eleven bruises on the back measuring from 0.3 cm by 0.7 cm to 7 cm by 1.5 cm; (iv) nineteen bruises on the chest and stomach measuring from 1 cm by 1 cm to 2 cm by 13 cm; (v) two abrasions on the left leg (from the knee to the foot) measuring 1 cm and 5 cm long, respectively, and (vi) a 6-cm-long abrasion on the internal side of the left hip.17.  in august 2005 the ruza town prosecutor made a submission (представление) to the head of the ruza district police department, requiring him to conduct an internal inquiry into the applicant’s ill-treatment by unidentified police officers in the ivs and to subject those responsible to disciplinary proceedings.in his decision the prosecutor held that the investigator should adduce the results of the ongoing internal inquiry into the alleged unlawfulness of the applicant’s detention in the ivs, verify the applicant’s allegations, and assess them.he found that – in breach of the law on the pre-trial detention of suspected and accused persons – on 11 july 2005 two unidentified police officers had taken the applicant out of the cell and subjected him to ill-treatment.at the hearing of 14 march 2006, l., who represented the applicant during the trial, requested that the record of the applicant’s interview as a suspect be declared inadmissible and excluded from the body of evidence.he submitted that the statements made in the course of that interview had been obtained by means of the applicant’s ill-treatment and in the presence of a state-appointed lawyer, who had not acted in the applicant’s best interests.the court also noted that the applicant had not objected to the participation of k., the state-appointed lawyer, in the proceedings and had made no remarks in the interview record to the effect that he had rejected his services.26.  on 11 april 2006 the jury found the applicant guilty of battery, the misappropriation of a car, murder, the causing of intentional damage to property, and the acquisition of property obtained in a criminal manner.it stated that the trial court had duly assessed the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment, noting that the applicant had never denied the use of force by the police to restrain him during his apprehension.
6.  the 1,646 applicants natural persons live in the villages of doroțcaia, pîrîta, molovata nouă, pohrebea and cocieri, situated on the left bank of the dniester in the region of dubǎsari.part of the land belonging to the applicants is situated in areas near these villages, across a road which links the northern and southern parts of the self-proclaimed “moldovan transdniestrian republic” (the “mrt” – see for more details ilaşcu and others v. moldova and russia ([gc], no.in a letter dated 2 december 1999 the “mrt” local administration informed the moldovan department of privatisation that it “did not have any objections to the creation, on the basis of agricultural entities in the villages of doroțcaia, pîrîta, molovata nouă, coșnița and cocieri, the lands of which are situated on the territory of the [“mrt”], of peasant farms within the framework of the ‘pamântul’ reform”.13.  in august 2004 the “mrt” authorities declared that the land owned or rented by the applicants was the property of the “mrt”.on 26 april 2005 a group of landowners, including some of the applicants, protested in front of the russian embassy in moldova, asking the authorities of that state to intervene as a guarantor of peace and stability in the region.according to a certificate from the mayor of pîrîta village, the applicant company had rented plots of land (104 hectares) from people in the village between 1998 and 2006. the applicant company also submitted copies of its tax and statistics reports for 2004, as well as an audit report by a company called total consulting dated 15 november 2013, which showed that in 2004-2005 the applicant company cultivated 359 hectares of land, of which 104 hectares were situated in the area concerned by the present case.submitted a certificate from the mayor of molovata nouă village dated 11 october 2004, confirming that it rented 450 hectares of land from the villagers there, all of which were situated across the road, between dubăsari and rîbnița (the relevant area).according to a decision of the “mrt” customs office of 15 october 2004, a tractor with agricultural accessories and 5.8 tonnes of wheat had been seized from the applicant company owing to a failure to properly declare the importation of such items into the “mrt”.according to the decision, the tractor was travelling from molovata nouă village in the direction of “plots of land of the ‘mrt’ under moldovan jurisdiction”.rented land from 782 villagers during the period 2004-2006. the applicant company submitted a copy of a decision taken by the “mrt” customs office of 4 august 2004, which stated that 16 tonnes of barley had been seized from it owing to a failure to properly declare the importation of such items into the “mrt”.it also had to pay a fine (approximately usd 250) equal to the market price of the apples or risk the confiscation of three tractors temporarily seized on 11 august 2004. according to a certificate dated 12 october 2004, the applicant company rented 1,377 hectares of land from 820 people in cocieri, of which 1,256 hectares were situated in the area concerned by the present application.on 4 august 2004 the applicant company complained to the moldovan government, the osce and the dubăsari prosecutor’s office (belonging to the “mrt”) about the fine and seizure, stating that it rented 1,256 hectares of villagers’ land situated in the relevant area and that despite having temporary registration with the “mrt customs office” it was not allowed to take the harvest to storage.20.  according to the moldovan government, the moldovan parliament passed a number of laws aimed at compensating the inhabitants of villages under moldovan control on the left bank of the dniester (in the area concerned by the present cases) for losses caused by various actions of the “mrt”.moreover, a number of laws and decisions were implemented in 2004-2007 providing for the payment of compensation to villagers who had sustained losses owing to their inability to cultivate their land in the relevant area, with the total amount of aid reaching almost 39 million moldovan lei (mdl) (approximately 2.3 million euros (eur)).in 2006 the moldovan authorities managed to negotiate with the “mrt” authorities a temporary “mrt” registration mechanism for owners of land in the relevant area, which allowed them to cultivate the land and be exempt from making payments to the “mrt”.
the first applicant is the mother of the second applicant and of ms anna politkovskaya, who was born in 1958 and died in 2006. the third and fourth applicants are anna politkovskaya’s children.6.  anna politkovskaya was a well-known investigative journalist who made a name for herself covering alleged violations of human rights in the chechen republic committed in the course of the counterterrorism operation in the region, an operation widely known as the “second chechen war”.9.  at an early stage of the investigation investigators inspected the crime scene, collected footage from surveillance cameras located in the vicinity, and examined logs of telephone connections made in the area around the time of the killing.in the government’s submission, as a result of such actions, the investigation established that anna politkovskaya had met “a well-known russian former politician” in london, and that unnamed person had proposed that she publish articles “to discredit the leadership of the russian state, which she [had] refused to do, to his dislike”.13.  on 27 august 2007 the prosecutor general of russia stated at a press conference that there had been serious progress in the investigation of ms politkovskaya’s killing, and that ten people had been arrested in connection with the investigation.as appears from the applicants’ and the government’s respective submissions, the forged passport was issued by staff of a department of the interior.19.  in the course of court hearings in the period 2008-09 d.p., a high‑ranking officer of the moscow city department of the interior, was questioned as a witness for the prosecution.20.  at an unspecified point in time in the period 2008-09, the investigation included a summary of its findings in the case material, which the applicants referred to as a “presentation”.23.  on 25 june 2009, in the appeal proceedings, the supreme court of russia quashed the judgment of 20 february 2009 and remitted the case to the circuit court for fresh examination.25.  on 3 september 2009 the supreme court granted the third and fourth applicants’ application, and the case was transferred to the prosecutor’s office for further investigation.according to the government, the investigator in charge of the case attempted to find o.g., but could only gather evidence from him after he had been informed of the witness’s whereabouts in ukraine.in the government’s submission, l.-a.g. had not reported the motives for the killing, but had “mentioned that the crime [had been] ordered by a well‑known person living in the united kingdom”.it found that l.-a.g. had “accepted an offer from an unidentified person who had been dissatisfied with publications by anna politkovskaya in novaya gazeta concerning violations of human rights, the embezzlement of state property, and abuse of public office by civil servants” – an offer of a fee of at least 150,000 united states dollars to organise the journalist’s killing.on the basis of the jury’s guilty verdict, the city court characterised the murder as one committed by an organised group for a fee in connection with the victim’s performance of her professional and civic duties.39.  on 26 june 2015, in the appeal proceedings, the supreme court of russia found that the guilty verdict was based on a thorough examination of the evidence.
148. the first applicant has never asked for a transfer because, although there were prospects that he would be transferred to a division with an automated flushing system, this would also have meant that he would lose his individual cell and be placed in a dormitory, to the detriment of his privacy.he stated that the cell does not have adequate ventilation and it is subject to high temperatures in the summer and low temperatures in the winter.in the summer, when the temperature ranges between 35 and 40 degrees celsius, the two fans purchased by the first applicant do not suffice as they merely circulate hot air, which is made worse in the absence of proper ventilation.given the low water pressure, it takes time to fill a bucket and sometimes more than one bucket is necessary to flush the toilet, making the situation deplorable, especially in the summer.9.  as the building housing the division is more than 150 years old, the ceiling releases dust, which is allegedly harmful to the first applicant’s lungs.10.  the first applicant submitted that he does not have access to drinking water, since the tap water is rusty and filthy, and he therefore has to purchase drinking water.the government submitted that the first applicant received eur 34.77 every four weeks in so‑called “gratuity” remuneration and from the “work and pay” scheme, with which he had been involved since 2015. they stated that at the tuck shop a six‑pack of water cost eur 2.24 and an individual bottle eur 0.38.11.  the second applicant, who is a national of the dominican republic, has been detained in corradino correctional facility since 24 november 2009. he is serving a nine-year prison sentence following a judgment of 15 october 2012. since 27 january 2012 he has been detained in division 3, cell no.12.  according to the government, following communication of the complaint, the second applicant was asked whether he wanted to be transferred to another division and replied in the negative.the government submitted that the second applicant received eur 41.58 every four weeks in so-called “gratuity remuneration” and from the “work and pay” scheme, with which he had become involved prior to 2015.16.  the second applicant also submitted that because of the humidity in his cell and the fact that he does not have a heater, he frequently catches the flu during the winter months.the government submitted that the cell was humid because the second applicant had blocked his vent with a towel and did not undertake any maintenance of his cell.17.  the second applicant noted that the light both inside and outside the cell is very poor, making it difficult for him to read.the second applicant also claimed that the spiral staircase is not appropriate in the case of an emergency, since a stretcher could not be carried down it and it would not be possible to evacuate people two at a time.in this connection the government submitted that other options were available should an emergency arise, such as the use of the walkway between the divisions.
in a decision of 14 june 1999 the minister of education allowed their request, stating that the exact number of shares to be awarded would be determined after a valuation of the assets of the former printing house.9.  after that an expert prepared a valuation of the nationalised property, which was confirmed by the minister of education on 5 june 2003. it stated that the first and second applicants and their mother were entitled to compensation for 57,932 bulgarian levs (bgn, equivalent of 29,630 euros (eur)), which equalled 579 shares in ‘obrazovanie i nauka’ ead, each with a face value of bgn 100 (eur 51).he relied in particular on the fact that ‘obrazovanie i nauka’ ead had been included in the list under section 11 of the concluding provisions of the privatisation and post-privatisation control act 2002 (hereinafter “the privatisation act” – see paragraph 24 below).once again, that decision was quashed by the supreme administrative court, in a final judgment of 18 october 2004, as it impermissibly modified the previous decisions awarding the first and second applicants and their mother compensation in the form of shares, which had become final.11.  in 2006 the first and second applicants and their mother filed with the minister of education and other state bodies several complaints, requesting that the compensation procedure be completed.in a letter dated 7 april 2006 the council of ministers (government) informed them that the ministry of education was seeking “a lawful solution”, which “would not infringe upon the public interest and would not be in breach of the [privatisation act]”.in another letter dated 30 august 2006 the parliamentary committee on petitions informed the applicants and their mother that it had urged the minister of education to find a solution, pointing out that with the enactment of the compensation act parliament had sought “to restore historical justice”.the last of them, stating that the third applicant, her mother and her sister were entitled to compensation for bgn 26,309 (the equivalent of eur 13,460), equalling 263 shares in ‘obrazovanie i nauka’ ead, each with a face value of bgn 100, was confirmed by the minister of education on 6 june 2003.16.  despite the above developments, in another decision dated 26 august 2003 the minister stated that the third applicant, her mother and her sister were to receive compensation bonds instead of shares.as in the procedure described above concerning the first and second applicants, he relied on the fact that the company had been included in the list under section 11 of the concluding provisions of the privatisation act (see paragraph 24 below).that decision was quashed by the supreme administrative court in a final judgment of 31 march 2004, on the ground that it impermissibly modified the previous decisions concerning the compensation to be provided, which had become final.18.  in 2007 the ministry of education requested the privatisation agency to authorise the transfer to private parties of shares in ‘obrazovanie i nauka’ ead.20.  in 2011 the third applicant wrote a letter to the executive director of ‘obrazovanie i nauka’ ead, urging him to enter into the company register her shareholding and to present to her copies of all decisions taken by the company’s general meeting after 2003. she received no response.21.  in a decision of 5 march 2013 the council of ministers authorised the sale by ‘obrazovanie i nauka’ ead of real properties owned by the company (such an authorisation was required by law).in a judgment of 27 january 2015 the supreme administrative court dismissed their application, noting that they were not shareholders in the company, since the compensation procedures had not been completed with the actual transfer of shares to them in accordance with the law.
the relevant part of the applicant’s statement at the press conference reads as follows: “in the year and a half he has formally been head of the security and counter intelligence agency and practically the head of the police, has m. (the plaintiff’s surname), abused his powers in order to influence the macedonian stock exchange and have timely information to enable him to obtain a profit?the relevant part of the transcript of the hearing of 24 march 2009, when the court examined that material, reads as follows: “... the court views ... the video and audio-recording of the news programme broadcast on a1 television on 14 december 2007 on which ... there is a photo of the plaintiff s.m.submitted half a year ago, in which he specified that he possessed shares valued at eur 300,000. sdsm ask(s) whether m. obtained any of that property during the nine months he has been in office, without submitting a declaration, and whether that was the reason for his failing to submit the declaration within the first nine months of his mandate’ the recording continues with a photograph of [the applicant] at a stand in front of the sdms logo and states that [statement described in paragraph 7 above] ... the video material continues with a commentary by the journalist stating that: ‘s.m.in the concluding remarks, the applicant’s lawyer stated that the applicant had made the impugned statement in an interrogatory form and as the vice-president of an opposition political party, which had the role of expressing concerns about and assessing the work of state officials.the relevant parts of the judgment read as follows: “... the accused is the vice-president of sdsm ... ... [the applicant] said [the words described in paragraph 7 above] from a podium which had the sdms logo behind it ... ... a statement ... must contain certain facts and ... be false ... the fact of that which ... is expressed or disseminated being false constitutes the core of the criminal offence of libel.in a form capable of persuading an ordinary viewer ... that they are truthful ... ... the court does not deny that questions can be put to and answers sought from state officials ... it is true that every person, including a member of a political party, as is [the applicant], has the right to put questions of public interest, to criticise the work of the government and to express concerns about someone who holds the highest office in the executive.the court further held that: “the way in which [the applicant] expressed his opinion (мислење) in public concerning the performance of public duties by a public official (in an interrogatory form, as a member of an opposition political party, from a political party’s podium (говорница), the consequences of his public action ...), without trying to prove the veracity of his question or statement, taken as a whole, represents an action which only appears to fall within the ambit of the freedom of conviction, conscience, thought and public expression of thought, but in substance it affects the reputation and dignity of the citizen who holds that public office at the time and violates those values.as described in the trial court’s judgment (see below), the applicant stated that: “the attractive location behind the ‘ramstor’ shopping mall planned for the construction of a hotel was granted to a company supported (зад која стои) by o. holding ... after the revelation of this megascandal, the biggest dilemma is whether the academy award for the most corrupt politician should be given to the prime minister or his cousins?to those who created or to those who carried out the deal?” 21.  by a press release of the same date (9 september 2007) sent “in relation to the press conference held by the political party sdsm and with a view to provide the public with objective and correct information” the ministry of transport and communication informed the media about the procedure and the selected company.... the [applicant’s] assertion, (which he made) as vice-president of a political party, contained untrue allegations about the complainant susceptible of violating his honour and reputation ... [the statement in question] was not substantiated with any evidence because the private complainant, as head of the agency, does not have the competence to participate in the public sale of state-owned land and the accused did not present any evidence that [mr s.m.]that was because [the applicant], by relying on freedom of public expression, interfered with the protected right of another person, namely mr s.m ... [the applicant] is a member of parliament and vice-president of the sdsm and he made the statement in sdsm’s headquarters (if the statement had been given in parliament, he would have enjoyed immunity and private charges would not have been possible).the freedom of political debate is not of an absolute nature ... the court notes that the impugned statement concerns the public sale of state-owned building land ... and should be considered in the context of a debate concerning an issue of public interest, which in particular was of prime political interest ... the court considers that the veracity of the statement ... was of primary importance for the courts.in the absence of proof to confirm the veracity (of the statement) or the existence of a strong basis for it to be regarded as truthful, the court must accept the courts’ findings that the statement was false.despite the fact that the statement is part of a public debate, the question is whether (it) ... had any impact or was relevant for the public as a contribution to a better understanding of the issue subject to public debate ... the way in which the (applicant) expressed his opinion (мислење) in public concerning the performance of a public office by a public official (in an interrogatory form, as a member of an opposition party, from the podium (говорница) of the political party, the consequences of his public action ...) without trying to prove the veracity of his question or statement, taken as a whole, represents an action which only appears to fall within the ambit of the freedom of conviction, conscience, thought and public expression of thought, but in substance it affects the reputation and dignity of the citizen who holds the public office at the time and violates those values.32.  as explained in the judgment, the court established that when the applicant had made the statement, the procedure for the public sale of the land was still ongoing, namely the relevant standing committee within the ministry had not yet submitted its proposal to the minister about the best bidder.
5.  the applicant was born in 1947 and lives in riga.6.  on 17 october 2000 the medical commission for the assessment of health and fitness for work (veselības un darbspēju ekspertīzes ārstu komisija) granted the applicant a disability status of category 3 (the least severe level of disability) on the grounds of a visual impairment.7.  on 16 october 2001 following an examination the medical commission for the assessment of health and fitness for work declined the applicant’s request to prolong her disability status.8.  on 9 november 2001 this decision was upheld by the state medical commission for the assessment of health and fitness for work (veselības un darbspēju ekspertīzes ārstu valsts komisija, hereinafter ‑ the commission) and on 5 december 2001 by an extended composition of that commission.9.  the applicant challenged the decision of the commission before a court.on 22 april 2002 the riga city zemgale district court declined the claim.the applicant appealed.10.  on 30 july 2004 the regional administrative court annulled the decision of 5 december 2001 due to lack of reasoning and ordered the commission to carry out a new examination.on 30 november 2004 this judgment was upheld by the administrative cases division of the supreme court.11.  on 11 january 2005, following a new examination by an extended composition, the commission again refused to grant the applicant the status of a disabled person.12.  on 9 january 2006 the applicant brought a claim to the administrative district court challenging the commission’s decision and requesting to be granted the status of a disabled person from 16 october 2001.13.  on 29 september 2006 the administrative district court declined the applicant’s claim.this judgment was upheld by the regional administrative court.14.  the administrative cases division of the supreme court two times quashed the judgments of the regional administrative court for its failure to follow the interpretation of the domestic law given by the supreme court.15.  on 24 november 2010 the regional administrative court declined the applicant’s claim, and on 14 march 2011 the administrative cases division of the supreme court refused to institute cassation proceedings.
12.  on 2 april 2004 the investigator ordered an examination by a panel of experts of the forensic bureau under the ministry of labour, health and social affairs (“the forensic bureau”) of the ajarian autonomous republic (“aar”) in order to determine the exact cause of g.b.’s death.as ... no autopsy was performed upon [g.b.’s] death, the exact cause of his death is unknown to the ... panel [even though] the [related] medical records indicate abdominal bleeding ... 4. we consider that a medical error was committed with respect to g.b.’s treatment in terms of the timing of the surgery, which was caused by an incorrect assessment of the clinical, endoscopy and laboratory data.” 13.  on 23 june 2004 a criminal medical negligence case was opened against the relevant doctors of the hospital, in which the applicant was granted victim status.the majority confirmed the earlier findings, stating that the therapeutic treatment had been adequate, but an assessment of the delay in surgery was the exclusive competence of a surgeon on the panel.he noted that despite the closure of the investigation, the family’s resistance to allow an exhumation of the body to determine the precise cause of death, and the inability to establish criminal responsibility on the part of the doctors in question, the conclusion of the panel of experts that a medical error had been committed in the course of g.b.’s treatment called for “the implementation of adequate measures to prevent similar violations.” 20.  on 27 september 2004, referring to the findings of the prosecutor and the panel of experts in report no.27.  between 18 and 28 october 2004, at the request of the batumi city court, the quality control inspectorate of the ministry of labour, health and social affairs (“the inspectorate”) implemented an inspection of the hospital in connection with g.b.’s death, which was carried out by a panel of experts.it is difficult to determine whether the scope of the surgery was adequate, as it is impossible to determine the exact location of the ulcer (there is no forensic pathology examination report concerning the body and the two endoscopy specialists reached different conclusions concerning the ulcer’s location).it is also worth mentioning that a pathomorphological analysis of the material obtained during the surgery was not carried out...” 28.  an undated study of the relevant medical files, ordered by the inspectorate from a professor of surgery at the tbilisi state medical university (“the third report”) noted the difficulty of making categorical claims in the absence of an autopsy of the body.29.  on an unspecified date two experts of the forensic bureau gave statements to the court and confirmed the findings of the first report that a medical error had been committed in terms of the delay in surgery.the court took the decision of the hospital director of 27 september 2004 dismissing the neurosurgeon in charge of g.b.’s treatment and reprimanding two intensive care specialists and a surgeon (see paragraph 20 above) as acknowledgment that medical negligence had been committed in the course of g.b.’s treatment.it noted as follows: “based on an analysis of the evidence before it, the appellate court concludes that in the course of mr g.b.’s treatment in [the hospital] the medical negligence of the medical staff (insufficient attention towards the patient, misdiagnosis) caused harm to a person’s health and eventually caused the patient’s ... death.” 33.  the appellate court continued to note that: “in addition to establishing that harm was caused to a person’s health as a result of the medical negligence of the [hospital] staff, it can also be established from the case files that [the hospital] was carrying out unlicensed activities in a number of medical fields and at the same time some of the medical staff did not have authorisation to practise medicine independently, in violation of the requirements of the [relevant legislation]...” 34.  the kutaisi court of appeal further found the hospital to be the only appropriate respondent to pay the damages in respect of the medical negligence of the doctors.as regards who should be held responsible for the hospital and its doctors operating without the necessary licences, it was noted that: “the ministry of health of the aar cannot be held responsible in the present case ... for [the hospital] operating in certain medical fields without the requisite licences considering that, in accordance with section 54 of the health care act, the issuance of such licences is [the exclusive competence] of the ministry of health of georgia.accordingly, the claim for ... pecuniary and non-pecuniary damages with respect to the ministry of health of the aar is groundless.” 35.  the appellate court upheld the lower court’s award of non‑pecuniary damages and increased the amount of pecuniary damages to gel 6,953 (approximately eur 2,701).referring to the evidence available in the case files, the court found that despite the fact that the exact cause of death could not be determined without an exhumation of the body, the case files confirmed that gastroduodenal bleeding was the cause of death and that a medical error had been committed in terms of the surgery and an incorrect assessment of the various data.the court of cassation upholds the views of the appellate court that this gave rise to a violation of ... the health care act and ... the medical practice act.” 39.  the supreme court noted that the ministry of health of georgia was the entity responsible for issuing licences to medical institutions and that the applicable legislation did now allow medical institutions and individual doctors to practise medicine without requisite licences (see paragraphs 44‑45 below).the civil code does not define moral (non-pecuniary) damage... under article 413 of the civil code, not all types of moral harm (mental suffering) shall be compensated, even if there is no doubt as to its existence, only those for which compensation is expressly provided for by law... accordingly, in accordance with the practice of the supreme court of georgia, non-pecuniary damage resulting from the infringement of the right to life of a person’s husband, child or other relative shall not be compensated as it is not expressly provided for by law...” 42.  the supreme court disagreed with the lower court’s interpretation that the right to claim non-pecuniary damages under section 10(a) of the patient rights act also applied to the death of a relative, and noted that that right was strictly personal.
the domestic court relied on a strong likelihood that the applicant had committed the offences in question, on the fact that he faced a severe penalty and that he was suspected of acting with accomplices.the likelihood that the applicant had committed the offences in question was established, in particular, on the basis of the testimony of a key prosecution witness (the so-called “crown witness”).it stressed that the sole fact that the applicant faced a severe penalty and had been suspected of committing offences in an organised criminal group justified a suspicion that, if released, the applicant would try to obstruct the proceedings by influencing witnesses or his accomplices.7.  the applicant’s detention on remand was extended by the warsaw regional court on 21 february, 27 may and 8 august 2013. in these decisions, the court repeated the reasons originally relied on.in its decision of 21 february 2013, the warsaw regional court further noted that the case against the applicant was complex, and indicated a number of steps that still had to be taken in order to terminate the investigation.the court noted that not all of those steps required the applicant’s detention and urged the prosecutor to accelerate the proceedings.10.  the bill of indictment against the applicant was lodged with the warsaw regional court on 30 december 2013. the applicant was charged with ten offences committed in an organised criminal group and – in the case of some of the offences – as a re-offender.11.  subsequently, the applicant’s detention pending trial was extended by the warsaw regional court’s decisions of 10 january and 7 may 2014 and by the warsaw court of appeal’s decisions of 30 december 2014, 28 april, 27 august and 26 november 2015, and of 25 february and 25 may 2016. the domestic courts continued to rely on the same grounds for detention as in their previous decisions.they also stressed the complexity of the case and the links between the co-accused within an organised criminal group which, according to the domestic courts, justified a suspicion that, if released, they would attempt to obstruct the proper course of the proceedings.it underlined that the amount of bail had to take into consideration not only the financial situation of the applicant, but also the gravity of the charges against him.the court also stated that it had taken into consideration the fact that the applicant had abused his procedural rights in order to obstruct and delay the proceedings.it indicated that the amount in question had to be such that the prospect of its loss would constitute a genuine deterrent against any illegal activities which, until that moment, had been prevented by the applicant’s detention.14.  on 30 may 2016 the warsaw regional court again ordered the applicant’s release on bail of pln 80,000. it also imposed a prohibition on leaving the country.the applicant paid the security required by the court and was released on 31 may 2016.xii k 1/14).
had immediately closed and locked the door to his office and had started to approach her, shouting that she was a thief and had stolen a document from his office.had entered the office and instead of diffusing the situation had also insulted her and ordered her to hand him the documents.10.  on 14 january 2012 the applicant reported the incident to the police, stating that on 10 january 2012 she and h.a., her head of division, had had an argument during which he had been violent and caused her bodily harm.11.  the investigator ordered a forensic medical examination the same day to determine whether the applicant had any bodily injuries and, if so, their nature, origin, seriousness and the time and manner of their infliction.in particular, he stated that the applicant had refused to return her appraisal report to him, after which he had left his office, closed the door and called a.k., asking him to come to see him with the other employees.two similar round-shaped ecchymoses are present on the inner surface of the same area measuring 1 cm in diameter: on the mid-third of the inner left upper arm measuring 1 cm in diameter; on the lower third of the inner left upper arm measuring 2 x 1 cm and 1.5 x 1.2 cm and on the mid-third of the outer left forearm measuring 2.5 x 1.5 cm.conclusion: [the applicant’s] bodily injuries in the form of ecchymoses [around] the right and left upper arms and the left forearm have been inflicted with blunt, hard objects possibly in the period mentioned; [the injuries] taken separately as well as all together do not contain elements of [short-term] damage to health.” 15.  on 24 january 2012 the investigator took an additional statement from the applicant.she stated in her request, inter alia, that she had been informed of the provisions of article 183 of the code of criminal procedure, under which criminal proceedings could only be instituted on the basis of a complaint by her.in addition, the applicant stated that the incident had taken place in the workplace and naturally all the witnesses questioned by the investigator were the subordinates of h.a.as regards the applicant, the decision stated, inter alia, that because the stress she had suffered as a result of the incident in h.a.’s office she had perceived and described what had happened in a subjective manner.she reiterated her previous arguments and complained, in particular, that the question of her injuries had not been addressed at all in the prosecutor’s decision, which had ignored the results of the forensic medical examination.the applicant further complained that the prosecution had relied on the statements of subordinates of those who had committed the offence in question.in doing so, it found that the disputed decision had been lawful, while the applicant’s arguments stemmed from an individual and subjective interpretation of the events in question and the procedural measures undertaken in relation to them.in doing so, it stated that the applicant had made unclear and contradictory statements about the circumstances of the incident which had not been corroborated by other evidence, namely the statements of h.a., a.k.she argued that the decisions of the district court and the criminal court of appeal had failed to explain the existence of injuries on her body or the fact that h.a.
11.  according to the report produced and signed by the two police officers on the same date, they seized 8,943 euros (eur), the amount paid in income tax by the private party selling the immovable property, and eur 1,000 and 12,215 romanian lei (ron – approximately eur 3,470), representing public notary fees and the applicable tax for the registration of the sale in the immovable property register.furthermore, it asked for the report produced by the police officers on the day of the incident to be annulled and for the original documents and for the relevant fees and taxes seized to be returned.13.  on 27 march 2009 the bucharest prosecutor’s office noted that the police officers had seized the relevant documents and sums of money without an express order to do so having been issued by the prosecutor charged with the case because the police officers had at the time been carrying out an operational mission aimed at catching suspects red-handed in the commission of an offence.the two police officers had entered the premises of the applicant organisation, disclosed their identity and the fact that they were police officers, and proceeded to seize the relevant documents and fees.furthermore, they had failed to include in the report produced on the day of the incident the applicant organisation’s objections against (i) the police officers’ presence on its premises, (ii) the seizure of fees and (iii) the questioning of its staff members, who had been bound by rules concerning professional secrecy.19.  with regard to the lawfulness of the police officers’ presence on the applicant organisation’s premises, the court held that the said premises did not constitute a home, room, annex or closed area attached to a home or a room and that entering such premises had therefore not constituted the offence of unlawful home intrusion.in addition, d.o.r.’s statement that the police officers had failed to mention his objections in the report produced on the day of the incident was relatively untrustworthy, given that as a public notary he was aware that he could have asked for any objections voiced by him to be included in the report; otherwise he could have refused to sign the said report.21.  the court furthermore held that the police officers who had asked the employees of the applicant organisation to give statements had not breached the relevant domestic rules concerning professional secrecy because the information provided by the said employees with regard to the commission of an offence had not amounted to them being formally heard as witnesses in the case.22.  the court concluded that the applicant organisation was mainly unhappy with the fact that the sale contract and the public notaries’ professional fees seized by the police officers had been returned to the alleged victims of the offence and not to the organisation.also, the first-instance court’s finding that the applicant organisation could have vented its discontent with the unlawful seizure of its fees by the police officers by means of a complaint against the acts and measures taken by the police officers (rather than by means of a criminal complaint lodged against the perpetrators – see paragraph 22 above) had amounted to a breach of its right of access to court.24.  by a final judgment of 25 january 2010 the high court of cassation and justice dismissed the applicant organisation’s appeal on points of fact and law and upheld the decisions of the prosecutor’s office and the judgment of the first-instance court.25.  on 15 january and 11 june 2008 – within the framework of the criminal investigation initiated by the domestic authorities against the organised criminal group allegedly involved in immovable property fraud – the applicant organisation lodged a complaint with the bucharest prosecutor’s office in respect of the acts and measures taken by the police officers.it asked the prosecutor’s office to quash the acts and measures taken by the police officers and to order the return of the original documents produced by the applicant organisation and of the relevant fees and taxes seized by the police officers.it asked the court to order the return of the original documents produced by the applicant organisation and to order the defendants to return the relevant fees and taxes seized by the police officers and to pay compensation for non-pecuniary damage.in addition, it dismissed the applicant organisation’s requests for the return of the original documents produced by it and the relevant fees and taxes on the grounds that the documents in question had been annulled and the relevant fees and taxes returned to the private party who had sold the property and who had been the victim of the offences committed by the criminal group.
8.  on 4 june 2009, in response to a claim brought by the applicant against o. concerning hindrance of access to the child, the leninsky district court of mykolayiv granted the applicant rights of access to his daughter.9.  on 13 july 2009 the local police examined the applicant’s complaint concerning threats which o. regularly made when the applicant went to see the child, as well as o.’s refusal to let the child stay overnight with him and her restriction on the amount of time which the applicant could spend with the child.11.  on 20 october 2009, at the applicant’s request, the mykolayiv state bailiffs’ service opened proceedings for the enforcement of the judgment of 4 june 2009. however, on 22 october 2009 the bailiffs’ decision was quashed since the procedure for enforcement of a court judgment of that kind was not specified by law.on 20 october 2011 when the applicant arrived in selydove and attempted to collect the child from the childcare centre, o. arrived and took back the child.the applicant’s complaints to the police on account of those incidents were dismissed because of the absence of the constituent elements of a criminal offence.13.  on 28 march 2012 the applicant submitted to the selydove state bailiff’s service a writ of execution of judgment dated 4 june 2009. on 29 march 2012 the state bailiff opened the enforcement proceedings.on 9 april 2012 in the presence of the applicant, o. and two witnesses, the state bailiff read out the operative part of the judgment of 4 june 2009 and issued a resolution on termination of the enforcement proceedings, considering that the judgment had been fully enforced by so doing.17.  on 21 june 2013 the leninskyy dstrict police department in mykolayiv opened criminal proceedings following the applicant’s complaint that o. had refused to comply with the judgment of 4 june 2009. on 10 december 2014 the police terminated the criminal proceedings because of the absence of the constituent elements of a criminal offence.it found that o. had prevented the applicant from properly exercising his access rights and ruled that the applicant should be given the opportunity of spending one month with his daughter during the summer and one week during the winter school holidays every year until she attained the age of majority.19.  on 26 may 2016 the selydove department of state bailiffs’ service opened enforcement proceedings in relation to the judgment of 8 december 2015. on 10 june 2016 the bailiffs notified o. about the judgment of 8 december 2015.selydove is in the territory controlled by the ukrainian government, about twenty-five kilometres from the ceasefire line, and was included in the list of locations where the military anti‑terrorist operation was being conducted.21.  in august 2014 the applicant lodged a claim with the selydove court seeking a declaration that o. was unlawfully failing to cooperate in executing the judgment of 4 june 2009 granting the applicant access rights.in support of the latter assertion the applicant cited media reports according to which representatives of the so-called “donetsk people’s republic” were threatening to capture all the territory of the donetsk region.the court also stated that the applicant had not substantiated the allegation that the child’s life was in danger and the mere fact of anti-terrorist military operations taking place in the region did not prove that risk.23.  on 4 august 2015 the donetsk regional court of appeal upheld the selydove court’s judgment, finding that the applicant had failed to substantiate the allegations that the child’s place of residence should be changed.
4.  the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in naberezhnyye chelny.6.  on 10 november 2005 the supreme court of the tatarstan republic convicted the applicant and sentenced him to imprisonment.he stayed under the obligation not to leave his place of residence in naberezhnyye chelny until the conviction became final.he could leave his place of residence only upon the summons from the investigator or the court.7.  several parties to the criminal proceedings, including the applicant, appealed against the conviction.the case was forwarded to the russian supreme court in moscow, 1,000 km away from naberezhnyye chelny.the applicant never received any summons to the appeal hearing due to the supreme court’s mistake in the postal code.neither did he receive copies of the statements of appeal filed by the prosecutor, by the co-accused, g., and the latter’s lawyer.8.  on 28 february 2006 the conviction was upheld by the russian supreme court.the prosecutor and g.’s lawyer attended the appeal hearing.9.  in 2011 the applicant lodged a compensation claim for non-pecuniary damages caused by poor conditions of detention.in the text of his claim the applicant explicitly asked the court to consider the claim in his absence.on 14 april 2011 the bugulminskiy town court of the tatarstan republic dismissed his claim.the applicant received the notification of the time and date of the hearing after the hearing had actually taken place.10.  the first-instance judgment was upheld on 4 july 2011 by the supreme court of the tatarstan republic.
6.  in early august 2009 preliminary proceedings were initiated against the applicant based on the suspicion that he had committed violent acts against his spouse, r.k. on 6 august 2009 r.k. was examined at the request of the public prosecutor’s office by the investigating judge, w., after the latter had decided, at the suggestion of the public prosecutor’s office, to exclude the applicant from the hearing under article 168c § 3 of the code of criminal procedure, since there was a risk, given the nature of the reported offences, that r.k. would not testify or would not tell the truth in the applicant’s presence.10.  at the hearing of 28 may 2010, the investigating judge was examined on the evidence he had obtained from his examination of r.k. on 6 august 2009. the regional court rejected an objection by the applicant’s counsel on the grounds that it was permissible to examine the investigating judge even if the applicant’s rights under article 6 § 3 (d) of the convention had been breached by r.k.’s examination.the applicant’s counsel objected to the use of the evidence obtained from the examination of these two witnesses on the grounds that “the depicted facts cannot be separated chronologically and sequentially”.she showed the counsellor there, n., several marks of injury on her head and other parts of her body and described the bodily harm and coercion to which the applicant had subjected her in the period from 31 july to 2 august 2009.she had repeatedly stated that the applicant had beaten her between 31 july and 2 august 2009 in connection with a letter which the applicant had wanted her to write to the wife of a former lover of hers; she had started to write that letter by hand.(b)  subsequent actions of r.k. 20.  r.k. later retracted her statements as reported by the investigating judge and made voluntary disclosures on 2 december 2009 and on 20 april 2010 to the police for having wrongfully incriminated the applicant, claiming that he had not been at home between 31 july and 2 august 2009 and that a third person had injured her.(d)  further evidence 22.  n., the women’s shelter’s counsellor, testified that she had received a copy of the police report and had discussed the report and the events with r.k. when she had been admitted to the shelter on 2 august 2009 in a severely traumatised state.where the lack of an opportunity to cross-examine a witness had been a result of procedural errors imputable on the judiciary, as in the present case, the court found a breach of the convention where the conviction had been based to a decisive extent on the evidence of the untested witness.her statement that the applicant had struck her in order to make her compose a letter to the wife of a former lover of hers had been corroborated by the draft letter with the content she had described which she had given to ra.32.  moreover, witness n. of the women’s shelter in which r.k. had sought refuge had, on the day of r.k.’s admission to the shelter, observed wounds in the head area, some of which had been bleeding, and burn marks on r.k.’s left breast and neck as well as various bruises and weals on her back which r.k. had shown her.other witnesses reported that r.k. had run into the street in panic that day, with a bleeding wound on the back of her head, and had subsequently sought refuge with the m. family until the police had arrived, while the applicant had been seen leaving the house and driving off following that (see paragraphs 24-27 above).at the same time, the regional court did not take into account the additional evidence given to the police by r.k. (see paragraph 27 above), as the police had not been sure at which point they had informed her of her right to remain silent.r.k.’s statements to the police officers had not been a “spontaneous utterance”, as the latter had been called to the scene because a woman had run out of a house screaming and had been hiding at a neighbour’s house and had, on arrival, asked her what had happened (see paragraph 27 above).36.  in a written submission of 8 november 2010 the federal public prosecutor general argued that the examination of the investigating judge, resulting in the use of the untested evidence given by r.k., had not rendered the proceedings unfair.37.  on 16 december 2010 the federal court of justice dismissed the appeal as ill-founded, finding that the review of the regional court’s judgment had not revealed any legal errors that had been detrimental to the applicant.
7.  at the preparatory hearing of 26 december 2003 the didube‑chugureti district court in tbilisi (“the district court”) scheduled the main hearing for 3.30 p.m. on 28 january 2004. the preparatory hearing was attended both by the applicant and his lawyer.the record of the hearing shows that the judge warned the applicant that, if he refused to take any further part, “the court would give a decision in absentia”.it ruled that his refusal to participate in the hearing equated to a failure to appear in court within the meaning of article 232 of the code of civil procedure (“the ccp”, see paragraph 20 below).in view of the above, and concluding that the applicant had been duly summoned to the hearing in accordance with articles 70 to 73 of the ccp, the judge issued, in accordance with article 229 § 1 of the ccp (see paragraph 20 below), a default judgment rejecting the applicant’s action without examining it or giving any reasons.11.  the applicant’s lawyer filed an application to set aside the judgment, enclosing a letter from the supreme court dated 5 february 2004 confirming that he had participated in the hearing of an appeal on points of law at 3 p.m. on 28 january 2004. he argued that his involvement in the examination of another case was a “valid reason” for his absence (see articles 233 and 241 of the ccp as cited in paragraph 20 below).12.  on 19 march 2004 the same district court judge confirmed his own decision of 28 january 2004. he found that the applicant had been summoned to the hearing in accordance with the rules set out in articles 70 to 78 of the ccp, and pointed out that there was no legal requirement to also summon a party’s lawyer.when he had appeared before the court, the applicant had stated that he objected to the examination of the case without his lawyer present and had refused to take part in the hearing.as conduct of that sort equated to a failure to appear under article 232 of the ccp and none of the circumstances provided for by article 233 of the ccp had been established, the judge decided that article 241 of the ccp should not be applied to set aside the default judgment.13.  the applicant appealed against the decision of 19 march 2004. on 16 july 2004 the tbilisi regional court (“the regional court”) found that, in breach of article 72(z) of the ccp, the applicant and his lawyer had not been properly warned of the consequences of not appearing before the court.therefore, as the caution provided for in articles 70 to 78 had not been issued in the present case, the regional court held that there were grounds, under articles 233 and 241 of the ccp, for setting aside the decision of 19 march 2004. the applicant’s appeal was thus remitted to the district court for re-examination.15.  on 2 march 2005 the supreme court of georgia found that, contrary to the regional court’s assertion, the applicant had been informed in the hearing notice of the consequences of a failure to appear.the supreme court also found that, according to the record of the hearing of 28 january 2004, the judge had warned the applicant that “in the event of a refusal to take part in the hearing, a decision [would] be given in absentia”.lastly, the supreme court pointed out that a court could give a decision in absentia if a lawyer or a party failed to appear at a hearing, on condition that the party had been summoned in accordance with the rules set out in articles 70 to 78 of the ccp.16.  on 10 may 2005 the regional court followed the supreme court’s reasoning and added that the applicant’s lawyer’s involvement in another hearing was not a “valid reason” for setting aside the decision in absentia, given that article 232 of the ccp did not specify on what grounds a party could refuse to take part in a hearing.it further concluded, in contrast with the finding of the regional court on 16 july 2004, that the applicant had been duly informed of the consequences of his failure to appear at the hearing.
at the end of the hearing it informed the parties that it considered contact with the applicant not to be in the child’s best interest for the time being and suggested that the applicant withdraw his appeal.15.  on 17 august 2012 the applicant requested the court of appeal to mandate an expert opinion on the question of whether contact would be detrimental to the child or would at least serve her best interest; to hold an oral hearing where the guardian ad litem should explain her written statement; to conduct a paternity test and to hear the child.she submitted, inter alia, that the child had no knowledge of the applicant’s claims, that the latter could not prove his fatherhood in the absence of a legal basis and that the child’s legal parents had not submitted any proof of their allegations that the mother’s husband was also the child’s biological father.the court of appeal then addressed the question of whether article 1685 § 2 of the civil code could be interpreted, in the light of the court’s judgments anayo and schneider (cited above), as assuming that a father who was able to prove that he had seriously tried to bear actual responsibility but failed to do so because of the mother’s or legal parent’s resistance, could be considered as having borne actual responsibility within the meaning of this article.in this respect the court of appeal held that it was already contrary to the child’s best interest to address the preliminary question of whether the applicant was the child’s biological father.the hearing of the child and the legal parents had shown that in the child’s perception of the world, there was only one father, the mother’s husband.the court of appeal received the impression that the spouses had barricaded themselves against the applicant as if they were in a corral, as had shown the legal father’s declaration that the legal proceedings did not have a negative impact on the relationship with his wife but had rather consolidated it.23.  the court of appeal pointed out that it was aware that, in view of the importance of the child’s well-being, it could be a long time before the preliminary question of paternity could be clarified and years before contact rights could be granted.24.  the court of appeal went on to say that, even assuming that the applicant was the child’s biological father, contact with the applicant was not in the child’s best interest.due to the highly emotional conflicts between the legal parents and the applicant, and the fact that the applicant had not ruled out that he might tell the child that he was her biological father if he saw her, contact would jeopardise the child’s well-being.these issues had to be assessed in the light of the extremely tense relations between the applicant and the child’s legal parents, and in view of the predictable consequences for the child if contact were granted.whether the provision can be interpreted in the light of the above mentioned decisions of the european court of human rights, as assuming that a biological father can also claim a right for information, can be left open: that would require addressing the preliminary issue of whether the applicant was the child’s biological father.it has already been shown that clarifying this question by ordering a paternity test would be contrary to the child’s well-being.” 26.  on 11 february 2013, the court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s objection alleging a violation of the right to be heard.28.  on 18 july 2013 the federal constitutional court informed the applicant that on 13 july 2013, the law for the strengthening of the rights of biological but not legal fathers had entered into force which, pursuant to article 1686a of the civil code, provided a new possibility for biological fathers to be granted contact and information rights even if they had no social and family relationship with the child (see paragraph 32 below).given that, in its view, the determination of paternity would endanger the family unit, the court of appeal would refrain from ordering a measure of examination because the legal parents could not reasonably be expected to undergo any examination, under section 167a § 2 of the family matters act.
6.  on 2 march 2009 the hamburg district court, after having served a summons on the applicant to appear at the address that he had at that time in hamburg, convicted the applicant of assault and sentenced him to forty day‑fines of 25 euros (eur) each and allowed him to pay his fine in instalments in the light of his economic situation.8.  on 24 april 2009 the hamburg regional court withdrew the authorisation of mr arif to act as defence counsel, while at the same time rejecting the application lodged by mr arif for the applicant to be released from the obligation to appear in person at the appeal hearing.9.  also on 24 april 2009 the regional court fixed the date for the oral hearing of the applicant’s appeal to 9.10 a.m. on 13 may 2009. it decided to serve the summons on the applicant via public notification because the applicant had moved abroad.10.  on 12 may 2009 mr arif learned by telephone of the court of appeal’s decision of that same day to overturn the regional court’s decision in respect of his authorisation to act as counsel for the applicant and of the appeal hearing having been scheduled for the next morning.the presiding judge ordered that a copy of that appeal and of the decision to serve the summons of the applicant by public notification be sent to the applicant’s lawyer.the lawyer was offered access to the file at the courthouse the following day at 8 a.m. (that is to say immediately before the hearing), which he declined, stating that he would be out of town.it stated that the lawyer had waived his right to be summoned within the respective time-limit because he had known about the date of the appeal hearing (as evidenced by his fax of the previous day), and that the properly summoned applicant had failed to appear without providing any reason.simultaneously, the regional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal without an assessment of the merits, in accordance with article 329 of the code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 19 below), because he had not appeared at the appeal hearing (without any sufficient excuse, and despite having been summoned), nor had he been represented by a lawyer in a permissible manner.it considered that the applicant had been properly summoned to the appeal hearing because the requirements for service by public notification, as set out in article 40 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure, had been met.the summons to attend the hearing before the district court had been served on the applicant’s previous address in germany and he had lodged the appeal in question.moreover, the applicant had not convincingly shown that he had been prevented through no fault of his own from appearing at the appeal hearing, as required by article 44 § 1 of the code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 19 below), because the applicant’s lawyer had not provided an affidavit to support his claim that he had advised the applicant, on 12 may 2009, that the latter did not need to attend the hearing because he had not been summoned.14.  on 16 july 2010 the court of appeal rejected an appeal on points of law lodged by the applicant against the regional court’s judgment of 13 may 2009 as ill-founded, finding that the review of the regional court’s judgment had not revealed any legal errors that had been detrimental to the applicant.16.  following communication of the case and unsuccessful friendly settlement negotiations, on 8 july 2016 the government informed the court of their intention to resolve the issue raised by the application.17.  by a letter to the court of 30 august 2016 the applicant indicated that he was not satisfied with the terms of the unilateral declaration.6 of the code of criminal procedure, which provides for the reopening of criminal proceedings following a judgment of the court finding a violation (see paragraph 19 below), also applies to violations acknowledged by the government by way of a unilateral declaration.
the decision was translated into russian and notified to the applicant on 10 april 2002. on the same day a remand hearing was held at which the applicant, with the assistance of the interpreter a.g., stated that he could not leave the country as he had no passport, that he wanted to wait until the proceedings were over and that he agreed with what had been said by his counsel at the hearing.the supreme court established on the basis of the case file that immediately after placing the applicant in police custody, the police had informed him, with the assistance of the russian interpreter, of the reasons for his arrest and his right to a lawyer.only in his request for the protection of legality, lodged in his own language, and in his constitutional complaint, did the applicant complain of a breach of his right under article 62 of the constitution owing to the conduct of the district court, which had ignored his remarks about his trouble understanding russian ... having regard to the foregoing and to the content of the constitutional complaint, the constitutional court examined whether the supreme court’s view ... violated the applicant’s right to use his own language provided for in article 62 of the constitution and whether there had been a breach of his defence rights under the first line of article 29 of the constitution.in the reasoning of the judgment [the supreme court] noted that there was no indication in the record of the hearing that the applicant had mentioned that he had not understood russian or that he or his counsel had requested the use of the applicant’s native language at the hearing.the supreme court convincingly established circumstances that show that the applicant understood russian well enough to receive a fair hearing using that language ... when considering the right to a fair trial it is important to note (and this also the constitutional court’s view) that in his application for the protection of legality the applicant did not raise a complaint that he had not been informed of his right to use his native language.... the impugned judgments therefore do not violate the right of the applicant guaranteed in article 62 of the constitution ... having regard to the above findings and the fact that throughout the proceedings the applicant was assisted by counsel with whom he succeeded in communicating, his complaint that his defence rights guaranteed by article 29 [of the constitution] had been violated must likewise be dismissed.48.  the relevant provisions of the constitution of the republic of slovenia read as follows: article 29 (legal safeguards in criminal proceedings) “anyone charged with a criminal offence must, in addition to absolute equality, be guaranteed the following rights: the right to have adequate time and facilities to prepare his defence; the right to be present at his trial and to conduct his own defence or to be defended by a legal representative; the right to present all the evidence that is to his benefit; the right not to incriminate himself or his relatives or those close to him, or to admit his guilt.” article 62 (right to use one’s own language and script) “everyone has the right to use his own language and script as provided by law in the exercise of his rights and duties and in procedures before state and other authorities performing a public function.” 49.  the relevant provisions of the criminal procedure act (official gazette no.... (3) a foreigner who has been deprived of his freedom shall have the right to file submissions with the court in his own language; in other cases foreign subjects shall be allowed to file submissions in their own language solely on the condition of reciprocity.” section 8 “(1) parties, witnesses and other participants in the proceedings shall have the right to use their own languages in investigative and other judicial actions and at the main hearing.(3) translations shall be done by a court interpreter.” (b)  grounds of appeal 50.  the relevant provision of the criminal procedure act concerning grounds of appeal reads as follows: section 371 “(1) a material breach of the provisions of criminal procedure shall be deemed to exist: ... 3) ... where the defendant, counsel, the injured party acting as prosecutor or the private prosecutor was, notwithstanding his request, deprived of his right to use his own language during investigative or other court actions or at the main hearing and his right to follow the proceedings in that language (section 8) ...; ... (2) a material breach of the provisions of criminal procedure shall also be deemed to exist if in preparation for a hearing or in the course of a hearing or in giving judgment the court omitted to apply a provision of this act or applied it incorrectly, or if in the course of the hearing the court violated the rights of the defence, such that the act or omission influenced or might have influenced the legality and regularity of the judgment.” 51.  the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (“the charter”) enshrines the right to a fair trial (article 47) and respect for the rights of the defence (article 48(2)).the level of protection should never fall below the standards provided by the echr or the charter as interpreted in the case-law of the european court of human rights or the court of justice of the european union.(33) the provisions of this directive that correspond to rights guaranteed by the echr or the charter should be interpreted and implemented consistently with those rights, as interpreted in the relevant case-law of the european court of human rights and the court of justice of the european union.” 54.  article 2 of directive 2010/64/eu reads, in its relevant part, as follows: right to interpretation “1.... 5. member states shall ensure that, in accordance with procedures in national law, suspected or accused persons have the right to challenge a decision finding that there is no need for the translation of documents or passages thereof and, when a translation has been provided, the possibility to complain that the quality of the translation is not sufficient to safeguard the fairness of the proceedings.member states shall take concrete measures to ensure that the interpretation and translation provided meets the quality required under article 2(8) and article 3(9).” 57.  furthermore, article 7 of directive 2010/64/eu reads: record-keeping “member states shall ensure that when a suspected or accused person has been subject to questioning or hearings by an investigative or judicial authority with the assistance of an interpreter pursuant to article 2, when an oral translation or oral summary of essential documents has been provided in the presence of such an authority pursuant to article 3(7), or when a person has waived the right to translation pursuant to article 3(8), it will be noted that these events have occurred, using the recording procedure in accordance with the law of the member state concerned.” 58.  on 22 may 2012 the european parliament and the council of the european union adopted another directive relating to the measures set out in the roadmap, namely directive 2012/13/eu on the right to information in criminal proceedings (“directive 2012/13/eu”).a practical and effective implementation of some of the provisions such as the obligation to provide suspects or accused persons with information about their rights in simple and accessible language could be achieved by different means including non-legislative measures such as appropriate training for the competent authorities or by a letter of rights drafted in simple and non-technical language so as to be easily understood by a lay person without any knowledge of criminal procedural law.” 60.  the relevant parts of articles 3, 4 and 8 of directive 2012/13/eu provide as follows: article 3 right to information about rights “1.member states shall ensure that suspects or accused persons are provided promptly with information concerning at least the following procedural rights, as they apply under national law, in order to allow for those rights to be exercised effectively: (a) the right of access to a lawyer; (b) any entitlement to free legal advice and the conditions for obtaining such advice; (c) the right to be informed of the accusation, in accordance with article 6; (d) the right to interpretation and translation; (e) the right to remain silent.
the provision stipulated that the rights of a person to whom a pension had been awarded prior to the entry into force of the regulation could, at the request of the person concerned, be reviewed, taking into account the provisions of the regulation.17.  on 7 july 2010 the central hungary regional pensions board adopted a new decision in accordance with the instructions of the budapest labour court and increased the applicant’s monthly pension to huf 139,545 (approximately eur 465) with effect from 1 may 2004. the decision ordered the payment, in arrears, of the difference between the pension due and the amount already paid....” 27.  section 80(1) of the 1997 pensions act provides as follows: “if, following the examination of a pension request, it turns out that the pension authority violated the applicable law and ... the pension established or disbursed was therefore unduly low, then the arrears and ... interest shall be paid for the five-year period preceding the establishment of the violation.” 28.  the relevant provisions of the code of civil procedure (act no.(3)  no appeal lies against a court decision making a reference for a preliminary ruling or dismissing a request for a reference for a preliminary ruling.” article 272 “(2)  the petition for review shall specify the decision that is the subject thereof and the substance of the decision requested; furthermore, it shall set out the alleged infringement, specify the legal provision that has been breached and explain the reasons why the impugned decision requires modification.” article 275 “(2)  the kúria may review a final decision only within the framework of the petition for review ... unless it decides to dismiss the action of its own motion, or if the court that rendered the decision had not been properly formed, or if a judge who should have been disqualified by law took part in rendering the decision.” 29.  in leading case no.bh 2015.7.203 the kúria held as follows: “a petition for review does not meet the requirements [of the code of civil procedure] if, for the purposes of the specification of the infringement, it contains only a general reference to [certain] chapters ... of the code of civil procedure.cli of 2011) provides as follows: “if the constitutional court, in proceedings conducted by it in the exercise of its competences, declares an omission on the part of the legislature that results in a violation of the fundamental law, it shall call upon the organ responsible for the omission to take action and set a time-limit for that.” 33.  the relevant parts of the constitutional court’s decision no.in such cases, the level of protection to be afforded by the constitutional court to the fundamental right should in no way be lower than the level of international protection afforded to the given right (typically by the european court of human rights in strasbourg)” ... based on this consideration, the constitutional court has reviewed the case-law of the [european] court [of human rights] on the right to a reasoned court decision, which it also finds applicable in interpreting the right enshrined in article xxviii (1) of the fundamental law.... the constitutional court is to examine whether the procedural laws prescribing the duty of giving reasons were or were not applied in conformity with the requirements set forth in article xxviii (1) of the fundamental law ... [34]  ...the constitutional requirement of giving reasons, being examined by the constitutional court, is inherent in article xxviii (1) of the fundamental law and determines the limits of the courts’ margin of appreciation, notably by requiring courts to give reasons for their decisions, in conformity with the procedural laws.the constitutional violation of the duty to give reasons means the application of this procedural rule is not in conformity with the fundamental law ... the constitutional requirement of a fair trial demands, as a minimum, that the courts should, with due care, examine the parties’ observations made on the relevant parts of the case and should include an assessment of those observations in their decisions ... ... [40]  in the light of the above considerations, the constitutional court finds, on the merits, that the high court ... examined the questions ... concerning the relevant circumstances of the case and gave appropriate reasons as regards its conclusions.following an analysis of the cjeu’s relevant case-law, the constitutional court found that, in the case at issue, the question proposed by the claimant related to the qualification and interpretation of domestic law (which, in the claimant’s view, contradicted eu law), rather than to the interpretation of the applicable eu law provision itself.accordingly, it declared that there had been an omission on the part of the legislature resulting in a violation of the fundamental law (see paragraph 32 above), and invited parliament to amend the relevant legislation by 31 december 2015. however, the constitutional court’s decision did not find the budapest high court’s particular judgment unconstitutional on account of the court’s failure to provide reasons for the non-referral – indeed, it did not contain any arguments related to the lack of reasons in that particular judgment.38.  the relevant part of article 267 of the tfeu[1] provides: “the [cjeu] shall have jurisdiction to give preliminary rulings concerning: (a) the interpretation of the treaties; (b) the validity and interpretation of acts of the institutions, bodies, offices or agencies of the union; where such a question is raised before any court or tribunal of a member state, that court or tribunal may, if it considers that a decision on the question is necessary to enable it to give judgment, request the court to give a ruling thereon....” 39.  in applying that provision, the cjeu has held that a court or tribunal against whose decisions there is no judicial remedy under national law is required, where a question of interpretation of eu law (rather than a question relating to the validity of a community act, see the judgment in gaston schul douane-expediteur bv v. minister van landbouw, natuur en voedselkwaliteit, c-461/03, judgment of 6 december 2005, ecr i-10513, § 19) is raised before it, to comply with its obligation to bring the matter before the cjeu, unless it has established that the question raised is irrelevant or that the eu law provision in question has already been interpreted by the cjeu (acte éclairé) or that the correct application of eu law is so obvious as to leave no scope for any reasonable doubt (acte clair).the cjeu has also held that the existence of such a possibility must be assessed in the light of the specific characteristics of eu law, the particular difficulties to which its interpretation gives rise and the risk of divergences in judicial decisions within the eu (see srl cilfit and lanificio di gavardo spa v. ministry of health, 283/81, judgment of 6 october 1982, ecr 3415, § 21, and x v. inspecteur van rijksbelastingdienst and t.a.in providing that a request for a preliminary ruling may be submitted to the [cjeu] where ‘a question is raised before any court or tribunal of a member state’, the second and third paragraphs of article 267 tfeu are not intended to restrict this procedure exclusively to cases where one or other of the parties to the main action has taken the initiative of raising a point concerning the interpretation or the validity of european union law, but also extend to cases where a question of this kind is raised by the court or tribunal itself, which considers that a decision thereon by the [cjeu] is ‘necessary to enable it to give judgment’ ... 24.  moreover, according to settled case-law, in proceedings under article 267 tfeu, it is solely for the national court before which the dispute has been brought, and which must assume responsibility for the subsequent judicial decision, to determine in the light of the particular circumstances of the case both the need for a preliminary ruling in order to enable it to deliver judgment and the relevance of the questions which it submits to the court.” the cjeu further held, in the case of lucio cesare aquino v. belgische staat (c-3/16, judgment of 15 march 2017, § 43), that: “[i]t follows from the relationship between the second and third paragraphs of article 267 tfeu that the courts referred to in the third paragraph have the same discretion as all other national courts as to whether a decision on a question of eu law is necessary to enable them to give judgment.” 42.  article 94(6) of the regulation 1408/71/eec of the council of the european communities on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the community, as in force until 1 may 2010, provided as follows: “if an application referred to in paragraph 4 or 5 [in particular, an application for the review of a pension awarded prior to the entry into force of this regulation] is submitted within two years from the date of entry into force of this regulation, the rights acquired under this regulation shall have effect from that date, and the provisions of the legislation of any member state concerning the forfeiture or limitation of rights may not be invoked against the persons concerned.” it appears that the interpretation of that provision has so far not been the subject of a preliminary ruling of the cjeu.
by the same decision the applicant was given contact with the children every other weekend from 6 p.m. on friday to 6 p.m. on sunday and during the first half of the summer and winter school holidays.9.  on 30 june 2005 the social care centre suspended the enforcement of the decision of 9 january 2001 at the applicant’s request, as he intended to assert his parental rights in judicial proceedings.11.  on 27 december 2005 the stara pazova municipal court issued an interim contact order giving the applicant contact with the children every other weekend from 6 p.m. on friday to 6 p.m. on sunday and during the first half of the summer and winter school holidays.14.  on 17 october 2011 the sremska mitrovica basic court stara pazova judicial unit (the stara pazova municipal court having ceased to exist following the 2010 judicial reform – hereinafter “the sremska mitrovica basic court”) revoked the interim contact order of 27 december 2005 given that the custody proceedings had terminated on 11 december 2008. the applicant was ordered to pay 30,625 dinars (approximately 257 euros (eur)) to m.k.18.  in another attempt to enforce the contact order on 21 april 2006, the bailiff and the applicant went to m.k.’s home.24.  on 10 november 2006 the enforcement was attempted in the presence of a police officer, the bailiff and the applicant.28.  on 3 february 2009 the stara pazova municipal court decided to obtain an opinion and recommendation from the social care centre concerning the continuation of the enforcement proceedings and the possible harm it might have on the children’s development.the opinion concluded that the continuation of the enforcement proceedings would put additional pressure on the children and create even greater resistance, particularly in j.g.31.  on 14 august 2009 the stara pazova municipal court scheduled a meeting between the applicant and the children for 4 september 2009 at m.k.’s home in the presence of a bailiff and social workers.stated that she had not obstructed the enforcement of the contact order – the children had not wanted to see the applicant.the social worker stated that at the court’s request the social care centre would submit a proposal on the possibility of maintaining contact between the applicant and m.g., who was still a minor.refused to see his father, the court considered that it was in everyone’s interests to realise the contact gradually with the assistance of the social care centre until the conditions for uninterrupted enforcement of the contact order were created.according to the opinion, the applicant was very keen to maintain contact with his children and cooperate with the social care centre.and the applicant at the social care centre in the presence of the social workers.44.  on 24 december 2015 the stara pazova basic court (which had been re-established and renamed in the 2014 judicial reform; see paragraph 14 above), at m.k.’s request, ordered enforcement of the decision of 15 november 2011. in addition to the legal costs ordered by that decision, the applicant was ordered to pay enforcement costs of 10,225 dinars (approximately eur 85), to be deducted from his disability pension.
5.  the applicants are: (1) mr ibragim alikhanov, who was born in 1930, (2) ms muslimat alikhanova, who was born in 1936 and (3) ms tamara alikhanova, who was born in 1976. the first and second applicants live in the village of ruguzh and the third applicant in the village of gurik, republic of dagestan, a region neighbouring the chechen republic.the conclusions of the forensic expert examination referred to by the applicants concerning the identity of the body found next to zamay-yurt had been indecisive, as there had not been enough dna material on the clothing found at the cemetery.then on 28 december 2004 the same person had called him again from the telephone number 8-906-447-6785 and had told him that the amount of the demanded ransom had gone up by ten times because mr a. had complained to the police about the abduction.19.  on 14 january 2005 the investigators again questioned mr a., whose statement concerning the abduction was similar to the statement given on 29 december 2004. in addition, he stated that mr b.p., who had been on duty at the traffic police checkpoint, had told him that the abductors had introduced themselves as officers from the organised crime unit and that two traffic police officers from makhachkala had been with them.on 26 december 2004, he had received a phone call from the number 8-906-447-6785 during which the caller had made a ransom demand of usd 25,000. on 28 december 2004, the same person had called again from the same number and had requested a ransom, the amount of which had gone up ten times after amirkhan alikhanov’s relatives had failed to cooperate.21.  on an unspecified date in january or february 2005 the investigators questioned mr dzh.g., the owner of telephone number 8-906-447-6785, who stated that he had not used that number and had no information about the abduction as in december 2004 he had lent his passport to a stranger at the mobile telephone shop for the purchase of a sim card with that telephone number.25.  on 28 march 2005 the investigators questioned a police officer, a.kh., who stated that at about 6 p.m. on 23 december 2004 he had been on duty at the “mars-20” traffic checkpoint when two traffic police officers in a red and white police vaz 2107 car with the beacon light (that is to say flashing roof lights) and the blue registration plate of the makhachkala traffic police department had arrived at the checkpoint.the witness had no recollection of the events afterwards and stated that he had already been interviewed about the incident during the internal inquiry carried out by the internal security department of the dagestan ministry of the interior.28.  on 5 april 2005 the investigators again questioned mr a., who, inter alia, again described the circumstances of the discovery of the clothes of his abducted brother in zamay-yurt and stated that according to the local residents, a special operation had been conducted there at the end of january 2005 during which six people had been killed and then buried by federal servicemen.38.  on 28 december 2004 the first applicant complained to the dagestan prosecutor, requesting that an investigation into the circumstances of amirkhan alikhanov’s abduction be opened and that the traffic police officers who had been manning the checkpoint at the time of the events be questioned.mr b.p., who is a traffic police officer, claimed that at about 6.30 p.m. on 23 december 2004 amirkhan alikhanov had been detained by servicemen of the organised crime unit at the “mars-20” traffic checkpoint and taken in the direction of makhachkala, while the police officers of the traffic police unit from makhachkala had taken away his vaz 2108 car ... however, senior officials of the organised crime unit and of the makhachkala department of the interior denied that amirkhan alikhanov had been taken to their [respective] premises.one of the traffic police officers from makhachkala followed them in amirkhan alikhanov’s car ... on 29 march 2005 the brother of the abducted person, mr a., informed the investigators that he had received a phone call from a man who had seen a television programme about a special operation conducted by the federal forces in the nozhay‑yurt district [in the chechen republic], during which six persons had been killed and that two of the six bodies had been identified by relatives ... .60.  on 28 december 2005 the chechnya prosecutor’s office informed the applicants that on 17 july 2005 the criminal case file concerning the discovery of amirkhan alikhanov’s body had been transferred to the military prosecutor’s office of the united group alignment (the uga).in the course of the proceedings, the investigators received information concerning mr alikhanov’s murder and the finding of his body among six corpses found on 28 january 2005 on the outskirts of zamay-yurt in the nozhay-yurt district in chechnya.according to the information provided by the military prosecutor’s office of the uga, the six corpses ... had belonged to members of illegal armed groups eliminated during clashes with the federal forces between 25 and 26 january 2005 ... in order to verify the identity of one of those corpses as that of amirkhan alikhanov, the military prosecutor’s office is carrying out an additional check into the matter ... .” 62.  on 8 june 2009 the investigation of the criminal case was resumed.
they contacted persons from the neonatal unit, the primary health care clinic for children and the women’s clinic, as well as a and b’s child-minder, all of whom expressed great concern about how the applicants were coping with their family situation and described how they had failed to provide a and b with the necessary structure and rules.15.  the applicants appealed against the judgment to the administrative court of appeal which, on 6 august 2009, struck the case out since, in the meantime, the children had been taken into public care (see paragraph 20 below) and the immediate public care order thereby had lapsed.the council maintained that the applicants had shown a serious lack of ability to care for their children, that there was a clear risk of impairment of their health and development if they were not protected and that the applicants opposed the planned necessary care.it found that, on the basis of all the material in the case, it had been shown that the applicants lacked the ability to care for their children and to understand their needs.lastly, the court noted that both of the applicants had declared that they were willing to receive help from the social council while, at the same time, they had refuted the accuracy of the investigation and claimed that the information was fabricated or much exaggerated.however, it maintained its view that the applicants opposed the visiting plan since they had requested that the public care of their children be lifted and the children be returned home and since they opposed further care under the provisions of the social services act.however, the court observed that the applicants still denied that they had failed in the care of their children and it found that they continued to lack understanding of the children’s problems and their own ability to meet the children’s special needs.in accordance with section 14, paragraph 3, of the 1990 act, this decision was reassessed by the social council on 23 november 2009 but it found no reason to change the previous decision since it considered that there was still a risk that the applicants would intervene in the care of the children if granted contact rights.on the basis of the investigation the court found that if the applicants were granted contact rights to visit the children, there was a real risk that the second applicant, in particular, would intervene in the public care of the children.still, it shared the applicants’ concern that the complete contact restriction could harm the children and noted that the social council had a great responsibility to ensure that the children’s need for contact with their parents was met.in the present case, the court considered that the only way to find suitable solutions to avoid the risks involved in contact rights between the applicants and the children was for the social council to plan the visits carefully together with the applicants and for the applicants to be willing to receive the help and support that they needed.45.  on 22 december 2010 the social council decided that the first applicant should be allowed contact rights with the children on two occasions between january and june 2011 and that, during the same period, the second applicant should be allowed to meet the children on one occasion.the plan specified that the applicants should meet with their children once every third month, for two hours each time, in a place decided by the social council and where staff from the social council would be present, as well as a counsellor and interpreter (to translate if the second applicant spoke persian with the children).it acknowledged that the last two meetings between the applicants and their children had gone well, but stated that the telephone conversation had not been satisfactory since the second applicant had asked questions to try to find out where the children were living and a had felt pressured and sad afterwards.most of these decisions have not been submitted to the court, but it appears from the parties’ submissions that, on 27 march 2013, the social council decided to keep the children in public care and rejected a request by the applicants to extend their contact rights.
the press release mentioned, in particular, that the newspaper in question had published a large amount of material in the context of the election campaign, and that it was in opposition to the current authorities of the komi republic, as it actively supported a well-known local politician who had a long-standing conflict with those authorities.the press release also stated that the police officers who had carried out the search had not clearly explained what the legal basis for their actions had been, and that one of them had acted rudely and had thrown out some of the journalist’s belongings to get access to the latter’s computer during that search.what can be done to carry out a rotation of meanings (ротация смыслов) in the law-enforcement agencies?” 11.  on the same date mr b.s., a journalist, blogger and the applicant’s acquaintance, made a short post on his blog at livejournal.com about the search, stating that the police “[were] seconded for a fight with the political opposition”.the applicant read the text of the press release and the comments, including the one left by mr t. in the applicant’s words, this latter comment made a particularly strong impression on him.13.  he then returned to mr b.s.’s blog and posted a comment which was entitled “i hate the cops, for fuck’s sake” (“ненавижу ментов, сцуконах”) and read as follows: “i disagree with the idea that ‘police officers still have the mentality of a repressive hard stick in the hands of those who have the power’.he conceded that he had been the author of the impugned statement, and argued that it had represented his emotional and spontaneous reaction to the press release of memorial regarding the police search at the office of an opposition newspaper and to mr b.s.’s relevant post and mr t.’s comment.some of the witnesses stated that they had seen the applicant’s comment in mr b.s.’s blog, whereas others stated that they had only become aware of the comment or read it after the criminal proceedings had been instituted against the applicant and his case had attracted the attention of the mass media.(b)  judgment of 7 july 2008 21.  on 7 july 2008 the town court found the applicant guilty under article 282 § 1 of the russian criminal code for “having publicly committed actions aimed at inciting hatred and enmity and humiliating the dignity of a group of persons on the grounds of their membership of a social group”.the court based its findings on, among other evidence, the expert reports of 30 april 2007 and 19 june 2008, stating that it had no reasons to doubt the experts’ conclusions as those were consistent with the circumstances of the case as established by the court.22.  the court stated, in particular, that the applicant, acting out of his personal aversion towards police officers, “[had] decided to influence the public with the aims of inciting them to commit violent actions against police officers, of instilling the public with the resolve and aspiration to commit unlawful actions in respect of [the police officers]”.it also noted that the applicant “[had been] aware of the illegal nature of his actions when he [had] published his text aimed at inciting enmity and hatred, imbued with hostility, hatred and humiliation of the dignity of the police officers of russia... on a more popular internet blog than his own ... and thus [he had] made it accessible to a larger readership” and that “... access to the text [had been] unrestricted and it [had] remained accessible ... for approximately one month ...” 23.  the town court went on to note that the impugned text had been generalised and impersonal and had drawn no distinctions on any grounds; the word “cop” had been used with a negative and insulting meaning.according to the town court, the applicant had “argued that the police officers’ [had been] inferior on account of their professional grouping”, had humiliated their dignity by comparing them with “pigs” and ascribing to them the humiliating characteristics of “lowbrows and hoodlums – the dumbest and most uneducated representatives of the animal world ...” and “cop-hoodlum filth”.26.  lastly, the court considered that “the crime committed by [the applicant was] particularly blatant and dangerous for national security [as] it [ran] against the fundamentals of the constitutional system and state security”, with the result that a sentence involving the deprivation of liberty should be imposed on the applicant.given the applicant’s positive references at the place of residence and work and the absence of a criminal record, the court considered it appropriate to give the applicant a suspended sentence of one year’s imprisonment.it also found that the experts had acted within the scope of their competence, and that the applicant’s allegation of a loose interpretation of the term “social group” had not affected the objectivity of the first-instance court’s findings.
6.  the applicant was charged with having, with an accomplice called v., robbed three supermarkets and with having, with two accomplices, mugged someone in the street outside a discotheque.7.  v. made statements to the police admitting his own participation in the supermarket robberies and implicating the applicant in all four crimes.9.  not being suspected of having taken part in the street mugging, v. could not refuse to give evidence about it; he made a statement to the effect that he had not personally witnessed the robbery but had heard from bystanders that it had been committed by a group that did not include the applicant.10.  v.’s statement disculpating the applicant was not believed by the public prosecutor (officier van justitie) and the court.it sentenced him to four years’ imprisonment and ordered the execution of a suspended two-week sentence of juvenile detention (jeugddetentie) imposed on a previous occasion when the applicant was still a minor.12.  the applicant lodged an appeal (hoger beroep) with the court of appeal (gerechtshof) of the hague.as relevant to the case before the court, he kept silence on all four charges, including the street mugging in relation to which he was by this time being prosecuted for perjury.14.  the court of appeal gave judgment on 4 march 2008 convicting the applicant of all four charges.it sentenced the applicant to six years’ imprisonment and, as the regional court had done, ordered the execution of the two-week suspended sentence of juvenile detention.15.  the evidence on which the conviction of the fourth charge was based may be summarised as follows: (a) the supermarket manager’s report to the police that his supermarket had been robbed; (b) a statement made to the police by a cashier who had been forced at gunpoint to open her cash register, from which one of the robbers had snatched money and other goods; (c) v.’s confession to the police, in which the applicant was named as co-perpetrator.as relevant to the case before the court, he complained under article 6 § 3 (d) of the convention of the use made by the court of appeal of v.’s statements to the police to ground his convictions even though v. had refused to answer the questions of the defence under cross-examination.17.  the advocate general (advocaat-generaal) submitted an advisory opinion (conclusie) analysing the case-law of the court, in particular the chamber judgment al-khawaja and tahery v. the united kingdom, nos.26766/05 and 22228/06, 20 january 2009, and expressing the view that v.’s evidence was “sole and decisive” in respect of the fourth charge but not in respect of the first three charges, for which sufficient other evidence was available.18.  on 5 january 2010 the supreme court gave judgment dismissing the applicant’s appeal on points of law.the mere fact that v. had refused to give evidence under cross-examination did not mean that use in evidence of his statement to the police was excluded by article 6 § 3 (d) of the convention.
on the basis of the inspection document the liski unit compiled on 6 august 2014 a record of the alleged administrative offence, accusing the applicant of non‑compliance with the technical regulations (article 14.43 of the federal code of administrative offences – “the cao”).it was indicated in the relevant court order that information on the progress of the case (including the time and place of hearings) was available on the court’s internet site and at the information stand at the entrance to the court.23.  on 4 february 2015 the appeal court adjourned the hearing to 4 march 2015. according to the government, the correspondence enclosing this decision was dispatched to the applicant by registered mail but was then returned to the court as not claimed within the retention period.pursuant to articles 123, 156 and 266 of the ccomp [code of commercial procedure] the case is being examined in his absence ... this decision ... may be challenged by way of a cassation appeal before the commercial court of the central circuit within two months ...” 26.  according to the government, the correspondence enclosing the appeal decision was dispatched to the applicant but was then returned to the court undelivered.at his request, on 29 june 2015 he was given access to the case file at the registry of that court and was provided with the court decisions of 10 december 2014 and 12 march 2015. the applicant then lodged an application for a cassation‑appeal review in respect of the appeal decision of 12 march 2015 and requested the restoration of the time-limit for a valid reason.28.  in his statement of appeal the applicant argued, as to the matter of notification in the appeal proceedings, that he had not been provided with the liski unit’s statement of appeal and had not been informed of the start of the appeal proceedings.it is noted, however, that the statement of cassation appeal in respect of the appeal decision of 12 march 2015 was dispatched to the first-instance court on 8 july 2015 – that is to say after the expiry of the relevant period ... the case file contains no indisputable proof that the impugned court decision was in a timely manner dispatched to and received by [the applicant].thus, the court finds it acceptable to grant the application for restoration of the time-limit ...” 30.  on 6 october 2015 the commercial court of the central circuit held a public hearing while noting the absence of the parties and that they had been duly notified of the cassation hearing but had chosen not to attend.the cassation court then proceeded with the examination of the case on the basis of the case file and the parties’ arguments concerning the charge and procedural matters.in particular as regards the matter of notification, it considered that the decision to start proceedings had been dispatched to the applicant but that he had avoided being served with judicial notifications; however, he had been able to continue to keep himself informed, via the court’s website, of the appeal proceedings after the first-instance judgment against him (see the “relevant domestic law and practice” section below).the decision of 6 october 2015 reads, in the relevant parts, as follows: “in his cassation appeal [the applicant] asks this court to set aside the appeal decision of 12 march 2015, referring to the wrong application of the substantive and procedural laws.thus, the cassation appeal has been examined in their absence ... having examined the case file and having examined the arguments raised in the cassation appeal and observations in reply, the cassation court finds no grounds for granting the cassation appeal ... this court dismissed the cassation appeal in the part concerning the alleged non‑notification of the appeal hearing.... where a case file contains a document concerning the handing over (о вручении) of the first judicial act to the person or information relating to article 123 § 4, this person is deemed to have been duly notified of appeal, cassation or supervisory review proceedings ... , provided that the relevant court fulfils its obligations relating to the posting of information regarding dates and places of hearings on the official internet site ... pursuant to article 9 § 1 and article 41 §§ 2 and 3 of the ccomp, participants in commercial-court proceedings bear the risk of adverse consequences that may arise from their taking a certain procedural action or from omitting to take it; they use their procedural rights in good faith and fulfil their procedural obligations ... failure to comply with such obligations entail the consequences prescribed by the ccomp ... the decisions to initiate a case and to start the examination of the case were dispatched to [the applicant], as required by the law, but he evaded (уклонился) receipt of the court notifications.given the above-mentioned legal provisions and the presumption of good-faith conduct on the part of the participants in a commercial case, this court concludes that [the applicant] should have been aware of the time and place of the appeal hearing and could have accessed the relevant information on the processing of the case via accessible official sources ... this decision may be challenged before the supreme court of russia within two months of the adoption of this decision, as prescribed by article 291.1 of the ccomp.” 31.  in his cassation appeal before the supreme court of russia the applicant mentioned, inter alia, the following information: “as can be seen from a certificate on registered mail postal dispatches (i have received this certificate on 25 july 2015; see its original enclosed herewith) the decision of 12 august 2014 ... was dispatched on 13 august to the following address [the applicant’s registered residence address].it was then sent back to the court on 21 august 2014, as indicated “because there was no addressee”, and was handed over to the court on 1 september 2014. this confirms that i did not evade the receipt of this notification or any subsequent notification ...” 32.  referring to article 30.12 of the cao, on 30 december 2015 the supreme court upheld the appeal decision and the first cassation-appeal decision.
8.  on 24 april 2006 the prosecutor of the tatarstan republic applied to the koptevskiy district court of moscow, asking that the following books from the risale-i nur collection published by the second applicant be declared extremist and banned (see sections 1 and 13 of the suppression of extremism act cited in paragraphs 41 and 42 below): -  “faith and man”, 2000 edition, translated by m.g.he encouraged interreligious dialogue and opposed all radical actions and attitudes; -  a letter from the ombudsman of the russian federation arguing against declaring said nursi’s texts extremist literature as this would violate the rights of muslims to freedom of religion; -  a letter by professor j. from the international islamic university in malaysia, stating that said nursi’s texts called for reconciliation, peaceful co-existence and cooperation between different religions and cultures, as well as for justice, tolerance, freedom and love; -  a specialist opinion by the department of islamic studies of the tatarstan republic institute of history, according to which the books by said nursi called for self-development and moral perfection, and spoke against violence.the experts had found that the books by said nursi did not contain any harmful or unlawful statements; -  a letter from the council on religious matters of the committee of ministers of the turkish republic, stating that said nursi’s books contained directions on moral and religious issues inspired by the qur’an and did not touch on politics.he had proclaimed that the truth was to be found through dialogue and had spoken against hatred and all forms of compulsion; -  a letter from the ministry of justice of the arab republic of egypt and the mufti of egypt, submitting that said nursi’s texts were beneficial to the reader as they taught love of god and high moral values, and condemned envy, hatred, anger and resentment; -  a letter from the director general of the research centre for islamic history, art and culture of the organisation of islamic conference, stating that said nursi’s texts promoted love of god, the importance of prayer and high moral values.they do not advocate ideas concerning people’s superiority or inferiority based on their ethnic origin.” 17.  counsel for the second applicant submitted to the koptevskiy district court the following specialist opinions, criticising the report of 15 february 2007: -  a specialist opinion by mr mu., president of the russian islamic university, who found that the court-appointed experts were not competent in religious matters and that they had quoted and analysed said nursi’s statements out of context.the book substantiates and justifies extremist activity.” that finding was based, among other things, on the fact that the book contained military metaphors which, according to the specialists, could incline the reader to see the reality through the prism of the conditions of a military camp, a military ground and potential military actions.having received god’s order: ‘prepare your weapons and equipment for the defence!’, all thorny trees and plants on the earth link up their little bayonets, resembling a majestic military camp ready for battle ... the one wise and almighty creates anew, from nothing, by a simple order ‘be and it comes true’, and places in perfect order, wisely and in balance all parts and minute details of unit-like bodies of all animals and other living creatures who are like an army; every century, every spring he creates on the earth’s surface hundreds of thousands of species and tribes of living creatures who are like an army.the author’s objective is to ‘show that the truths of islam are reasonable, solid and interrelated’, which is a typical objective of any theologian ... the verbal means used in the book do not go beyond value judgments used in any religious literature ... under a normal perception of the text the book does not contain anything that could have a possible incentive influence on the human consciousness, will, socio‑psychological characteristics or conduct.possible aberrant perceptions of the textual material by emotionally unstable or easily suggestible people cannot be evaluated in the framework of the present review, as they would require an evaluation of the readers rather than of the text itself ... the book does not contain any statements, appeals or declarations which could be definitely interpreted as incitement of social, racial, ethnic or religious discord associated with violence or as calls to violence ... the book does not contain any ideas which could be definitely interpreted as propaganda about the exceptional nature, superiority or deficiency of persons on the basis of their attitude to religion or their social, racial, ethnic, religious or linguistic affiliation ... the book does not contain any statements which could be definitely interpreted as statements aiming to humiliate persons on the basis of their sex, race, ethnic origin, native language, origin, attitude to religion, affiliation to a social group or on any other basis ... from a scientific point of view, the book is not different from any other religious text; it does not substantiate, justify or advocate the idea that people have an exceptional nature, superiority or deficiency on the basis of their religious affiliation or attitude to religion ... islam, like any other religion as well as atheism, is characterised by a psychologically based belief in the superiority of its world-view over all other world‑views, which made it necessary to substantiate the choice of that world-view ...” 33.  at the hearing the applicant organisation requested the district court to secure the attendance and in-court examination of the moscow state university experts to clarify several of their findings which could be considered ambiguous.35.  on 21 september 2010 the zhelezhnodorozhniy district court of krasnoyarsk granted the prosecutor’s application, declared the book “the tenth word: the resurrection and the hereafter” by said nursi extremist and ordered the destruction of the printed copies.after summarising the applicable domestic law and the submissions by the parties, it held as follows: “according to the specialists’ report of 24 december 2008 by the astafyev krasnoyarsk state pedagogical university, [the specialists] read the book ‘the tenth word: the resurrection and the hereafter’ from the risale-i nur collection by bediüzzaman said nursi ... having analysed the textual content of the book, its syntax structures, the genre characteristics and the methods of structuring the text and expressions, the panel of specialists came to an unanimous finding that, as a whole, the book ‘the tenth word: the resurrection and the hereafter’ from the risale-i nur collection by bediüzzaman said nursi is ideological, and at the same time religious, literature inciting religious discord and containing propaganda about the exceptional nature, superiority or deficiency of persons on the basis of their attitude to religion.the structure of the book is such that in the subsequent text the idea of the necessity to fight, of being ready for a fight, is, on the one hand, attenuated as it is not expressed directly; on the other hand, having been already stated earlier, it may be reinforced in the readers’ minds because the text inspires the idea that non-believers commit a crime consisting in the very fact of not believing and which, according to the text under review, does not merit forgiveness.to sum up, in the opinion of the panel of specialists, the psychological characteristics of the potential addressees (readers) mentioned above are not essential for understanding the text of the book because the text itself, by its specific structure and its [psychological] methods of holding attention and suggestion, is capable, after a long reading, to transmit the advocated religious ideology to any person who is in search of ideological support for his life, who is inclined to reflection and is in the process of self-development.” 36.  the court considered the findings of the report by the astafyev krasnoyarsk state pedagogical university to be credible because they had been made by specialists with professional expertise in the spheres of social psychology, psycholinguistics, philosophy and religious studies who had used scientific methods of analysis.it was not clear what the experts meant when saying that “the book [did] not contain any statements which could be definitely interpreted as incitement of social, racial, ethnic or religious discord associated with violence or as calls to violence”, that “the book [did] not contain any ideas which could be definitely interpreted as propaganda about the exceptional nature, superiority or deficiency of persons on the basis of their attitude to religion or their social, racial, ethnic, religious or linguistic affiliation”, or that “the book [did] not contain any statements which could be definitely interpreted as statements aiming to humiliate persons on the basis of their sex, race, ethnic origin, native language, origin, attitude to religion, affiliation to a social group or on any other basis”.38.  the district court concluded that the book “the tenth word: the resurrection and the hereafter” by said nursi was extremist literature because it was aimed at inciting religious discord and contained propaganda about the exceptional nature, superiority or deficiency of persons on the basis of their attitude to religion.
6.  on 30 december 1992 the applicant’s legal predecessor and two others applied to the bratislava land office for the restitution of some plots of land under the land ownership act of 1991. the date on which the applicant subsequently became a party to the proceedings is not specified.7.  on 23 june 1997 the land office issued a decision approving an agreement whereby the proceedings would end in relation to part of the property but continue in relation to the remainder.8.  by a decision of the land office of 17 may 1999, the proceedings in respect of another part of the property ended.9.  on 12 july 2013 the land office stayed the restitution proceedings on the grounds that the parties had failed to furnish it with their consent to process, in the course of the proceedings, their personal data.11.  on 19 october 2015 the land office stayed the examination of the remainder of the claim, inviting a number of institutions to submit relevant documentation, which they did by the end of 2015.13.  following repeated requests for acceleration of the proceedings and complaints, on 18 june 2011 the bratislava regional land office acknowledged that there had been unjustified delays in the proceedings before the district land office.14.  on 20 december 2011 the applicant brought an action in the bratislava regional court for acceleration of the proceedings under article 250t § 1 of the code of civil procedure (“the ccp”).15.  on 19 april 2012 the regional court dismissed the action on the grounds that the land office was short of staff and overburdened with complex and time-consuming restitution claims.this led to re-examination of the case by the regional court, which decided on 11 april 2013 to allow the action and to order the land office to decide on the applicant’s claim within sixty days.17.  on 12 november 2013, in response to a complaint lodged by the applicant, the bratislava ii district office of the public prosecution service (“the pps”) informed him that the pps had reprimanded the land office for unjustified delays in the restitution proceedings.18.  on 21 august 2014 the applicant lodged a fresh action with the regional court under article 250t § 1 of the ccp, arguing that the land office had failed to abide by the order of 11 april 2013.19.  on 27 may 2015 the regional court allowed the action, issuing a fresh order to the land office to decide on the matter within three months.the constitutional court noted that under article 250t § 1 of the ccp examination of delays in proceedings before administrative authorities fell within the jurisdiction of administrative tribunals, which excluded the jurisdiction of the constitutional court.accordingly, as the administrative proceedings were still pending, the applicant should have lodged a fresh complaint about the alleged inactivity of the land office with the regional court.in a constitutional judgment of 16 january 2013, the constitutional court allowed the relevant part of the applicant’s complaint and found a violation of his right to a fair hearing.
5.  on 23 december 2004 the applicants and 126 others lodged a claim with the komárno land office, an authority that is now part of the komárno district office (“the land office”), for restitution of land under the restoration of land ownership act (law no.6.  on 27 may 2010 the land office dismissed the claim on the grounds that all the claimants lacked standing to bring it.8.  however, following an appeal lodged by the claimants with the supreme court, on 29 january 2014 that court quashed the regional court’s judgment and remitted the case to it on the grounds that the latter had failed to establish the representatives’ authority to act on behalf of all the claimants.the proceedings before the regional court had been conducted merely in the presence of the designated representatives and the court had failed to summon the claimants in person and to have its judgment served on them.9.  accordingly, it became incumbent on the regional court to determine anew the claimants’ administrative-law appeal against the decision of the land office of 27 may 2010. in those proceedings, the court invited the claimants to clarify issues concerning their legal representation with a view to ensuring that they would be represented by a common representative.in so far as relevant for the present application, it ruled that the claimants would all be jointly represented by a lawyer who had up until then represented only some of them.11.  on 25 may 2016 the supreme court upheld the decision of 4 december 2014 following an appeal lodged by the claimants.13.  meanwhile, on 21 january 2015 the constitutional court had rejected a complaint lodged by the applicants about the length of the proceedings in their claim, in so far as they had taken place before the land office and the regional court.the constitutional court held that the length of the administrative proceedings before the land office and of the judicial‑review proceedings held before the regional court could not be considered together.having split the complaint into those two segments, the constitutional court rejected the complaint concerning the administrative proceedings on the grounds of non-exhaustion of ordinary remedies.in particular, it noted that the applicants had failed to challenge the alleged inactivity of the land office under article 250t § 1 of the code of civil procedure (ccp) (see paragraphs 19 et seq.as regards the judicial-review proceedings, the constitutional court dismissed the complaint as manifestly ill-founded.although the length of the appellate proceedings had been unsatisfactory, as such it had not been complained of by the applicants, who had limited their compliant to the proceedings before the regional court.in addition, the constitutional court observed that the proceedings had been procedurally complex on account of the number of claimants.in sum, despite the fact that its judgment had been quashed as flawed, the length of the proceedings before the regional court had not been excessive.
7.  on 2 november 2012 the applicant lodged an application for an interim injunction (ordonanţă preşedenţială), seeking to be granted sole or shared custody of the child during the divorce proceedings, or alternatively the right to visit the child during those proceedings according to a detailed schedule that he submitted to the court.8.  the ploiești district court gave its ruling on 8 january 2013. it ruled that it would not be in the child’s interests to change his residence temporarily during the divorce proceedings.it also observed that the applicant had not been prevented from visiting his child in the mother’s new home, as he himself had confirmed in his statements before the court.9.  following an appeal by the applicant, that ruling was upheld by the prahova county court, which rejected all the arguments raised by the applicant concerning his right to visit his child.10.  in june 2013 the applicant, who was in the habit of visiting his son at school in the mornings, was removed from the school premises by the school guard, who informed him that from then on, he would need the school principal’s permission if he wanted to see his son at the school.it appears from the parties’ submissions that the applicant was able to see his son on 27 december 2012, between 31 december 2012 and 2 january 2013, on 20 january, between 2 and 3 march, on 14 and 17 march, on 28 april, on 2, 6 and 12 may 2013, and one last time, on 9 june 2013, after the court had given its ruling in respect of the interim injunction.12.  on 30 october 2013 the applicant added a copy of the district court’s ruling of 8 january 2013 (see paragraph 8 above) to the case file.13.  after several postponements that were due mainly to the parties’ requests to be allowed to submit additional evidence, on 22 january 2014 the ploieşti district court gave its judgment on the divorce proceedings, ruling that the child’s sole residence would be with his mother.the applicant was granted the right to have the child stay at his home every other weekend and for two weeks during the summer holidays.on 21 february 2014 the applicant asked the district court to finish the drafting of its written judgment faster, and reiterated that he had been unable to see his child for the past ten months.despite requests from the applicant to expedite the proceedings in order to allow him to re-establish contact with his son, the case file could not be sent to the prahova county court before 7 may 2014 owing to administrative problems within the district court.15.  the start of the proceedings before the prahova county court was postponed on several occasions in order to allow the parties to get acquainted with the submissions in the file, to hear evidence and to obtain an expert evaluation of the relations between the parents and between each parent and the child.at the applicant’s request, the case was sent to the bucharest court of appeal.after several postponements to the proceedings, on 2 november 2016 the bucharest court of appeal delivered the final decision in the case.17.  on 19 february 2018 the child moved in with the applicant, at the boy’s own express request and in accordance with an agreement signed before a notary by both parents, following the mother’s decision to move permanently to another town.
4.  the applicant was born in 1967 and was detained at the tekirdağ f‑type prison when the application was lodged.5.  on 9 april 2003 the applicant was taken into police custody on suspicion of being a member of a terrorist organisation.6.  on 13 april 2003 the applicant was brought before the judge at the istanbul state security court who placed him in detention on remand taking into consideration the nature of the offence, and the state of evidence.7.  on 23 july 2003 the istanbul public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul state security court, charging the applicant with membership of a terrorist organisation, and attempting to undermine the constitutional order of the republic of turkey by force.the criminal proceedings against the applicant commenced.8.  on 10 november 2008 the court held a further hearing, in which both the applicant and his lawyer were present.at the end of that hearing, the court ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention.9.  on 10 november 2008 the applicant’s lawyer filed an objection against this decision.on 27 november 2008 the 13th chamber of the istanbul assize court dismissed the objection without holding a hearing.in delivering its decision, the court took into consideration the written opinion of the public prosecutor, which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative.10.  on 4 may 2011 the istanbul assize court convicted the applicant and sentenced him to life imprisonment.11.  on 25 september 2012 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the first-instance court.
the european union safety committee also found that some aviation companies did not comply with the rule according to which the companies have to have their principal place of business in the state of registration.one of the conclusions set down in the visit report drawn up by the european union safety committee was that the casa failed to demonstrate the ability adequately to enforce and implement the relevant safety standards.9.  in a letter addressed to the casa by the european commission on 8 june 2007, the former was asked to require all the companies concerned to present their response to the findings in the report by 22 june 2007 at the latest.the casa was also informed that the companies concerned would have the possibility of presenting their views orally during the air safety committee meeting of 25 june 2007 in brussels, at which a decision was to be taken on whether or not to ban those companies from entering european union airspace.10.  on 14 june 2007 the casa sent the applicant companies the eu safety committee’s report and informed them that they had until 22 june 2007 to present their comments.14.  in respect of the first applicant company and three other companies which are not applicants in the present case, the reason relied upon by the casa was that the airport authorities of several european countries had discovered irregularities with their aircraft, some of which had a recurring nature, and that those irregularities had a negative impact on flight security.16.  on 22 june 2007 the applicant companies wrote to the casa and asked it to reverse its decision on the grounds that it had not explained exactly what irregularities formed the basis for the withdrawal of the aocs and that the casa had not afforded them enough time to remedy the alleged irregularities.17.  the casa refused to reverse its decision, and on 28 june 2007 the applicant companies challenged it in the chişinău court of appeal.the applicants submitted, inter alia, that according to section 23 of the law on civil aviation, the casa was entitled to suspend or withdraw the aocs only if the companies failed to remedy the irregularities found by the casa within the prescribed time-limit.18.  on 3 december 2008 the chişinău court of appeal rejected the applicant companies’ action, finding that the casa had been entitled to withdraw the applicant companies’ aocs because serious irregularities threatening the safety of the flights had been found in respect of the first applicant company and three other companies, which are not applicants in the present case, and because those companies had failed to remedy those irregularities.the court also found that the other companies had failed to comply with the casa’s order of 1 june 2007 prohibiting flights to iraq and afghanistan as of 15 july 2007. the court did not give an answer to the applicants’ argument concerning the casa’s failure to observe the provisions of section 23 the law on civil aviation and those of the regulations in the field of civil aviation.it only stated that the legal basis for the casa’s decision was section 5 of the law on civil aviation and paragraph (c) of rac-aoc 0170 from the regulations in the field of civil aviation.the applicant companies challenged the decision before the supreme court of justice, reiterating inter alia their position concerning the unlawfulness of the challenged decision.19.  on 29 april 2009 the supreme court of justice dismissed the applicant companies’ appeal and upheld the judgment of the court of appeal after finding that the casa was entitled to revoke the aocs since the second and third applicant companies had failed to comply with its instructions concerning the ban on all flights of aircraft registered in moldova to iraq and afghanistan, with effect from 15 july 2007. as to the first applicant company, the supreme court confirmed the finding of the inferior court that serious irregularities threatening the safety of the flights had been found in respect of it and other companies which are not applicants in the present case and that they had failed to remedy those irregularities.the supreme court did not specify which irregularities it referred to and did not address the issue of the unlawfulness of the casa’s decision.
the applicant admitted that he had expressed his wish to be involved in the activities of the bolshevik party, but mehmet desde, who had connections in the organisation, had never replied to him.13.  although mehmet desde used his right to remain silent before the police, he made statements before the public prosecutor in the absence of a lawyer, where he stated that he had stayed in the applicant’s hotel for two days and had borrowed the applicant’s car.the prosecutor charged the applicant with aiding and abetting an illegal organisation, bolşevik parti – kuzey kürdistan/türkiye –, under article 169 of the criminal code and section 5 of the prevention of terrorism act as in force at the material time.16.  at the hearing held on 24 july 2003, the applicant made his defence submissions in relation to the merits of the case and denied the allegations against him.having regard, inter alia, to the statements of the applicant as well as of the other co-accused, the “written evidence” and the content of the case file as a whole, the trial court concluded that the applicant had committed the offence of aiding and abetting a terrorist organisation by allowing the other co-accused, namely mehmet desde, e.y.having regard, inter alia, to the statements of the applicant as well as of the other co-accused, the “written evidence” and the content of the case file as a whole, it held that the applicant had committed the offence of aiding and abetting a terrorist organisation by allowing the other co-accused, namely mehmet desde, e.y.by a decision dated 10 november 2005, the principal public prosecutor at the court of cassation sent the case file back to the first‑instance court and requested that the latter reconsider the case in the light of the amendments made to the code of criminal procedure.22.  the public prosecutor before the i̇zmir assize court submitted his opinion on the merits of the case and requested the acquittal of the applicant and his co-accused on the grounds that the organisation which they had allegedly founded did not correspond to the definition of a terrorist organisation under section 7 (1) of law no.having considered the structure, methods, purpose and activities of the said organisation, the court concluded that it could be categorised as a terrorist organisation, contrary to the submissions of the accused and the public prosecutor in charge of the investigation.the trial court further held that the applicant had admitted to the allegations in his statements to the police.moreover, having regard, inter alia, to the statements of the applicant as well as of the other co-accused persons, the “written evidence” and the content of the case file as a whole, it held that the applicant had committed the offence of aiding and abetting a terrorist organisation by allowing the other co-accused persons, namely mehmet desde, e.y.25.  on 5 october 2006 the principal public prosecutor at the court of cassation lodged a written opinion with the ninth division of the court of cassation in which he submitted, inter alia, that the objections of the lawyers concerning the use of police statements to convict the co-defendants should be rejected as irrelevant and unsubstantiated.however, the principal public prosecutor also submitted that the division should quash the judgment of the i̇zmir state security court on account of the legislative amendments to law no.26.  on 25 december 2006 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of 16 march 2006 stating that the lawyers’ objections in respect of the applicant and two other co-defendants were irrelevant and unsubstantiated.the applicant maintains that he only became aware of the judgment in april 2007. there is nothing in the case file to indicate that the applicant became aware of the judgment on the date of delivery.
4.  the applicant was born in 1975 and is detained in chișinău.5.  on 24 august 2011 the applicant was taken into police custody on charges of murder and unauthorized possession of a firearm.he was remanded in custody by the centru district court on 28 august 2011 and his detention was subsequently extended every thirty days until 21 january 2012 on the grounds that given the seriousness of the charges against him, he might abscond, re-offend and interfere with the investigation.6.  on 17 january 2012 the applicant’s case was committed for trial and his detention was extended by the court every three months, finding that the grounds which justified his initial detention had remained valid.7.  in his appeals against the decisions of 12 april, 10 june and 10 july 2013 the applicant complained, inter alia, about the length of his detention which, in his view, was no longer justified.he argued that his detention pending trial had already exceeded the twelve-month time-limit set under article 186 (8) of the code of criminal procedure and that the courts had not put forward any exceptional circumstance justifying such a long detention period, while the seriousness of charges could not by themselves constitute sufficient ground for his extended deprivation of liberty.8.  by decisions of 23 april, 20 june and 25 july 2013 the chișinău court of appeal dismissed the appeals.9.  by a final judgment of the supreme court of justice of 17 september 2014 the applicant was found guilty on all charges and sentenced to twenty‑three years of imprisonment.11.  according to the applicant, he was detained in cells with poor lighting, damp walls, and accommodating six inmates in an area of 6 square metres.due to overcrowding, the applicant had to share a bed with another inmate with whom he took turns to sleep.in cold weather the heating was not turned on and the temperature in the cells was extremely low.the squat toilet was not separated from the rest of the cell.the prison laundry was not operational and the applicant was unable to wash his clothes.12.  on 18 april 2014 the applicant’s lawyer complained to the prosecutor general’s office about the applicant’s detention conditions in prison no.13. by a letter of 15 may 2014 the department of penitentiary institutions denied the complaints on overcrowding, tb infected inmates, insufficient food and medical assistance.
4.  the applicant was born in 1983 and at the time of lodging his application he was serving his prison sentence in bolu f-type prison.5.  on 10 december 2007 the applicant wrote a letter to a member of parliament, in which he had praised the imprisoned leader of the pkk, abdullah öcalan by using “kürt halk önderi”, meaning the leader of kurdish people.6.  pursuant to the regulations on the administration of penitentiary institutions and the execution of sentences, the applicant was found guilty of breaching prison order by the kocaeli f- type prison disciplinary board (referred hereafter as “the board”) and on 24 december 2007 the applicant was sentenced to 13 days’ solitary confinement, on account of his statements in the above mentioned letter.7.  on 17 january 2008 the kocaeli enforcement judge rejected the applicant’s objection.8.  on 14 february 2008 the kocaeli assize court upheld the judgment of 17 january 2008.
5.  at the time of the events giving rise to the present application he was a pensioner who received an amount equivalent to some fifty-eight euros (eur) per month.on 5 may 2014 the minister of social protection organised a meeting with the inhabitants of the applicant’s town.the applicant was also present and after the meeting he asked the minister a question about the method of calculation of his pension.the minister replied that his pension was high enough and questioned in an ironic manner whether the applicant even understood the meaning of the words used in his question.the answer infuriated the applicant and he cursed and slapped the minister in the face.6.  on the same day, following the minister’s complaint, criminal proceedings were initiated against the applicant on charges of hooliganism.7.  on 12 may 2014 the prosecutor in charge of the case ordered the applicant’s psychiatric examination in order to determine whether he was fit to plead in the criminal proceedings.9.  on 2 july 2014, at the prosecutor’s request, the glodeni district court ordered an in-patient psychiatric forensic examination of the applicant.his appeal and appeal on points of law were rejected by the bălți court of appeal and the supreme court of justice on 28 august and 15 october 2014, respectively.upon arrival, the applicant was asked to sign several pre-printed documents, the meaning of which was that he was giving his formal consent to hospitalisation and treatment.12.  on 24 september 2014, at the lawyer’s advice, the applicant wrote to the hospital administration a letter stating that he had been hospitalised against his will on 18 september 2014 and that if he had signed anything, he wished to withdraw his signature.it appears from a video submitted by the applicant’s representative, that the door of the hospital ward where the applicant was detained was locked and that one could enter or exit only with the approval of the medical staff.14.  on 30 september 2014 the prosecutor in charge of the case applied to the glodeni district court to have the applicant remanded in custody pending trial for a period of thirty days.15.  on 4 november 2014 the glodeni district court rejected the prosecutor’s request and found that the applicant had been subjected to inhuman and degrading treatment as a result of his forceful hospitalisation.16.  by a final judgment of the supreme court of justice of 26 december 2017 the applicant was found guilty as charged and sentenced to a criminal fine of 4,000 moldovan lei (mdl), the equivalent of some eur 180.
when the applicant left the supermarket, he started to run away, but the police officers caught him and arrested him at about 6 p.m. 6.  according to the government, since the applicant resisted arrest, the police officers had to apply force (a so-called “leg sweep” technique).compiled a report for the criminal police department of the zadar police (“the zadar criminal police”) on the force they had used against the applicant.the report stated that at about 5.50 p.m. that day several officers from the drug crimes division of the zadar police had followed a lead that the applicant had been procuring large amounts of heroin from an unknown person in šibenik and selling it on in zadar and biograd na moru with another person, v.p.13.  on 5 november 2012 the chief of the zadar criminal police sent a report on the use of force against the applicant to the chief of the zadar police, describing the events at issue in the same manner as officers b.r.20.  on 28 march 2013 the chief of the national police asked the chief of the zadar police to check the applicant’s allegations from the standpoint of the police and to cooperate with the state attorney’s office.the report it had received on 23 january 2013 indicated that the applicant had resisted the police officers in their attempt to carry out an identity check and put him in a police vehicle, in response to which the officers had used force against him which had resulted in him being forced to the ground and “receiving a blow to the head”.24.  on the same day the chief of the zadar police sent a letter to the applicant informing him that the police officers had lawfully used force against him and that no case of ill-treatment could be established on the basis of the medical reports or statements of the police officers concerned.25.  on 26 april 2013 the chief of the zadar police sent a report to the chief of the supervisory service of the national police (služba za nadzor, unapređenja rada i razvoj policije), repeating the findings of officer i.m.27.  on 14 may 2013 the state attorney’s office ordered the police to identify the fourth police officer mentioned in the criminal complaint who had allegedly pushed the applicant down the stairs and had the badge no.since there had been some customers in the supermarket the officers had not resorted to handcuffing the applicant but had instead taken the applicant by the arm and escorted him towards the exit.also stated that the officers’ conduct in respect of the applicant had been completely professional and that the use of force against the applicant had been “unavoidable”.as regards the specific moment when the applicant and two officers had fallen to the ground he said that the situation had become really messy because the applicant had put very strong resistance to fight them off.29.  on 26 november 2013 the state attorney’s office dismissed the complaint on the basis of statements taken from the police officers involved as well as from officers, the applicant’s allegations and the medical documentation enclosed.33.  the applicant appealed on 16 june 2014. he argued that the relevant facts surrounding his arrest had not been assessed, that no evidence had been collected and that it was for the state authorities to prove that the injuries he had sustained during his arrest had not been caused by the police.the appeal was dismissed on 30 june 2014 by a three-judge panel of the zadar county court on the grounds that the perforated eardrum the applicant had suffered during his arrest did not amount to a serious bodily injury.
in yerevan several times in order to discuss financial matters relating to the payment of the rest of the debt.he stated that, inter alia, the applicant had given him 1 g of a radioactive substance in either 2002 or 2003. at the beginning of march 2010 he and s.t.in the period between 1 september 2009 and 30 march 2010, and in particular two telephone calls made on 10 march 2010; and the relevant exit and entry stamps in the applicant’s passport proving that he had arrived in yerevan from moscow on 10 march 2010.14.  at one of the hearings before the regional court, relying, inter alia, on the strasbourg convention of 1959 on mutual assistance in criminal matters, the applicant requested the temporary transfer of s.t.16.  by a letter of 29 april 2011, the ministry of justice of georgia, refused to grant the request by referring to article 11 § 1(b) of the strasbourg convention, which states that a request for assistance may be refused if “his or her presence is necessary at criminal proceedings pending in the territory of the requested party”.the ministry of justice added that s.t.’s and h.o.’s had been convicted by a judgment of the tbilisi court of appeal of 30 march 2011, but that the judgment was still open to an appeal on points of law.17.  on 6 may 2011 the applicant’s representative allowed the regional court to continue with the examination of the case even if s.t.could not be transferred to armenia, since the applicant was ill. however, he asked the court not to rely in its judgment on the testimony given in georgia by those absent witnesses.18.  at a hearing of 24 may 2011 the presiding judge informed the parties of the reply received from the ministry of justice of georgia.19.  at the same hearing the applicant asked to summon s.g. – the conductor of the train who had been questioned during the investigation – as a witness, on the grounds that some of his statements were in contradiction with the statements of s.t.20.  on 25 may 2011 the regional court convicted the applicant and sentenced him to seven years’ imprisonment, and ordered the confiscation of his property.– the applicant’s friend and h.o.’s daughter respectively; the results of forensic examinations carried out in georgia and armenia confirming that the substance discovered contained enriched uranium; the evidence of telephone correspondence between the applicant and h.o.; and the existence of exit and entry stamps in the applicant’s passport proving that he had arrived in yerevan from moscow on 10 march 2010.at trial and about the trial court’s refusal to summon s.g. 22.  on 13 july 2011 the criminal court of appeal upheld the applicant’s conviction.could not be examined and the refusal to examine witness s.g. 23.  the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law, raising similar arguments to those put forward in the previous appeal.
the board examined the issue of a’s roma heritage in light of the united nation’s 1989 convention on the rights of the child (see paragraph 69 below) and the council of europe’s 1995 framework convention for the protection of national minorities (see paragraph 72 below) and concluded that these did not prevent that a care order be issued.18.  as to the question of contact, the board stated that this had to be determined in light of the proportionality requirement set out in article 8 of the convention as well as the united nation’s 1989 convention on the rights of the child (see paragraph 69 below).the court referred to statements the applicant had made to the police, to the extent that her father wanted to take over the care of the child and planned to take the applicant and her daughter abroad, kill the applicant and then take over the care of a. he had allegedly said this only a few hours before he had stabbed the parents of the applicant’s friend (see paragraph 7 above).in addition, the applicant’s father could not in any way be expected to be a serious care person for a. viewed in connection with the contact sessions that had taken place, which had led to the child having negative reactions and challenged the calm and stability in the foster home, this supported the conclusion that the court should not allow any contact.in the high court’s view, an overall assessment had to be made, in which not only the probability of an abduction would weigh in, but also factors such as the consequences of a possible abduction, the child’s robustness and other consequences that contact would entail for the child.2014 page 976) the supreme court first set out the general principles with respect to contact rights, based on the child welfare act, its preparatory works and related supreme court case-law, article 9(3) of the 1989 convention on the rights of the child (see paragraph 69 below) and article 8 of the convention on the right to respect for family life as this provision had been interpreted by the european court of human rights in cases such as johansen v. norway, cited above; r. and h. v. the united kingdom (no.studying the high court’s reasons, it found that these could be understood to mean that, in the overall assessment, even a small (“certain”) risk of abduction would be a sufficient basis for denying contact if an abduction would have a strong harmful effect on the child, if the child was vulnerable, and if the child reacted negatively to contact sessions.this included a’s maternal grandfather having started serving a four and a half year sentence (see paragraphs 7 and 31 above); two years had passed since the incident in which the emergency foster mother had been followed (see paragraph 12 above) and nothing had happened since to indicate that the applicant’s family was trying to locate a or planning to abduct her; the applicant had grown older and was anew pregnant, now with a father to-be from a different environment; the applicant had gone to school and undergone a work placement.it noted that while the supreme court under the relevant procedural law had been formally competent to decide on the merits of the case, it had chosen to quash the high court’s former judgment because the case had been insufficiently elucidated.in the present case, the relevant provisions were found in article 9(3) of the 1989 convention on the rights of the child on the child’s right to regular and direct contact with both parents (see paragraph 69 below) and article 8 of the convention on the right to respect for family life.in addition, it followed from articles 5(1), 10(1) and 14(1) of the council of europe’s framework convention for the protection of national minorities of 1 february 1995 (see paragraph 72 below) that the state had a duty to promote the conditions necessary for persons belonging to national minorities to maintain and develop their culture, allow the minority to learn their minority language and use it freely and without interference.this was also consistent with the impression of a psychologist, f. this overrepresentation could be due to the fact that many members of the community did not adhere to the norwegian model for law enforcement and conflict resolution, and the possibility of keeping children away from the norwegian authorities provided by family ties abroad.he had told the police that the applicant’s cousin and younger brother had threatened to kill him, and that this had allegedly taken place on 15 december 2010. his lawyer had written in a letter to the child welfare service dated 8 november 2011 that y had repeatedly received death threats from the applicant’s father, brother and cousin when he had asked for a paternity test.these exceptions had to be considered as expressions of a general principle in family law (barneretten) to consider the best interests of the child, a principle that had also to be applied when interpreting article 30 of the convention on the rights of the child (ibid.)as to the appellants’ attack on the substance of the high court’s judgment, the committee found that neither the decision’s significance beyond the scope of the current case nor any other circumstances indicated that the case should be heard by the supreme court.
the decision allowed preliminary enforcement of the expropriation and stated that the owners were to be given bgn 13,023 (the equivalent of approximately eur 6,657) in compensation.the decision recorded as owner of the expropriated plot the person from whom the applicants had bought the property.in a final judgment of 3 april 2009 that court declared the decision null and void as it had failed to specify the actual owners of the plot to whom compensation was due, and referred the case back to the administrative authorities.the road infrastructure agency requested re-opening of the judicial review proceedings on the ground that it had not been able to take part in them as an interested third party even though its participation was mandatory under the state property act 1996 as investor in the construction of the motorway.in a judgment of 12 october 2009 a five-member panel of the supreme administrative court allowed the request, quashed the judgment of 3 april 2009 and remitted the case to be re-examined by a three-member panel of the supreme administrative court.8.  in a final judgment of 28 december 2010 the supreme administrative court found that compensation was due to the applicants as owners of the plot at issue and that it had to be increased to bgn 59,817 (the equivalent of eur 30,577), in accordance with the conclusions of an expert report obtained in the course of the proceedings.in its response of 21 february 2011, the agency informed the applicants that due to some changes in the layout of the motorway, a new decision for expropriation of the affected property was being prepared.10.  on 5 july 2011 the council of ministers issued a new decision for expropriation, in accordance with which 5,215 square metres of the applicants’ plot were to be expropriated against compensation in the amount of bgn 1,794 (the equivalent of eur 917).in a judgment of 26 june 2012, the supreme administrative court declared the decision of 5 july 2011 null and void as it had failed to take account of the binding character of the judgment of 28 december 2010, the latter having determined the dispute between the parties with final effect.in march 2012 the ministry of finance unsuccessfully sought reopening of the proceedings ending with the judgment of 28 december 2010 before the supreme administrative court.they subsequently wrote to the agency again on 15 october 2012, to the council of ministers on 14 october 2013 submitting also a writ of enforcement in respect of the sum due, and to the regional governor on 21 february 2014.12.  on 26 february 2015, at the time of submitting their observations on the admissibility and merits in this case, the government informed the court that on 15 may 2014 the road infrastructure agency had paid to each applicant bgn 29,908.50, or altogether bgn 59,817 pursuant to the final judgment in their favour of 28 december 2010.14.  in the meantime, on 22 november 2013 the applicants brought proceedings before the sofia administrative court in relation to the lack of enforcement of the final judicial decision of 28 december 2010. in particular, they claimed they had incurred pecuniary damage as a result of the lack of enforcement; they also claimed interest on the amount determined in the said judgment for the period of its non-enforcement.if, on the other hand, the applicants’ claim was about the lack of enforcement of a final judicial decision, the court held that the competent body in that connection was the bailiff and the relevant procedure was under chapter xvii of the code of administrative procedure 2006 (“the 2006 code”).15.  the applicants appealed before the supreme administrative court, alleging a breach of article 203 of the 2006 code and a breach of section 1(1) of the state and municipalities responsibility for damage act (the “smrda”), and challenging the lower court’s decision as being unreasoned.
7.  on an unspecified date towards the end of the 1980s or the beginning of the 1990s the state took a decision to create an opencast coalmine near the village.in a decision of 2 october 1992 the pernik regional governor cancelled the two expropriations, noting that the plots of land due in compensation had not been provided “owing to the impossibility for the municipality to ensure such plots”.12.  the pernik regional court (“the regional court”), which examined the case at first instance, heard a witness, a neighbour of the applicant, who stated during a court hearing of 13 december 2001 that the walls of the applicant’s house were cracked, that its state continued to deteriorate, and that the barn had collapsed three or four years earlier.the burden of proof to establish such a circumstance lay on the applicant and the other party had argued that the damage had been due to the manner of construction of his house.before the sofia court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) he called an additional witness, who stated during a hearing on 2 february 2004 that many houses in the area had already collapsed, and that all the other houses in the applicant’s neighbourhood had cracks.it held that while witness testimony could establish the extent and the timing of the damage to the applicant’s property, it could not prove the causal link between that damage and the detonation works at the mine.it was of the view that the lower courts had not duly accounted for the fact that the mine operated in a prohibited area close to the applicant’s house, the house being situated within both the “sanitation zone” and the “security zone” around the mine.the lower courts had had to examine this fact in light of the statements of the witnesses, which had “established the circumstance” that the damage to the applicant’s property had been the result of the detonation works.the expert noted that, owing to the passage of time and the destruction of some documents, it was impossible to determine the exact distance between the applicant’s house and the area where the detonations had been carried out in 1997. nevertheless, it was clear that the house had been well inside the “sanitation zone” around the mine.19.  the court of appeal heard an additional witness for the applicant, who stated during a court hearing of 23 november 2006 that many houses in the village had collapsed, and that he thought that this was due to the detonations at the mine.it found it “indisputable” that employees of the mine had acted in breach of law, by carrying out detonations in a prohibited area close to residential buildings, including at the time when, according to the applicant, the damage to his property had started.nevertheless, on the basis of the material submitted, the applicant had not proved the causal link between the mine’s work and the damage to his property.the claimant has not shown that the residential building and the auxiliary buildings, given [their] manner of construction, the materials [used] and the time of [their] construction, would not have been damaged, or would not have been damaged to such an extent, had it not been for the detonation works at the mine.it has not been shown whether and to what degree the buildings’ state described by the expert [heard by the regional court] was due to normal wear and tear, taking into account the year [they were built] and the manner of [their] construction, and any lack of maintenance by the owner after the 1990 expropriation.” 21.  upon a further appeal by the applicant, in a final judgment of 3 july 2008 the supreme court of cassation upheld the court of appeal’s judgment, affirming its conclusions.it pointed out in particular that the expert report presented to the court of appeal (see paragraph 18 above) had only established that the applicant’s property had been situated within the “sanitation zone” around the mine, but “was insufficient to prove the existence of a causal link between the damage ... and the unlawful behaviour of employees of the respondent company”.
5.  the first and third applicants were born in 1941, the second applicant was born in 1974, and the fourth applicant was born in 1967. the first, second and third applicants live in kazanlak and the fourth applicant lives in sofia.at the time ms maria kopankova lived in the house with her two sons, the first applicant and mr kancho kopankov, and their families, which included the remaining applicants (the second and third applicants are mr kancho kopankov’s wife and son).7.  by a decision of the town mayor of 18 july 1988 the property was expropriated under the territorial and urban planning act with a view to constructing a residential building.the decision stated that each of the two owners (ms maria kopankova and the fourth applicant) were to be compensated with a flat in a building which the municipality planned to construct.8.  after the expropriation the municipal authorities opened a blocked housing savings account with the state savings bank in the name of ms maria kopankova and the fourth applicant and transferred to it 13,420 old bulgarian levs (bgl) – the equivalent of the expropriated property’s value as assessed at the time.10.  throughout the years that followed ms maria kopankova and the applicants petitioned on many occasions the municipal authorities to provide them with the compensation due, but to no avail.12.  on 16 february 2009 the applicants and mr kancho kopankov made a request to the mayor under section 9(2) of the transitional provisions of the territorial planning act of 2001 (hereinafter “section 9(2)”) for the revocation of the expropriation order of 18 july 1988. as no response followed, they applied for judicial review of the mayor’s tacit refusal.13.  the stara zagora administrative court (hereinafter “the administrative court”) gave a judgment on 27 may 2010. it found, firstly, that the fourth applicant and ms maria kopankova, and subsequently her heirs, had not received the compensation due to them, namely two flats.the administrative court found further that the authorities had not “taken possession” of the applicants’ property, within the meaning of section 9(2), because there had been no formal decision to take possession (as had been required at the time), and because in any event the construction work which had started on the plot had eventually been abandoned.they claimed the value of the house and of other objects (such as trees, the pavement and outbuildings) which had stood on the plot of land and had been destroyed, but for which they had never received any compensation.16.  in the context of the ensuing proceedings the administrative court, examining the case, appointed experts, who estimated the value of the house and the remaining objects at 37,868 new bulgarian levs (bgn – the equivalent of approximately 19,370 euros (eur)).it reasoned that the applicants’ situation had been regulated by sections 9(1) and 9(2) of the transitional provisions of the territorial planning act of 2001 (see paragraph 22 below, hereinafter “section 9(1)” and “section 9(2)”), and that the existence of such a special avenue of redress meant that the general tort provisions of the state and municipalities responsibility for damage act did not apply.18.  these conclusions were upheld in a final decision of 20 april 2012 of the supreme administrative court, which added that since the expropriation of the applicants’ property had been quashed and the expropriation proceedings completed, the municipality could not be liable for any damage stemming from these proceedings.it pointed out in addition that the applicants’ claims did not fall to be examined by the civil courts, under the general rules of tort, and that the administrative courts remained competent to examine them, even though the claims were inadmissible.it thus refused to apply article 135 § 2 of the code of administrative procedure (see paragraph 25 below) and transfer the case to the civil courts, as the applicants had requested.
6.  between july 2006 and august 2007, the applicant turned to several state institutions, including regional branches of the hygiene and epidemiological inspectorate, the public health directorate at the ministry for health, the regional building inspectorate, the mayor of silistra and the prosecution service.he did so in a brief one-paragraph letter in reply to a complaint made by the applicant on 31 july 2006. the inspectors had established during that visit that two printing machines (without specifying their type, power or capacity) were operating at that time in the printing company and that this number was in line with the requirements set out in regulation no.on 22 august 2006, the applicant and the same three neighbours wrote again to the same directorate expressing concern about and dissatisfaction with the manner in which the measurements in respect of noise and air pollution had been taken on 18 august 2006. in particular, two individuals who had not shown any credentials had turned up and measured the noise with a machine which had not reacted to sudden high-pitched noises but was set up to measure only background noise.furthermore, when the applicant had invited the inspectors to also measure the purity of the air, one of them had opened the window, sniffed the air and stated that it was not that bad and that, in all likelihood, it would turn out to be within the relevant norms when measured.on 29 august 2006 the ministry for health issued an instruction to the owner of the printing company, inviting him to bring the noise levels generated by his business within the limits stipulated in the relevant regulations.12.  on 30 august 2006, apparently in reply to the applicant’s letter of complaint of 31 july 2006, the head of the public health agency informed the applicant that: the chemical agents identified at the work stations at the printing company in question were within the limits listed in regulation no.13 of 2003 for the protection of individuals exposed to chemical agents at their work station; the noise reaching the applicant’s home when the windows were open, as well as the dwelling of one of his neighbours, was not in conformity with the requirements of regulation no.they pointed out too that the noise levels had not been lowered, contrary to the authorities’ instructions, and stressed that the record which they had signed on the day when the noise measurements had been taken had indicated 58 decibels (db) and not 38 as stated in the record included in the file.18.  on 10 september 2007 the head of the ruse regional inspectorate for the environment and water wrote to the applicant in reply to the letter of 20 august 2007. the reply stated that two experts sent by the inspectorate had carried out a check on 30 august 2007 at the printing company in the presence of its owner.the conclusions of that check were that the printing company was operating on the basis of a permit issued by the building authorities on 25 july 2003. the type of operation – offset printing on sheets of paper – was not among the operations listed in annex i of regulation no.the text on the posters claimed that the printing company had been licensed in breach of the relevant legal requirements and that the pollution it was causing was harmful to the people living in the vicinity.contrary to the requirements of article 147 of the criminal code 1968, the applicant had not submitted proof showing that his complaints to the authorities and the claims he had made in the posters were true.while officials from the ministry of health had indeed established that the noise emitted by the printing business had been beyond the authorised limits, the authorities had instructed its owner to bring it within the relevant norms and had given him a deadline, with which he had complied.the court then stated that, as seen from a chemical agents inspection report of august 2006 and from the subsequent explanations of the person who had carried out the check, it was clear that measurements had been taken throughout the working process at the printing premises and that the level of the chemical agents measured was not above the norms.27.  following an appeal by the applicant, the silistra regional court upheld the first-instance court’s findings in a final judgment of 30 october 2007. it observed that the relevant authorities had carried out a number of inspections at the printing business in question in response to the applicant’s complaints.
4.  the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in zagreb.5.  on 28 april 2008 the daily newspaper b. published an article under the headline “mob lawyer joins the supervisory board”, describing the applicant as an extortionist.6.  on 27 may 2008 the applicant’s representative asked the publisher to publish a correction of that information.the publisher neither replied nor published a correction of the disputed information.7.  on 9 july 2008, after the expiry of the deadline envisaged in the relevant provisions of the media act (zakon o medijima) to publish a correction, the applicant brought a civil action against the publisher in the zagreb municipal civil court (općinski građanski sud u zagrebu), claiming non-pecuniary damage.8.  on 10 july 2009 the publisher replied stating in particular that the applicant had failed to submit a power of attorney with his request.9.  at a hearing held on 31 january 2012 the zagreb municipal civil court heard evidence from the applicant who said that he had authorised his representative to act on his behalf vis-à-vis the publisher.10.  on 31 january 2012 the zagreb municipal civil court, relying on sections 22(2) and 40(3) of the media act, declared the applicant’s claim inadmissible.the first-instance court held that the request for the publication of a correction of the disputed information had not been signed by a duly authorised person because the applicant had not proved that his representative had actually submitted a power of attorney with the request.the relevant part of the decision reads: “in his testimony, the [applicant] stated that he had given power of attorney to his counsel, [lj.p], authorising her to institute both criminal and civil proceedings for defamation ... he was present during the preparation of a draft of the request for the correction of the disputed information ... ... this court does not accept the [applicant]’s evidence because the [applicant] has no direct knowledge of what was ultimately sent to the defendant ... on the other hand, the [applicant’s] statement concerning the granting of a power of attorney is of no relevance for the solution to the specific legal issue ... ... given that the request for the publication of a correction of the disputed information was not signed by the [applicant], but by his counsel, [lj.p.], and that it was not accompanied with a power of attorney, the [applicant] has not proved that he had properly requested the publication of a correction of the disputed information ... an action which is, pursuant to section 22(2) of the media act, a procedural requirement for bringing a civil action for non-pecuniary damage against the publisher ...” 11.  on 19 november 2012 the šibenik county court (županijski sud u šibeniku) dismissed an appeal by the applicant and upheld the first-instance decision.12.  on 14 march 2013 the constitutional court declared a constitutional complaint lodged by the applicant inadmissible on the grounds that there was “no constitutional issue” to be examined.
11.  in the meantime in april 2000 the issue was brought to the attention of the justice minister and in january 2001 eviction orders were issued to evict the occupiers of the premises.17.  on unspecified dates the two applicant companies instituted separate constitutional redress proceedings complaining that the taking had not been in the public interest, that there had been a delay in the payment of compensation and that they had had no access to an impartial and independent tribunal in the meantime.20.  it rejected their claim concerning the lack of public interest of the expropriation, having considered that the purpose of the taking was one in the general interest of citizens, given the role of the attorney general who performed constitutional duties in the interest of the state.1 to the convention in connection with the delay resulting from the expropriation proceedings, highlighting the slowness of the authorities in taking steps to vacate the premises and in offering the applicant companies compensation.22.  it further found a violation of article 6 in so far as the applicant companies had not had access to court between 1993 and 2009, given that access to the land arbitration board (lab) was limited solely to the col. 23.  moreover, until 2009 the lab did not fulfil the requirements of an independent and impartial tribunal given its composition according to the law as it stood before the 2009 amendments.24.  furthermore, in the court’s view, the applicant companies were also still suffering a violation of their right to a fair trial within a reasonable time in connection with the proceedings which were at the time in their preliminary phase, in so far as the col had not yet officially notified the owners (or curators on their behalf) allowing them to challenge the compensation.25.  the court further noted that while according to the law the obligation to act was upon the col and owners should not be required to take judicial steps to impose a term for him to act, the fact that the applicant companies had not undertaken such judicial steps could affect the compensation awarded.1 to the convention in so far as in the absence of a notice to treat issued by the col the applicant companies had had no access to court from 1993 to 2009. however, these violations persisted further, in so far as even after the declaration of 2009 and the col’s deposit in court of the offer made to the applicant companies, he had failed to notify the owners as required by law [article 9 (2) of the ordinance] with the consequence that proceedings had stagnated and no access to court by the applicant companies was possible as a result of his inaction.similarly, the constitutional court confirmed that the applicant companies’ failure to bring judicial proceedings to oblige the col to act could only have a bearing on the award of compensation but not on the substance of the claim.31.  the constitutional court also confirmed the lack of independence and impartiality of the lab, however not only until 2009. the constitutional court considered that, even following those amendments the law remained deficient given the lack of security of tenure of the technical members of the board, on whose technical advice the chairperson had to base his or her decision.while it confirmed the first‑instance court’s findings concerning the role of the chairperson, it observed that the technical members were still subject to reappointment (by the president of malta, on the advice of the executive, which was always a party to the proceedings before such board).although the role of the technical members was subordinate to that of the chairperson (who following the amendments was not bound to follow the experts’ unanimous report), in practice it was decisive in so far as the chairperson (a legal person without the necessary technical knowledge) was undoubtedly influenced by the decision of the technical members when considering technical matters.as stated in previous domestic case-law, at least in the mind of an objective observer, the possibility of the technical experts being reappointed could be an incentive for such members to determine low values for expropriated property in order to remain in the good books of the executive who had the power to keep them in office.they also noted that the government had done restoration works in the area, particularly to a part of palazzo verdelin, which was a historic building described in newspapers as an early example of baroque architecture in malta, but not to the part owned by the applicant companies which was left to deteriorate in the absence of maintenance works.34.  at the same time, the government informed the court that due to the urgency of vacating and transferring the office of the attorney general, another building in valletta which was previously a museum was identified for use as the office of the attorney general.
6.  on 20 march 2015 the general prosecutor’s office (“the gpo”) initiated criminal proceedings against the applicant for making a false report of a crime and false statements before a prosecutor and for threatening people in order to obtain false statements in breach of articles 305, 305/a and 312/a of the criminal code (“the cc”).9.  on 28 march 2015 the supreme court found that the gpo had complied with domestic law in ordering the applicant’s arrest, since it had obtained parliament’s prior authorisation in accordance with article 73 § 2 of the constitution.10.  on 27 march 2015 the interpol office in tirana (“interpol tirana”) informed the gpo of the existence of an international arrest warrant against the applicant.11.  on 28 march 2015, relying on article 6 of the cc, article 287 of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccp”) and article 38 § 7 of the jurisdictional relations act, the gpo initiated fresh criminal proceedings against the applicant for committing premeditated murder in collusion with others under article 78/1 and 25 of the cc.13.  on 1 april 2015, relying on a criminal report filed by the high inspectorate for the declaration and audit of assets and the prevention of conflicts of interest, the prosecutor’s office initiated criminal proceedings against the applicant for laundering the proceeds from a criminal offence or activity and refusing to state or falsely stating what his possessions were in breach of articles 287 and 257/a of the cc.the arrest warrant referred to a letter from the tirana police directorate stating “the enforcement of the security measure of house arrest cannot be entirely guaranteed, on account of the geographical position of the applicant’s house, the large surface area of the house, the existence of more than two entry and exit gates, and the existence of numerous buildings constructed adjacent to and around the house”.17.  the supreme court further stated that the security measure of detention (arrest) should be imposed in accordance with articles 228-230 of the ccp, and this entailed the fulfilment of three conditions: firstly, that there was a reasonable suspicion, based on evidence, that the accused had committed a crime; secondly, that the facts attributed to the accused constituted a criminal offence which had not become time-barred, as provided for by the criminal law; and thirdly, that the accused was criminally responsible for the alleged criminal offence.further, the applicant’s detention complied with the criteria laid down in article 229 of the ccp, and would also be justified by the need to prevent any interference by the applicant in the administration of justice because of his public office, and the need to prevent further consequences resulting from the offence.the prosecutor had not discharged the burden of proof in relation to the assertion that the applicant intended or would attempt to flee.the criminal proceedings initiated against him in relation to the alleged crime in belgium had been in breach of the european convention on the transfer of proceedings in criminal matters, because the belgian authorities had not asked the albanian authorities to initiate any proceedings against him.it reasoned that article 73 § 2 of the constitution, as amended in 2012, required parliament’s authorisation for, amongst other things, the arrest of a member of parliament, parliament’s authorisation for the institution of a criminal investigation having been repealed.the security measures imposed on the applicant by the supreme court had been in response to all the criminal proceedings initiated against him, including the charges under articles 257/a and 287 of the cc.22.  on 15 july 2015 the albanian gpo decided that it did not have the authority to examine a request by the applicant to attend the hearing of 19 october 2015 in belgium.24.  on 25 september 2015 the gpo decided to extend the period of investigation for three more months, on account of the voluminous files received from belgium in the framework of mutual legal assistance, the complexity of the case, the need to question more people, and so on.26.  it appears from the case file that the applicant lost his mandate as a member of parliament on 20 october 2015. therefore, on 17 december 2015 the supreme court, at the gpo’s request, decided to dismiss the case, noting that the competence to review the personal security measure lay with the court examining the merits of the case.
the ministry undertook to support the proper functioning of the rehabilitation office and to designate a coordinator from the ministry’s medical department in order to ensure the implementation of the contract.he had been transferred to the prison hospital by the director of the medical department of the ministry (“the medical department”), based on the applicant’s medical opinion to that end.(“the minister”) commissioned an internal investigation concerning the activities of the medical department of the ministry carried out between the period of 1 january 2005 and 13 september 2005. the general inspectorate of the ministry was to deliver its findings on 13 october 2005.because it was owing precisely to jishkariani’s scribbles on a piece of paper that [two allegedly healthy inmates who later assaulted doctors] found themselves in the prison hospital without any legal grounds for that ...” 14.  the minister further noted that the director of the medical department was “the one who... [relied on] jishkariani’s illegal notes ... not signed by the members of the [medical] commission... to transfer the inmates [to the prison hospital].” he noted that “therefore he [was] the suspect in these illegal arrangements and “[would] become an object of the investigation along with jishkariani.” the minister continued to note that “there are not only these two facts and the investigation is pending because it was mariam jishkariani who was the most important figure and [whose opinions were guiding the director’s actions]...” 15.  the minister also criticised the public defender and accused his representatives of having a vested interest in transferring certain inmates to the prison hospital.they noted that the accusations levelled by the minister had been groundless in view of the fact that the transfers of inmates to and from the prison hospital had been within the exclusive competency of the ministry.17.  the programme also featured the applicant’s brief comment, as recorded by a journalist, that the minister wanted to have “a monitoring council that [would] not take a peek inside a prison]” and “the prisons [were] in the same conditions ... as those under saddam hussein’s regime.” 18.  on 20 september 2005 the daily newspaper rezonansi published an interview with the minister.it principally concerned the actions and omissions of the director of the medical department in the management of the transfers of inmates to the prison hospital.subsequently, despite the fact that the members of the medical commission did not agree with the applicant’s assessment, “the director of the medical department bypassed the commission and decided – unilaterally – to transfer l.ts.to the prison hospital based on [the applicant’s] medical conclusion [in the journal] ... and in doing so he violated ... all the relevant rules concerning the prisoners’ transfers to the medical establishment.” 20.  on 27 december 2007 the investigation into the incident of 10 september 2005 was discontinued on the grounds of the absence of a crime, as provided under article 28 § 1 (b) of the code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 32 below).the court concluded that the applicant was a public figure for the purposes of the act (see paragraph 30 below) in view of her activities in prison (see paragraph 7 above), and that the burden of proving the existence of the three cumulative conditions set out in section 14 of the act (see paragraph 30 below) to classify the minister’s statements as defamation had rested with her.24.  the court agreed that the applicant had presented evidence that she was not and had not been a suspect, or otherwise officially accused of violating the law, and concluded that the minister’s accusations “may have contained erroneous facts.” however it continued to note that in any event, the other two requirements of section 14 of the act had not been met.25.  with respect to the third criterion of whether the minister had known that the impugned statements were false or had acted with apparent and gross negligence, the court noted the following: “the court agrees with the respondent’s argument that mr k.k.according to the case file, the existence of violations in the medical department is confirmed by the general inspectorate’s conclusion dated 13 october 2005. therefore it has not been confirmed that the minister was aware that the information was false by 16 september 2005. it has also not been proven that he acted with gross negligence when making the statement.[the minister] scheduled the inspection of a department within the scope of his competence and thus he took measures to verify the information.” 26.  the tbilisi city court concluded that the statements in question had been made as part of an important public discussion surrounding the management of medical facilities in the penal system.regarding the third criterion of whether the minister had known that the impugned statements were false or had acted with apparent and gross negligence, the court noted the following: “the appellate chamber shares the reasoning of the [lower court’s] judgment that the applicant had failed to demonstrate that [the minister] was either aware of the falsehood of the disseminated facts, or that [he] acted with apparent and gross negligence which led to the dissemination of a statement containing a substantially false fact.
7.  by a decision of 1 march 2007 the federal review board for publications harmful to minors (bundesprüfstelle für jugendgefährdende schriften) included the applicant’s website, www.babycaust.de (“the german website”), on the list of publications considered to be harmful to minors.8.  at the material time, the content of the austrian website was essentially consistent with that of the german website prior to the objection from the federal review board.9.  the version of the german website which could be reached via the link on the austrian website included the following statement: “equating the babycaust to the holocaust would mean relativising today’s abortion murders” (den babycaust mit dem holocaust gleichzusetzen würde bedeuten die heutigen abtreibungsmorde zu relativieren.)11.  following the link “germany” and a further link on that page to “prayer requests”, reference was made to a decision by the karlsruhe court of appeal (judgment of 28 february 2007 – 6 u 98/06) prohibiting the applicant from labelling abortions as performed by the doctors named on his website as “aggravated murder”.at the very bottom of the same page, under the highlighted text “german contemporary history in brief”, a sentence read: “perverted doctors murdered unborn children at the behest of their mothers” (pervertierte ärzte ermordeten im auftrag der mütter die ungeborenen kinder) from that page, the reader was directed to a location-based alphabetical list mentioning the names and practice addresses of many doctors across germany who performed abortions.he argued that the websites in question had generated a direct association between the named doctors and the third reich, equated abortions with the crimes of the third reich and stigmatised him as a murderer.14.  on 9 february 2010, the karlsruhe regional court ordered the applicant to desist from using and/or allowing the use of the term “aggravated murder” on the german website or the austrian website to describe abortions performed by dr f., who was named on those websites.even though the applicant had made his statements in the context of a public debate of fundamental importance and freedom of expression protected polemical and sharp criticism, the applicant’s comments on the german website and the austrian website had not been posted as broad criticism but specifically against the doctors mentioned on those sites.the applicant had purposefully undermined the plaintiff’s right of personality by labelling abortion as aggravated murder, equating it to the crimes of the holocaust and reproaching dr f. specifically for his involvement.17.  as regards damages the karlsruhe regional court reasoned that the violation of the right of personality and the associated stigmatising effect were particularly serious, given that dr f. himself was jewish and his family had suffered directly the nazi atrocities in the third reich.moreover, the court took into account that the applicant had persistently made these or similar statements and had not been dissuaded by orders to desist issued against him, such as the decision of the karlsruhe court of appeal of 28 february 2007 (6 u 98/06) to which the website referred (see paragraph 11 above), or the inclusion of the website on the list of publications harmful to minors by the federal review board.the court elaborated that the regional court’s conclusion that the austrian website had levelled the serious and personal allegation against dr f. that he had performed acts of aggravated murder.the court of appeal also confirmed that the applicant had to assume responsibility for the content of the austrian website.moreover, the award of monetary compensation was appropriate in the light of the severity of the interference with the general right of personality.the regional court had correctly taken into account, to the detriment of the applicant, that he had failed to observe the legally binding decision of the karlsruhe court of appeal of 28 february 2007. the court further clarified that – for the purpose of determining the amount of compensation to be awarded – it was irrelevant whether dr f. was jewish and that his family had been persecuted under the nazi regime.
6.  on 25 november 2004 and 7 december 2004 the applicant distributed leaflets in the immediate vicinity of the medical practice of dr s. the leaflets contained, inter alia, the following text on the front page: “did you know that dr s. [full name and address] performs abortions that are unlawful according to the case-law of the federal constitutional court?” (wussten sie schon, dass dr s. ... abtreibungen durchführt, die nach der rechtsprechung des bundesverfassungsgerichts rechtswidrig sind?)the back side of the folded leaflet contained the following text: “the aggravated murder of human beings in auschwitz was unlawful, but the morally degraded ns state allowed the aggravated murder of innocent people and did not make it subject to criminal liability.” (die ermordung der menschen in auschwitz war rechtswidrig, aber der moralisch verkommene ns-staat hatte den mord an den unschuldigen menschen erlaubt und nicht unter strafe gestellt.)8.  subsequently dr s. applied to the karlsruhe regional court for a civil injunction ordering the applicant not to claim on the internet that the plaintiff performed unlawful abortions and not to disseminate leaflets containing his name and the assertion that unlawful abortions were performed in his medical practice.9.  on 30 september 2005, the date of the oral hearing before the karlsruhe regional court, the applicant distributed a second leaflet directly in front of dr s.’s practice.the following sentence was on the front side of the leaflet: “near you: unlawful abortions ... and you are silent about the aggravated murder of our children?” (in ihrer nähe: rechtswidrige abtreibungen ... und sie schweigen zum mord an unseren kindern?)[emphases in original] farther down the leaflet read: “i’m simply unable to understand that medical personnel and doctors, who are supposed to help and save lives, stoop to take part in aggravated murder.” (noch weniger kann ich verstehen, dass mediziner und ärzte, welche helfen und leben retten sollen, sich für’s morden hergeben) 10.  on 4 november 2005 the karlsruhe regional court granted the requested injunction and ordered the applicant to desist from asserting publicly, both in writing and orally, on the internet as well as on leaflets, that the plaintiff performed unlawful abortions in his medical practice.in addition, the regional court awarded compensation for the pecuniary damage requested by the plaintiff (eur 811.88) and dismissed the claim in respect of non‑pecuniary damage.moreover, they had to be classified as statements of fact and, as such, the information that abortions were unlawful was in line with the judgment of the constitutional court and not incorrect.the court came to this conclusion based on the facts that the applicant had singled out dr s. by mentioning him by name and distributing the leaflets in the vicinity of his practice, that he had quoted the federal constitutional court’s judgment only in parts and had omitted the parts that stated that doctors had not been subject to criminal liability, that he had implied by defining aggravated murder that dr s. had committed this criminal offence and that he had associated dr s. with the holocaust.additionally dr s. expanded his action to include the second leaflet (see paragraph 9 above), which subsequently became the subject matter of the judgment of the karlsruhe court of appeal.however, the court also noted that the very wording of the applicant’s statements showed that he labelled abortions, as performed by the plaintiff, aggravated murder, which could not be tolerated, neither if the statements were considered statements of fact nor if considered value judgments.in the court’s view the applicant had created an unacceptable “pillory effect” by singling out the plaintiff, who had not given the applicant any reason to do so.14.  in regard to the second leaflet the court of appeal held that even though dr s. had not been mentioned by name, it had referred to him as it had been distributed in front of his medical practice and deposited in letterboxes in the vicinity.since the applicant had not clarified that he had only been criticising abortions, which were according to the case-law of the federal constitutional court (see paragraph 17 below) unlawful but not subject to criminal liability, he had exceeded the limits of justifiable criticism.15.  on 29 may 2007 the federal court of justice refused a request by the applicant for legal aid for his complaint against the denial of leave to appeal on points of law on the grounds that the applicant’s intended appeal on points of law lacked sufficient prospect of success.
it concluded: “the immediate cause of the accident was the descent below the minimum descent altitude at an excessive rate of descent in weather conditions which prevented visual contact with the ground, as well as the delayed execution of the go-around procedure.those circumstances led to impact with an obstacle on the ground, resulting in the separation of part of the left wing with the aileron, and consequently to the loss of aircraft control and eventual ground impact.” the committee excluded the possibility that an explosion had taken place on board.14.  on 7 october 2016, pursuant to article 209 §§ 1 and 4 and article 210 of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccp”), a prosecutor of the state prosecutor’s office decided to appoint a team of international and national forensic experts with a view to carrying out autopsies on the bodies of eighty-three victims of the crash (the bodies of nine victims had already been exhumed and four victims had been cremated).the prosecutor asked the experts to: “(1) carry out the medical imaging, examination and autopsy of the victims’ remains; (2) determine the cause of death, and the manner and circumstances in which the victims sustained their injuries, including whether the injuries were sustained before or after their death, as well as to ascertain whether the injuries occurred at the place and time of the crash; (3) ascertain whether the established injuries indicate that they came about as a result of the aircraft’s impact with the ground and the disintegration of the aircraft parts ...; (4) ascertain whether the victims’ bodies have injuries typical of an explosion of explosive or flammable material, or of some other sudden release of energy; (5) ascertain whether the method used by the russian experts to examine the corpses and carry out the autopsies was consistent with the current standards, and whether the conclusions of their forensic report with regard to the injuries, the circumstances in which they had occurred and the cause of death correspond to the conclusions of the report established by the [current] team of experts; (6) determine the identity of the victims by comparing the results of the genetic testing with their genetic profiles, established at an earlier stage of the proceedings ...; (7) take samples from the victims’ remains for further toxicological, histopathological, physicochemical and genetic examination.” the prosecutor further ordered (point iv of the decision) that for the purpose of carrying out the above-mentioned measures, the bodies of eighty-three victims be exhumed on dates to be determined in separate orders.in the course of its investigation, the warsaw regional military prosecutor’s office had started to have doubts about the diligence of the russian experts in identifying the victims and the injuries sustained by them.the results of those examinations had confirmed that the russian experts had not properly recorded the injuries sustained by the victims and, in the case of six out of the nine bodies exhumed, had wrongly identified the victims.the second applicant was also informed that a meeting with the relatives of the victims and the prosecutors would be scheduled prior to each exhumation in order to explain the reasons behind the decision to carry out the exhumations.in their view, a correct interpretation of the relevant provisions of the ccp, in the light of the constitution and the protection of fundamental rights, should have resulted in the availability of an interlocutory appeal against the prosecutor’s decision of 7 october 2016.the court alleged that the impugned provision was incompatible with article 45 (the right to a court), article 47 (the right to private and family life) and article 78 (the right to appeal) of the constitution and articles 8 and 13 of the convention.30.  the government informed the court that the exhumation of the applicants’ husbands had initially been planned for 24 and 26 april 2018. the exhumations had been planned in line with the wishes of the families and the bodies of those victims whose families had not complained had been exhumed first.31.  on 13 april 2018 the prosecutor issued two orders setting the dates of the exhumation of the bodies of the applicants’ husbands for 14 and 16 may 2018. the prosecutor stated that those orders were being issued in execution of the decision of 7 october 2016. the reasoning was limited to a brief reference to the ongoing investigation and the decision of 7 october 2016.34.  the government submitted that in accordance with the code of conduct adopted by the investigative team of the state prosecutor’s office, the prosecutors in charge of the investigation had taken steps to arrange a meeting with the applicants and their lawyers in order to explain the reasons for the intended investigative actions, to clarify the aim of the autopsies and to elucidate other important issues, such as the families’ participation in the investigative actions and the issue of reburial.37.  the exhumation of the remains of mr arkadiusz rybicki, the husband of the second applicant, was carried out on 14 may 2018. according to reports in the media, a few hundred people protested peacefully against the exhumation at the cemetery in gdańsk.the legislature had decided that irrespective of the will and consent of the family, the prosecutor had a duty to order that an autopsy be carried out in every case of suspicious death and, if the corpse had been buried, also to order its exhumation.the legislature had given priority in this context to the investigation of serious crimes and punishment of the perpetrators over the protection of the right to respect for the memory of deceased family members.
the association was also involved in the preparation of applications to the court and the submission of communications to the committee of ministers in the context of the execution of the court’s judgments.13.  on 14 august 2014, following the applicant’s arrest on 8 august 2014 (see paragraphs 22-24 below), a.h., the chairman of the legal policy and state building committee of the national assembly, gave an interview to apa, a news agency, where he commented on the reactions to the arrests of the applicant and other human-rights defenders and stated: “... it is those [international organisations] which made them ‘well-known’.these people, some of whom are traitors and some weak-minded, will at last answer before the law.” 14.  on 15 august 2014 a.h., the head of the department of social and political issues of the presidential administration, stated the following in an interview with trend news agency: “the most deplorable thing is that such ngos and individuals and some journalists, relying on foreign circles funding them, placed themselves above national law, evaded registration of their grant projects, filing financial statements, taxes and other legal requirements.” 15.  in an interview published on 2 september 2014 y.m., a member of parliament from the ruling party, who was also the director of the institute of history at the academy of sciences, stated the following in respect of the recently arrested ngo activists and human-rights defenders: “people who betray their motherland cannot be forgiven.... therefore, the activities of a number of non-governmental organisations must be investigated very seriously, and if any illegality is discovered, such organisations must be immediately banned and their leaders punished.” 16.  on 3 september 2014 an online news portal vestnik kavkaza published an interview with r.m., the head of the presidential administration who stated, inter alia, the following: “such ngos as the institute for peace and democracy, institute for reporters’ freedom and safety, legal education society, monitoring and teaching democracy center and others use big grants from foreign organisations under the guise of human‑rights protection to send reports to different quarters and organise anti‑azerbaijani campaigns in international structures where azerbaijan is represented.” 17.  on 3 december 2014 state-owned news agencies published a sixty‑page manifesto written by r.m., the head of the presidential administration, entitled “the world order of double standards and modern azerbaijan”.the acts with which the applicant was charged appear as follows: – the applicant, acting in his capacity as chairman of the association, had failed to inform the relevant executive authority of his appointment as head and representative of a legal entity in accordance with article 9.3 of the law on state registration of legal entities and the state register; – he had failed to register with the relevant executive authority various grant agreements which had been concluded since august 2012 with ned, norway’s human rights house foundation and other donor organisations and which had allocated to the association for various projects certain sums in the total amount of 74,911.29 new azerbaijani manats (azn – approximately 71,343 euros (eur) at the material time); – he had signed the said agreements on behalf of the association without having legal authority to do so and had placed the above allocated sums in the bank accounts of the association and then, by withdrawing cash, had made payments to himself and other people involved in the projects in the guise of salaries and service fees; – by failing to register the above grant agreements with the relevant executive authority, the applicant had been conducting illegal entrepreneurial activity and had thus profited in the amount of azn 66,204.58 (approximately eur 63,051 at the material time) and had avoided in this context payment of taxes in the amount of azn 8,706.71 (approximately eur 8,291 at the material time) which were due in accordance with articles 124, 150.1.6, 218, 219 and 220 of the tax code.22.  on the same day the nasimi district court, relying on the official charges brought against the applicant and the prosecutor’s request for the application of the preventive measure of remand in custody, ordered the applicant’s detention for a period of three months.as regards the charges of embezzlement, the applicant was accused of transferring various amounts from the bank accounts of the association to the bank account of one of the association’s employees with a view to their subsequent withdrawing the cash.as regards the re‑qualification of the crime of tax evasion, the total amount of alleged illegal profit obtained by the applicant was raised to azn 496,729.25 (approximately eur 473,075 at the material time) and the amount of alleged unpaid taxes to azn 65,636.85 (approximately eur 62,510 at the material time).the relevant parts of the decision read as follows: “[the prosecutor in charge of the case] applied to the court with a request to conduct a search and seizure in the framework of the criminal case no.given that the evidence gathered gives grounds [to conduct a search], it is necessary for the purpose of carrying out a comprehensive, thorough and objective investigation to conduct a search [of the association’s] office located at [office address] ... and other places of storage ... having regard to the above, for the purpose of conducting a comprehensive, thorough and objective investigation, a search and seizure is requested of [the association’s] office located at [office address] ... and other places of storage.the court considers that for the purpose of conducting a comprehensive, thorough and objective investigation it is necessary to conduct a search and seizure [of the association’s] office located at [office address] ... and other places of storage.” 38.  on 8 august 2014 the investigator carried out a search of the applicant’s home on the basis of the nasimi district court’s decision of 7 august 2014. according to the search record of 8 august 2014, the search was carried out in the presence of the applicant’s lawyer, members of his family and two attesting witnesses (hal şahidləri).it appears from the search record of 9 august 2014 that the investigator seized all the documents found in the office, including documents related to the association’s activities and case files concerning over a hundred applications pending before the court and documents related to the proceedings before the domestic courts.as to the seizure of the documents relating to the cases pending before the court and the domestic court, it found that they could not be returned to the applicant at this stage of the proceedings.he asked, in particular, the appellate court to declare the searches unlawful, to order the return of the documents relating to the cases pending before the court and the domestic courts, and to provide him with a copy of all the seized documents in order to prepare his defence.the results of the scan revealed the presence of osteochondrosis of the vertebral column, a hernia in the vertebral column and disc protrusions in the following areas of the vertebral column: c 4-5, c 5-6, c 6-7, l 2-3, l 4-5. the doctors, however, concluded that none of these hernias or disc protrusions required surgery or inpatient treatment and prescribed outpatient treatment.
was shot dead following an argument in front of a restaurant owned by the applicant’s son, levon gulyan, aged 30. later that evening a team of law-enforcement officers arrived at the crime scene, which included several police officers of the local shengavit district police station (“the police station”), investigators of the shengavit district prosecutor’s office (“the prosecutor’s office”) and two officers of the principal department for criminal intelligence (“the pdci”) of the armenian police: the deputy head of the pdci, h.t., and the head of the homicide unit, g.t.when sustaining the injuries to the skull and the area of the left shoulder girdle, levon gulyan had been facing, with the left part of his head and the area of his left shoulder girdle, towards the object that had caused the injuries, whereas when sustaining the injuries to his thorax and the shoulder and lower spine, levon gulyan had been facing with the back surface of his thorax towards the object that had caused the injuries.apart from the above‑mentioned injuries there were also bruises on the left side of his abdomen, the left elbow joint, the dorsal surface of the left wrist and the outer surface of the right ankle joint, as well as scratches in the areas of the right elbow joint, the dorsal surface of the wrist joint and the palm, the anterior surface of the left elbow joint, the outer surface of the right ankle joint and the frontal surface of the left knee joint, which had been caused by blunt objects while still alive and could be qualified as minor injuries.the distribution of the lesions and the position of the body at the scene suggested that the deceased had hit the ground with the head and the upper part of the body first, and that he might have hit an object on the way down, possibly the pipe seen on the outside of the building under the window.2.  investigation by the special investigative service (sis) and the applicant’s appeals to the courts (a)  investigation by the sis, termination of the criminal proceedings and the applicant’s challenge before the courts 36.  on 12 december 2007 the investigation was taken over by the sis and assigned to investigator g.p.at the pdci he had been taken to the office of the head of the homicide unit g.t., who had had a talk with him for about thirty minutes, during which levon gulyan had provided the nickname of one of the persons who had been involved in the argument with s.v.taking into account that levon gulyan had not been subjected to violence, threats, or inhuman or degrading treatment during his stay at the pdci, and the fact that his escape had been motivated by his intention to conceal the identity of the offenders and his death had been the result of a fall, there was no corpus delicti in the actions of the police officers.in its decision, reasoned in detail, the district court found, inter alia, that: (a) the investigating authority had failed to determine the lawfulness of taking levon gulyan and others between 10 and 12 may 2007 to the law-enforcement agencies and keeping them there for extended periods of time; (b) the allegations raised in the press and by some of the witnesses, including barman h.m., that levon gulyan had been ill-treated with the purpose of coercing a confession during his stays at the law-enforcement agencies had not been investigated, including the allegation that such acts had been committed in g.t.’s office and had led to his being thrown out of the window; (c) not all reasonable steps had been taken to secure evidence, including questioning police officers, to prevent their possible collusion and preserve the scene of the incident; (d) no proper assessment had been made of the fact that levon gulyan had neither been summoned nor gone voluntarily to the pdci; (e) the events preceding the incident had not been properly clarified, in view of the multiple discrepancies in the statements made by the police officers, which also cast doubt on their credibility and the validity of the conclusions reached by the investigating authority on the basis of those statements; (f) no proper assessment had been made of the alleged behaviour of the deputy head of the homicide unit, a.m., upon his return to g.t.’s office, specifically his reaction to the open window; (g) it had not been clarified whether levon gulyan had been able to move about freely while at the pdci; (h) no investigation had been carried out into the fact that his shoe laces had been missing at the time of the incident and had been found in his trouser pockets; (i) no convincing evidence had been obtained concerning levon gulyan’s fall and the preceding events; the investigating authority from the very outset had carried out the investigation on the premise that levon gulyan had attempted to escape and had died as a result of a fall, but had failed to carry out a complete and objective investigation into his motives, including the fact that he had only been a witness and that the window had been more than 7 m high and there had been numerous obstacles in the police building; (j) while, according to the official version, levon gulyan had hit an obstacle or obstacles during the fall, which could have been the gas pipe, no explanation had been provided for the absence of any particles on his clothes and under his fingernails of the pipe in question or any other possible obstacle, such as the entresol shed, or vice versa; nor had it been clarified whose fibres had been discovered on levon gulyan’s clothes and no samples had been taken in that connection from police officers; (k) no explanation had been provided or samples taken from police officers in relation to the palm print found on the window, which had not belonged to levon gulyan; (l) the investigation had not clarified the mechanics of levon gulyan’s fall and had not carried out in that connection an investigative experiment because of the absence of a suitable dummy, despite the fact that such an experiment had been ordered by the prosecutor general’s office; no measures had been taken to obtain such a dummy from the prosecutor general’s office of russia within the framework of inter-state legal assistance; (m) no investigation had been carried out in connection with the findings of foreign experts concerning the other injuries found on levon gulyan’s body, such as small bruises and scratches; (n) it had not been clarified how a lock of hair belonging to levon gulyan had been found lying at a distance from his body; (o) the applicant and other victims in the criminal case had not been involved in any investigative or other procedural measures and had had no possibility to pose questions to the police officers or the experts; and (p) the remains of a cigarette found in the ashtray in g.t.’s office had not been seized and examined to determine whether it had been levon gulyan who had smoked it.there had been no instruction from the investigator to carry out a face-to-face confrontation and, moreover, by taking levon gulyan to an alleged confrontation, the pdci officers had violated article 206 § 2 of the ccp, pursuant to which a witness had had to be questioned at the location where the investigation had been in train or, if necessary, where he or she had been located, whereas the pdci could not be considered to have been either of those.49.  on 3 july 2009 the applicant contested that decision before the courts, complaining, inter alia, that the investigating authority, lacking from the very outset the intention of establishing the truth, following the resumption of the criminal proceedings had carried out an investigation which had been a pure formality and had ignored the issues raised in the court decisions.54.  on 27 august 2010 the court of cassation allowed the applicant’s appeal on points of law, quashing the decisions of the lower courts and obliging the investigating authority to remedy the violations of individual rights which had taken place in the course of the investigation.the court of cassation stated at the outset that the authorities were required under article 2 of the convention to carry out an effective investigation with the aim of providing a convincing explanation for the death of levon gulyan who, at the material time, had been under the supervision of the pdci officers.the court of cassation held that a conclusive finding on the fulfilment of the procedural obligation of article 2 of the convention would be possible only following the implementation of the experiment in question and, if necessary, of the resulting other measures.57.  by letter of 18 march 2011 the prosecutor general’s office replied that the fact of levon gulyan’s death as a result of an attempted escape through a window had been established and it was impossible to guarantee the objective legitimacy of results by carrying out the investigative experiment, since levon gulyan, from the moment he had climbed onto the windowsill and until his collision with the ground, had performed conscious and intentional actions characteristic exclusively of his physical fitness and mentality, which were impossible to replicate with the help of a dummy or through any other experiment and research, and it was objectively impossible to approximate the circumstances of an investigative experiment to the actual event and to establish through such investigative experiment any circumstances having evidentiary value.it found that the investigating authority had failed to carry out a full and comprehensive investigation, to show due diligence and to comply with the requirements of the court of cassation’s decision of 27 august 2010. instead of obtaining the necessary dummy for the purpose of ensuring the effectiveness of the investigation and giving a global assessment to the incident through comparison of evidence, the investigating authority had decided once again to terminate the proceedings by relying – without any proper reasoning – on the prosecutor’s unfounded letter of 18 march 2011, which had had no evidentiary value.
13.  the government contested the applicant’s allegations and claimed that the reason for the police operation of 1 march 2008 at freedom square had been information obtained on 29 february 2008 by the armenian police and national security service, according to which a large number of weapons, including metal rods, wooden clubs, firearms, grenades and explosives, were to be distributed to the protesters to incite provocative actions and mass disorder in yerevan on 1 march 2008. the police operation had aimed to verify that information.on 1 march 2008 at around 6 a.m., when the police took measures aimed at forcibly ending the public events held in violation of the procedure prescribed by law, in compliance with the requirements of section 14 of the assemblies, rallies, marches and demonstrations act, the organisers and participants of the events, disobeying the lawful orders of the [police officers], who were performing their official duties, committed a life- and health-threatening assault on them with clubs, metal rods and other adapted objects, which had been in their possession for that purpose, causing the police officers injuries of varied severity.” 16.  it appears that, after freedom square was cleared of demonstrators, some of them relocated to the area near the french embassy, the yerevan mayor’s office and the yerevan press building, situated at grigor lusavorich and arshakunyats streets about 1.7-2 km from freedom square, where they were later joined by thousands of others who apparently poured into the streets of yerevan in response to the events of the early morning in order to voice their discontent.], and others, not willing to concede defeat at the election, with the aim of casting doubt on the election, instilling distrust towards the results among large segments of the population, creating illusions of public discontent and revolt and discrediting the election and the authorities, from 1 march 2008 in the area of the yerevan mayor’s office and central streets organised mass disorder involving murders, violence, pogroms, arson, destruction of property and armed resistance to public officials, with the use of firearms, explosives and other adapted objects.” 18.  it appears that on the same date a number of police officers who had been involved in the events of 1-2 march 2008, including officers a.arsh.the most active of these citizens were brought in to the police station from the streets adjacent to the square.” 30.  a memorandum signed by the chief of kentron police station in yerevan and the chief of the yerevan police, entitled “assaults and insults of a public official; organisation of public events in violation of the procedure prescribed by law; mass disorder within the territory of kentron police station”, stated: “as a result of mass events organised and held at yerevan’s freedom square in violation of the procedure prescribed by law, on 1 march 2008 at around 7 a.m. officers of the armenian police, having received an order, demanded the persons gathered at the square to vacate the square and to terminate the mass event that they had been holding for days[.the investigator then posed three questions: (a) whether the applicant had participated in any demonstrations held after the presidential election of 19 february 2008 and what his role had been in those demonstrations; (b) which of the demonstrators had had weapons and ammunition, the types of such weapons and the place where they had been hidden; and (c) who were the persons who had ordered the demonstrators, on 1 march 2008 at 7 a.m., to resist the police.thereafter, on 1 march 2008 at around 6 a.m., when [the police officers] demanded the participants in the demonstration at freedom square to give a possibility to verify the veracity of the information that they possessed arms and ammunition, and once again warned them to end the unlawful event, he and other demonstrators, disobeying the police officers’ lawful orders, committed life- and health-threatening assault on [them].” 42.  on 4 march 2008 the applicant’s lawyer filed a complaint with the chief of the special investigative service, alleging that the applicant had been unjustifiably taken to kentron police station under the so-called procedure of “bringing-in”, subjected to ill-treatment and then unlawfully kept there the whole day on 1 march 2008. the record of his “bringing-in” had never been presented to him.it first recapitulated the circumstances of the case as outlined in the charge against the applicant (see paragraph 41 above) and concluded that the application was substantiated, taking into account that there was sufficient evidence in the case to impose a preventive measure, and in view of the nature and dangerousness of the imputed offence and the fact that, if he remained at large, the applicant could abscond, obstruct the proceedings, continue his criminal activities and evade criminal responsibility.at the time of admission a “record of physical injuries” was drawn up, signed by the applicant, which indicated the following injuries on his body: “...a bruise on the lower left eye socket, scratch wounds on the shins, a bruise measuring 10 x 12 cm on the external surface of the right shoulder blade and a scabbed wound measuring 2 x 3 cm on the rear part of the left temple.there is a bruise measuring 6.3 x 2.8 cm of unclear contour, non-dense nature and pale greenish‑yellow colour on the right part of the chest on the same line as the rear of the armpit and at the level of the third and fourth ribs, which has also partly spread to the rear area of the shoulder line.54.  in the meantime, on 2 may 2008, the applicant’s lawyer wrote to the chief of kentron police station, enquiring about the circumstances in which the applicant had sustained his injuries; whether they had been inflicted at the police station or prior to his arrival there and, if it was the latter, whether any record had been made in the police registers.61.  on 8 july 2008 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan dismissed the complaint, finding that the relevant police order was not a decision or action prescribed by the ccp and therefore could not be contested under article 290. as regards the applicant’s request to quash the decisions in question and to discontinue the criminal proceedings, the district court found that such requests could be lodged with a court only after they had been raised before a prosecutor, which the applicant had failed to do.it was stated that the applicant, having regularly participated in the unauthorised demonstrations held following the presidential election, had been present at freedom square on 1 march 2008 at around 7 a.m., when some of the demonstrators, using makeshift clubs, rods and other dangerous objects, had assaulted the police officers after the latter had demanded to be allowed to verify the information concerning the possession of arms and ammunition by the demonstrators.and the other classifying the knife in question as a “bladed weapon”; as well as the record of inspection of the knife (see paragraphs 18, 31 and 71 above); (f)  the letter of 27 march 2008 of the deputy chief of the armenian police (see paragraph 22 above); (g)  the records of inspection of the scene and the relevant expert conclusions (see paragraph 14 above).the applicant lastly argued that testimony from s.a. and h.t., who were high-ranking police officials and had apparently given orders for the police operation, was important in order to assess the police actions of the morning of 1 march 2008. the prosecuting authority had failed to investigate the lawfulness of the police actions, including the excessive force used by the police that morning.86.  on 10 november 2008 the applicant lodged an appeal in which he argued, inter alia, that the charge against him was trumped-up and politically motivated; that he had been ill-treated both at the time of his apprehension and at the police station and that no investigation had been carried out into his allegations of ill-treatment; that the interference with his freedom of peaceful assembly had been unlawful, unjustified and accompanied with use of excessive force by the police; that the only witnesses in the case were police officers who, being interested in the outcome of the case because of the brutal and unlawful force used against the demonstrators, including his ill-treatment, were not impartial and trustworthy witnesses and had made contradictory statements which were then coordinated towards the end of the investigation and which constituted the sole basis for his conviction; and that the principle of equality of arms had not been respected since his request to call and examine witnesses on his behalf had been groundlessly dismissed.
9.  on 1 march 2008 the applicant, who was apparently near the main rally location around the time of the police intervention, was taken to a police station on suspicion of assaulting a police officer.11.  in a note dated 3 march 2008 the investigator stated that the applicant’s wife had presented his passport and that the information provided by the applicant about his identity did not correspond to the information contained in his passport.the court examined an application lodged by the investigator for the applicant’s pre-trial detention for a period of two months on the grounds that, if he remained at large, he could abscond, obstruct the course of justice, commit another offence and evade criminal responsibility.14.  the district court decided to allow the investigator’s application, taking into account the dangerousness of the imputed offence and the fact that if the applicant remained at large, he could abscond, obstruct the proceedings, commit another offence and influence witnesses.he was a respected and trusted person in the society, was known to be of good character, had a permanent place of residence and a minor child dependent on him, and had always respected the law.the court of appeal stated that it followed from the case file that after having been brought to the police station, the applicant had introduced himself as vardges gasparyan instead of vartgez gaspari, thereby providing false information about his identity.this provided sufficient grounds to believe that if the applicant remained at large, he could abscond, falsify or conceal evidence and obstruct the investigation by failing to appear when summoned by the authority conducting the criminal proceedings.17.  on 23 april 2008 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan decided to set the case down for trial and to keep the applicant in detention.it appears that an argument erupted between, on the one hand, the applicant and his lawyer, who insisted that the judge take a decision on the applicant’s request or otherwise withdraw from the case, and on the other hand, the judge and the prosecutor, who objected to the demand that the judge withdraw.the judge decided to penalise the applicant by removing him from the courtroom on the grounds that he was obstructing the normal course of the hearing, abusing his procedural rights and disrespectfully refusing to follow the judge’s orders.in response, the judge decided once again to penalise the applicant on the same grounds as previously, by removing him from the courtroom and adjourning the hearing until 3 october 2008.the beginning of his sentence was to be calculated from 2 march 2008. the periods from 23 to 29 september and from 29 september to 3 october 2008, during which the court hearings were adjourned because of the applicant’s removal from the courtroom, were not to be calculated as part of his sentence, pursuant to article 314.1 § 6 of the code of criminal procedure (ccp).24.  on 27 february 2009 the criminal court of appeal, taking into account that article 314.1 § 6 of the ccp had been amended in the meantime (see paragraph 35 below) and as a consequence the periods during which the trial court hearings had been adjourned were to be calculated as part of the applicant’s sentence, decided to release him on the grounds that he had already served his one-year sentence.in the evening the toilet situated in the corner of the cell became clogged and sewage from the upper floors flooded the entire cell floor.the applicant addressed a letter to the head of the remand prison, complaining about the unsanitary conditions in the cell and, in particular, the flooding, and requested that measures be taken.
9.  on 21 july 2010 the applicant gave a statement to the police confessing that he had thrown a firebomb into the window of the victims’ house because he believed that a person with whom he had had a conflict, mr ma., lived there.at the close of the interview the lawyer asked the applicant whether he was making his statements of his own free will and the applicant responded in the affirmative.the applicant explained the injuries by saying that he had been ill-treated at the police station after his arrest on 19 july 2010: officers had hit him on the torso and back, twisted his arms, put a plastic bag over his head cutting off his air supply, and, using an electroshock device, subjected him to electric shocks on the back and legs.the expert believed that the spots were the result of the healing of bruises which could have been inflicted either by blunt objects or by electric shocks and that all the documented injuries could have been inflicted at the time indicated by the applicant.18.  also on 19 october 2010 the investigator, having noted the results of the forensic medical examination, stated that if the applicant’s statements to the expert were confirmed, they would indicate that official misconduct had been committed.he referred to the officers’ statements and the applicant’s refusal to give evidence on that point, and stated that the applicant had been handcuffed lawfully and there was no proof that his injuries had been inflicted by the police.he testified that on the night of the crime he had taken the applicant to the vicinity of the victims’ house in his car.22.  the bill of indictment submitted to the trial court stated, in particular, that although the applicant had pleaded not guilty to the charges, his guilt was corroborated by the evidence, including his own statement made at the early stages of the investigation.testified that on the night of the crime he had taken the applicant to the victims’ house in his car and that the applicant had had a bag with him.in convicting the applicant the court relied, in particular, on the applicant’s statements made during the pre-trial investigation, which the trial court interpreted to mean that the applicant had realised that the house he had set on fire had been the victims’ home and that they might have been inside at the time, in particular the applicant’s statement to the effect that he had seen lights on in the house.in the course of the enquiries the prosecutor’s office took statements from the applicant, the police officers, lawyer o. and the medical expert who had issued the report of 29 july 2010, and examined the premises of the police station where the alleged ill-treatment had taken place and its entry records.28.  police officers stated that the applicant had been arrested and handcuffed on 19 july 2012 but had then been released and invited back for a new interview on either 21 or 22 july 2010. officer f. stated that he could not explain the discrepancy between the date of the applicant’s initial confession, 21 july 2010, and the date of his official arrest, 22 july 2010, insisting that the applicant had been handed over to the investigator, who had put him under arrest immediately following his confession.by way of reasoning, the prosecutor stated, in particular, that the records of the police station where the applicant had allegedly been ill‑treated did not show that he had entered the station during the relevant period.the court of appeal also held that the trial court had not erred in admitting the applicant’s statement given during the pre-trial investigation, since the applicant’s rights had been explained to him prior to questioning, a lawyer had been present and the applicant had not told him of any ill-treatment.33.  the applicant appealed on points of law, raising the same arguments as those raised before the court of appeal and also arguing that the discrepancies between his statements made during the pre-trial investigation and the testimony given during the trial were due to the ill-treatment to which he had been subjected.
6. on 12 and 13 april 2005 the applicant distributed leaflets in the vicinity of the medical practice of dr st., who performed abortions there.the leaflets stated, inter alia, that the abortions performed by dr st. in his practice, for which he gave the address, were unlawful according to the case-law of the federal constitutional court.in addition the leaflet contained the following statements: “according to international criminal law: aggravated murder is the intentional ‘bringing-to-death’ of an innocent human being!” (sinngemӓβ aus den internationalen strafgesetzen: mord ist das vorsӓtzliche “zu-tode-bringen” eines unschuldigen menschen!)“the murder of human beings in auschwitz was unlawful, but the morally degraded ns state allowed the murder of innocent people and did not make it subject to criminal liability.” (die ermordung der menschen in auschwitz war rechtswidrig, aber der moralisch verkommene ns-staat hatte den mord an den unschuldigen menschen erlaubt und nicht unter strafe gestellt.)8.  dr st. lodged an application for a civil injunction against the applicant and on 25 october 2005 the mannheim regional court granted the requested injunction.the court ordered the applicant to desist from speaking to passers-by in the immediate vicinity of the medical practice and labelling the abortions performed by the plaintiff unlawful with the objective of irritating female patients and preventing them from visiting dr st.’s practice.9.  on 24 february 2007 the karlsruhe court of appeal upheld the decision and slightly modified the wording specifying the geographical area concerned by the injunction.10.  the regional court as well as the court of appeal both referred to a previous decision of the federal court of justice in which it had confirmed a civil injunction against similar conduct by the applicant (see paragraph 13 below).the courts held that in the case at issue there were no factual or legal differences justifying deviating from the case-law of the federal court of justice.in so far that the doctor in the present case was slightly more well-known than the doctor in the original case, the court of appeal held that this was of minor relevance.moreover, the involvement of dr st. in different legal disputes was irrelevant, as trying to enforce his rights in the appropriate legal procedure could not redound to dr st.’s disadvantage.in sum, the applicant had vilified the non‑criminal professional activities of dr st. by implying that he committed criminal acts and interfered with the relationship of trust between doctor and patient, which deserved special protection against the interventions of others.this interference was not justified by the applicant’s freedom of expression in view of the massive “pillory effect” the applicant had created by singling out the plaintiff and criticising him in a harsh way in the immediate vicinity of his practice.11.  on 29 may 2007 the federal court of justice refused a request by the applicant for legal aid on the grounds that the applicant’s intended appeal on points of law lacked sufficient prospect of success.1 bvr 1670/07).
at the time of the proceedings outlined below, the website included, among other things, the following content.upon clicking on the picture, the user was directed to a page titled: “abortion – the new holocaust?” on which the holocaust was compared to abortions.from that page, the reader was directed to a location-based alphabetical list mentioning the names and practice addresses of doctors who performed abortions in germany, and to a request for prayers for those doctors.at the very bottom of the same page, under the highlighted text “german contemporary history in brief”, a sentence read: “perverted doctors murder unborn children at the request of the mothers” (pervertierte ärzte ermorden im auftrag der mütter die ungeborenen kinder) on the same page, clicking on the button “close page” forwarded the user to a page where it was stated: “pray, if possible regularly, for the doctors ... who personally undertake the aggravated murder of abortion killing” (beten sie – wenn möglich regelmäßig – für die mediziner ..., welche den mord der abtreibungstötung selbst vornehmen ...) (emphasis in original).somewhat farther down on the same page, it was stated that counselling centres that issued certifications: “... are enabling and facilitating the unpunished aggravated murder of children in their mother’s womb.” (... ermöglichen und begünstigen einen straffreien kindermord im mutterschoβ.)7.  one of the doctors listed on the applicant’s website, dr q., sought a civil injunction ordering the applicant to remove his name and address from the website.8.  on 23 may 2006 the mannheim regional court rejected dr q.’s application on the grounds that it was a fact that dr q. performed abortions and that the remainder of the website’s content was covered by the applicant’s freedom of expression.9.  subsequently dr q. appealed and – during the appeal proceedings – modified his application, seeking a civil injunction ordering the applicant to desist from labelling abortions, such as those performed by dr q., “aggravated murder”.the court held that the applicant’s website led it to be understood that abortions performed by dr q. constituted “aggravated murder”.while the term “aggravated murder” did not have to be understood in a merely legal sense but could also be understood as a moral judgment, the overall presentation of the website at the very least did not exclude a reading that dr q. had perpetrated the criminal offence of aggravated murder.even though the applicant had pointed out that abortions were exempt from punishment, he had not referred to section 218a of the criminal code (see paragraph 14 below), which exempted abortions as performed by dr q., from criminal liability.in addition, the applicant had emphasised the term “aggravated murder” in the relevant parts of the website and had compared abortions with the holocaust.in sum, the statements of the website could be understood as a personalised accusation against dr q. of perpetrating aggravated murder.11.  on 29 may 2007 the federal court of justice refused a request by the applicant for legal aid on the grounds that the applicant’s intended appeal on points of law lacked sufficient prospect of success.1 bvr 1663/07).
15.  on 24 may 2011 the council of administrative court judges, chaired by judge k., made a submission to the high council of justice (“the hcj”) proposing the applicant’s dismissal from the position of president of the kyiv administrative court of appeal for failure to perform his administrative duties properly.however, in view of information received from the kyiv administrative court of appeal on 27 may 2011 that the applicant was on annual leave until 8 july 2011, the hcj adjourned the examination of the case.it sent the applicant a summons for the next hearing, which was scheduled on 14 june 2011. in reply, the kyiv administrative court of appeal informed the hcj once again that the applicant was on holiday until 8 july 2011.17.  on 14 june 2011 the hcj examined the case in the applicant’s absence and decided to dismiss him from the post of president of the court, relying on section 20 of the judiciary and status of judges act and section 32-1 of the high council of justice act.the hcj noted that “significant shortcomings, omissions and errors, and grave violations of the foundations of the organisation and administration of justice set forth by law [had] been found in the organisation of the work of the kyiv administrative court of appeal”.it stated that “the improper organisation of the court’s work was the result of the failure by the president of the court, mr a. denisov, to comply with the provisions of the applicable laws concerning the fulfilment of his administrative duties”.it also found that “administrative documents issued by mr a. denisov regarding the distribution of duties between the vice-presidents of the court, the setting-up of court chambers and panels and the distribution of cases among judges, as well as personnel-related and other documents in certain cases, [violated] the provisions of [the domestic legislation]”.furthermore, the applicant alleged that the president of the hcj and another member of the hcj had previously communicated with him, attempting – albeit without success – to influence him in the course of his professional activities.20.  on 17 june 2011 the president of the hcj asked the kyiv administrative court of appeal to ensure that the hcj’s decision on the applicant’s dismissal was executed and that information about its execution was provided to the hcj immediately.21.  the applicant challenged the decision of the hcj before the higher administrative court (“the hac”), arguing that the decision on his dismissal was unlawful and unfounded.the applicant then asked the hac to take into account the fact that his judicial career had exceeded thirty-five years, that he had held positions of president at several courts for twenty-five years, that he had been given awards for his judicial service and that during the initial period of his presidency of the kyiv administrative court of appeal that court had moved from a demolished military barracks to premises in the city centre with proper equipment and a sufficient number of hearing rooms.22.  the applicant also claimed compensation for the pecuniary damage caused by the ensuing reduction in his remuneration, which, at the date of the claim, had amounted to 4,034.33 ukrainian hryvnias (uah) [1] in relation to the period which had elapsed in july and august 2011.the hac then reiterated the failings attributed to the applicant and concluded that the hcj’s decision had been lawful and that the applicant’s right to participate in the proceedings in person had not been violated because the hcj had taken all the necessary measures to inform him about the hearings and the applicant had not had any valid reason for being absent from the hearings.the hac found that the hcj had acted in accordance with the constitution, the judiciary and status of judges act and the high council of justice act.25.  following his dismissal from the position of president of the kyiv administrative court of appeal, the applicant continued to work as a regular judge in the same court until 20 june 2013, when parliament dismissed him from the post of judge after he had tendered a statement of resignation.
at the relevant time, they were members of a research cooperative called the east scientific research cooperative (doğu bilimsel araştırmalar kooperatifi – “the cooperative”).7.  between 30 may and 1 june 2005 the cooperative organised an exhibition in diyarbakır as part of the fifth diyarbakır culture and art festival, entitled “witnesses of war talk”.within the context of the exhibition, photographs of deceased members of the pkk (an illegal armed organisation), deceased members of the security forces who had been killed in security operations, persons who had lost their lives in prison, victims of enforced disappearances and victims of assassinations by unknown assailants in south-east turkey were publicly displayed.the exhibition also included statements from family members of deceased and disappeared individuals, presenting their relatives and containing their personal views on the disturbances going on in south-east turkey, and their wish for an enduring peace.8.  on an unspecified date a criminal investigation was launched against the applicants and five other people in relation to a charge of disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk.both of the applicants maintained that the exhibition in question had been organised for purely sociological reasons, and that they had conducted interviews with the families of the deceased which had also been included in the exhibition.9.  on 6 october 2005 the public prosecutor filed an indictment with the diyarbakır assize court, charging the applicants and five other suspects with disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk under section 7(2) of law no.10.  throughout the proceedings before the diyarbakır assize court the applicants repeated their previous statements and contended that photographs of deceased members of the security forces had also been displayed in the exhibition alongside those of members of the pkk.in its judgment, the court observed that the invitations to the exhibition had referred to the armed conflict between the security forces and the pkk as a “war”, and the pkk members as “guerrillas”, thus glorifying the deceased terrorists and inciting young people to become members of the pkk.the court further observed that a couple of photographs of deceased soldiers had also been displayed in order to conceal the accused’s intention to incite young people to join the pkk.12.  on 9 june 2009 the court of cassation quashed the judgment in respect of the second applicant, holding that the case should be reviewed in the light of article 231 of the code of criminal procedure (law no.however, the trial court’s judgment of 18 may 2006 became final in respect of the first applicant.on 3 august 2009 the decision of the court of cassation was filed with the registry of the first-instance court.13.  on 22 october 2009, in accordance with article 231 of the code of criminal procedure, the diyarbakır assize court decided to suspend the pronouncement of its judgment in respect of the second applicant on the condition that he did not commit another intentional offence for a period of five years.14.  the first applicant served the sentence arising from the judgment of 18 may 2006.
5.  the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in tunceli.6.  on 5 april 2007 the applicant attended a concert performed by a band called “grup yorum” in the hozat district of tunceli.7.  on 17 october 2007 the malatya public prosecutor filed an indictment with the malatya assize court, charging the applicant with disseminating propaganda in favour of the dhkp/c (revolutionary people’s liberation party/front), an illegal armed organisation, under section 7 (2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no.3713).the public prosecutor noted that the applicant had chanted the following slogans during the concert: “mahir, hüseyin, ulaş; fight until emancipation”[1] (“mahir, hüseyin, ulaş; kurtuluşa kadar savaş”); “martyrs of the revolution are immortal” (“devrim şehitleri ölümsüzdür”); “revolutionary prisoners are our honour” (“devrimci tutsaklar onurumuzdur”); and “victory on mountains, emancipation at the front; long live victory, long live resistance” (“dağlarda zafer, cephede kurtuluş; yaşasın zafer, yaşasın direniş”).8.  during the investigation and the proceedings against him, the applicant stated that he had attended the concert in question and chanted the slogans “music shall not stop, dance shall continue” (“türküler susmaz , halaylar sürer”) and “we will not be defeated by oppression” (“baskılar bizi yıldıramaz”).he also noted that he had been on the concert’s organising committee.9.  on 6 march 2008 the malatya assize court convicted the applicant as charged and sentenced him to ten months’ imprisonment.in its judgment, on the basis of a police report on a police video recording of the concert of 5 april 2007, the indictment, the applicant’s defence submissions, and the public prosecutor’s observations on the merits of the case, the court considered it established that the applicant had chanted the slogans noted in the indictment.the court considered that the concert, for which legal and administrative authorisation had been obtained, had become a propaganda activity in favour of the dhkp/c, and that the applicant had chanted slogans used by that organisation.the malatya assize court concluded that the applicant had committed the offence of disseminating propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation.10.  the applicant appealed.11.  on 4 july 2011 the court of cassation upheld the first-instance court’s judgment.12.  between 6 october 2011 and 1 august 2012 the applicant duly served his prison sentence.
4.  the applicant was born in 1971 and serves his life sentence in a correctional colony in the yamalo-nenetskiy region of russia.5.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.6.  on 27 march 2003 the applicant was arrested on charges of illegal possession of firearms, two armed robberies of local post offices, murder of three russian post service cash messengers and attempted murder of the fourth one.on 14 october 2003 the case was sent to the supreme court of the buryatia republic (“the regional court”) for trial.7.  twice, on 20 april 2004 and 22 may 2007, the applicant was convicted as charged.both convictions were set aside by the supreme court of russia.on 12 september 2008, in the course of the third round of jury trial, the regional court decided, upon a request by a representative of the russian post, to close proceedings to the public.it dismissed the applicant’s objections made with reference to article 6 § 1 of the convention.in doing so the presiding judge referred to the case-file documents containing information about security measures and equipment in post offices, weaponry, schedules and routes of cash messengers, etc.under the relevant russian post regulations that information was classified as “for internal use only”.the regional court found that that information was a trade secret protected by the commercial secrets act (federal law no.8.  on 14 december 2008 the jury convicted the applicant as charged.in the last days of december the trial judge sentenced him to life imprisonment.on 4 june 2009 the supreme court quashed the conviction on one count and upheld the remainder of the verdict and sentence.the court of appeal held, in particular, that the decision to dispense with a public hearing had been lawful and rejected, in a summary fashion, the relevant arguments by the applicant.
6.  on 17 april 1999 the fier district court (“the district court”), following proceedings in which the applicant did not take part, convicted the applicant and his two co-accused of a number of serious criminal offences.7.  on 1 june 1999 the vlora court of appeal (“the court of appeal”), following appeals lodged by the two other co-accused, upheld the district court’s decision of 17 april 1999.8.  on 8 may 2001, following appeals lodged by the applicant’s co‑accused, the supreme court upheld the lower courts’ decisions.10.  on 8 december 2006 the applicant lodged an application with the district court for leave to appeal out of time.11.  on 25 january 2007 the district court dismissed the application, finding that the supreme court’s decision of 8 may 2001 had become res judicata and that, consequently, the applicant could not be tried a second time for the same offence.12.  on 8 june 2007 and 2 july 2010, following the applicant’s appeals, the court of appeal and the supreme court, respectively, upheld that decision.13.  on 8 june 2011 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal against the supreme court’s decision of 2 july 2010. he also complained about the unfairness of the proceedings in absentia.14.  on 21 september 2011, the constitutional court, sitting as a full bench, rejected the appeal by a majority.it found that the applicant’s complaint against the supreme court’s decision of 2 july 2010 was manifestly ill-founded.as regards his complaint about the unfairness of the proceedings in absentia, and the domestic courts’ dismissal of his application for leave to appeal out of time, the constitutional court noted that the applicant had not complained about the domestic courts’ decisions taken in absentia (see paragraphs 6-8 above).it also reasoned that in the present case the supreme court’s unifying decision no.34783/06, §§ 28-31, 5 november 2013).in addition, it noted that although the appeals before the supreme court against the lower courts’ decision were lodged by the co‑accused and not the applicant, the supreme court had examined and amended the lower courts’ decisions of 17 april and 1 june 1999 also in respect of the applicant.15.  on an unspecified date in 2007 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal against the district court’s decision of 17 april 1999, the court of appeal’s decision of 1 june 1999 and the supreme court’s decision of 8 may 2001 complaining about his conviction in absentia.16.  on 21 september 2007 the constitutional court dismissed the appeal as having been lodged out of time, considering that the two-year time-limit had started to run as from 8 may 2001. the decision was communicated to the applicant’s lawyer on 25 september 2007.
5.  the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in diyarbakır.6.  on 30 september 2007 a reading out of a press statement and a march were held in diyarbakır in order to protest about the conditions of detention and alleged poisoning of abdullah öcalan, the leader of the pkk (kurdistan workers’ party), an illegal armed organisation.the protesters gathered in front of the building of the diyarbakır branch of the democratic society party (demokratik toplum partisi) (dtp) where a press statement was read out.they then marched.the applicant, as a member of the dtp, participated in the gathering and the ensuing march.according to a police report dated 9 october 2007, the applicant was seen while carrying a banner which read “i̇nsanlık zehirleniyor” (“the humanity is being poisoned”) and applauding together with other demonstrators in the police video footage.7.  on 9 october 2007 the applicant was taken into police custody.on the same day she was detained on remand.8.  on 17 october 2007 the diyarbakır public prosecutor charged the applicant with disseminating propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no.3713) on account of the content of the banner she had carried during the demonstration of 30 september 2007.9.  on 4 december 2007 the applicant was released pending trial.10.  on 18 march 2008 the diyarbakır assize court convicted the applicant as charged.the court found it established, on the basis of an expert report on the police video footage, that the applicant had been together with other persons who had chanted the slogan “be serok jiyan nabe” (“there is no life without the leader”) and that she had carried a banner which read “the humanity is being poisoned”.11.  on 9 january 2012 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of 18 march 2008.on 17 july 2012, upon the applicant’s request, the diyarbakır assize court ordered her release from prison, in accordance with law no.
8.  on 8 november 2012 the vilnius regional administrative court allowed in part the applicant’s claim.it firstly held that the time‑limit for claiming damages was three years after the damage arose, and accordingly dismissed the part of the applicant’s claim concerning the period before 27 july 2009 as time‑barred.the court then examined various documents provided by the prison authorities and found that, during the remaining period, for about one year and seven months the size of the personal space afforded to the applicant had not complied with the domestic requirements (until 11 may 2010 the minimum personal space in prison cells stipulated by domestic law was 5 sq.9.  the court also found, on the basis of reports submitted by domestic public healthcare authorities, that the temperature and the amount of natural light in some of the cells in which the applicant had been detained had not complied with domestic hygiene norms.however, it dismissed as unproved the applicant’s allegations that the cells had been dilapidated and that there had been parasites and rodents.furthermore, the court considered that the applicant had not proved that his health had deteriorated as a result of the conditions of his detention.11.  the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision, but on 20 may 2013 the supreme administrative court dismissed his appeal and upheld the lower court’s decision in its entirety.14.  on 12 march 2014 the vilnius regional administrative court allowed in part the applicant’s claim.the court found that for seventy‑nine days the applicant had had 2.9 sq.m of personal space, in breach of the domestic requirement of 3.1 sq.15.  however, the court noted that the applicant had been allowed to move freely around the correctional facility during the day, except when he had been serving disciplinary penalties, and that the material conditions of his detention had been appropriate.it also considered that the applicant had not proved that his health had deteriorated as a result of the conditions of his detention.16.  the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision and on 15 may 2015 the supreme administrative court upheld in part his appeal.it found that, according to the applicant’s submissions which the administration of the correctional facility had failed to refute, for 274 days he had had between 2.33 and 3.04 sq.the court considered that, despite the fact that the applicant had been allowed to move freely during the day and that the material conditions of detention had been appropriate, there were grounds to award him non-pecuniary damages.
4.  the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in adıyaman.5.  on 17 october 1999 the applicant sat an examination in order to become a public servant.she was successful in the examination and on 27 june 2000 she was notified by the state personnel department attached to the prime minister’s office that she had been appointed to the post of security officer in the kilis branch of tedaş, the state-run electricity company.6.  on 4 september 2000 the kilis branch of tedaş informed the applicant that she would not be appointed to a post in that office as she did not fulfil the requirements of “being a man” and “having completed military service”.7.  on an unspecified date the applicant lodged an action against tedaş with the ankara administrative court requesting the annulment of the decision of the kilis branch of tedaş.in her deposition, the applicant noted that being a man was not a requirement for appointment to the post in question and that she fulfilled all the requirements for that post.8.  on an unspecified date the general directorate of tedaş submitted to the administrative court that one of the requirements for the post in question had been declared by the state personnel department as “having completed military service” and that therefore only men could be appointed to the post.9.  on 28 november 2001 the ankara administrative court annulled the decision of the kilis branch of tedaş.the court held that the requirement of “having completed military service” should be considered to apply only to male candidates and that there had been no restriction on women working as security officers in tedaş.11.  on 1 april 2003 the applicant was recruited by tedaş.12.  on 21 october 2003 the supreme administrative court quashed the judgment of the ankara administrative court, holding that the requirement regarding military service demonstrated that the post in question was reserved for male candidates.the high court therefore found that the administration’s decision had been in accordance with the law.14.  on 30 december 2004 the ankara administrative court dismissed the applicant’s case, taking into consideration the decision of the supreme administrative court.15.  on 7 may 2007 the supreme administrative court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the judgment of 30 december 2004.16.  on 12 july 2007 the supreme administrative court’s judgment was notified to the applicant.
6.  by a decision of 4 december 2006 of the cantonal prosecutor of the hercegovina-neretva canton (hercegovačko-neretvanski kanton; one of the ten cantons of the federation of bosnia and herzegovina) the applicant was granted the reimbursement of costs which she had incurred as a witness in the amount of 519 convertible marks (bam)[1].7.  on 29 february 2008 the mostar municipal court (“the municipal court”) rejected the applicant’s request for the enforcement of this decision, deeming it unenforceable.8.  on 18 september 2008 the mostar cantonal court (“the cantonal court”) quashed this decision and remitted the case for reconsideration.11.  on 1 april 2010 the cantonal court quashed this decision and again remitted the case to the municipal court.12.  on 18 february 2011 the municipal court partly accepted the objection against the writ of execution specifically as regards the interest on the main debt calculated from 4 january 2007, and the interest on the total costs of the enforcement proceedings.14.  on 19 september 2013 the supreme court of the federation of bosnia and herzegovina dismissed the applicant’s request for revision as inadmissible.15.  on 23 december 2013 the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina partially accepted the applicant’s appeal and thereby found a violation of her right to a trial within a reasonable time, due to the non-enforcement of the decision of the municipal court of 18 february 2011 (see paragraph 12 above).the constitutional court, however, did not award the non-pecuniary damage requested by the applicant.18.  by a judgment of the municipal court of 3 april 2009, which became final on 16 december 2009, a certain p.m. was ordered to pay the applicant the costs of civil proceedings in the amount of bam 1,959.19.  on 31 october 2010 the applicant submitted to the municipal court a request for the enforcement of this judgment.20.  on 14 september 2011, 4 november 2011 and 5 october 2012 the applicant submitted requests for the acceleration of the enforcement proceedings.22.  on 13 june 2013 the municipal court dismissed the objection lodged against its decision of 5 december 2012, and p.m. subsequently appealed this decision to the cantonal court.23.  on 17 september 2013 the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina found a violation of the applicant’s right to a trial within a reasonable time, due to the duration of the enforcement proceedings before the municipal court.it further ordered the cantonal court to urgently rule on the appeal lodged by p.m. the constitutional court, however, did not award the non-pecuniary damage requested by the applicant.24.  on 16 october 2013 the cantonal court dismissed the appeal lodged by p.m. 25.  on 11 june 2015 the municipal court issued a writ of execution.
5.  the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in the kızıltepe district of mardin.6.  on 30 march 2006 the applicant participated in a march and the reading out of a press statement held by the party for a democratic society (demokratik toplum partisi –“the dtp”) in kızıltepe.the protesters gathered in front of the building of the kızıltepe branch of the dtp and walked to the building of the district branch of the justice and development party (adalet ve kalkınma partisi), where a press statement was read out.the press statement concerned the clashes that had occurred between demonstrators and the police in diyarbakır on 29 and 30 march 2006. the protestors then returned to the dtp building.during the march the protesters chanted slogans.the applicant participated in the march and the reading out of the press statement as a member of the dtp.7.  on 8 march 2007 the diyarbakır public prosecutor filed an indictment charging the applicant and eleven other individuals with disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no.the public prosecutor claimed that the applicant had attended the demonstration of 30 march 2006 and chanted the slogan “tooth for tooth, blood for blood, we are with you öcalan” (“dişe diş, kana kan, seninleyiz öcalan”).8.  within the context of the criminal proceedings initiated following the indictment dated 8 march 2007, an expert who had examined the police video recordings of the public gathering of 30 march 2006 observed that the applicant had acted together with the crowd, but that it could not be established whether he had chanted the above-mentioned slogan since he had covered his mouth and nose.9.  on 22 april 2008 the diyarbakır assize court convicted the applicant under section 7(2) of law no.3713. in its judgment, the court noted that the applicant had accepted that he had participated in the march and the reading out of the press statement, but denied the veracity of the allegation that he had chanted any slogan.the assize court found it established that the march and the gathering at which a press statement had been read out on 30 march 2006 had turned into a propaganda event in favour of the pkk and an illegal demonstration, and that the accused, including the applicant, had actively participated in that event.the assize court further observed that although, according to the expert report, it could not be established that the applicant had chanted the slogan, on the basis of the photographs in the case file, it was established that he had acted together with the demonstrators.noting that there were other demonstrators who had covered their mouths and that the police documents showed that the applicant had actively taken part in the demonstration and instructed others to chant slogans, the assize court concluded that the applicant had committed the offence of dissemination of propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation.10.  on 2 july 2009 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of 22 april 2008.
7.  on 21 march 2007 the applicant attended celebrations for the festival of newroz in buca, a district of the city of i̇zmir, as one of the moderators.while she was hosting the event, the applicant addressed the crowd in kurdish and invited them to observe a minute’s silence in memory of “newroz martyrs” and martyrs for freedom and democracy.8.  on 10 april 2007 the i̇zmir assize court issued a warrant for the applicant’s arrest and a search of her residence.10.  on 12 april 2007 the applicant was brought before the public prosecutor and the investigating judge.in her statements to the public prosecutor and the judge, she maintained that she had attended the newroz celebrations as a moderator and that she had not shouted any illegal slogans.11.  on 24 april 2007 the public prosecutor instituted criminal proceedings before the i̇zmir assize court against the applicant and seven other individuals, charging them under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no.12.  on 13 august 2007, at the end of the first hearing in the trial, the first‑instance court ordered the applicant’s release.the court observed that the applicant had made a speech in kurdish, that a man had translated her words into turkish at the end of her speech, and that according to the translation she had uttered the following sentences: “welcome.i invite you to stand to observe a moment of silence in memory of newroz martyrs, martyrs for freedom and democracy, and those who enabled us to be where we are today.” 14.  the assize court further noted that following the applicant’s speech the crowd had made a “v” sign and that during the speeches made by the other speakers, the crowd had chanted slogans in favour of the pkk and its leader.according to the court, the newroz celebrations had turned into a propaganda event in favour of the pkk and the speakers had chanted slogans and had incited the crowd to chant slogans.the court also observed that during the celebrations, symbols and banners of the pkk had been carried by the crowd.the court found that the speakers had provoked the crowd and had as a result committed the offence of disseminating propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation.the court considered that in view of the applicant’s conviction under section 7(2) of law no.3713 it was unnecessary to deliver a decision in respect of the charges under article 215 of the criminal code.15.  on 21 september 2010 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the i̇zmir assize court.
4.  the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in novi sad.5.  the proceedings began on 19 november 1999 when a third private party brought a lawsuit concerning his tenancy rights in respect of a flat owned by a respondent.the applicant acted as an intervener in these proceedings on the side of the respondent since she had previously signed a tenancy agreement with him.6.  on 8 april 2003 the first instance court suspended the proceedings (mirovanje postupka).7.  on 20 august 2003, 20 october 2005 and 13 may 2009 the first instance court terminated the proceedings having deemed the lawsuit as withdrawn due to the fact that the parties had failed to appear at the scheduled hearings.all three of these decisions were subsequently quashed on appeal.8.  on 29 march 2012 the first instance court rendered a judgment in favour of the respondent and the applicant.9.  on 22 august 2012 this judgment was upheld on appeal.10.  on 28 september 2012 the applicant lodged a further appeal with the constitutional court alleging a violation of the right to a hearing within a reasonable time.11.  on 10 february 2015 the constitutional court found a violation of the applicant’s right to a hearing within a reasonable time, but rejected her claim for non-pecuniary damages stating that the finding of a violation alone constituted sufficient redress for the said breach.in so doing it noted, inter alia, that the applicant had significantly contributed to the length of proceedings in question.
6.  by a judgment of the banja luka court of first instance of 23 may 2005, which became final on 11 september 2007, the republika srpska (an entity of bosnia and herzegovina) was ordered to pay the applicant 42,767 convertible marks (bam)[1] on account of pecuniary damage together with default interest calculated from 23 may 2005 until final payment.7.  on 1 february 2010 the applicant submitted a request for the issuance of the writ of execution in his case, which request he amended on 30 august 2010.8.  on 18 october 2010 the applicant submitted a request for the acceleration of the proceedings before the banja luka court of first instance.9.  on 15 november 2010 the banja luka court of first instance issued the writ of execution (rješenje o izvršenju).10.  on 18 march 2011 the banja luka court of first instance rejected the objections against its decision of 15 november 2010, as well as the applicant’s request for the payment of the costs of the enforcement proceedings.11.  on 31 may 2011 the banja luka court of first instance made certain corrections to its decision of 18 march 2011.12.  on 15 december 2011 the banja luka court of second instance quashed the decision of the banja luka court of first instance of 18 march 2011 and remitted the case for reconsideration.13.  on 26 march 2012 the applicant submitted a request for the acceleration of the proceedings before the banja luka court of first instance.14.  on 12 april 2012 the banja luka court of first instance partially granted the objection of the republika srpska against the writ of execution.15.  on 23 april 2012 the applicant appealed the decision of the banja luka court of first instance of 12 april 2012. on 11 june, 13 july, and 21 november 2012, and on 15 january 2013 the applicant submitted further requests for the acceleration of the proceedings before the banja luka court of second instance.16.  on 21 january 2013 the banja luka court of second instance rejected the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of 12 april 2012.17.  on 7 october 2014 the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina ruled in favour of the applicant that the enforcement proceedings before the banja luka court of first instance had not been finalised within a reasonable time.it further ordered the banja luka court of first instance to urgently expedite the enforcement proceedings in the applicant’s case.18.  on 8 november 2016 the final decision in question was enforced in cash, regarding the principal amount and the statutory default interests.on 5 july 2017 the costs of the enforcement proceedings and related statutory default interests were also fully paid to the applicant.
for twenty-two days the applicant had between 3.25 and 4 square metres of personal space at his disposal; for the remaining period he had more than 4 square metres of personal space, sometimes even up to 9.36 square metres.6.  on 4 january 2012 the applicant was taken to šiauliai remand prison, where he was detained for various periods until 13 march 2013. no information concerning separate cells, their sizes and the number of inmates has been provided to the court.it is indicated in the schemes that the toilets were separated from the rest of the cells by partitions but that they were visible from the entrance of the cell.he asked the court to oblige lukiškės remand prison to immediately terminate his inhuman and degrading treatment, transfer him to a cell where he would have no less than 4 square metres of personal space (not including space for the toilet and the furniture), and award him 86,886 euros (eur) in compensation.he complained regarding overcrowding, low temperatures, damp, the lack of proper partitions between toilets and cells, the fact that he was held with convicted inmates who were serving sentences for grave crimes, the insufficient nutritional value of the food, the fact that he could only shower once a week for fifteen minutes, and the lack of time spent in the open air.the applicant further complained regarding his conditions of detention in klaipėda police station between 23 december 2011 and 5 march 2013. he complained regarding overcrowding, the lack of ventilation, damp, low temperatures, the lack of proper partitions between toilets and cells, the lack of time spent in the open air, the fact that the shower had only been available once a week for fifteen minutes, the insufficient nutritional value of the food, the fact that there had been no long-term or short-term visits, and the fact that there were no separate cells for non-smokers and inmates who had tuberculosis or hiv.he also complained regarding his conditions of detention in šiauliai remand prison between 4 january 2012 and 13 march 2013. he complained regarding overcrowding, low temperatures during the winter and high temperatures during the summer, insufficient ventilation, the fact that he could only shower once a week, the lack of proper partitions between toilets and cells, and the fact that there had been no long-term visits.the court further held that the partition between the toilet and the cell of 1.5 < metres in height did not constitute sufficient implementation of national hygiene norms and the standards of the european committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment (cpt).the other complaints by the applicant (regarding high temperatures in the summer, damp, a lack of proper ventilation, mould, a lack of cleaning materials, not having enough time to shower, the low energy value of the food, and having insufficient time outside) were dismissed as unsubstantiated.the court further held that he had had insufficient personal space in the cells for 283 days (insufficient cell space had been unquestionably proved in respect of forty-eight days, and for the remaining 235 days the applicant had had a varying amount of personal space at his disposal) and found that the lack of proper partition walls between toilets and cells had breached both domestic requirements and the standards of the cpt.with regard to klaipėda police station, the court found that the applicant had had insufficient personal space (less than 5 square metres) for fifty‑seven days, and that the partition wall between the toilet and the cell, which was 1.2 and 1.3 metres in height in different cells, had been too low and had not satisfied the standards of the domestic law or the cpt.the court only noted that with regard to klaipėda police station, the first-instance court had miscalculated the time that the applicant had spent in overcrowded cells and stated that he had had less than 5 square metres of personal space for eighty-three days.however, the higher court found that for twenty-six days he had had between 4.77 and 4.84 square metres of personal space, which was less than the domestic requirement at the time (see paragraph 18 below).however, the court held that for those twenty-six days the deviation from the domestic norms had not been significant and thus it agreed with the first-instance decision.14.  from the information available to the court, it appears that the applicant never asked the prison administration if he could receive long‑term conjugal visits from his partner, and although short-term visits were available to him, he only used his right to receive them once, on 26 june 2013. two other short-term visits were changed into phone calls (the visits of 12 june 2015 and 29 october 2015).
4.  the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in adıyaman.5.  on 21 march 2007 the applicant participated in the newroz (kurdish new year) celebrations held in malatya.6.  on an unspecified date the malatya public prosecutor filed an indictment charging the applicant and twenty other people with disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no.3713).the public prosecutor claimed that the applicant had waved a green, yellow and red flag symbolising the pkk.7.  on 6 march 2008 the malatya assize court convicted all of the accused as charged, including the applicant.on the basis of evidence in the case file, the court found it established that one of the accused, ms n.k., had made a press statement, and the other accused, including the applicant, had chanted slogans in favour of the pkk and its leader.the court also noted that the accused had waved the so-called flag of the pkk.the applicant was sentenced to ten months’ imprisonment.8.  on 31 may 2011 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of 6 march 2008.9.  on 21 december 2011 the applicant started serving his prison sentence.10.  on 12 july 2012 the malatya assize court ordered the applicant’s release from prison in accordance with law no.6352, which had entered into force on 5 july 2012 and had amended certain provisions of law no.11.  on 12 december 2012 the malatya assize court decided to suspend the execution of the applicant’s prison sentence in accordance with provisional section 1 of law no.6352. the suspension was for a period of three years, on the condition that he did not commit a terrorism-related offence during that period.
5.  on 12 may 2009 the judge at the istanbul assize court decided to restrict access to the investigation file relating to an investigation against the applicant and others pursuant to section 10 of the prevention of terrorism act (law no.6.  on 31 october 2009 the applicant was arrested and taken into custody on suspicion of membership of a terrorist organisation.7.  on 1 november 2009 the applicant’s police statement was taken at the anti-terror branch of the istanbul security directorate, in the presence of his lawyer.the police read out the transcripts of the said telephone conversations and asked the applicant to comment on them.8.  on 2 november 2009 the public prosecutor questioned the applicant in the presence of his lawyer.the prosecutor read out the transcripts of the intercepted conversations to the applicant.the applicant did not deny that he had had these conversations but claimed that they were not made with the intention to plan a terrorist action.9.  on the same day the judge at the istanbul assize court ordered his pre-trial detention.10.  on 2 november 2009 the applicant’s lawyer asked the court to lift the restriction of access to the investigation file.11.  on 4 november 2009 the applicant’s lawyer filed an objection against the decision on the applicant’s detention, and requested his release.on 12 november 2009 the istanbul assize court, relying on the public prosecutor’s written opinion, which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative, dismissed the objection without holding a hearing.12.  on 25 november 2009 the istanbul public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul assize court, charging the applicant with aiding and abetting of a terrorist organisation, and looting.13.  on 4 december 2009 the istanbul assize court accepted the indictment.on the same date the restriction on the file was lifted.15.  according to the latest information in the case file, the criminal proceedings against the applicant are still pending.
5.  the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in tuzla.6.  by judgment of the mostar municipal court of 18 june 2009, which became final on 16 december 2010, company r. was ordered to reinstate the applicant in his previous employment, as well as to pay him a total amount of 16,314 convertible marks (bam)[1], together with default interest calculated from 20 march 2007 until final payment.the respondent company was further ordered to pay the applicant bam 2,641 in respect of legal costs, together with default interest calculated from 18 june 2009 until final payment.lastly, the respondent company was ordered to cover all pension-related contributions in respect of the applicant between 1 january 2003 and 17 january 2007.7.  on 17 october 2011 the municipal court issued a writ of execution (rješenje o izvršenju) in this regard.8.  on 23 february 2012, upon the applicant’s request, the municipal court amended its decision of 17 october 2011 by changing the object of enforcement.9.  on 16 january 2012 the municipal court requested the respondent to indicate why it had not reinstated the applicant.10.  on 1 february 2013 the municipal court joined the enforcement proceedings in the applicant’s case with an earlier enforcement procedure against the respondent.11.  on 25 june 2014 the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina found a violation of the applicant’s right to enforcement within a reasonable time, and ordered the municipal court to urgently finalise the enforcement proceedings.the constitutional court considered this to be sufficient just satisfaction and rejected the applicant’s claim for non-pecuniary damage.the decision of the constitutional court was served on the applicant on 15 august 2014.12.  on 18 march 2015 the municipal court ordered the sale of the respondent’s property.on 27 april 2015 it transferred the respondent’s real estate to company h., the highest ranked judgment creditor.13.   on 29 march 2016 the mostar cantonal court quashed the decision of the municipal court of 27 april 2015 and remitted the case for reconsideration.14.  according to the latest information provided by the parties on 28 july 2017, on that date the enforcement proceedings in the applicant’s case were still pending.
7.  at the time of the events giving rise to the application, the applicant was the head of the district branch of the democratic people’s party (demokratik halklar partisi – dehap) in the ergani district of diyarbakır.8.  on 15 february 2005, on the anniversary of the arrest and transfer of abdullah öcalan, the leader of the pkk[1], to turkey, the ergani district branch of dehap organised a gathering in front of the district branch office in order to read out a press statement.9.  on 31 may 2005 the ergani public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment with the ergani criminal court against twenty-six persons, including the applicant, charging them with breach of the marches and demonstrations act (law no.they were accused of participating in the gathering and carrying banners with slogans such as “the solution is in i̇mralı[2]” (“çözüm i̇mralı’da”), “solitary confinement is a crime against humanity” (“tecrit insanlık suçudur”), “not eu, not us, öcalan has the solution” (“ne ab ne abd, çözüm öcalan’da”) , “the youth is öcalan’s fedai”[3] (“gençlik apo’nun fedaisidir”), and “freedom to öcalan” (“öcalan’a özgürlük”), as well as posters of abdullah öcalan.they were also accused of chanting slogans such as “to the sun, to freedom” (güneşe güneşe, özgürleşmeye”), “long live the brotherhood of peoples” (“yaşasın halkların kardeşliği”), “may those hands which aim to damage peace be broken” (“barışa uzanan eller kırılsın”), “a tooth for a tooth, blood for blood, we are with you” (“dişe diş kana kan, seninleyiz”) and “akp, be careful, do not abuse our patience” (“akp şaşırma, sabrımızı taşırma”).11.  on an unspecified date the diyarbakır assize court remitted the case file to the ergani criminal court.12.  on 19 march 2007 the ergani criminal court once again decided that the diyarbakır assize court had jurisdiction over the case.13.  on 10 august 2007 the sixth chamber of the diyarbakır assize court began the trial in the case.14.  on 15 april 2010 the diyarbakır public prosecutor submitted to the first-instance court his observations on the merits of the case.15.  on the same day the diyarbakır assize court convicted the applicant of disseminating propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation under section 7 (2) of law no.3713. the court based its judgment, among others, on a police report regarding the reading out of the press statement dated 15 february 2005 and a police report dated 23 february 2005 on the examination of a police video recording of the event of 15 february 2005. the court judgment read as follows: “... it has been decided that ahmet kınık and r.a. committed the offence proscribed by section 7(2) of law no.3713, as they participated in the reading out of a press statement organised by the dehap in ergani on 15 february 2005 on the anniversary of the arrest of abdullah öcalan, and chanted slogans such as ‘the solution is in i̇mralı’, ‘solitary confinement is a crime against humanity’, ‘not eu, not us, öcalan has the solution’, and ‘the youth is öcalan’s fedai’.they marched and chanted these slogans without obtaining prior permission.” 16.  the sixth chamber of the diyarbakır assize court sentenced the applicant to ten months’ imprisonment but decided to suspend the pronouncement of the judgment (hükmün açıklanmasının geri bırakılması) for a period of five years, under article 231 of the code of criminal procedure.17.  on 5 july 2010 the applicant objected to the decision of the assize court to suspend the pronouncement of the judgment.18.  on 22 november 2010 the fourth chamber of the diyarbakır assize court dismissed the applicant’s objection.
he also referred to witness statements in criminal proceedings against anna stregeleva, the former head of the regional department of the federal agency for state property management (росимущество), which had concerned the misappropriation of other plots of land and ended with ms stregeleva’s conviction.the lads wanted to replicate the deed of the bryansk thieves from the local administration, but they lacked the power, although they had skills in abundance.however, they got carried away by the example of the big bryansk thieves and failed to take into account that the latter were protected from all sides – by the powers that be, the party, relations, and so on.if you go from bryansk to the village of michurinskoe, before the village to the left you will see a field and an orchard which caught the fancy of the bryansk thieves from the authorities (воры от власти).according to the article, it could be seen from the material in the criminal case that deputy governor simonenko had said at a meeting that “the issue with the orchards was agreed upon with the governor”.“however, they got carried away by the example of the big bryansk thieves and failed to take into account that the latter were protected from all sides – by the powers that be, the party, relations, and so on”; 4.the court noted that in the article the author had expressed an opinion and made suppositions with regard to procedural documents in the criminal case against ms stregeleva and the actions of certain participants in the proceedings.it further found that the first, third and fourth sentences quoted above could not be considered as damaging to the claimant’s honour and reputation as he was not the only official in the bryansk administration and it was not clear from the article that the author had meant him exactly.as regards the second sentence, the court found that the claimant had failed to prove that he was the one referred to in the passage as many people with the surname simonenko lived in the bryansk region.13.  on 27 november 2012 the bryansk regional court set aside the judgment, allowed the claim against the applicant, ordered him to publish a retraction within fifteen days of the judgment’s entry into force, and awarded the claimant damages of rub 5,000 (approximately 125 euros).it also cited the use of the expressions “thieves from the local administration”, “thieves from the authorities” and “thief-officials” in connection with the criminal proceedings against mr simonenko.the lads wanted to replicate the deed of the bryansk thieves from the local administration, but they lacked the power, although they had skills in abundance”, it was clear that the first, third and fourth sentences constituted assertions to the effect that the claimant had committed offences and had abused his official position for personal gain.“however, they got carried away by the example of the big bryansk thieves and failed to take into account that the latter were protected from all sides – by the powers that be, the party, relations, and so on”; 18.  on 23 april 2013 the bryanskiy district court granted the claim.the applicant had referred to “big bryansk thieves”, and, given that the article contained comments on criminal proceeding instituted against other people from the bryansk administration, it was impossible to regard the passage as relating specifically to mr denin.as regards the second passage, the court held that it could not be considered as defamatory either since it had not constituted a statement of fact but had rather been a supposition, which was reflected in the use of the word “could”.
429/7 headlined “fedorov always takes the lead” (“федоров всегда впереди”) about viktor fedorovich fedorov, a member of the bryansk region duma and the head of the regional committee on legislation, law and order and state service.considering that the deputy speaker bugayev is eager to get the post of speaker, it is very likely that he could have promised his current post to the head of the committee on legislation ... and why not?if they include him on the united russia list for the elections to the regional duma, he will only be at the very end of the list.however, it became clear later that the ‘experience’ he wanted was of a somewhat different nature ... during the three years of his ‘parliamentary career’ the head of the committee on legislation, law and order and state service bought three cars for himself.and each one was a foreign car that was cooler than the one before ...” 8.  the following is the original russian text: “в областную же думу он попал по партийным спискам социал-демократов.10.  on 25 march 2008 the bryanskiy district court of the bryansk region (“the bryanskiy district court”) ordered an examination of the impugned passages by a psychological and linguistic expert.in the report the expert specifically noted that the veracity of the statements at issue was not the subject of the examination.13.  with regard to the first quote, the court referred to the conclusion of the expert report that the expression “dumped” contained a negative assessment of the claimant as an immoral person and found that, therefore, the passage contained information damaging to his honour and reputation.the court dismissed the applicant’s submission to the effect that the word “dumped” had been used in quotes specifically to emphasise its figurative sense.14.  at the same time, the court found that the second quote did not contain any information damaging to the claimant’s honour and reputation.15.  with regard to the third and fourth quotes, the applicant argued that under articles 34 and 35 of the constitution (see paragraph 24 below) everyone had the right to exercise an entrepreneurial activity and dispose of his or her property and that the quotes in question therefore contained no allegations of unlawful activities and could not be considered as defamatory.16.  the court dismissed the applicant’s arguments and referred to the conclusions of the expert report, which stated that the third and fourth quotes contained information which showed the claimant in a negative light.in that regard the court referred to section 6 of the law on the state of a deputy of the bryansk region duma (see paragraph 26 below) and noted that the claimant had provided it with a certificate from the tax authorities showing that he had not been an individual entrepreneur since 2005. it also took into account certificates from his employer about four business trips in official cars to orel between 2005 and 2007 and concluded that the passages in question contained information damaging to the claimant’s honour and reputation.17.  lastly, with regard to the fifth quote, the court again relied on the findings of the expert report, which stated that the impugned passage contained information damaging to the claimant’s honour and reputation as it implied antisocial conduct on his part by suggesting that he had pursued his own enrichment instead of defending the interests of the public.18.  the court found the editorial board of bryanskiye budni and the applicant jointly liable for rub 40,000 in respect of the non-pecuniary damage sustained by the claimant.
namely, he was suspected of having falsified the criminal case against v. according to the prosecution, the applicant, aiming to avoid responsibility for the failure to uncover the journalist’s murder, had instructed b. to find a vulnerable person who would agree to confess to the crime in question in exchange for remuneration.19.  on 5 april 2005 the supreme court extended the term of the applicant’s pre-trial detention to eighteen months (until 10 august 2005) in the light of the particular complexity of the proceedings.22.  on 5 august 2005 the kyiv city court of appeal (“the kyiv court”) extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention to twenty months (until 10 october 2005) on the grounds that the applicant and his lawyers had not finished studying the case file, which consisted of over a hundred volumes.28.  on 17 december 2008 the trial court severed into a separate set of proceedings another charge against the applicant – concerning suspected abuse of office leading to grave consequences (the falsification of the criminal case against v.) – and remitted it to the prosecution authorities for additional investigation.33.  pursuant to a decision of the president of the supreme court, the case was referred to the lugansk regional court of appeal (“the lugansk court”) as a first-instance court, which started the trial on 22 february 2010.37.  on 17 august 2012 the rubizhne town court (“the rubizhne court”) held a preparatory hearing for the applicant’s trial in respect of the abuse-of-office charge regarding the illegal sale of evidence, which had been remitted for additional investigation on 6 february 2012 (see paragraph 35 above).it observed that, while the issue of a preventive measure had not been dealt with within that set of proceedings, the applicant was already detained in a different context under the judgment of 20 march 2012. accordingly, the rubizhne court ordered his pre-trial detention as the most appropriate preventive measure pending trial in respect of the severed charge also.38.  on 12 december 2012 the higher specialised court for civil and criminal matters (“the higher specialised court”) modified the lugansk court’s judgment of 20 march 2012. it held that the applicant was to be absolved from serving the sentence altogether, given that the only charge which had entailed the imposition of that sentence (abuse of office on account of the falsification of the case file in respect of v. – see paragraph 36 above) had become time-barred as well.40.  on 24 january 2013 the rubizhne court allowed a request lodged by the applicant for the criminal proceedings to be discontinued because the only remaining charge against him (abuse of office on account of the illegal sale of evidence) had become time-barred.as indicated during the programme, it was created with the support of the security service of ukraine and the ministry of the interior (specifically, its main department for the organised crime combatting).the documentary was about the agreement between v. and the law-enforcement officials, and the subsequent murder of v. and b. the applicant was named as the person who had proposed the agreement and as b.’s murderer.they shared their version of the events of the case in the form of what appeared to be factual statements, without specifying at what stage the proceedings had reached at the times of the various interviews.45.  according to the applicant, the cells were extremely small and lacked proper ventilation; the sanitary conditions were very poor; the toilet was not separated from the living area and the applicant was obliged to take meals in its close vicinity; and the bed was infested with bedbugs.46.  the government submitted that they were not in a position to provide a description of the material conditions of the applicant’s detention in the lugansk sizo given that, following the outbreak of the armed conflict in the eastern ukraine in 2014, lugansk was on non-government controlled territory.56.  the case file also contains a report of the ultrasound scan of the knee joints that the applicant underwent on 5 july 2013. he was diagnosed with a “baker’s cyst” (a pocket of fluid forming a lump behind the knee) in respect of both knees.
he was examined by a court medical expert, who found bruises and swelling on his face, concussion, contusions in the chest area and a resulting inflammation of the right lung, and a compression fracture of the spine.that had angered v.m., so he had blocked the exit of the stairwell and had tried to grab a.k.the police also accompanied them both to the location of the incident (the stairwell) and they each showed how their claimed version of events had unfolded.had punched him in the face, arms and head, had kicked him in the back, as a result of which he had fallen down a flight of stairs, and that while he had been lying down, a.k.did not have a res judicata effect (neturi prejudicinės galios) in the present civil proceedings because the criminal and the civil proceedings had concerned different parties and the courts in the criminal proceedings had not made any findings as to a.k.’s guilt in the operative part of their judgments.confessed that he had hit the victim and had pushed him down the stairs, stating that he had done so in self‑defence ... as a result of [a.k.’s] actions, the victim had suffered harm.these facts were established in the course of criminal proceedings, during the pre-trial investigation (article 182 § 5 of the code of civil procedure); the defendants have not provided any facts that could disprove [a.k.’s] guilt, so there is no need to prove these established facts with regard to [a.k.’s] unlawful actions and guilt (šių nustatytų faktų dėl atsakovo [a.k.]did not have any information about him, and stating that the civil claimant had had the freedom to choose the defendants against whom he wished to submit his claim.21.  the court, having regard to a.k.’s young age and the applicant’s difficult financial situation, allowed v.m.’s civil claim in part and awarded him ltl 2,000 (approximately eur 580) in respect of non-pecuniary damage and ltl 1,500 (approximately eur 435) in legal costs.the court ordered that the above amounts were to be paid by a.k., and that if he did not have sufficient assets they were to be paid by the applicant.had not assessed [a.k.’s] guilt in respect of the criminal offence and that the court could thus not have relied on the circumstances established in the judgment of 27 november 2012. this argument cannot be accepted.the klaipėda district court’s judgment of 27 november 2012 and the klaipėda regional court’s judgment of 21 march 2013 established that unlawful actions had been committed by the defendant [a.k.]the first-instance court correctly stated that the circumstances which had been established in the course of the criminal proceedings could be relied on and that there was no need to prove them (baudžiamojoje byloje nustatytomis aplinkybėmis galima vadovautis ir jų nebereikia įrodinėti) (article 182 § 3 of the code of civil procedure).the [court] notes that the fact that the defendant has not been prosecuted in criminal proceedings does not preclude his civil liability ... the first-instance court drew the well-founded conclusion that the conditions for the civil liability of the defendants were present: unlawful actions, fault, a causal link determining civil liability, and the damage caused to [v.m.25.  subsequently the applicant and her son lodged two appeals on points of law in which they argued that the decisions of the first-instance and the appellate courts had been contrary to the law and the principles of fairness, reasonableness and good faith.
13.  at the same time the prosecutor instituted new court proceedings against the shopping centre, seeking to have the fire safety breaches rectified.15.  on 23 march 2012 the regnum centre news portal published an article on its website about the temporary closure of the tymoshkovykh shopping centre due to breaches of fire safety rules.16.  on 26 march 2012 the ibryansk.ru news portal published an article on its website about a meeting between mr timoshkov and representatives of the ministry of emergency situations, the bryansk prosecutor, the head of the bryansk administration and mikhail klimov, a deputy governor of the bryansk region.the article also stated that the owner of the shopping centre considered the measure to be too severe, and that nikolay denin, governor of the bryansk region, had instructed mr klimov to personally take charge of the matter.18.  on the same date regnum centre published an article that at the 27 march 2012 hearing the bezhitskiy district curt of bryansk had dismissed an application to lift the provisional measure.the article also stated that mr timoshkov had been very active in connection with the closure of the shopping centre and had already met representatives of the ministry of emergency situations, the bryansk prosecutor, the head of the bryansk administration and mr klimov.the news portal reported that as the court hearing had taken place after the meeting, mr timoshkov had been outraged by the decision and had said as follows: “in my opinion, which is shared by officials at the ministry of emergency situations and deputy governor klimov, there is no threat to people’s safety.we shall appeal against it.” 19.  on 29 march 2012 the province.ru news portal published an article on its website saying that the bryansk prosecutor’s office had applied to the court to lift the suspension of the shopping centre’s activities, as announced by the deputy prosecutor, a. stupak, at a meeting of the regional duma.the article said that he had stated that the breaches that had been found were not considered by the ministry of emergency situations as posing a threat to the life of employees and customers at the centre and that the owner had rectified some of them.in the meantime, the businessmen are going to again ask the prosecutor’s office for clarification.” 22.  on 29 march 2012 the applicant published an article in bryanskiye budni no.639/12 headlined “... and were timoshkov’s errand boys” (“... и служили у тимошкова на посылках”)[1], where he criticised the officials who had taken the side of the shopping centre in the above events.they were ordered to rescue their patron timoshkov, and they did so ... the highest officials rushed to defend the interests of businessman timoshkov.” 25.  on 27 september 2012 the bryansk district court of the bryansk region allowed the claim.26.  the court dismissed the applicant’s argument that all the facts described in the article were true, whereas in the passages concerned he had expressed his opinion.relying on the above report, the court found that the claimant had been referred to in the passages concerned, which constituted negative statements that had discredited his moral character and damaged his honour, dignity and business reputation.27.  the court ordered the applicant to publish a retraction within ten days of the judgment’s entry into force and awarded the claimant damages of rub 5,000 (approximately 125 euros (eur)).
20.  according to the forensic report of 13 october 2004 (see paragraph 61 below), rasul tsakoyev had the following injuries: massive blunt trauma with crushing of body muscles complicated by myoglobinemia, renal failure, respiratory failure and encephalopathy; contusion of the heart, lungs, kidneys and bowels; fracture of the sixth and seventh ribs on the left side; posttraumatic pneumonitis on the right side; closed craniocerebral injury and brain concussion; large bruises of the chest and extremities; abrasions of the head and extremities.22.  on 19 october 2004 two hundred and forty residents of the khasanya village submitted a joint petition to the kabardino-balkaria prosecutor asking him to ensure the prosecution of the police officers who had abducted rasul tsakoyev on 27 september 2004 next to the prosecutor’s office and then tortured him until 29 september 2004, causing his death from the ill-treatment they had inflicted.the applicant stressed that his son had told him that he had been abducted and tortured by ubop officers on the premises of the police unit and that he had been subjected to severe beatings on the direct orders of the head of the ubop, officer k. 31.  on 9 october 2004 the investigators questioned rasul tsakoyev’s sister, ms kh.after that he had been taken to the second floor of the ubop building and had been questioned about rasul tsakoyev by an officer named anzor and had been told that his detention had been ordered by the head of the ubop, officer k. he had then been handcuffed to the radiator for the whole night.44.  on 18 october 2004 the investigators questioned rasul tsakoyev’s friend mr z. g., who stated that he had visited him in hospital at the beginning of october 2004 and that the latter had told him and the others that he had been abducted and beaten by ubop officers on the direct orders of the head of the ubop.and r.k., both of whom stated that on 29 september 2004 they had been on duty at the entrance of the ubop building and that they did not recall any visitors wanting to speak with officer k. 49.  on 16 november 2004 the investigators questioned the deputy head of the dolinskiy department of the interior in nalchik, officer a.k., who stated that at the end of september 2004 the imam of khasanya village had arrived at his office with another man and had asked him whether three or four acquaintances of his had been arrested by the police and held in detention.64.  on 21 october 2004 the first applicant requested that the investigators provide him with the following documents: a statement of calls made from and received on rasul tsakoyev’s mobile phone between september and october 2004; excerpt from the ubop detention register for the period from 27 to 28 september 2004; transcript of rasul tsakoyev’s questioning on 18 september 2004. the first applicant also requested that a search be conducted for the persons who now had rasul tsakoyev’s mobile phone and that it be tapped.the text of their decision included the following: “... on 21 october 2004 the victim d. tsakoyev requested that the investigators obtain a court authorisation for the tapping of mobile telephone number 8‑928‑637‑61-27 ‒ which had belonged to rasul tsakoyev and had been lost after [his] arrest by the officers of the ubop of the kabardino-balkaria ministry of the interior ‒ obtain a detailed list of the phone calls, and take operational search steps to establish the whereabouts of mr tsakoyev’s telephone.the circumstances referred to by [the first applicant] d. tsakoyev, are considered to be substantiated by the investigation and necessary for a full, objective investigation into the circumstances of the incident ...” from the documents submitted it appears that, although the request was formally granted, the steps it specified therein were not taken.67.  on 25 november 2004 the kabardino-balkaria prosecutor received the first applicant’s complaint, which had been forwarded by the representative of the russian president in the southern federal circuit on 20 november 2004. according to the first applicant, his son rasul tsakoyev had been tortured on the premises of the ubop on the direct orders of the superior officer k., and his son had told him about it prior to his death in hospital.; the officers replied that all three of them had been detained on the premises of that unit and that at that time there were no superiors in the station to order their release; 4.  on 29 september 2004, i, as the father of rasul tsakoyev, went to that police unit with the head of the khasanya village administration, mr a.z., ... but only mr a.z.given the above, i have reasons not to trust the law-enforcement bodies in kabardino-balkaria and request that you take the investigation of the criminal case under your personal control and transfer it to the prosecutor’s office of the southern federal circuit for a full and complete investigation ... i request that you take those steps as the investigative authorities are not taking sufficient measures and not interested in solving the crime and prosecuting the perpetrators in court.” no reply was given to this request.69.  on 2 march 2005 the first applicant requested that the investigators resume the investigation and take the following investigative steps: question the person who had rasul tsakoyev’s mobile phone; arrange a face-to-face confrontation between the applicants, their daughter and the head of the ubop, officer k.; arrange a face-to-face confrontation between officer k. and another witness.95.  on 2 september 2009 the investigators’ superiors ordered that the investigation be resumed and that a number of steps be taken: “the [last] decision to suspend the investigation was premature and unsubstantiated as not all of the steps it is possible to take in the absence of those to be charged with a crime have been taken.... concerning the circumstances of the transfer of rasul tsakoyev and others to the ubop; establish whether mr tsakoyev was taken to the ubop premises on 27-29 september 2004 and if so, who questioned him and whether physical force was used against him; - examine the crime scene with the participation of mr a.g.; - establish eye-witnesses to rasul tsakoyev’s abduction; - establish which officers were on duty at the kabardino-balkaria prosecutor’s office on 27 september 2004 and find out the circumstances of rasul tsakoyev’s abduction; - obtain information from the kabardino-balkaria ministry of health as to whether any calls were made on 27-29 september 2004 for an ambulance to go to the ubop premises; - examine the circumstances of the seizure by the ubop officers of rasul tsakoyev’s car and its return [to the applicants] a month later; - ask the kabardino-balkaria ministry of the interior to provide information concerning the participation of officer k. in the special operation in the elbrusskiy district; ...” 96.  from the documents submitted it appears that the orders were not complied with and none of the above steps was taken by the investigators.
11.  on 6 june 2011 the applicant brought a claim seeking the establishment of his paternity of the child and the determination of the terms of his contact with the latter.the district court reasoned that such claims could only be brought by one of the child’s parents, whereas on the date of its examination of the claim in question the applicant’s paternity of the child had not been established.13.  on the same day the district court established the applicant’s paternity of p. 14.  on 20 december 2012, following an appeal by a.d., the moscow city court (“the city court”) quashed the judgment of 25 june 2012 establishing the applicant’s paternity of the child and dismissed the applicant’s claim.15.  on 4 october 2013, following an appeal by the applicant, the presidium of the city court, under the cassation procedure, quashed the judgment of 25 june 2012 and the appeal decision of 20 december 2012 and remitted the case to the district court for fresh examination.19.  on 24 january 2014 the district court ordered that a.k.’s registration as the child’s father be annulled, established the applicant’s paternity of the child, and held that contact between the applicant and his daughter should take place at a.d.’s place of residence on the first saturday and second sunday of every month from 11 a.m. until 5 p.m. 20.  on 28 july 2014 the city court upheld the judgment of 24 january 2014 following an appeal by a.d. and a.k.21.  on 5 december 2014, after failed attempts to persuade a.d. to comply with the judgment of 24 january 2014 ‒ as upheld on appeal on 28 july 2014 ‒ the applicant applied to the tsaritsynskiy district bailiffs’ service in moscow (“the district bailiffs’ service”) for the institution of enforcement proceedings.she was informed of the institution of the enforcement proceedings and summoned to appear before the bailiff on 20 august 2015. on the latter date the bailiff telephoned the same number, only to be answered by a woman who told the bailiff that the telephone number did not belong to a.d., after which she hung up.28.  on 6 october 2015 the enforcement proceedings were transferred from the district bailiffs’ service to the newly created inter-district department of bailiffs for the recovery of child maintenance payments of the federal bailiffs’ service of russia for moscow (межрайонный отдел судебных приставов по взысканию алиментных платежей № 1 уфссп россии по г. москве, “the inter-district department of bailiffs”).33.  over the course of 2015 the applicant lodged multiple complaints concerning the inactivity of the the inter-district department of bailiffs to various authorities, including the inter-district prosecutor’s office, the head of the federal department of bailiffs’ service for moscow, and the ombudsman for children.the door was opened by a.d.’s mother, to whom the bailiff handed a notice of enforcement of the judgment of 24 january 2014. she told the bailiff that she was unaware of her daughter’s whereabouts and that a.d. would not give the child to the applicant.23, the public services centre of the biryulyovo vostochnoye district, and the social protection administration for the biryulyovo vostochnoye district in order to establish, respectively, whether the child attended the kindergarten, was receiving medical services, and lived with a.d. at the address visited by the bailiff.41.  in accordance with requests lodged by a.d. on 28 april and 28 july 2016, on the latter date the district court suspended the enforcement proceedings in respect of the judgment of 24 january 2014, pending the outcome of the proceedings initiated by a.d. on 14 march 2016.43.  according to the government, on 3 november 2016 the bailiff imposed an administrative fine on a.d. under article 5.35 § 2 of the code of administrative offences of the russian federation for her non‑compliance with the judgment of 24 january 2014[2].45.  on 4 february 2017 in the course of the enforcement proceedings the applicant met his daughter for the first time since january 2011. according to the applicant, despite the difficult environment of the meeting, the child was willing to communicate.on the first occasion a.d. prevented the applicant from seeing the child; on the second occasion neither she nor the child were present at their place of residence at the scheduled time.
the applicant was interviewed about the circumstances of the shooting but she could not provide any further details, as she had been sleeping at the time when the bullet had entered the flat.the police carried out an inspection of the scene but only found in the vicinity a homeless person, who argued that he had never been in the building in question.he explained that he had been interested in buying the building containing the applicant’s flat, and that for that reason he had entered into negotiations with the tenants.17.  the next day, the tenants found a zippo cigarette lighter at the scene which, according to the applicant, they immediately wanted to hand over to the police, but the police refused to accept it (see also paragraphs 20-21 below).the police furthermore seized a lighter found at the scene and the lighter found by the tenants following the incident of 22 december 2010. the police also took samples from various objects in the flat.explained how the tenants had big problems with the investor to whom the owner wanted to sell the house and who wanted to throw them out of the building.she also explained how, following the fire of 22 december 2010, she and her husband had found a lighter of the same type as the one found after the fire of 4 january 2011. this was confirmed by t.đ.’s husband; -  lj.o., who is t.đ.’s mother, stated that at the time of the incident she had been in her flat when she had heard an explosion and smelled petrol, after which she had seen fire in g.k.’s flat.also stated that the tenants had been often visited by m.b., who had introduced himself as the representative of the owner and who had offered them money to leave the building; -  m.d.stated that around christmas two men had knocked on her window but as she had not opened the door to them they had gone to see the applicant and said something to the effect that they had done what she (the applicant) had asked for and that the building was now on fire.25.  according to the note of her interview, the applicant also stated that she had heard that a certain person, who at the time of the fire in g.k.’s flat had been carrying out some work there, had been dangerous and had participated in an incident of arson.explained that a few months earlier (on 14 december 2010) his wife, l.č., had bought the building from v.w-m. he also stated that he had started negotiating with the tenants through a lawyer about the possibility of their removal from the building.31.  in the period between september and november 2011 the police forensic centre produced reports which found that the material seized from the flat had contained traces of gasoline and that no fingerprint traces had been identified.33.  in the meantime, on 28 february 2011 the applicant signed a contract with l.č., represented by her husband o.č., under which she would move out of the house in exchange for eur 6,000. she also accepted that she had received the amount in question and that she had no other claims towards l.č.34.  on an unspecified date in march 2011 the applicant and the other tenants moved out of the building, following which the building was demolished and a hotel was built on that location.40.  on 9 november 2013 the police informed the state attorney’s office of the applicant’s complaints, and the state attorney’s office requested that a further interview be conducted with o.č.
6.  on 16 march 2004 the applicant and three other co-owners lodged a claim against j.m., who occupied the flat, seeking to be paid 3,338 czech korunas (czk – 131 euros (eur)) in respect of the outstanding rent for october and november 2003, czk 5,118 (eur 201) in respect of services for the years 2000, 2001 and 2002, and czk 50 (eur 2) in respect of the use of equipment in the flat for the period of october and november 2003.16.  in a separate judgment given on the same date, the district court, after the co-owners had brought an action for payment of czk 75,292 (eur 2,964) against the tenant (and subsequently also against the state), ordered the tenant to pay czk 60 (eur 2.36) to the landlords.on 21 september 2011 the municipal court upheld on appeal this judgment in respect of the tenant but quashed it in respect of the state on the grounds that the publication of the plenary opinion in 2009[1] should have been taken into account for the calculation of the beginning of the three-year statutory limitation period under section 32(1) of the state liability act.it endorsed the reasoning of the lower court, dismissing the claimants’ objection that the three-year statutory limitation period under the state liability act should have started to run on the date of the adoption of the plenary opinion – that is to say on 28 april 2009.it specified that as the original issue of the proceedings had been the determination of the rent in the locality in question, the admittance of the state would lead to a claim for damages.23.  in a judgment of 11 january 2010 the district court decided that the tenant should pay rent of czk 3,500 (eur 138) per month during the period from 31 march until 31 december 2006. the court found that both parties agreed that the sum of czk 3,500 (eur 138) was the market rent for a flat in the locality in question.29.  in a judgment of 17 june 2010 the district court ordered the tenant to pay czk 17,223.30 (eur 678), which corresponded to the difference between the payments that the tenant had actually made during the relevant period and the amount which was supposed to be paid according to the previous judgment of the prague 8 district court (see paragraph 26 above).34.  on 7 october 2004 he brought an action against the state, represented by the ministry of finance, for damages in the amount of czk 772,524 (eur 30,414), corresponding to the difference between the regulated rent and the market rent in the locality in question for the period from 1 january 2003 until 31 december 2003. he submitted that the state was responsible for his loss of profit owing to its inactivity and continuing unlawful interference with his proprietary rights.as to the method of calculation, it stated: “...the court considers it appropriate to establish the amount of the damage ... as an average of regulated and deregulated rent ...” 42.  on 27 june 2012 the municipal court reduced on appeal the damages awarded to the applicant to czk 40,980 (eur 1,613).the damages awarded should correspond to the difference between the possible unilaterally increased rent in 2007 and the rent under the rent control system in 2003. in 2003, the applicant had been able to collect czk 109,956 (eur 4,329) and in 2007 he had been able to collect czk 150,936 (eur 5,942) by renting out the five flats.46.  on 31 may 2007 he brought an action against the state ( represented by the ministry of finance) and his tenant for damages in the amount of czk 129,448 (eur 5,096), corresponding to the difference between the regulated rent and the market rent in the locality in question for the period from 1 june 2004 until 31 march 2006. on 20 august 2009 he withdrew the action against the tenant but maintained his claim against the state.48.  on 29 november 2010 the prague 1 district court awarded the applicant damages in the amount of czk 98,208 (eur 3,866) and dismissed the rest of the applicant’s claim in the amount of czk 31,240 (eur 1,230), representing the legal interest on the awarded amount from 1 june 2006 until 30 april 2008.51.  the state lodged an appeal on points of law with the supreme court, which quashed the decisions of the lower courts in respect of the award of damages and legal costs on 23 april 2013. the rest of the decision of the district court, namely the part concerning unawarded interest in the amount of czk 31,240 (eur 1,230), became final, as no appeal was lodged against it.53.  following the judgment of the supreme court (see paragraph 51 above), in the ensuing proceedings, on 3 february 2014 the district court reduced damages awarded to the applicant to the amount of czk 6,439 (eur 254) and determined the legal costs.the damages awarded should correspond to the difference between the possible unilaterally increased rent in 2007 and the rent under the rent control system in the period from 2004 until 2006. during these years, the applicant had been able to collect czk 5,850 (eur 230) per month.
5.  the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in županja.6.  on 5 july 2011 the applicant was indicted before the zagreb municipal criminal court (općinski kazneni sud u zagrebu) on charges of causing a road accident under article 272 of the criminal code.7.  the applicant was tried in summary proceedings (skraćeni postupak).on 4 may 2012 the zagreb municipal criminal court convicted the applicant as charged and gave him a suspended sentence of four months’ imprisonment with two years’ probation.8.  on 23 may 2012 the applicant appealed against his conviction and asked to be allowed to appear at the session of the appeal panel.9.  on 15 january 2013 the zagreb county court (županijski sud u zagrebu), without informing the applicant or his lawyer, examined the case without holding a hearing.it dismissed the appeal and upheld the applicant’s conviction and sentence.10.  the applicant then lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske), complaining, inter alia, that he had not been allowed to appear at the session of the appeal panel.11.  on 18 september 2013 the constitutional court declared the applicant’s constitutional complaint inadmissible as manifestly ill-founded.that decision was served on the applicant’s representative on 4 october 2013.
the prosecutor observed that the first applicant’s arrest by the police and the events thereafter had been video recorded, and that the videotape confirmed the police officers’ account.22.  on 1 april 2004 the president of the suvorivskyy court replied to the first applicant that her appeal had indeed been received on 21 january 2002. however, the clerk who had registered it had been dismissed in february 2003. at the time of writing, there were no records of the first applicant’s appeal in the court’s information system.28.  on 7 march 2002 the investigator rejected a request by the first applicant for a forensic medical examination to establish the seriousness of her injuries sustained on 24 july 2001. the reason for the rejection was that on 20 december 2001 the prosecutor had refused to institute criminal proceedings regarding the matter (see paragraph 16 above).30.  the suvorivskyy court adjourned hearings on several occasions owing to the absence of the first applicant and the absence of the victims and witnesses.the court relied in particular on the videotape of the events of 24 july 2001, as well as reports on the officers’ medical examination of 25 july 2001 which documented the injuries which they had possibly sustained a day earlier.33.  on 23 september 2004 the president of the odessa regional court of appeal acknowledged the excessive length of the criminal proceedings against the first applicant in a letter sent to her following her complaints in that regard.36.  on 13 december 2005 the odessa regional court of appeal allowed an appeal by the prosecutor and quashed the judgment of 28 july 2005, remitting the case to the first-instance court for fresh examination.39.  on the same day the suvorivskyy court also delivered a separate ruling stating that there had been a number of violations of the domestic legislation and the convention in the criminal proceedings against the first applicant.however, as the bailiff was unable to find any such property at the premises of company d., on 14 february 2002 the same court changed the mode of enforcement in respect of its judgment and ordered the company to pay the second applicant 102,535 ukrainian hryvnias (uah – about eur 22,000 at the time).48.  on 15 april 2002 the odessa commercial court of appeal allowed an appeal by the defendant in part and deleted certain foodstuffs from a list referred to in the judgment of 18 january 2002. apparently, the appellate court was not aware of the ruling of 14 february 2002.50.  on 18 june 2002 the second applicant applied to the higher commercial court for a review of its ruling of 29 may 2002 on the basis of newly discovered circumstances, namely the prymorskyy court’s decision of 24 may 2002 recognising that the criminal investigation against the company y. officials had been unlawful (see paragraph 11 above).53.  on 23 march 2004 the bailiff’s service returned the writ of enforcement to the court, as it was impossible to implement it, owing to the absence of any funds or property at company d. 54.  on 2 april 2002 the second applicant complained to the odessa regional commercial court of the bailiff’s inactivity as regards enforcing the ruling of 14 february 2002 (see paragraph 47 above).55.  on 9 june 2003 the odessa regional commercial court found that there had indeed been an unlawful omission on the part of the bailiff’s service: the service had not taken any steps to ensure the enforcement.57.  on 26 december 2005 the odessa kyivskyy district court ordered the bailiff’s service to pay the second applicant uah 98,131 in respect of pecuniary damage (the unenforced part of the ruling of 14 february 2002 – see paragraphs 47 and 52 above).58.  on 21 june 2006 the odessa regional court of appeal quashed the odessa kyivskyy district court’s decision of 26 december 2005. it rejected the first applicant’s claim and discontinued the proceedings brought by the second applicant, holding that his claim fell to be examined by commercial courts.
7.  in november 2011 she sent a letter to the croatian chamber of midwives (hrvatska komora primalja), enquiring about the possibility of having professional assistance with a home birth.in particular, although the act on midwifery allowed the setting up of private practices by midwives, the healthcare act, as the general act in the sector, still did not expressly provide for such a possibility.the letter also cited a statement from the ministry of health and social welfare (ministarstvo zdravstva i socijalne skrbi republike hrvatske - hereinafter “the ministry of health”) issued in august 2011 and published on the croatian chamber of midwives’ website: “having regard to the current circumstances, where the requirements for organising a system of professionally conducted home births do not exist (education and training of personnel) and where the other accompanying elements (availability of emergency transport and proper admission [to a medical facility] in the case of complications) which would enable safe delivery at home are lacking, we are of the opinion that in this area of healthcare the lawmaker has ensured, as far as possible, all the conditions for the care of mothers and the right of children to life and health.considering the above, we are of the opinion that the protection of children, who do not choose the circumstances of their coming into this world, takes precedence over respect for a woman’s right to freely choose to give birth outside a medical facility.” the croatian chamber of midwives thus declined to assist with the applicant’s planned home birth.it noted that home births nevertheless occurred in croatia, and for that reason it had urged the ministry of health to clearly regulate the matter as soon as possible.12.  on 11 may 2011 the ministry of health sent a letter in reply to an enquiry from the ombudswoman for children (pravobraniteljica za djecu), which stated that the relevant domestic law provided that babies were to be delivered in medical facilities.it further stated that home births were the personal responsibility of the mother and the person assisting with the delivery.in the event of a delivery outside a medical facility and where a woman claiming to be the mother did not have any medical documentation, the doctor carrying out the first examination of the child was obliged to make note of the absence of such documents.13.  on 25 august 2011 the ministry of administration (ministarstvo uprave republike hrvatske) sent a letter in reply to an enquiry from the parents in action - roda ngo (roditelji u akciji – roda) stating that the law provided for the possibility to register the civil status of a child born outside a medical facility.consequently, a person reporting the birth of a child born outside a medical facility was required to submit proof that the woman reported as the child’s mother had indeed given birth to the child.on the contrary, having regard to the increased frequency of situations in which doctors were faced with having to examine children born at home without any medical documentation, it had consistently held that doctors were obliged to examine such children but were not allowed to register any data that they were not able to verify.15.  on 24 january 2012 the croatian chamber of midwives reported on a case in which, according to the media coverage, a woman who had given birth at home had been separated from her child for two days.in particular, the hospital had called the police and social workers in order to establish that she was indeed the child’s mother after she had refused to be examined by a gynaecologist in a hospital.17.  in the concluding observations on the combined fourth and fifth periodic reports on croatia issued on 24 july 2015, the committee on the elimination of discrimination against women expressed concern regarding the lack of oversight procedures and mechanisms for ensuring adequate standards of care, the protection of women’s rights and their autonomy during deliveries and the lack of options for giving birth outside hospitals.18.  a survey on maternity practices in croatia undertaken by the parents in action - roda ngo in march 2015 noted situations of women’s wishes being disregarded by medical staff during childbirth, of a lack of consent for procedures conducted during labour, and limits on the presence of an accompanying person during childbirth.
9.  on 19 december 2016 the applicant lodged an application with the joint court of justice of aruba, curaçao, sint maarten and of bonaire, sint eustatius and saba (gemeenschappelijk hof van justitie van aruba, curaçao, sint maarten en van bonaire, sint eustatius en saba, hereinafter “the joint court”), requesting the suspension of his detention.the applicant argued under article 5 § 1(f) of the convention that deprivation of liberty should be the ultimum remedium, in that a person should only be deprived of his liberty when this was strictly necessary and the aim pursued could not be achieved in a less restrictive manner.the procurator general opposed suspension of the applicant’s detention, arguing that there was a high risk of absconding, given that the applicant was a wealthy businessman in whose home two identity cards from columbia and the dominican republic had been found during a search, and that he had use of a private jet in the united states of america.he argued, inter alia, that the prospects of his extradition being found permissible were at best highly doubtful, in the absence of guarantees by the italian authorities that he would be allowed to serve a possible prison sentence in sint maarten or elsewhere in the kingdom of the netherlands and that a sentence imposed in italy would be converted into a penal sanction prescribed by dutch law for the same offence.he further argued that his serious health condition – considered in the light of the inadequate medical care and hygiene in the detention centres of sint maarten, as found by the committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment (cpt) in various reports – and his considerable business interests necessitated suspension of his detention pending extradition.it therefore quashed the decision of 20 december 2016 and prohibited the sint maarten public prosecution department or the procurator general from transferring the applicant from his place of detention in sint maarten to another place of detention in another country within the kingdom.16.  on 8 march 2017 the joint court rejected the applicant’s request of 7 february 2017. as regards the permissibility of the extradition request, it considered that it could not act in anticipation of the actual extradition procedure.19.  on 12 april 2017 the joint court rejected the applicant’s request of 21 march 2017. it noted that the procurator general opposed the request, submitting that it was a fact of common knowledge that the prison infrastructure of sint maarten offered room for improvement, but that this was the responsibility of the minister of justice of sint maarten.in this respect the joint court took into account that during the hearing on 4 april 2017, on which his request was examined, it was confirmed that the applicant by that time was no longer detained in a multi-occupancy cell, but in a single-occupancy cell, that he daily received vitamins and that, if he wished so, he could see a doctor or dentist.in addition, he found that the scar caused by the surgical removal of the malignancy on the applicant’s tongue could give cause for concern, and recommended that the applicant be seen by a specialist as soon as possible.21.  on 20 june 2017, following a hearing held on 16 may 2017, the joint court declared the applicant’s extradition permissible on the basis of the facts as set out in the decision of 21 november 2016 of the civil and criminal court of rome, facts which also constituted criminal offences under the laws of sint maarten.having found that the extradition request complied with the applicable formal and material requirements, the joint court advised the governor (gouverneur) of sint maarten to proceed with the applicant’s extradition to italy.the applicant had filed that request during the hearing of 16 may 2017, arguing, inter alia, that his detention was not or was no longer compatible with his rights under article 3, article 5 and article 6 § 2 of the convention because of the deplorable conditions and duration of his detention, and the lack of justification for his detention.in respect of the duration of his detention at that facility, the joint court noted that, although on legal grounds it had prohibited the sint maarten prosecution department from transferring the applicant – who had fiercely opposed such a transfer – to a place of detention in another country within the kingdom of the netherlands, it remained open to the applicant to consent voluntarily to such a transfer.it further held that, despite the critical submissions of the defence about the applicant’s conditions of detention, and taking all circumstances of the case at hand into account, the detention situation was not unlawful.
6.  the original owner of the plot of land that contained the lake was a state fur farm.7.  in 2003 the fur farm sold the plot of land and the lake to a private limited liability company through a public sale by tender.the new owner’s title to the plot of land was registered in the state land register.the applicant’s title to the plot of land was registered in the state land register and on 28 june 2008 the applicant was issued with the relevant certificate.10.  on 29 march 2012 the regional agency for management of state property brought a civil action against the applicant, seeking to reclaim the plot of land and the lake.11.  on 5 may 2012 the pestrechinskiy district court of the republic of tatarstan granted the claims in full.the court noted that, pursuant to the applicable legislation, the lake could not be owned by a private entity or a person and should be returned to the state.the court further noted that the public sale by tender in 2008 had been conducted in contravention of certain regulations (in particular, the announcement concerning the sale had not been published in the newspapers indicated in the state-approved list) and refused to apply the three-year statute of limitations to the agency’s claims.12.  on 5 july 2012 the supreme court of the republic of tatarstan quashed the judgment of 5 may 2012 on appeal and rejected the claims in full.the court considered that the district court had erred in the interpretation of the applicable legislation and that the plot of land with the lake could be owned by a private party.in this connection the court referred to the fact that (1) the state had been aware that the contested property had left its possession back in 2003 when the plot of land had been sold by the state farm to a private company and the new owner’s title to the property had been registered in the state land register and (2) the state had been aware that the applicant had owned the plot of land since 2008 when the applicant’s title to the property had been registered in the state land register.14.  on 10 october 2012 the presidium of the supreme court quashed the appeal judgement of 5 july 2012 and upheld the judgment of 5 may 2008, by way of a points-of-law review.it rejected the applicant’s request to apply the statute of limitations, considering that the agency had learnt about the infringement of the state’s rights in respect of the plot of land only in 2012 after receiving a letter from the federal water resources agency (федеральное агентство водных ресурсов россии).16.  on an unspecified date the applicant challenged the imposition of a fine on her in 2011 as the owner of the plot of land.it noted that the applicant had been the owner of the plot of land in 2011 and that the parties had not furnished any evidence to the contrary.
6.  on 17 april 1936 the government of the union of soviet socialist republics (“the ussr”) entrusted the management of the network of recreational facilities for workers in the ussr to the union-wide central council of trade unions (“the union-wide council”), the central authority for the ussr’s official state-controlled trade unions.7.  by a resolution of 17 april 1956 the council of ministers of the ukrainian soviet socialistic republic (“the ukrainian ssr”) obliged the ministry of healthcare of the ukrainian ssr to “take” (прийняти) from the trade unions and other ministries and state agencies various assets (including the sanatorium).8.  by a resolution of 23 april 1960 on transferring to trade unions sanatoria and recreational resorts of the ministry of healthcare of the ukrainian soviet socialistic republic, the council of ministers obliged the above-mentioned ministry to transfer “for free use” (безоплатно передати у відання) to the ukrainian republican council of trade unions (a ukrainian entity functioning under the charter of trade unions of the soviet union and under the auspices of the union-wide council; “the republican council”) all functioning self-supporting sanatoria, recreational resorts and health centres (including the sanatorium).10.  on 18 november 1990 the council of the general conference of trade unions of the soviet union approved an agreement of 18 november 1990 between the general conference of trade unions of the soviet union and the federation, whereby various assets (including the sanatorium) were “reserved” (закріплені) for the federation.11.  by a resolution of 29 november 1990 on the protection of sovereign property rights of the ukrainian ssr, the parliament of the ukrainian ssr ordered that until a law on privatisation (роздержавлення) of property was enacted, a moratorium on the state authorities making any change to the title to state property and owners thereof was to be introduced.16.  by a resolution of 4 march 1992 on the implementation of the law of ukraine on privatisation of property of state enterprises, the parliament of ukraine repealed the resolution of 29 november 1990 and instructed the cabinet of ministers of ukraine to draw up, by 15 march 1992, a list of enterprises which had concluded contracts whereby title to state property had been transferred, in breach of the 1990 moratorium.17.  by a resolution of 10 april 1992 on property complexes and financial resources of civic organisations of the former soviet union located on the territory of ukraine, parliament ordered that, until a list of legal successors of union-wide civic organisations of the former soviet union had been drawn up, the assets and financial resources of enterprises, establishments and entities, which were located on the territory of ukraine and which were under their central bodies’ authority, were to be temporarily transferred to the state property fund of ukraine (“the spfu”), an authority managing state property.it held that assets which had formed the basis for the creation of upo had been transferred to the republican council pursuant to the resolution of 23 april 1960. they had not been in the union-wide council’s use and were not, therefore, covered by the resolution of 10 april 1992.according to the latter’s statute, its activities include “social protection, social-pedagogical and psychological rehabilitation of children between the ages of six and eighteen, who are in difficult life circumstances[, and] assistance with the provision of complex social, psychological, pedagogical, medical, legal and other types of individual and family assistance.” 25.  on 30 august 2002 the applicant and the centre purchased from upo certain premises of the sanatorium (dormitory blocks, cafeteria, library, medical block, laboratory and some other premises).lastly, the court rejected the prosecutor’s argument that the resolutions of 10 april 1992 and 4 february 1994 had been breached, holding that they were inapplicable in the present case, as they concerned property owned by civic organisations of the former soviet union (including trade unions), whereas the disputed property had not been transferred from the state (that is to say, trade unions had never gained title to the property).in particular, the resolutions of 10 april 1992 and 4 february 1994 had not concerned the federation’s trade unions, because the latter had left the union-wide council as early as 1990. moreover, those legal acts had been in breach of article 92 of the constitution of ukraine, pursuant to which the property regime could be regulated by laws of ukraine only.31.  on 24 july 2014, following an appeal on points of law lodged by the prosecutor, the hccu quashed the judgment of 1 april 2014 and upheld the judgment of 19 september 2011. it held that following a systematic analysis of various legal acts, including the law of 10 september 1991 and the resolutions of 10 april 1992 and 4 february 1994, there were no grounds to conclude that under the resolution of 23 april 1960 the state had transferred title to the disputed property to the trade unions.it referred, inter alia, to the resolution of 23 april 1960, the resolution of 29 november 1990 and the law of 10 september 1991, and stated that it did not follow from them that the transfer of property to the republican council had entailed a change in the state’s title to it.therefore, the sanatorium had been the property of a civic organisation of the former soviet union located on the territory of ukraine and, when upo had been created, the sanatorium had belonged to the state and could be alienated only with the state’s consent.the applicant also informed the court that on 1 february 2018, at its request, the kyiv city commercial court decided to postpone the execution of the judgment until 31 may 2018. as it appears from the decision of 1 february 2018, the representatives of the state did not object to that postponement.
4.  the applicants are a family comprising the husband and wife (the first and second applicants) and their child (the third applicant).they were born in 1976, 1978 and 2001 respectively and live in kayseri.5.  on 9 august 2001, the second applicant was admitted to a state hospital in niğde.she gave birth to the third applicant who has irreversible injuries caused by an intervention performed by that hospital’s medical staff during labor.6.  in their report of 12 may 2004, the forensic medicine institute concluded that the two members of the medical staff who tended to the labor were equally and solely at fault for the third applicant’s injuries.7.  on 1 december 2004, the first and second applicants on their own and on behalf of the third applicant, submitted a claim to the ministry of health for compensation arising from the third applicant’s injuries.8.  following the tacit dismissal of the claim by the administrative authorities, the applicants brought an action for damages before the konya administrative court on 2 february 2005. they claimed 30,000 turkish liras (try) in respect of pecuniary damage and try 100,000 in respect of non‑pecuniary damage.9.  in the course of the proceedings, the domestic court decided proprio motu to seek an expert report to determine the amount of pecuniary damage suffered by the applicants.in his report submitted on 14 june 2006 to the court, the expert assessed the amount of pecuniary damage suffered by the applicants to have been try 194,916.10.  on 27 june 2006, the applicants requested to increase the amount of their claim for pecuniary damage in the light of the expert report.11.  on 6 july 2006 the court ruled in favour of the applicants and awarded them the full amount of their initial claims in respect of pecuniary damage, namely try 30,000 plus interest running from the date of lodging their claims with the ministry of health.it further awarded them a total of try 50,000 in respect of non-pecuniary damage and interest running from the date of the lawsuit.the applicants’ request to increase their claim for pecuniary damage were dismissed by the court which considered itself bound by the initial claim indicated by the applicants when they lodged their case.12.  the applicants’ ensuing appeals were dismissed by the supreme administrative court on 16 june 2009 and 28 december 2010 respectively.13.  on 22 january 2010, the ministry of health paid the applicants a total of try 144,144. approximately try 53,830 of that sum represented statutory interest accrued on the principal judgment award.
5.  at the time of the events giving rise to the application, the applicant was a member of the socialist democracy party (sosyalist demokrasi partisi).6.  on 21 march 2007 the applicant attended the newroz (kurdish new year) celebrations in adana, where he made a speech on behalf of his political party.according to a report prepared on the same day by the police, in his speech the applicant stated that the military forces should comply with the ceasefire declared by the pkk and that a general amnesty should be declared.he contended that people were being detained for referring to abdullah öcalan, the leader of the pkk, as “sayın (esteemed) öcalan” whereas the prime minister also referred to him as “sayın öcalan”.the applicant further stated that abdullah öcalan should not be kept in isolation in prison and that independent doctors should visit him.he lastly made the following statement: “do not fire but talk for resolving the kurdish issue”.7.  the police report of 21 march 2007 further stated that subsequent to the applicant’s speech, songs with kurdish lyrics were played and some demonstrators waved pkk flags.8.  on 6 april 2007 the adana public prosecutor asked two experts to prepare a report on the police video recordings of the celebrations of 21 march 2007. according to the report dated 16 april 2007 prepared by two persons, the demonstrators chanted certain slogans and waved flags and posters of abdullah öcalan from time to time during the celebrations.9.  on 18 april 2007 the adana public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment with the adana assize court charging the applicant with membership of the pkk[1] under articles 220 § 7 and 314 § 2 of the criminal code on account of his participation in the demonstration of 21 march 2007 and of the content of his speech.he relied on the police report of 21 march 2007, the police video recordings of the newroz celebrations and the expert report dated 16 april 2007.10.  on an unspecified date the adana public prosecutor amended the charges against the applicant and asked the adana assize court to convict him of disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no.11.  on 24 march 2008 the adana assize court convicted the applicant under the aforementioned provision and sentenced him to ten months’ imprisonment.the court considered, on the basis of the police report of 21 march 2007 and the expert report of 16 april 2007, that the applicant’s statements had constituted propaganda in favour of the pkk and that the crowd had chanted slogans in favour of the pkk after having listened the applicant’s speech.12.  on 19 july 2011 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of 24 march 2008.on 29 may 2012 the adana assize court granted the applicant early conditional release starting from 3 june 2012.
5.  the applicants were born in 1949 and 1950, respectively, and lived in podgorica, where the second applicant still lives.6.  on 25 july 2000 the applicants’ mother instituted civil proceedings against podgorička banka societe generale group ad podgorica (hereinafter “respondent”) seeking the payment of her savings, which she had deposited with the respondent’s legal predecessor titogradska osnovna banka titograd.7.  on an unspecified date the applicants continued the above-mentioned proceedings in their mother’s stead as she had passed away in the meantime.8.  on 25 july 2008 the first instance court in podgorica ruled partly in favour of the applicants.9.  on 19 january 2010 the high court in podgorica reversed the first‑instance judgment by dismissing the applicants’ claims in their entirety.this judgment was upheld by the supreme court on 19 october 2010.10.  on 5 december 2010 the supreme court’s judgment was served on the applicants.11.  on 3 february 2011 the applicants lodged a constitutional appeal.12.  on 12 april 2012 the constitutional court rejected the applicants’ appeal, which decision was served on the applicants on 29 may 2012.
8.  between 18 december 2000 and 16 april 2003, the first, second, third and fourth applicants lodged separate civil complaints with the čačak municipal court (opštinski sud u čačku) against the same socially owned‑company, akcionarsko društvo fabrika reznog alata čačak, requesting the payment of salary related damages.22.  since the judgment rendered in favour of the applicants remained unenforced, on 24 february 2014, the sixth and the seventh applicants and on 19 may 2014, the first, second, third, fourth and fifth applicants, lodged their appeals with the constitutional court.101/13) the complaint concerning the length of proceedings was transmitted to the kragujevac court of appeal which then itself forwarded the matter to the čačak high court (viši sud u čačku), i.e. the former čačak district court.25.  on 27 january 2015 the čačak high court found that the first, second, third and fourth applicants’ right to a trial within a reasonable time had been violated and awarded them 200 euros (eur) each in respect of the non-pecuniary damage suffered due to the length of the enforcement proceedings.it, further, ordered the čačak court of first instance (osnovni sud u čačku), i.e. the former čačak municipal court, to speed up the enforcement proceedings and enforce the judgment rendered in the applicants’ favour.26.  on 11 february 2015 the applicants complained to the supreme court of cassation claiming that the compensation awarded was too low and, accordingly, inadequate for the violation found.27.  on 14 january 2015 the čačak high court found that the fifth applicant’s right to a trial within a reasonable time had been violated and awarded her eur 100 in respect of the non-pecuniary damage suffered due to the length of the enforcement proceedings.29.  on 2 december 2014 the čačak high court found that the sixth applicant’s right to a trial within a reasonable time had been violated and awarded her eur 300 in respect of the non-pecuniary damage suffered due to the length of the enforcement proceedings.her appeal to the supreme court of cassation concerning the amount of the compensation awarded was rejected on 6 may 2015.30.  on 20 february 2015 the čačak high court found that the seventh applicant’s right to a trial within a reasonable time had been violated and awarded him eur 80 in respect of the non-pecuniary damage suffered due to the length of the enforcement proceedings.his appeal to the supreme court of cassation concerning the amount of the compensation awarded was rejected on 19 may 2015.32.  they complained, inter alia, about the failure of domestic authorities to enforce the final judgments rendered in their favour, and that the amount of compensation awarded by the competent courts in respect of the breach of their right to a trial within a reasonable time had been too low.33.  between 12 may 2016 and 9 june 2016 the constitutional court found that due to the failure of domestic authorities to enforce the judgments rendered in the applicants’ favour their right to the peaceful enjoyment of possessions had, indeed, also been violated.34.  however, the constitutional court rejected the applicants’ complaints concerning the insufficient redress as regards the violation of their right to a hearing within a reasonable time since it considered the awards given by the domestic courts as reasonable compensation for the violations found.35.  the constitutional court lastly emphasized that, in any event and due to the changes in legislation, it could not have assessed the specific reasons for the amounts awarded by other courts in this respect.
5.  the applicants were born in 1957 and 1981 and live in diyarbakır and adana respectively.6.  on 17 august 2006 the adana public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment with adana magistrate’s court charging the applicants and five other persons with praising an offence and an offender under article 215 of the criminal code.the public prosecutor alleged that the applicants had signed a petition in september 2005 which had been drafted in order to be sent to several institutions.the petition read as follows: “as a person from kurdistan, i consider and accept mr/esteemed abdullah öcalan of kurdistan as a political actor.”[1] 7.  on 19 january 2007 the adana magistrate’s court decided that it lacked jurisdiction in the case due to the possibility of application of section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no.3713) proscribing disseminating propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation.the court then sent the file to adana assize court.8.  on 24 march 2008 the adana assize court convicted the applicants of disseminating propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation under section 7(2) of law no.3713 and sentenced them each to two years’ imprisonment.in its judgment, the first-instance court found it established that the above-mentioned petition had been prepared for the purpose of disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk and its leader and that by signing that petition the applicants had committed the offence proscribed in section 7(2) of law no.3713.9.  on 13 july 2011 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of 24 march 2008. on 24 august 2011 the court of cassation’s judgment was deposited with the first instance court’s registry.10.  on an unspecified date the second applicant started serving his prison sentence.11.  on 19 october 2012 the adana assize court decided to suspend the execution of the applicants’ prison sentence in accordance with law no.6352 which had entered into force on 5 july 2012 and which had amended certain provisions of law no.3713. the suspension was for a period of three years, on condition that they did not commit an offence through the press, media or other methods of expressing ideas and opinions.
the event had been approved by the city authorities in the form of a march followed by a meeting at bolotnaya square which was supposed to end at 7.30 p.m. the march was peaceful and held without any disruptions, but when the marchers arrived at bolotnaya square it became apparent that barriers installed by the police had narrowed the entrance to the meeting venue, allegedly restricting the space allocated for the meeting.the record of administrative arrest indicated that the applicant had been arrested at 7.20 p.m. at the police station and released on 7 may 2012 at 9.20 a.m. 12.  after that an on-duty officer drew up an administrative-offence record, on the basis of the reports and explanatory notes by police officers p. and ch., who had arrested the applicant.during the event [the participants] broke the police cordon and tried to enter red square; [the applicant] did not react to the multiple lawful demands of officers p. and ch.to stop breaking the police cordon and continued his unlawful acts, in breach of article 19.3 § 1 of the code of administrative offences.” 13.  on 7 may 2012 the first applicant was brought before the justice of the peace of court circuit no.14.  on the basis of the police officers’ reports and explanations and the records of the administrative escorting and arrest, the court established that the applicant had committed an administrative offence under article 19.3 § 1 of the code of administrative offences, as described in the administrative-offence record.15.  on 22 may 2012 the zamoskvoretskiy district court of moscow examined the applicant’s appeal against the judgment of 7 may 2012. the applicant repeated his application to summon and question the two police officers who had arrested him on 6 may 2012 but the court rejected it owing to the applicant’s failure to name those officers.he could not leave the venue of the event because all the ways out of the square had been cordoned off by the police.17.  according to the government, the second applicant was arrested at 8.10 p.m. at the bolotnaya square on 6 may 2012 because he was participating in breaking the police cordon and he had disregarded the police order to cease these acts and disperse.at 9.20 p.m. the applicant was administratively arrested; according to the record of his administrative arrest he was released on 7 may 2012 at 10.50 a.m. 19.  the second applicant was accused of having disobeyed a lawful order of the police, an offence under article 19.3 § 1 of the code of administrative offences.in particular, [the police] repeatedly announced through the loudhailer lawful demands to stop the march but [the applicant], acting as part of a group of citizens, broke the [police] cordon.[the applicant] tried to cause confusion among the public (создать суматоху среди граждан), thereby demonstrating his refusal to obey the lawful orders of the police officers and precluding them from fulfilling their service duties, in breach of article 19.3 § 1 of the code of administrative offences.” 20.  the administrative case file contained two hand-written reports by police officers d. and s., who had arrested the second applicant on 6 may 2012. the reports repeated the description of the applicant’s acts contained in the administrative-offence record.100 of the yakimanka district of moscow, who adjourned the case to 17 may 2012. on 15 may 2012 the court decided to transfer the case owing to the lack of jurisdiction.the court also questioned officers d. and s., who stated that after the end of the demonstration, at around 8 p.m. on 6 may 2012 the applicant, acting as part of a group of citizens, had broken the police cordon and begun the march towards red square.23.  on the basis of the police officers’ statements and reports the court found the second applicant guilty under article 19.3 § 1 of cao and sentenced him to a fine of 700 russian roubles ((rub) – about 18 euros (eur) at the time).24.  the second applicant appealed against the judgment, pointing out that he had been arrested by riot squad officers rather than by d. and s. on 24 september 2012 the lyuberetskiy town court of the moscow region examined the appeal and upheld the judgment of 14 august 2012. the town court dismissed the applicant’s allegations and considered that the statements of d. and s. about the applicant’s failure to obey their lawful demands to stop marching after the end of the event had been trustworthy.
the following morning k. and r. started beating him again, demanding that he give a statement of surrender and confession (явка с повинной) and telling him that v. ( another suspect in the case) had already given a statement of surrender and confession incriminating the first applicant and the second applicant, together with b., and himself (that is to say v.) in inflicting head injuries on s. the applicant could not stand the violence any longer and so wrote a statement of surrender and confession that was dictated by the police officers, stating that he and the first applicant, as well as b. and v., had inflicted head injuries on s. 21.  his statement of surrender and confession (явка с повинной) was recorded by k. at 1 p.m. on 27 january 2005.the applicant was examined as a suspect by o. in the presence of an officially assigned lawyer, d. the applicant reiterated his confession incriminating himself, the first applicant, b. and v. in the infliction of head injuries on s. on the same day the tikhoretsk town court ordered that the applicant be detained on remand.39.  the applicant’s lawyer, d., stated in a record dated 23 may 2005 noting his being granted access to the case file that in the course of the preliminary investigation the applicant and d. had repeatedly complained that the applicant had been beaten on 26 and 27 january 2005 by police officers from the tikhoretsk police department, as a result of which he had given a statement of surrender and confession incriminating himself and his co‑accused.41.  on 29 june 2005 at the preliminary hearing in the applicants’ criminal case the second applicant requested that his statement of surrender and confession of 27 january 2005, the record of his examination as a suspect of 28 january 2005 and the record of the on-site verification of his statements of 1 february 2005 be excluded from evidence on the grounds that his confession had been obtained through the use of physical violence by police officers who had unlawfully kept him in custody for twenty-four hours before his official arrest.43.  on 6 july 2005 the town court dismissed the complaint of 30 june 2005 lodged by the second applicant’s mother on the grounds that she had not been authorised to represent the applicant, who was not a minor, and that it was no longer possible to complain under article 125 of the code of criminal procedure (“ccrp”) about the police officers’ actions in respect of the preliminary investigation since the preliminary investigation in the case had been completed and the trial had started.46.  on 22 july 2005 the town court dismissed the second applicant’s complaint of 11 july 2005 (see paragraph 43 above) on the grounds that it was no longer open to him to complain under article 125 of the ccrp about the police officers’ actions during the preliminary investigation in respect of his case, since the preliminary investigation had been completed and the trial had started.48.  on 28 july 2005 at a hearing in the trial concerning the applicants’ criminal case, m.s., a senior assistant to the prosecutor of the inter-district prosecutor’s office who was representing the prosecution at the hearing, reported the results of the pre‑investigation inquiry, stating that the applicants’ allegations of ill‑treatment by the police officers had not been confirmed.51.  in a decision of 2 august 2005 the town court dismissed the request for the exclusion from the evidence of the record of the second applicant’s examination as a suspect of 28 january 2005 and the record of the on-site verification of his statements of 1 february 2005 (see paragraph 41 above).the evidence presented in the case included the record dated 28 january 2005 of the second applicant’s examination as a suspect and the record of the on-site verification of his statements of 1 february 2005 (see paragraph 51 above), as well as the confession statements given by b. and v. during the preliminary investigation and subsequently retracted by them as having been given under coercion exerted by tikhoretsk police department officers.on 6 august 2008 the krasnodar regional court terminated proceedings initiated by the applicants’ mothers to appeal against the refusal of 9 january 2008 on the grounds that it was no longer open to them to complain under article 125 of the ccrp about the investigator’s actions during the preliminary investigation in respect of the applicants’ case, since the preliminary investigation had been completed.the regional court noted that should the unlawfulness of actions on the part of o. or the police officers from the tikhoretsk police department be established during the investigation in the criminal case opened on 5 march 2008 (see paragraph 60 below), the decisions not to open criminal cases against them would be annulled and the proceedings in the criminal case against the applicants would be reopened owing to newly discovered circumstances.60.  on 5 march 2008 an investigator of the tikhoretsk inter-district investigation unit of the investigative committee at the regional prosecutor’s office (“the tikhoretsk investigative committee”) opened a criminal case under article 112 § 1 of the criminal code (harm to health of medium gravity) in relation to the injuries inflicted on the first applicant by an unknown person at an unknown place at an unknown time in january 2005. by decisions of 5 june, 2 august, 13 september and 22 october 2008 the criminal proceedings were suspended for failure to identify any person to be charged with an offence.65.  on 7 october 2008 the tikhoretsk inter-district prosecutor allowed an application lodged by the applicants for the reopening of the criminal proceedings against the applicants (in the light of newly discovered circumstances) on the grounds that the refusals to institute criminal proceedings in respect of the applicants’ allegations of police ill-treatment (on which the trial court had relied) had later been annulled.69.  the most recent decision not to institute criminal proceedings into the applicants’ alleged ill-treatment in police custody – for lack of the constituent elements of crimes under articles 285 and 286 (abuse of powers) of the criminal code in the actions of ch., k., r. and other police officers, as provided by article 24 § 1 (2) of the ccrp – was taken on 24 february 2016 by an investigator from the tikhoretsk district investigation unit of the krasnodar regional investigative committee.(see paragraph 47 above); -  statements by d. (see paragraph 58 above); -  statements by the police officers k. and r. that the second applicant had been arrested on 27 january 2005 on suspicion of having committed the above-mentioned crime against s. and taken to the tikhoretsk police department, where he had written a statement of surrender and confession, after which he had been arrested by o.; and -  statements by s.a. that after the second applicant’s arrest she had seen him being filmed in detention on a programme on a local television channel; she had noticed that his face was an unnatural colour; and she had later seen on the same television channel another programme that had shown the video recording of the verification (with the applicant’s participation) of the applicant’s statements at the crime scene.
7.  on 5 september 2009 the local council transferred the title to a plot of land in privolzhskiy district, kazan, to g. the relevant documents confirming that the plot of land had been earlier assigned to g. had been prepared by gib.the state land registry verified the legitimacy of the transaction and registered g.’s title to the plot of land.8.  on 10 december 2009 g. sold the plot of land to m. on 8 february 2010 m. sold the plot of land to n. on 16 march 2012 n. sold the plot of land to the applicant.each time the transfer of the title to a new owner was verified and registered by the state authorities with the issuance of the relevant certificate.guilty of having committed fraud in respect of the transfer of the plot of land to g. 10.  on 5 july 2013 a prosecutor acting on behalf of the local council brought an action seeking invalidation of the decision of the local council of 5 september 2009, invalidation of the applicant’s title to the plot of land and return of the plot of land to the municipality.the state land registry verified the legitimacy of the transaction and registered the applicant’s title to the plots of land.17.  on an unspecified date the district prosecutor brought an action on behalf of the kirov city council with the aim of reclaiming the real property.the court noted that the decisions allegedly issued by the local council assigning the plots of land to t. and s. had been forged and could not have served as a legal basis for the transactions in respect of the plots of land.the court recognised the town’s title to the plots of land and ordered their transfer to the town administration.21.  on 11 march 2015 the supreme court of the russian federation dismissed a second appeal on points law lodged by the applicant against the judgments of 14 may and 15 june 2015.the state land registry verified the legitimacy of the transactions and registered the applicant’s title to the plots of land.24.  on an unspecified date the district prosecutor brought an action on behalf of the kirov city council with the aim of reclaiming the real property.the court noted that the decisions allegedly issued by the district administration assigning the plots of land to s., a., m., k., kuz., and r. had been forged and could not have served as a legal basis for the transactions in respect of the plots of land.the court recognised the city’s title to the plots of land and ordered their transfer to the council.27.  on 19 january 2015 the supreme court of the russian federation dismissed an appeal on points of law lodged by the applicant against the above judgments.
5.  the applicant was born in 1972 and now lives in odessa, ukraine.6.  on 31 january 2014 the applicant sold a plot of land and a summer cottage in the moscow region for 4,600,000 russian roubles (rub).the applicant acknowledged that he had money in his handbag and showed it to the officer.8.  the applicant was subsequently interviewed by a police officer and an investigator on suspicion of smuggling foreign currency.he insisted on the lawful origin of the money and claimed that he had erroneously believed that the customs control would take place after the security check.9.  on 18 april 2014 the investigator refused to initiate criminal proceedings because it could not be established that the applicant had deliberately sought to circumvent customs regulations.10.  on 6 june 2014 the federal customs service prepared a report on a regulatory customs offence under article 16.4 of the code of administrative offences.the applicant was charged for his failure to make a written declaration in respect of the usd 100,000 he had been carrying on him.11.  a hearing was held on 18 december 2014 before a justice of the peace in the domodedovo district of the moscow region.the court held that the customs report and statements the applicant had given to the police were sufficient evidence of the offence.it was legally irrelevant whether he had deliberately sought to circumvent customs regulations or negligently failed to abide by the applicable declaration requirements.the court issued a confiscation order for usd 90,000, reasoning as follows: “when deciding on the punishment, the court takes into account the nature and gravity of the offence which is connected to the operation of a hazardous device, the information on the character of mr gyrlyan, who has no previous record of similar offences, and considers it appropriate to order confiscation of the object of the administrative offence.” 12.  in his grounds of appeal, the applicant relied in particular on the case-law of the constitutional court, which emphasised that any punishment had to be fair and proportionate to the nature of the offence, the gravity of the consequences, the extent of the damage and other relevant factors.he pointed out that the money had been lawfully obtained and that his actions had not caused any damage to the state.13.  on 14 january 2015 the domodedovo town court dismissed the appeal in a summary fashion, noting that the punishment had been determined “within the range of penalties [provided for in article 16.4 of the code of administrative offences] and with regard to the character of the offender”.14.  an appeal on points of law was dismissed by the deputy president of the moscow regional court on 30 april 2015. he wrote that “the defence’s allegation of a formalistic approach on the part of the [lower] courts [was their] subjective opinion that [did not] shield mr gyrlyan from liability.”
1279-n approving the expropriation zones of territories situated within the administrative boundaries of the rural communities of shnogh and teghout in the lori region to be taken for state needs, and changing the category of land use.according to the decree, armenian copper programme cjsc or teghout cjsc, founded by the former for the implementation of the teghout copper-molybdenum deposit exploitation project, were to acquire the units of land listed in its annexes.13.  on 12 may 2008 teghout cjsc lodged a claim with the lori regional court (“the regional court”) against the applicants and l., the first applicant’s late wife, seeking to oblige them to sign the agreement on the taking of their property for state needs.14.  in the course of the proceedings teghout cjsc submitted a corrected version of the evaluation report on the applicants’ property stating that oliver group llc had made certain corrections as a result of which the market value of the land was estimated at amd 194,000 (approximately eur 422).15.  the applicants argued before the regional court that the market value of their land had been underestimated and that the court should order a forensic expert examination to determine the real market value of their property.17.  the applicants lodged an appeal complaining, inter alia, that the third applicant had not been duly notified about the proceedings and that l. had died before the proceedings before the regional court had started.19.  on 2 june 2009 the regional court granted teghout cjsc’s claim finding, inter alia, that the evaluation reports prepared by oliver group llc should be considered lawful and acceptable evidence to determine the market value of the applicants’ property to be taken for state needs and that the applicants’ request to order a forensic expert examination was groundless.the regional court stated that the first applicant, as l.’s successor, should be awarded her share in the amount of compensation and awarded the applicants a total of amd 223,100 in equal shares as compensation.21.  on 31 july 2009 the civil court of appeal quashed the regional court’s judgment, stating that it should have granted the applicants’ request by ordering a forensic expert examination to determine the market value of the property.22.  on 27 january 2010 the regional court ordered a forensic expert examination to determine the market value of the applicants’ plot of land, including that of immovable property or other improvements, if there were any.the expert was requested to determine whether there were any improvements on the applicants’ plot of land and, if so, to describe them and to establish the market value of the land together with the value of the improvements, if there were any.the regional court granted the applicants amd 264,500 (approximately eur 575) by taking the highest market value of the three evaluations at its disposal and adding to that amount the additional 15% as required by law.27.  the applicants lodged an appeal arguing, inter alia, that the second forensic examination report was not credible since the expert had failed to specify the sources of information he had used to reach his conclusions and moreover no account had been taken of the number of the applicants’ trees and their value.28.  on 7 july 2011 the civil court of appeal upheld the regional court’s judgment finding that the amount of compensation had been correctly determined based on the existing evidence.as regards the applicants’ arguments concerning the fruit trees, the civil court of appeal stated that both experts appointed by the regional court had recorded that there were only four fruit trees on the plot of land while expert a. had stated in his report that the trees in question could not have a significant bearing on the market value of the land.
6.  at birth, the applicant was entered in the civil-status registers as male and was given the forename l. however, the applicant stated that she had always identified as female and lived in society as a woman under the forename s. for instance, her work colleagues (the applicant has worked as a civil servant since 1999) had always called her s., and in the photograph on her identity card issued in august 2000 her appearance was that of a woman.8.  on 9 november 2000 she applied to the rome district court on the basis of section 3 of law no.9.  in a judgment of 10 may 2001 the district court found that the applicant had embarked on the gender transition process after careful consideration.having taken note of her determination the court authorised her to undergo surgery in order to adapt her primary sexual characteristics to match her female gender identity.10.  on 30 may 2001 the applicant, while awaiting the surgery authorised by the district court, applied to the prefect of rome for a change of forename under article 89 of presidential decree no.396 of 2000. she argued that, given that she had been undergoing a gender transition process for several years, and in view of her physical appearance, the fact that her identity papers indicated a male forename was a constant source of humiliation and embarrassment.11.  in a decision of 4 july 2001 the prefect refused the applicant’s request on the grounds that, under presidential decree no.in the prefect’s view, in the absence of a final court ruling ordering the change to her legal gender status for the purposes of law no.12.  the applicant appealed against that decision to the lazio regional administrative court and also requested a stay of execution of the prefect’s decision.14.  on 21 february 2002 the regional administrative court refused to grant a stay of execution of the prefect’s decision.15.  on 3 february 2003, while the proceedings before the regional administrative court were still pending on the merits, the applicant underwent an operation to change her sexual characteristics from male to female.she subsequently applied to the rome district court, on an unspecified date, for legal recognition of her gender reassignment under section 3 of law no.16.  in a judgment of 10 october 2003 the rome district court granted the applicant’s request and ordered the savona municipal authorities to alter the indication of the applicant’s gender from male to female and to change the forename l. to s. 17.  by a judgment of 6 march 2008, deposited with the registry on 17 may 2008, the regional administrative court dismissed the applicant’s appeal against the prefect’s decision of 4 july 2001. the court held that article 89 of presidential decree no.396 of 2000 concerning changes of forename was not applicable in the present case, which actually came within the scope of law no.the court stressed in that regard that, under the terms of the latter, the amendment of the civil-status records of a transgender person had to be ordered by the court ruling on his or her gender reassignment.
the applicants, with the exception of mr tuskia, ms sikharulidze, and mr d. bakhtadze (the first, sixth and ninth applicants respectively), were at the material time members of the grand academic council, the highest representative body of the university (composed of seventy-eight members), which operated under the university charter (approved by the president of georgia on 13 july 2001) and which led the protests against the changes at the university.11.  on 3 july 2006, in response to the request of mr sanadze (the fourth applicant), the acting rector of the university authorised a meeting of university employees in the grand hall of the main university building between 3.30 p.m. and 7 p.m. of the same day.stressed that the participants of the planned gathering were asked to maintain order and to conclude the meeting before 7 p.m. 12.  at the meeting, which started as planned, the already-dissolved grand academic council “elected” the second applicant as the new rector of the university.22.  on 24 july 2006 several members of the former grand academic council, among them the second, third, fourth, fifth and seventh applicants, sent a letter to the president of georgia complaining about the events of 19‑20 june and 3-4 july 2006. with reference to the events of 3-4 july 2006, they made a particular complaint that they, along with several hundred other people, had been locked in the university lecture hall for the whole night.the ruling read further as follows: “they committed offences – namely arbitrary behaviour, a minor violation of public order, and disobeying the lawful instructions of law-enforcement personnel – which constitute administrative offences under articles 174, 166 and 173 of the code of administrative offences.” 25.  in the operative part of the prosecutor’s ruling, the prosecutor stated that the ruling, along with the case file, was to be sent to the tbilisi city court in order for administrative proceedings to be conducted against the applicants.the applicants objected that owing to the initiation of the administrative proceedings they could not avail themselves of the opportunity to challenge the prosecutorial ruling of 29 july 2006. they furthermore complained that they had not had sufficient time to acquaint themselves with the relevant material in the case file and to hire a lawyer.the prosecutor, for his part, requested the questioning of three of the police officers involved in the events that had developed in the rector’s office on 3 july 2006. the judge allowed a request lodged by the prosecutor for the three police officers to be examined in court and postponed the hearing until 3 august 2006.they maintained that they had not broken into the rector’s office, but rather that they had entered the office and had sat there calmly without using any force; that they had not insulted or threatened the acting rector, but had simply presented him with the decision of the grand academic council; and that they had not disobeyed the instructions of the police, but had left the rector’s office within ten or fifteen minutes of being ordered to do so by the police.the applicants’ lawyers also argued that the rector’s office did not constitute a public space for the purposes of article 166 of the code of administrative offences (“cao”) (see paragraph 47 below) and that in any event the applicants had simply been exercising their right to freedom of assembly and freedom of expression, as provided for in the constitution of georgia.in addition, the court questioned two journalists and two professors, all of whom had been among the group of protesters on 3 july 2006. all four claimed that there had been no confrontation (either physical or verbal) in the office of the rector, that the group had been simply demanding the resignation of g.kh., and that they had left the office at the request of the police.the court terminated the proceedings concerning the alleged disobeying of a lawful order given by the police (article 173) with respect to the sixth and ninth applicants, finding that they had left the office of the rector before the arrival of the police and held them guilty of the administrative offences under articles 166 and 174 of the cao only, imposing a fine of gel 100 on each of them (see paragraph 39 below).as to the submission by the defence that the applicants had simply been exercising their right to freedom of assembly and freedom of expression, as provided in the constitution of georgia, the court concluded as follows: “the court notes that although a person is entitled to exercise the rights and freedoms enshrined in articles 19, 24 and 25 of the constitution, he or she is at the same time obliged, in the process of exercising his or her rights, to abstain from violating others’ rights and interests, from encroaching upon [others’] honour and dignity, [and] from violating ... public order ... .[he or she] should not, in exercising his or her constitutional rights, commit acts prohibited by law, which, in the court’s view, in fact happened on 3 july 2006 in the office of the rector ...” 39.  as for the charge of disobeying a lawful order given by the police, the court concluded that the sixth and ninth applicants had left the office of g.kh.42.  the case file contains a copy of a television report by the imedi broadcasting company about the events of 3 july 2006. as was shown in imedi’s recording of the events of 3 july 2006, at least twenty people had entered the reception area of the acting rector’s office by force, in disregard of the protests of the security staff and reception staff.according to the video, dozens of protesters had simultaneously gathered in the corridor adjacent to the acting rector’s office and had chanted “step down!” 43.  imedi also ran an extract from the press briefing held by the minister of education on 4 july 2006. while commenting on the events in the university the preceding day, the minister said the following: “those people, who went beyond all the limits of academia and ethics yesterday, will of course, face responsibility for that.”
4.  the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in bucharest.5.  during the events which led to the fall of the communist regime in bucharest, on 21 december 1989, the applicant suffered injuries caused by impingement and compression, as a result of which she needed 50 days of medical care, her life not being imperilled.6.  in 1990 the military prosecutor’s office opened, of its own motion, several investigations into the ill-treatment and injuries suffered by those participating in the events of december 1989. the main criminal investigation was recorded in file no.97/p/1990 (currently no.as regards the applicant, an investigation was opened under a separate file and she gave a statement as a witness on 23 june 1994. her case has been further examined at a later date in the main criminal investigation.7.  the most important procedural steps were described in the case association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos.33810/07 and 18817/08, §§ 12-41, 24 may 2011), and also in sidea and others v. romania ([committee] no.889/15 and 38 others, §§ 8-11, 5 june 2018).subsequent relevant domestic decisions are referred to below.8.  on 14 october 2015 the military prosecutor’s office closed the main investigation, finding that the complaint regarding the offence of attempted homicide committed against the applicant was statute-barred.this decision was annulled by a prosecutor general’s decision of 5 april 2016, confirmed by the high court of cassation and justice on 13 june 2016. it was noted that the investigation under file no.11/p/2014 was incomplete and that the facts could not be established based on the evidence gathered up to that date.9.  on 1 november 2016 the military prosecutor ordered the opening of a criminal investigation in rem for the offence of crimes against humanity in respect of the same factual circumstances.up to february 2017 further steps were taken to gather information from domestic authorities: the prosecutor’s office contacted 211 civil parties, questioning members of the political party which took over the presidency at the time of the events, planning the hearing of military officers and other participants in the events, and verifying the activity of the relevant military units and the audio/video recordings broadcast by radio and television.10.  at the date of the latest information available to the court (see sidea and others, cited above, § 11), the criminal investigation was still ongoing.
4.  the applicant was born in 1944 and lives in vilnius.5.  on 17 april 2009 the applicant was officially notified that she was suspected of having organised the embezzlement of property of high value.on 7 may 2009 the applicant was charged with the relevant offences.6.  on 22 july 2011 the vilnius regional court held that the legal classification of the charges against the applicant was incorrect, because the total value of the allegedly embezzled property was not high.the court reclassified the charges on the basis of a less serious offence, held that the prosecution had become time-barred and discontinued the proceedings.7.  the prosecutor appealed.on 27 october 2011 the court of appeal quashed the decision and remitted the case to the vilnius regional court.8.  after re-examining the case, on 10 june 2013 the vilnius regional court found the applicant guilty of the charges against her.she was also ordered to pay some of the damages claimed by a company, amounting to ltl 2,800 (approximately eur 810).9.  the applicant lodged an appeal, but on 18 october 2013 the court of appeal dismissed it and upheld the lower court’s judgment in its entirety.10.  on 7 january 2014 the applicant submitted an appeal on points of law to the supreme court.on 17 february 2014 a selection panel of three judges refused to examine the appeal, on the basis that it did not comply with article 368 § 2 and article 369 of the code of criminal procedure (hereinafter “the ccp”) (see paragraphs 15 and 16 below).the chair of the selection panel, judge v.g., was the father of m.g., who had been the prosecutor in the case against the applicant before the first-instance and the appellate courts.11.  the supreme court consists of two divisions: civil and criminal.the criminal division has sixteen judges in it.
clxvi of 2011 and cxxv of 2012 (collectively referred to as “the new regulations”) were published in the official gazette; they contained, inter alia, provisions amending act no.the amendments came into force on 1 october 2012 and were effective from the school year starting in september 2013. the essence of the new legislation was already contained in the first amendment, published in december 2011.7.  the applicant companies submitted that the hungarian schoolbook distribution market, as a whole, had previously involved three groups of market participants: the publishers, the distributors and the schools.prior to the new regulations’ entry into force, it could be considered a semi-regulated market; in respect of the publishers this meant that the legislature had established the requirements for a book to qualify as a schoolbook, and it often applied certain measures in this context, such as maximum prices or state subsidies based on indigence.the schoolbook distributors’ clients were the schools, which, in an often highly competitive market, were able to select the publishers and schoolbook distributors, the former for the products they offered and the latter mainly for their reliability and accessibility and for the discounts promoted.8.  the task of distributors included not only the provision of logistical services but the processing of orders, the management of customised billing and the handling of returns.9.  participants in the market strove to acquire as many schools as possible as clients, in particular those which were located in the area close to the distributors’ warehouses, in order to be able to optimise delivery costs.11.  the second applicant, suli-könyv kft, served directly (i) 90% to 95% of schools in komárom-esztergom county; (ii) 100% of schools in the western part of pest county; (iii) 65% to 70%) of schools in the northern part of pest county; (iv) 95% to 100% of schools in győr-moson-sopron county; (v) 95% to 100% of schools in vas county; (vi) 85% to 90% of schools in veszprém county; and (vii) 25% to 30% of schools in budapest.13.  the new regulations introduced a new system of schoolbook distribution in hungary, laying down that “schoolbook supply” ­– comprising the order and purchase of school textbooks and their delivery to schools, and the collection of the purchase price from schools – was a public-interest responsibility of the state.14.  according to the reasoning of the relevant bill, the legislature’s intention was to discharge these duties through a single, state-owned non-profit book distribution company, könyvtárellátó kiemelten közhasznú nonprofit kft (non-profit library supplier limited liability company; hereinafter “könyvtárellátó”).a description of the objectives pursued gave the following reasons for the decision: “to strengthen the schoolbook procurer’s position through the uniform and centralised procurement of schoolbooks ... and ... to make schoolbook distribution more transparent by generating competition in a stronger position, that of the procurer.” 15.  the applicant companies submitted that the new regulations had centralised and monopolised the schoolbook distribution market with a guaranteed margin of 20% for the state-owned schoolbook distributor, without providing any compensation for former market participants, including themselves.as a consequence, the applicant companies and other schoolbook distributors had effectively been barred from the market (which was either their exclusive or major field of activity), where they had been operating freely prior to the entry into force of the new regulations.however, in their submissions to the court, they stated that this was not an effective remedy because even if the constitutional court had repealed the new regulations, they would have needed to reinvest a significant amount of money in order to re-establish their business, and would have been unable to repair the damage they had already sustained.17.  on 14 april 2014 the constitutional court terminated the proceedings without an examination of the merits of the applicant companies’ complaint.ccxxxii of 2013 had completely removed any schoolbook distribution based on the free market, and had introduced an entirely state-organised form of schoolbook supply to the hungarian public education system.
4.  the first applicant, mr tamašauskas, was born in 1971. the second applicant, mr radzevičius, was born in 1977. they are both detained in vilnius.it found that during the period under consideration the applicant had spent 629 days in šiauliai remand prison and that during the remaining periods he had been transported outside of that prison.the court noted that the documents provided to it by the administration of the prison did not indicate the exact amount of personal space available to the applicant in each cell.it therefore gave the applicant the benefit of the doubt and held that during the entire period of 629 days his right to adequate personal space (3.6 sq.the court also noted that parts of the cells had been occupied by furniture and that the space in which the applicant had been able to move had thus been even smaller.8.  however, the court dismissed the applicant’s allegations that the conditions in the cells had been unsanitary on the basis of reports submitted by domestic public healthcare authorities.it also held that the applicant had not proved that his health had deteriorated as a result of the conditions in which he had been detained.10.  the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision, but on 6 october 2015 the supreme administrative court dismissed his appeal and upheld the lower court’s decision in its entirety.during the remainder of his detention the personal space available to the applicant had complied with the domestic requirements.14.  on the basis of reports submitted by the domestic public healthcare authorities, the court held that the temperature, ventilation and humidity in the rooms had complied with the relevant domestic requirements, and dismissed the applicant’s complaints in that regard.however, it observed that the administration of the correctional facility had not submitted any documents refuting the applicant’s allegation that the natural light in the rooms had been insufficient, and found in the applicant’s favour.the court also noted that during the relevant period the applicant had sought medical help for back pain, headaches, mood swings and insomnia; the court considered that those ailments might have been related to the unsuitable conditions of his detention.15.  however, the court considered that the reduction in the minimum personal space available to the applicant had been minor and that it had been compensated for by his ability to move freely around the correctional facility and by the various leisure activities available there.it therefore held that the finding of a violation was sufficient, and dismissed the applicant’s claim for non-pecuniary damages.16.  the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision, but on 14 october 2016 the supreme administrative court dismissed his appeal and upheld the lower court’s decision in its entirety.
5.  the applicants were born in 1968, 1960, 1966, 1962, 1959, 1955 and 1954, respectively, and live in novi travnik and bugojno, bosnia and herzegovina.6.  by seven judgments of the travnik municipal court and the bugojno municipal court, of 19 january 2007, 15 may 2008, 19 january 2006, 28 october 2011, 2 february 2009, 1 september 2009 and 9 april 2004, respectively, the applicants’ employers, two companies manufacturing weapons and military technology, were ordered to pay them various sums in respect of unpaid work-related benefits together with default interest at the statutory rate and legal costs.the judgments became final on 24 august 2007, 15 may 2008, 19 january 2006, 26 november 2011, 20 august 2009, 13 october 2009 and 13 april 2005, respectively.7.  the applicants’ winding-up petitions were rejected on 27 may 2010 and 14 february 2011, respectively, because the federal ministry of energy had refused authorisation (see paragraph 14 below).consequently, in accordance with the 2003 insolvency act, the federation of bosnia and herzegovina became liable for the debts of the applicants’ employers (see paragraph 14 below).8.  the sarajevo municipal court issued enforcement orders on 9 november 2011, 21 february 2012, 17 april 2012, 25 april 2012, 5 july 2012, 27 march 2012 and 9 august 2012, respectively, in which the federation of bosnia and herzegovina was designated as a debtor.they were transferred to the competent bank and were listed among the charges in the federal budget.9.  on several occasions thereafter the bank informed the competent courts that the enforcement was not possible because the budgetary funds intended for that purpose had already been spent.10.  the applicants complained of the non-enforcement to the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina (“the constitutional court”).ap 2892/13) the constitutional court found a violation of article 6 § 1 of the convention and article 1 of protocol no.1 to the convention in the applicants’ cases on account of the prolonged non-enforcement of the final judgments in their favour.it ordered the government of the federation of bosnia and herzegovina to take the necessary steps in order to secure the payment of its debt arising from the final judgments within a reasonable time.although the applicants submitted a claim for non-pecuniary damages, the constitutional court did not award any compensation.12.  on the following dates in 2017 the final judgments in the applicants’ favour were fully enforced: (i) on 10 january 2017 in respect of mr mujo zahirović; (ii) on 9 january 2017 in respect of ms nedžvija mandara; (iii) on 13 april 2017 in respect of mr miralem mustajbegović; (iv) on 17 january 2017 in respect of mr nihad hrnjica; (v) on 11 january 2017 in respect of mr zijad džugum; (vi) on 17 january 2017 in respect of ms đevada hodžić; and (vii) on 13 april 2017 in respect of mr fadil pandžo.the payments made in the applicants’ favour included the reimbursement of the costs sustained for the enforcement procedure.
it appears that the evidence against a.g. consisted of witness testimony, including the testimony of two witnesses who agreed to testify on the condition that they could do so anonymously, as well as the secret surveillance of another witness who had misled the investigators in 1994 (see paragraph 10 above).on 16 august 2005 the prosecutor general’s office issued a european arrest warrant in respect of a.g. 18.  in december 2005 the criminal police bureau obtained information that a.g. could be in kazakhstan, and it noted that it intended to contact the kazakhstan authorities in order to establish a.g.’s exact whereabouts and to seek his arrest and extradition to lithuania.24.  as later established by a court decision (see paragraph 40 below), whilst being detained, on 22 march 2006 a.g. had attempted to offer a bribe of 20,000 lithuanian litai (ltl, approximately 5,800 euros (eur)) to the criminal police bureau investigator, in an attempt to persuade the latter not to actively pursue leads in the criminal murder case, so that the remand measure which had been imposed on him – pre-trial detention – could be replaced with a less stringent one.in particular, although the victims had allegedly been killed as early as 1994, their bodies had still not been found, and a.g. had been charged with their murder only in 2005. the court of appeal also pointed out that there was no evidence that a.g. could hide from the investigation, although these had been the grounds relied on by the prosecutor in support of a.g.’s detention.similarly, although the prosecutor claimed that in the summer of 2005 a.g. had been recognised as a suspect and a national and international search in respect of him had been announced, in reality, the police had not been actively searching for a.g. this was because, during the relevant time, a.g. had taken part in an unrelated court hearing in lithuania and had also crossed the lithuanian state border a number of times.for the court of appeal, this meant that, with regard to the collection of evidence, double standards had been applied to the two co-accused in the case, which raised doubts as to the objectivity of the criminal investigation.the trial court ordered that the remand measures imposed on a.g. – the obligation not to leave his place of residence, the taking away his identity documents (passport and id card), and the order to periodically register with the police – should be lifted and his identity documents returned.35.  both the prosecutor and the applicant’s daughter appealed against the trial court’s judgment acquitting a.g. 36.  on 15 december 2010 the court of appeal upheld a.g.’s acquittal in relation to the charges of murder and attempted bribery of a police investigator, and left the civil claims by the applicant and i.v.37.  the prosecutor lodged an appeal on points of law, and by a ruling of 5 july 2011 the supreme court quashed the court of appeal decision of 15 december 2010 and remitted the case to the appellate court for fresh examination.it also found that, although the appellate court had examined the evidence by questioning not only some of those witnesses who had already been questioned before the first-instance court, but also some newly summoned witnesses, it had nevertheless failed to rule on some other evidence and had not questioned an anonymous witness, even though earlier the appellate court had considered that witness’s testimony pertinent to the case.38.  once the case was returned to the court of appeal, the latter completed the examination of the merits of the case during the hearing of 12 october 2012, announcing that the judgment be pronounced on 27 november 2012 (see paragraph 40 below).40.  on 27 november 2012 the court of appeal reversed the kaunas regional court’s judgment of 2 february 2009, and on the basis of all the evidence found a.g. guilty of the aggravated murder of two persons – r.a. and z.v.44.  on 26 february 2013 the lithuanian authorities issued a european arrest warrant in respect of a.g. the authorities noted, inter alia, that a.g. had been physically present when the kaunas regional court had acquitted him on 2 february 2009, when the court of appeal had delivered a ruling on 15 december 2010, when the supreme court had issued a ruling on 5 july 2011, and when the court of appeal had heard his case afterwards.were to get ltl 150,000 each from a.g. on 11 december 2012 the applicant took the writ of execution to the bailiff, who on the following day accepted the execution request and on that same day took a decision to seize a.g.’s property.47.  by a final ruling of 25 june 2013, the supreme court dismissed the appeals on points of law by the applicant’s daughter and by a.g. the supreme court considered that the punishment imposed on a.g. had been just.
4.  the applicant was born in 1943 and lives in bucharest.5.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, refer to the same context and domestic criminal proceedings as those described in the case association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos.33810/07 and 18817/08, §§ 12-41, 24 may 2011).6.  during the events which led to the fall of the communist regime, on the night of 21/22 december 1989 the applicant’s son was killed by gunfire in bucharest.7.  in 1990 the military prosecutor’s office opened several investigations into the december 1989 armed crackdown on the anti-communism demonstrations.a main criminal investigation concerning the use of violence against civilians in bucharest and other cities was registered with the highest prosecutor’s office – the military prosecutors section − under no.97/p/1990 (current number 11/p/2014).in the main criminal investigation the applicant raised civil claims and asked that the perpetrators of the offence of homicide committed against her son be identified and punished.8.  at the same time, another investigation concerning the offences of complicity in seriously aggravated homicide and complicity in attempted seriously aggravated homicide, committed against a large number of persons, including the applicant’s son, culminated in the committal for trial of public officials, members of the ruling political party, and their subsequent conviction by a final decision of the supreme court of justice of 20 april 1992.9.   the relevant procedural steps taken in the main criminal investigation were described in the cases association “21 december 1989” and others (cited above, §§ 12-41) and sidea and others v. romania ([committee] no.889/15, §§ 8-11, 5 june 2018).10.  on 14 october 2015 the military prosecutor’s office closed the main criminal investigation, finding that the applicant’s complaint regarding the offence of homicide committed against her son was statute-barred and that a complaint concerning instigation of homicide was a matter of res judicata following the supreme court of justice’s decision of 20 april 1992 (see paragraph 8 above).11.  the decision of 14 october 2015 was subsequently annulled by a prosecutor general’s decision of 5 april 2016, confirmed by the high court of cassation and justice on 13 june 2016. on 1 november 2016 the military prosecutor ordered the opening of a criminal investigation in rem for the offence of crimes against humanity in respect of the same factual circumstances.12.  according to the information submitted by the parties, the main criminal investigation is still ongoing (see bănuțoiu and ștefoglu v. romania [committee], nos.64752/13 and 54607/14, § 12, 3 july 2018).
4.  the facts, as submitted by the parties, are similar to those in the case of association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos.5.  all applicants were ill-treated and injured on the night of 21⁄22 december 1989 during the events which led to the fall of the communist regime in bucharest.30392/15 (vasu v. romania) suffered injuries that needed twenty-two days of medical care and the other two applicants were beaten by militia forces on the same occasion.6.  in 1990 the military prosecutor’s office opened, of its own motion, investigations into the illegal detention, ill-treatment and injury suffered by the applicants and other participants in the events of december 1989 in respect of several offences as mentioned below.7.  at the same time, another investigation concerning the offences of illegal deprivation of liberty, illegal arrest and abusive investigation against a large number of persons, including the applicants, culminated in the committal for trial of senior military and public officials and their subsequent conviction by a decision of the supreme court of justice of 10 may 1991, which became final on 14 november 1991. it cannot be seen from the court’s decision whether the injured persons, including the applicants, participated in those proceedings (see, mutatis mutandis, bănuțoiu and ștefoglu v. romania [committee], nos.8.  as regards the offence of improper conduct, the military prosecutor’s office decided on 27 october 1993 (ms nicoleta-lorena giurcanu ‑ applicant in application no.30410/15, hereinafter “the third applicant”) not to open a separate investigation of its own motion on the grounds that the offence of improper conduct fell under a subsequently enacted amnesty law; that decision was communicated only to the third applicant on 25 september 2008. no decision was adopted in respect of the applicants’ injury.9.  further, without a formal decision to overturn the decisions issued by the military prosecutor’s office (see paragraph 8 above) and to reopen the applicants’ respective cases, in the main criminal investigation, the prosecutor heard evidence from the applicants, who reiterated their complaints regarding the offences of illegal deprivation of liberty and assault and battery, based on their ill-treatment and injuries during the events of december 1989. thus, the first applicant asked on 29 april 2005 to be joined to these proceedings as a civil party and for the investigation of the case to be pursued by the military prosecutor’s office.the second applicant gave statements as an injured party on 7 january 2000 and 23 november 2004. the third applicant raised civil claims on 25 september 2008 and requested that the persons responsible be identified and committed to stand trial.10.  the relevant procedural steps taken in the main criminal investigation were described in association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (cited above, §§ 12-41), and sidea and others v. romania ([committee] no.11.  on 14 october 2015 the military prosecutor’s office issued a decision in respect of the offence of instigating illegal deprivation of liberty, concerning all the applicants, by closing the main criminal investigation on the grounds of res judicata in relation to the supreme court of justice’s decision of 10 may 1991 (see paragraph 7 above).in addition, the military prosecutor’s office closed the main investigation in respect of the offence of instigating improper conduct regarding the second applicant, as it fell under an amnesty law (see paragraph 8 above).no decision was adopted with respect to the injury and assault and battery complained of by the applicants.12.  the decision of 14 october 2015 (see paragraph 11 above) was subsequently annulled by a prosecutor general’s decision of 5 april 2016, confirmed by the high court of cassation and justice on 13 june 2016. on 1 november 2016 the military prosecutor ordered the opening of a criminal investigation in rem for the offence of crimes against humanity in respect of the same factual circumstances.13.  according to the information submitted by the parties, the main criminal investigation is still ongoing (see bănuțoiu and ștefoglu, cited above, § 12).
9.  in a judgment of 7 december 2010 the constitutional court found that the warrant issued in slovakia for the search and seizure did not extend to the applicant and his office and that the terms of the warrant had therefore been exceeded, in violation of the applicant’s rights to the peaceful enjoyment of his possessions, respect for his private life, and judicial and other legal protection.accordingly, the public prosecution service of slovakia (“the pps”) was ordered to stop violating the applicant’s rights and to ask the austrian authorities for the return of the unlawfully seized items with a view to their restitution to the applicant.10.  on 6 september 2011 the pps asked the law firm representing the applicant in slovakia to specify whether they were entitled to receive on his behalf the items that had meanwhile been returned by the austrian authorities.14.  on 7 march 2012 at 9.10 a.m. those items were restored to the applicant’s lawyer and, at 9.15 a.m., they were all seized from him again with reference to a letter rogatory from the vienna office of the prosecution service of austria of 14 april 2011. that letter sought specifically the seizure of the same items as were to be restored to the applicant and referred to the european convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters, the schengen implementing convention, and the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union.15.  the record of this operation indicates that the applicant’s lawyer was informed that under article 89 § 1 of the code of the criminal procedure (“the ccp”) he was under a duty to surrender the objects in question and that he had been warned that if he did not do so, they could be taken from him under article 91 of the ccp and he could face a fine under article 70 of the ccp and a referral for disciplinary proceedings by a competent body, in response to which he surrendered the items voluntarily.however, he added that he protested on the grounds that he considered the re-seizure to be an obstruction of implementation of the constitutional court’s judgment of 7 december 2010 and stated that further reasons would be added to the protest later.first, he complained as regards execution of the constitutional court’s judgment of 2010. in particular, he argued that the pps had failed to execute that judgment properly in that (i) not all of his documents unlawfully seized in 2009 had been restored to him and (ii) the pps had failed to ensure that the austrian authorities returned or destroyed all the copies they had made of the material unlawfully seized and transmitted to them.second, the applicant challenged the re-seizure of 7 march 2012, arguing that he had only learned of the decision to dismiss his complaint against the decision of 1 february 2012 restoring the items in question the day before their scheduled restoration and re-seizure.therefore, the re-seizure had served the sole purpose of rectifying the initial seizure, which was against the object and purpose of the constitutional court’s judgment of 2010, and for which his lawyer had been arbitrarily exploited.17.  all the complaints were dismissed, of which the applicant and his lawyer were ultimately informed by letters of the office of the prosecutor general of 10 august and 31 december 2012. the reasons given were as follows: all the seized items, of which the applicant was unquestionably the owner, had been returned to him.as the applicant had authorised a lawyer to receive on his behalf the items to be returned to him, it had been apparent that he had had no intention of participating personally in the dealings with the pps.18.  on 11 march 2013 the applicant lodged a fresh complaint under article 127 of the constitution, arguing that by failing to ensure full compliance with the constitutional court’s judgment of 7 december 2010 and seizing the restored items again, the slovakian authorities had been responsible for a violation of a number of his rights, including respect for his private life and correspondence and the peaceful enjoyment of his possessions and of failing to provide an effective remedy.in the pertinent part of its decision, it quoted extensively from the letter of the office of the prosecutor general of 31 december 2012, pointed out that its task was to review the constitutionality but not the legality as such of the challenged decisions, and found no constitutionally relevant arbitrariness or other shortcoming in the position the pps had taken in his case.in particular, he complained that he, as the applicant’s representative, had not been given access to the letter rogatory underlying the seizure and that he had been granted no time to confer with the applicant.these, in his view, lay in particular in the attitude of the pps until then regarding execution of the constitutional court’s judgment of 2010 and the imminent risk of the re‑seized items being handed over to the austrian authorities.
6.  an unidentified person presenting a passport in the name of m. and claiming that she was s.’s sister and heir applied to g., a notary, seeking the recognition of her rights in respect of the flat.7.  on 18 march 2009 g. issued a certificate confirming, inter alia, m.’s title to the flat.the city authorities registered m.’s title to the flat in the state land register.8.  on 19 may 2009 an unidentified person posing as m. sold the flat to the applicant.according to the documents submitted by the applicant, the purchase price was 6,499,999 russian roubles (rub).the city authorities registered the sale of the flat and the applicant’s title to it in the state land register.9.  on an unspecified date the police opened a criminal investigation into the fraudulent acquisition of the flat.it was established that the document presented to the notary as m.’s birth certificate had been forged.10.  on 23 september 2009 the police informed the department of housing and housing policy of the city of moscow (the “housing department”) of the pending criminal investigation.11.  on 1 december 2009 the housing department brought an action seeking the transfer of the applicant’s flat to the city of moscow (“the city”).13.  on 27 december 2010 the presnenskiy district court of moscow allowed the housing department’s action.it annulled the applicant’s title to the flat and ordered its transfer to the city of moscow.14.  following an appeal by the applicant, on 14 july 2011 the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 27 december 2010.subsequently the city of moscow sold the flat to a private party under a social assistance scheme that permitted the buyer to pay the purchase price in instalments.16.  on 12 october 2017 the criminal investigation into the fraudulent acquisition of the flat was reopened.
23.  on 2 november 2009 an investigator of the sunzhenskiy district investigations department of the prosecutor’s office of the russian federation in the republic of ingushetia (“the prosecutor’s office”) sent numerous requests concerning the disappearance of the applicant’s son to various state bodies, such as local police departments of different districts of ingushetia and the department of the federal security service in ingushetia (“the fss”).his account of the events of 29 october 2009 was the same as the one presented to the court by the applicant (see paragraphs 13-16 above).31.  on 14 november 2009 the prosecutor’s office asked the ministries of the interior of the chechen republic, karachayevo-cherkessiya, dagestan, kabardino-balkaria and alania to check whether mr maskhud makhloyev had been detained on their respective territories or whether his dead body had been found there.it was also asked to identify the police officers who had been on duty at the “angara – 120” and “kerch-kavkaz 1” checkpoints on the night of 28 to 29 october 2009 and to request that they report to the prosecutor’s office for questioning.68799 to examine the vehicle registration logs kept at the fss’s checkpoints in order to check whether uaz vehicles and a gazel vehicle had left or entered the fss on the night of 28 to 29 october 2009. if so, the military prosecutor’s office was to ask the fss servicemen who had been on duty at the checkpoints at the relevant time and the servicemen who had travelled in those vehicles where they had been driving to and whether they had detained mr maskhud makhloyev.37.  on the same day the investigator in charge of the case applied for judicial authorisation of access to all call logs for the night of 28 to 29 october 2009 kept by mobile-phone providers operating in the area.38.  on 18 and 19 november 2009 the investigator in charge of the case requested mr maskhud makhloyev’s medical information and his criminal record from the ministry of the interior of ingushetia.40.  on the same day the ministry of the interior of ingushetia informed the prosecutor’s office that mr maskhud makhloyev was known to the police as a follower of wahhabism, an extremist religious movement.44.  on 24 november 2009 the prosecutor’s office informed the applicant that the investigation was ongoing and that the measures taken thus far had not been able to establish the whereabouts of his son or the identity of the alleged perpetrators.45.  on 8 december 2009 the ministry of the interior of the republic of chechnya informed the prosecutor’s office that according to their information, mr maskhud makhloyev was a member of an illegal armed group led by a certain a.m.b.y., which was operating in sunzhenskiy district in ingushetia.46.  on the same day the ministry of the interior of ingushetia informed the prosecutor’s office that they had not carried out any special operation at the material time at the applicant’s family house.49.  on 5 april 2010 the prosecutor’s office requested a copy of the case file and medical documentation concerning the incident of 14 august 2009 (see paragraph 12 above) from the ministry of the interior of ingushetia.52.  on 19 april 2010 the head of the prosecutor’s office instructed a special investigator, m.a.k., to establish the whereabouts of the adhesive tape which had been shown in the photograph included in the minutes of the inspection of the crime scene (see paragraph 22 above), to remove it and, if necessary, to order its expert analysis.it was stressed that the investigation had followed two possible versions of the incident in question: that the reason for abduction could had been a blood feud or hostility towards maskhud makhloyev; or that he had been detained by the law-enforcement agencies and kept in a military or other detention facility.58.  on 13 october 2010 the applicant lodged an appeal with the magasskiy district court of ingushetia (“the district court”) under article 125 of the code of criminal procedure against the decision of 10 august 2010 to suspend the investigation.
5.  on 20 february 2009, the first applicant, a lawyer at the time, was elected to be a member of the council of the irkutsk regional bar (“the bar”).6.  on 24 october 2010 the members of the council conducted elections for the presidency of the bar.8.  on an unspecified date a group of lawyers applied to the commercial court of the irkutsk region challenging the second applicant’s appointment.the court granted their request to enjoin the second applicant from fulfilling the functions of acting president pending the outcome of the proceedings.10.  on 11 february, 2 march and 5 april 2011 several members of the bar, including the applicants, lodged complaints with the president of the commercial court of the irkutsk region, to the supreme commercial court of the russian federation and to the supreme judicial qualifications board, alleging that judge r. had acted in contravention of the applicable laws on jurisdiction when she had accepted the claims concerning the second applicant’s appointment to the office of president of the bar for consideration.they further claimed that (1)  s. had announced in public that his opponents in the council of the bar would be disbarred and that he would organise a “red terror” in response to the “orange revolution”; (2)  s.’s ultimate goal had been to get rid of his opponents in the council of the bar through rotation and disbarment; (3)  s. had had an extra‑professional relationship with the deputy president of the regional commercial court, who had been instrumental in ensuring a favourable outcome in the proceedings against the second applicant’s appointment; (4)  through his personal connections with the deputy president of the regional commercial court, s. had obtained an injunction against the second applicant and ensured that a group of bailiffs had been present at the bar’s conference in order to put pressure on the participants and his opponents.11.  on an unspecified date in july 2011 the lawyers posted their complaints on the website of the president of the russian federation.they sent a copy of their complaint to the president of the supreme commercial court and to the public anticorruption committee.12.  on 18 july 2011 the first deputy of the president of the regional commercial court informed the plaintiffs that their allegations had not been confirmed by the conducted investigation.13.  on 27 july 2011 the president of the regional commercial court forwarded a copy of the lawyers’ complaint to the bar and the first vice‑president of the bar instituted disciplinary proceedings against the applicants.the council considered that (1)  the letters sent by the group of the lawyers to the judicial qualifications board and the president of the commercial court had not been a correct or permissible conduct in response to the actions of the judges of the commercial court; (2)  the complaints had contained untrue allegations damaging to the reputation and goodwill of judges b. and r., and s., a lawyer; (3)  the first applicant had been disrespectful towards them.the council concluded that (1)  the first applicant had violated the relevant legislation and the code of professional conduct for lawyers (кодекс профессиональной этики адвоката); (2)  the dissemination of information damaging the reputation and goodwill of judges and lawyers was incompatible with membership of the bar; (3)  the first applicant’s conduct had disparaged the bar and its members.15.  on 8 december 2011 the kirovskiy district court of irkutsk dismissed a complaint lodged by the first applicant against the decision of 31 october 2011.the reasons underlying the council’s decision were identical to the one used in the first applicant’s case.18.  on 27 december 2011 the kirovskiy district court of irkutsk dismissed a complaint lodged by the second applicant against the decision of 16 december 2011.
5.  on 19 february 2008 a presidential election was held in armenia, which was followed by daily protest rallies held at yerevan’s freedom square from 20 february onwards by the supporters of the main opposition candidate, mr ter-petrosyan.the applicant was the head of mr ter‑petrosyan’s election headquarters in the town of abovyan and regularly attended the rallies.on 1 march 2008 the assembly at freedom square was dispersed by the police, causing mass protests throughout yerevan.6.  on 8 march 2008 the applicant was summoned to a local police station in abovyan where he was questioned about the leaflets that he had prepared and distributed among the demonstrators during the rallies.8.  on the same date the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan (the district court) ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention for a period of two months, namely until 8 may 2008, taking into account the nature and the gravity of the imputed offence and the severity of the punishment prescribed for it.by the same decision the district court refused the applicant’s request to be released on bail.9.  on 14 march 2008 the applicant lodged an appeal, arguing that the investigating authority had not presented any evidence to substantiate the need for his detention.10.  on 21 march 2008 the criminal court of appeal decided to dismiss the applicant’s appeal, holding that the fact that the applicant had been accused of a grave offence punishable by up to ten years’ imprisonment increased the probability of his evading criminal punishment.furthermore, it was unacceptable to release the applicant on bail in view of the fact that, if at large, the applicant could abscond, obstruct the proceedings, commit another offence, evade responsibility and punishment, and continue to breach public order.as to the applicant’s good character, mentioned by him in his appeal, this was not sufficient to justify lifting the detention order.11.  on 4 may, 2 july, 3 september and 30 october 2008 the district court extended the applicant’s detention on the same grounds, on each occasion by two months.12.  on 19 may, 18 july, 19 september and 16 november 2008 the criminal court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeals against those decisions.13.  on 10 december 2008 the trial court decided to set the case down for trial, ruling in the same decision that the applicant’s detention was to remain unchanged.14.  on 22 june 2009 the district court found the applicant guilty of making public calls inciting a violent overthrow of the government, and imposed a two-year sentence.it further decided to absolve the applicant from serving his sentence under a general amnesty declared by the armenian parliament on 19 june 2009. the applicant was immediately released from detention.
4.  the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in jrvezh.5.  on 19 february 2008 a presidential election was held in armenia, which was followed by daily protest rallies held at yerevan’s freedom square from 20 february onwards by the supporters of the main opposition candidate.on 1 march 2008 the assembly at freedom square was dispersed by the police.the applicant, who was present at freedom square at that time, was arrested and later charged under article 316 § 1 of the criminal code (cc) with assaulting police officers.6.  on 4 march 2008 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention for a period of two months, namely until 1 may 2008, on the ground that the applicant, if at large, might abscond and obstruct the investigation by exerting unlawful influence on the persons involved in the criminal proceedings.7.  on 10 march 2008 the applicant lodged an appeal, arguing that there was no evidence to substantiate the need for his detention.he was a former high-ranking police officer and a law-abiding citizen who enjoyed trust and respect in society.8.  on 21 march 2008 the criminal court of appeal dismissed the appeal, finding that the fact that the applicant was accused of a grave offence punishable by up to ten years’ imprisonment increased the probability of his evading criminal liability and punishment and was sufficient to conclude that the applicant, if at large, might commit a new offence.as to the applicant’s good character, mentioned by him in his appeal, this was not sufficient for lifting the detention order.9.  on 29 april 2008 the indictment was finalised and the applicant’s case was sent to court for trial.the applicant remained in detention by virtue of article 138 § 3 of the code of criminal procedure (ccp).10.  on 13 may 2008 the district court decided to set the case down for trial, ruling in the same decision that the applicant’s detention was to remain unchanged.that decision was not subject to appeal.11.  on 11 june 2008 the district court found the applicant guilty under article 316 § 1 of the cc of assaulting police officers and sentenced him to a suspended term of one and a half years’ imprisonment.
5.  the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in łatanice.6.  the facts of the case may be summarised as follows.7.  the applicant was detained in kielce remand centre from 6 september to 4 october 2012 (28 days).8.  the applicant submitted that throughout his detention in kielce remand centre, he had been held in overcrowded cells in which the space per person had been below the polish statutory minimum standard of 3 m².9.  in their observations, the government admitted that the applicant had been detained in an overcrowded cell.however, they emphasised that the space in each cell had exceeded 2 m² per person and that the hardship caused by staying in an overcrowded cell had been compensated by adding 30 minutes to his daily walk as well as additional cultural and educational classes or sports activities.10.  in the course of civil proceedings instituted by the applicant, the domestic courts established that for twenty-eight days the applicant had been detained in an overcrowded cell (see also paragraph 13 below).11.  regarding the conditions of detention, the domestic courts established that the overall conditions in cells were adequate.cells were equipped in compliance with the relevant law; they were properly ventilated and the toilet area had been separated from the rest of the living space in the cells.12.  on 12 august 2013 the applicant brought a civil action against the state treasury for infringement of his personal rights and for compensation on account of his detention in overcrowded cells in various penitentiary facilities.he claimed 35,000 polish zlotys (approximately 8,750 euros) in just satisfaction.13.  on 28 may 2014 the warsaw regional court (sąd okręgowy) dismissed the applicant’s action.it confirmed, however, that temporarily (from 6 september to 4 october 2012) the applicant had been detained in cells in which the space per person had been below the polish statutory minimum standard of 3 m², but not below 2 m².14.  on 1 april 2015 the warsaw court of appeal (sąd apelacyjny) dismissed the applicant’s appeal.
8.  on 27 november 2010 the warsaw wola district prosecutor (prokurator rejonowy) charged the applicant with possession of a significant amount of drugs and requested that the warsaw wola district court (sąd rejonowy) detain him on remand.9.  on 28 november 2010 the court decided to detain the applicant on remand for a period of three months, in view of the reasonable suspicion that he had been in possession of a significant amount of drugs (iii kp 2159/10).the court applied this measure due to the high probability that the applicant had committed the offence with which he was charged, the severity of the maximum sentence provided by law for such offence (up to at least eight years’ imprisonment) and the fact that the likelihood of such a penalty might induce the applicant to obstruct the proceedings, as well as the fear that the applicant might influence other persons to present a version of events favourable to him.the court noted that the applicant had also been charged with being a member of an organised, armed criminal gang and pointed out the actions that needed to be taken to conclude the investigation.12.  on 23 may the warsaw regional court extended the applicant’s detention on remand.the court again relied on the severity of the anticipated sentence and possibly adverse consequences that the applicant’s release could have for the ongoing investigation.the court expressly stated that it was not obliged to specify actions aiming to obstruct the investigation, because the sole gravity of charges allowed for the presumption that such actions might be undertaken.14.  on 16 september 2011 a bill of indictment against the applicant and fourteen other persons was lodged with the warsaw regional court (xviii k 297/11).15.  the applicant’s detention on remand was extended by the warsaw regional court on 26 september 2011 until 30 march 2012.16.  between 24 october 2011 and 24 october 2012 the applicant served the remaining part of the prison sentence ordered in case iii k 203/09, and from 24 october 2012 to 23 october 2013 he served a prison sentence ordered in another set of criminal proceedings against him (iii k 1027/07).17.  in the meantime, the warsaw regional court extended the applicant’s detention on remand on 13 march, 4 july and 20 september 2012. the two latter decisions were upheld by the warsaw court of appeal (sąd apelacyjny) on 31 july and 4 october 2012 respectively.18.  the warsaw court of appeal extended the applicant’s detention on 4 october 2012, 15 january, 13 june and 28 october 2013, 13 march, 29 july and 30 december 2014, 25 june and 22 october 2015 and on 26 january 2016. the court relied on a high probability that the applicant and other accused had committed the offences with which they had been charged and on the complexity of the case.the court also considered that the persons accused might take actions aiming at obstructing the proper course of the proceedings, because they had known other accused, and the charges against them included being members of an armed and organised criminal gang.the relevant decisions were often phrased in general terms and no particular instances of the applicant’s conduct during the investigation or at the judicial stage was provided to substantiate the extension of detention on remand.21.  on 12 may 2017 the warsaw court of appeal upheld that judgment in respect of the applicant.
as part of the debate the catholic bishop f. voiced criticism of human embryonic stem-cell research and a group of scientists at the university of bonn responded to that criticism.he claimed that he had never wished to imply that there had been any link between stem-cell research and the ideological and historical context of the crimes committed by the dehumanising nazi system, which should not be relativised through comparison.and the austrian christian social working group [christlich soziale arbeitsgemeinschaft österreichs] wish to make known their opposition to the press release issued by the university of bonn on 13 december 2007, which bears the signatures of eighteen well-known professors and in which the professors express their outrage at the comments made by bishop f. [name abbreviated by the court] comparing modern-day stem-cell research to the experiments on human beings carried out by the nazis.nowadays, the unborn children of people who follow the religion of moses – the jews – are murdered and sold to the ‘christian’ country of germany for research purposes, all with the blessing of both israel and germany!in its judgment the court acknowledged the applicant’s right to freedom of expression and to impart to others his beliefs that the fusion of an egg and a sperm represented the beginning of human life and that research using imported stem cells from terminated embryos involved the destruction of human life.it also emphasised that the applicant had the fundamental liberty to exercise his freedom of expression by imparting his opinion strikingly and pointedly, including in the form of abusive criticism addressed at well-known researchers referred to by name.the court based this decision on the fact that the implication that the scientists had been guilty not just of committing murder but of doing so for deeply despicable motives had been a central theme running through the press release and had escalated in the phrase “the time has finally arrived to overcome the spirit of auschwitz”.it concluded that the applicant had intended to imply that the scientists carrying out stem-cell research had been prompted by the same criminal, sadistic and dehumanising motives as those responsible for performing unimaginably cruel mass experiments on humans, such as mengele in auschwitz.similarly to the district court, the regional court acknowledged the applicant’s right to freedom of expression and that his press release had contributed to a debate of great public interest.it further held that the majority of the statements in the press release had been value judgments and that therefore the press release had to be classified as a value judgment and not as a statement of fact.the relevant criterion was whether the main purpose of the criticism had been to defame an individual rather than to debate the relevant issue.the court concluded that this was not applicable in the case at hand, since the applicant’s past behaviour and the content of the press release showed that the focus had been on “the issue” rather than the individual doctor against whom allegations had been made.the court therefore found that the right to freedom of expression had to be balanced with the legally protected personality rights of prof. dr b. and emphasised that freedom of expression granted equal protection to all statements of opinion, regardless of whether they were useful, useless, correct, incorrect, emotional, rational or even polemical or insulting.the regional court took into account that the press release had represented the applicant’s contribution to the formation of public opinion, but believed that referring to prof. dr b. by name had been equivalent to linking his professional conduct to the atrocities committed by the nazis.11.  on 15 february 2010 the court of appeal rejected an appeal on points of law by the applicant as unfounded and on 6 july 2010 the federal constitutional court refused to admit a constitutional complaint lodged by the applicant without providing reasons (1 bvr 827/10).
10.  in a judgment of 7 july 2009 the court found the applicant guilty of the charges against him and sentenced him to one year’s imprisonment, after establishing his participation in the preparatory acts and his role in the organisation of the fraud.it held that mr sarkozy’s application to join the proceedings as a civil party was admissible on the basis of his right of access to a court, but deferred its decision on his claim for damages until the expiry of a one-month period after the end of his term as president (see article 67 of the constitution, paragraph 17 below).the court took the view, with reference to article 6 of the convention, that the president’s status before the court would entail a breach of the equality of arms principle because, as a civil party, he could not, for the duration of his term of office, be the subject of any sanction for bringing unjustified proceedings or be prosecuted for malicious or rash accusations, or be questioned or confronted with the defendant (ibid., see also, paragraph 31 below).as regards the second aspect, concerning the impartiality of the tribunal which has allegedly been undermined by the supposed partiality of the public prosecutor and the president’s intervention in the proceedings when he is the guarantor of judicial independence and authority, a distinction must be made.on the second point, many civil or criminal courts, in particular in press-related matters, have, on many occasions, admitted proceedings brought by the serving president of the republic, who in that capacity is also chair of the national legal service commission, without at any time considering that he was in any way contravening his constitutional duties.” the court of appeal further sought to ascertain whether the impartiality of the tribunal could also be called into question in the light of the theory of appearances.it emphasised, however, that the public prosecutor’s office was not affected by the guarantee of the right to an impartial tribunal and that the president’s powers of appointment had not infringed the right to a fair trial: “... the fact that, in the present case, the public prosecutor’s offices both of nanterre and of versailles had endeavoured to ensure that the case was examined as quickly as possible, and exceptional means of investigation were deployed (serious crime squad and fraud squad), could no doubt be attributed to the identity of the victim, but also to the fact that members of his family were affected by the same offences, those factors suggesting that a large-scale action targeting the head of state and his family was likely to have been organised on account of their identity.moreover, ... article 64 of the constitution states ... that the president is the guarantor of the judicial authority, and this provision legitimises, at the highest level of the hierarchy of legal norms – and even when the president of the republic is a party to the proceedings – his powers over the public prosecutor’s office, while also ruling out any doubt as to the independence of the judiciary ... [the applicant] cannot dispute the president’s capacity to act as an ordinary citizen.in those conditions, as there is nothing to show that the public prosecutor’s office or the power to appoint judges and prosecutors caused any concrete impairment of the independence or impartiality of the judges, the objection is unfounded.” 12.  the applicant appealed on points of law and, in addition to complaining of a breach of his right to a fair trial, argued that article 2 of the code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 31 below) was unconstitutional as it did not preclude the president of the republic from joining criminal proceedings as a civil party.in the meantime, in pleadings of 16 august 2010, the applicant asked the court of cassation to refer a question to the constitutional council for a preliminary ruling on constitutionality (question prioritaire de constitutionnalité – “qpc”) relating to the compatibility of the above-mentioned article 2 with the principle of the separation of powers and the rights of the defence, and with the right to a fair trial.the question raised does not have any serious merit in so far as it seeks, in reality, to clarify the scope of article 2 of the code of criminal procedure, in the light of article 67 of the constitution, and thus falls within the jurisdiction of the ordinary courts.” 14.  in his opinion before the court of cassation, the advocate-general called for the partial quashing of the judgment of the court of appeal in so far as it had not stayed its ruling on mr sarkozy’s civil action until the end of his term of office.the advocate-general took the view that the fact that no proceedings could be brought against the president (for malicious, improper or de facto fanciful accusation), or that he could not be summoned to testify, had not created, in the circumstances of the case, any inequality between the parties, while acknowledging that this inability could cause serious difficulties in other proceedings if mainly based on accusations or evidence emanating from the president.he nevertheless indicated that the fact of declaring inadmissible the president’s application to join the proceedings as a civil party would have the effect of depriving him of his right of access to a court and concluded that it was necessary to opt for a compromise solution in the form of suspending any civil action brought by the president for the defence of his personal interests until the end of his term of office.for the remainder, it found as follows: “first, the president of the republic who, in his status as victim, is entitled, under article 2 of the code of criminal procedure, to exercise his rights as a civil party during his term of office, joined proceedings that had already been initiated by the public prosecutor, and the appellant has not been granted a discontinuance or an acquittal.thirdly, the court of appeal, in assessing, without contradiction, the particulars of the case, found that the public prosecutor’s action had not breached either the legitimate interests or the fundamental rights of the accused persons.after finding that each party was able to present its arguments and discuss those of the opposite party throughout the judicial pre-trial investigation and the hearings both at first instance and before the court of appeal, the judgment indicates that the defendant had not demonstrated that he had sustained a breach of his right to a fair trial on the part of the french institutions.
17.  on 15 october 2009, on behalf of the applicants, their representative requested that the police bring the cases before the courts in order to examine the lawfulness of the detention under chapter 43a of the administration of justice act.in order to prevent such clashes, the plan was to start engaging in proactive dialogue from 12 noon, when the first fans/spectators appeared, and in the event of clashes, first to arrest the instigators under section 755 of the administration of justice act and charge them or, if that was not possible, to detain the instigators by virtue of section 5(3) of the police act.up until the start of the match, further individuals who instigated and directed fights were detained, but the manoeuvre tactics continued to be a dialogue to ensure that the large number of supporters behaved and made their way to the stadium to watch the match.stated, inter alia: “... that he was the strategic commander for the event and located in the control room in connection with the international football match between denmark and sweden on 10 october 2009. the police had received intelligence reports of intentions among various club factions from denmark and sweden to initiate hooligan brawls in connection with the match.when questioned about exhibit 46 at the bottom and its continuation on exhibit 47 at the top [the police reports written by him], according to which both [the second and third applicants] had issued several orders to the other hooligans from aarhus, the witness stated that he could no longer recall the details, but if this was what he had written, then that was how it had been.they had been faced with the issue that the six-hour period applicable to two of the persons detained under the police act expired at 9.50 p.m. he had contacted the control-room supervisor before the expiry of this period.it could very well have happened that some of his colleagues had started taking people out of the cells before the end of the six-hour period when they had received the information from the control room, because everybody was highly aware of the six-hour rule.if the persons concerned had subsequently been returned to their cells, the reason was an order from the control room saying that they should continue to be detained.” 25.  by a judgment of 25 november 2010 the city court found against the applicants for the following reasons: “the copenhagen police ought to have brought the matters before the court within five days of receipt, as set out in section 469(2) of the administration of justice act.based on the evidence, the court accepts as fact that the copenhagen police had received intelligence prior to the international football match between denmark and sweden on 10 october 2009 that danish and swedish hooligan groups had arranged to meet in connection with the match and that the police had seen the first large fight between danish and swedish football fans at amagertorv square at 3.41 p.m. this implied a concrete and imminent risk of disturbance of public order, and the police were under a duty to attempt to prevent such disturbance; see section 5(1) of the police act.according to the evidence given by police constable p.w., compared with the police report prepared by the same witness on 11 october 2009 (exhibits 47 and 48), the court accepts as fact that [the second and third applicants] were detained after the witness had specifically seen the persons concerned talking with an activist from the local brøndby faction of south side united on 10 october 2009 and issuing orders to others, in combination with the fact that the persons concerned were known to the police for having been detained several times previously in connection with similar football events.based on the evidence, the court accepts as fact that during the afternoon and evening, about 138 persons were detained, half of them being detained pursuant to the police act; that the unrest continued for the rest of the afternoon and all evening; and that the detention of the plaintiffs was ended as soon as the city centre had become quiet, in the assessment of the police, after a group comprising thirty-five danes was arrested towards midnight.the court finds, in the circumstances of the present case, that there is no basis for invalidating the assessment made by the police, according to which the release of the detainees before the city centre had become quiet would have entailed a concrete and imminent risk of further unrest, including clashes with spectators who had been let out of the national stadium after the end of the match and who were still in the streets in large numbers.it also appears from the preparatory notes on the same provision that normally the six-hour period can only be exceeded in connection with actions involving the detention of a considerable number of people, in which situations the time spent on transfer to the police station and registration and identification of detainees would render it impossible, in practice, to observe the six-hour rule.whilst the legislative intent of the provision is to extend detention to more than six hours only in exceptional situations, if an extension is not justified by practical issues related to the detention of a large number of people that render it impossible to observe the maximum period, the court finds on the above grounds, in view of the purpose of the detentions compared with the organised nature, scope and duration of the unrest, as well as the length of the specific periods by which the maximum periods had been exceeded, that the conditions for detaining [the applicants] pursuant to section 5(3) of the police act for more than six hours were met.28.  it appears that forty-nine persons (not including the applicants) were charged with criminal offences on the day of the match, notably for breaching the executive order on police measures to maintain public order and protect the safety of individuals and the public, etc., and the right of the police to launch temporary measures (bekendtgørelse om politiets sikring af den offentlige orden og beskyttelse af enkeltpersoners og den offentlige sikkerhed mv., samt politiets adgang til at iværksætte midlertidige foranstaltninger) (see paragraph 33 below).
before he turned 18 years old, he had been convicted four times by a city court: on 8 may 2003 of, inter alia, drug offences, with a sentence of four months’ imprisonment, suspended; on 1 october 2003 of armed robbery, with a sentence of one year and six months’ imprisonment, of which one year was suspended; on 24 june 2004 of, inter alia, theft and possession of weapons, with a sentence of one year and four months’ imprisonment; and on 12 may 2005 of, inter alia, robbery, and sentenced to nine months’ imprisonment.15.  in the meantime, on 12 november 2011 the applicant was arrested and charged with offences under the penal code, inter alia two counts of robbery, the first committed in a private home on 4 october 2011, and the second in a bank on 24 october 2011. the applicant was also charged with possession of arms, threatening a witness, drug offences and handling stolen property.she had left in june 1988, but returned in november 1988 with the applicant, who was 9 months old at the time, and who was granted a residence permit until march 2005, later extended to april 2012. the length of his legal stay in denmark was therefore calculated at approximately sixteen years and two months.in this respect the city court stated: “as regards the issue of expulsion, the court observes that it depends on an assessment of proportionality as established by the supreme court (højesteret) in a judgment reproduced on page 225 of the danish weekly law reports for 2012 ((ufr) 2012.225h), whether an offender is to be expelled.1638/03) that, where the person to be expelled is a young adult who has not yet founded a family of his or her own, the relevant criteria for the assessment of proportionately, see article 8 of the european convention on human rights, are as follows: (a) the nature and seriousness of the offence committed by that person, (b) the length of the person’s stay in the country from which he or she is to be expelled, (c) the time elapsed since the offence was committed and the person’s conduct during that period, and (d) the solidity of social, cultural and family ties with the host country and with the country of destination.when an assessment is made of the length of the person’s stay in the host country and the solidity of the ties with the host country, it evidently makes a difference whether the person concerned had already come to the country during his or her childhood or youth, or was even born there, or whether he or she only came to the host country as an adult.according to § 75 of the judgment, very serious reasons are required to justify expulsion of a settled migrant who has lawfully spent all or the major part of his or her childhood and youth in the host country.two of those sentences were imposed for robberies committed before he attained the age of 18: a sentence for robbery at a post office in 2003 when the defendant was almost 16 years old and a sentence for two street robberies and other offences in 2004/2005 when the defendant was 17 years old.[the applicant] has furthermore been convicted of robbery twice after he has attained the age of 18. the first of those sentences was imposed on 11 june 2008 when he was found guilty of a street robbery and a robbery at a shop contrary to section 288, subsection 1 (i) and (ii) of the criminal code and sentenced to imprisonment for a term of two years and suspended expulsion from denmark.the second sentence was imposed on 9 november 2010 in appeal proceedings when he was found guilty of a street robbery and sentenced to imprisonment for a term of one year and three months and suspended expulsion from denmark subject to a probation period of two years.the offence for adjudication in connection with the judgment of 9 november 2010 delivered in appeal proceedings was committed in the probation period of the first suspended expulsion order.the nature and seriousness of the offences in combination with the previous sentences for similar offences and the fact that the defendant has now failed to observe the conditions of two suspended expulsion orders is deemed by the court to provide weighty reasons why the defendant should now be expelled.against this background, the court finds that altogether such very serious reasons exist that the defendant must be expelled and permanently banned from re-entry as set out in section 22, subsection 1(vi), section 26, subsection 2) and section 32, subsection 2 (v) of the aliens act, in which connection it is observed that the expulsion order is deemed not to be contrary to denmark’s international obligations.” 20.  on appeal, by a judgment of 26 august 2013 the high court of eastern denmark (østre landsret - henceforth “the high court”) upheld the conviction, the sentence and the expulsion order.474 of 12 may 2011 on residence in denmark for aliens falling within the rules of the european union (bekendtgørelse om ophold i danmark for udlændinge, der er omfattet af dem europæiske unions regler) [implementing eu council directive 2004/38/ec].” one judge stated: “since [the applicant] has lived his whole life in denmark and has no ties to croatia, i find it contrary to denmark’s international obligations to issue an expulsion order despite the serious crime committed.” 21.  leave to appeal to the supreme court (højesteret), was refused by the appeals permission board (procesbevillingsnævnet) on 12 december 2013.22.  in december 2013, pursuant to council framework decision 2008-909-jha of 27 november 2008 on the application of the principle of mutual recognition of judgments in criminal matters imposing custodial sentences or measures involving deprivation of liberty for the purpose of their enforcement in the european union, as amended by council framework decision 2009-299-jha of 26 february 2009, the ministry of justice requested the croatian authorities to take over the enforcement of the sentences imposed on the applicant by the high court judgment of 9 november 2010 and the high court judgment of 26 august 2013.
the court relied on a forensic psychiatric expert opinion of 14 march 2010 according to which the applicant’s son suffered from permanent paranoid schizophrenia and was incapable of understanding or controlling his actions.9.  on 14 december 2012 the applicant lodged an application with the tartu county court for o.t.’s coercive psychiatric treatment to be discontinued or for his inpatient treatment to be replaced by outpatient treatment.denies the committed offence, does not consider himself mentally ill. in need of continued treatment as he poses danger to society.” the applicant considered that the opinion was not impartial and asked for a new independent expert assessment to be carried out with respect to o.t.the court decided that no additional expert opinion was necessary, as under article 403 § 1 of the code of criminal procedure (kriminaalmenetluse seadustik – “the ccrp”) (see paragraph 21 below) the opinion of the medical committee sufficed as evidence.11.  following an appeal by the applicant, on 5 march 2013 the tartu court of appeal quashed the above-mentioned decision because, contrary to the ccrp, the first-instance court had not examined the case in oral proceedings.the court of appeal noted that under article 402-1 § 3 and article 403 § 5 of the ccrp (see paragraph 21 below), the ordering of a new expert report had not been compulsory and the first-instance court had been entitled to rely solely on the written opinion of the medical committee or to question the attending doctor at a hearing.the head of the coercive treatment department, dr s.k., who had participated in the drawing up of the medical opinion in question, was also heard by the court.it observed that there was no reason to doubt the conclusions of the medical committee’s opinion of 11 december 2012 or the reliability of the head of the coercive treatment department.she made reference to article 402-1 § 1 of the ccrp (see paragraph 21 below) and the explanatory annex to the relevant draft legislation (see paragraph 23 below), according to which persons subjected to coercive psychiatric treatment had no such right (see paragraph 23 below).was unfounded and that the county court had rightly relied on the opinions of the medical committee and the head of the coercive treatment department.and the preconditions for applying coercive treatment had already been independently established by a court on 6 may 2011. in the proceedings at issue – which concerned the proposed discontinuation of inpatient coercive treatment or its replacement with outpatient treatment – it was not mandatory to obtain an alternative expert opinion (see paragraph 21 below).the court of appeal held that in a situation where the state of o.t.’s health and adherence to the treatment had not improved and the discontinuation of his inpatient treatment or its replacement with outpatient treatment was in the doctors’ opinion excluded, ordering another expert examination would have been irrelevant.the supreme court noted that although the applicant had asked for legal aid for herself and not for o.t., she had justified her request by arguing that there was a need to protect o.t.’s rights – primarily his right to liberty.the supreme court went on to add that the applicant did not herself have rights in the proceedings in question that she could protect by means of securing legal aid and that there was therefore no need to recognise her right of appeal.19.  on 18 september 2017 the government notified the court that the psychiatric treatment of the applicant’s son had been terminated, at the request of the applicant, by a decision of the tartu county court of 21 september 2016.
5.  the applicants were born in 1980 and 1986, respectively, and were detained at the tekirdağ f-type prison when the application was lodged.6.  on 28 and 29 october 2005 the applicants were arrested and taken into custody on suspicion of membership of a terrorist organisation.7.  on 31 october 2005 the applicants were brought before a judge at the istanbul assize court which ordered their detention on remand.8.  on 23 december 2005 the istanbul public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment against the applicants, accusing them, inter alia, of membership of a terrorist organisation and illegal possession of explosives.9.  on 26 december 2005 the istanbul assize court held a preparatory hearing and ordered the continuation of the applicants’ detention.10.  throughout the proceedings the trial court ordered the continuation of the applicants’ detention on remand.between the hearings, with regular intervals of one month, the court ex officio examined the applicants’ detentions on the basis of the case-file and decided to extend.11.  at the end of the hearing held on 13 october 2008, the trial court decided once again to prolong the applicants’ detention.although the applicants’ lawyer was present at this hearing, the applicants were not brought from prison to the court.subsequently, their lawyer filed an objection against the decision of 13 october 2008. on 11 november 2008 the 13th chamber of the istanbul assize court dismissed the objection, without holding an oral hearing and based on the written opinions of the public prosecutor, which had not been communicated to the applicants or to their representative.12.  on 23 december 2009 the court convicted the applicants and sentenced them to imprisonment.the court also ordered the continuation of the first applicant’s detention and the release of the second applicant.13.  on 24 march 2011 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the first instance court.
7.  on 20 may 2011 the applicant’s claim was rejected as unfounded by the kragujevac court of first instance.8.  on 26 december 2011 the kragujevac appellate court (“the appellate court”) quashed the decision of 20 may 2011 and remitted the case to the first instance court.9.  in the resumed proceedings the applicant sought recusal of the acting judge twice, but both of his motions were rejected.10.  on 4 october 2012, after three held hearings and two hearings which were not held, expert examination and the increase of the applicants claim, the case was transferred to the kragujevac high court (“the high court”).11.  on 20 march 2013, following the applicant’s two other recusal requests, one of which was adopted, the high court rejected the applicant’s damages claim as unfounded.12.  on 21 august 2014 the appellate court rejected the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of 20 march 2013. thereafter, the applicant filed an appeal on points of law, which was rejected by the supreme court of cassation only on 21 december 2016.13.  in the meantime, on 7 february 2013, the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court complaining about the length of the pending civil proceedings, seeking non-pecuniary damages in the amount of 3,000 euros and publication of the decision of the constitutional court.the constitutional court transferred the case-file to the appellate court, as a competent court to deal with the length complaints of the pending cases, pursuant to article 8a of the law on the organization of the courts.however, on 23 september 2014 the appellate court established that it no longer had jurisdiction to deal with the applicant’s complaint since it found that the civil proceedings had been finished.the applicant’s case-file was thus returned to the constitutional court.14.  on 6 november 2014 the constitutional court returned the case-file to the appellate court, which on 28 november 2014 again found that it had no jurisdiction to deal with the case.the appellate court then transferred the case-file further to the supreme court of cassation, as the competent court.15.  on 22 january 2015 the supreme court of cassation rejected the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of 28 november 2014. it also partially adopted the applicant’s complaint concerning the length of the proceedings and awarded him 200 euros for non-pecuniary damage, whereas the rest of claim rejected.16.  on 21 october 2015 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s appeal in regards to the length of the proceedings.the constitutional court established that even though the impugned proceedings had lasted seven years and eight months, they were very complex and the applicant largely contributed to its length, whereas the competent courts acted efficiently.
6.  on 24 january 2003 the bečej municipal court (“the municipal court”) started judicial investigation proceedings against the applicant for the alleged commission of a number of criminal offences concerning the performance of his duties.7.  on 26 may 2003 the competent directorate of the ministry of interior dismissed the applicant from the police force (effective as of 30 may 2003).the decision noted that the criminal proceedings had been instituted against the applicant and that article 45, in conjunction with article 34 (1)(2), of the ministry of interior act 1991, which was in force at the time of the dismissal, should be applied.according to this provision a police officer could be dismissed, at the discretion of the ministry of interior, if he no longer met the requirements for being a police officer, which included the requirement that criminal proceedings of a particular type should not be pending against him.9.  on 31 october 2003 the municipal court partly discontinued the criminal proceedings against the applicant based on the applicable procedural prescription period.10.  on 12 november 2003 the remainder of the criminal proceedings were discontinued because the public prosecutor had withdrawn the charges.11.  on 30 december 2003 the municipal court annulled the decision on the applicant’s dismissal of 26 may 2003 by partial judgment, establishing that everyone charged with a criminal offence should be presumed innocent until proven guilty by a court of law, and that a broad interpretation of article 45 of the ministry of interior act 1991 in regards to the persons who were not found guilty could be only to their detriment.13.  in the meantime, the applicant was reinstated to his previous post by decision of the ministry of interior of 13 january 2005. the decisions of 26 may and 30 june 2003 were also repealed.14.  on 9 march 2005, however, the supreme court upheld the appeal on points of law, reversed the judgments of 30 december 2003 and 17 june 2004 and rejected the applicant’s claim for reinstatement.it found that the dismissal of 26 may 2006 had been in accordance with the article 45, read in conjunction with article 34 (1)(2) of the ministry of interior act 1991, and that the mere fact that the criminal proceedings had been pending against the applicant was sufficient reason for the applicant’s dismissal.however, the municipal court, the district court and the supreme court, by their judgments of 27 october 2005, 10 may 2007 and 18 december 2007, respectively, all ruled against him and upheld his dismissal on the basis of article 45, read in conjunction with article 34 (1)(2), of the ministry of interior act 1991.17.  on 14 march 2008 the applicant lodged an appeal with the constitutional court concerning the outcome, fairness and the length of the civil proceedings concerning his dismissal, the right to be presumed innocent until proven guilty and the “right to work”.in regards to the court judgments of 31 october 2003, 17 june 2004 and 9 march 2005 the constitutional court established that the his complaints were inadmissible ratione temporis given that the serbian constitution had come into force on 8 november 2006, i.e. after the first set of the proceedings concerning the applicant’s dismissal.on the other hand, with respect to the judgments of 27 october 2005, 10 may and 18 december 2007, the constitutional court found that they were not arbitrary, and upheld the legality of the applicant’s second dismissal on the basis of article 45, read in conjunction with article 34 (1)(2), of the ministry of interior act 1991. in the constitutional court’s view, the fact that the applicant was ultimately dismissed on 4 july 2005, instead of on 26 may 2003, was only in the applicant’s favour, and that fact alone could not affect the legality of his “dismissal as such”.19.  before this on 19 january 2011, the constitutional court rendered a decision in the case of stefanović v. serbia (už 753/2008), concerning the same legal issue in which it ruled in favour of the appelant in that case (see milojević and others v. serbia, nos.
7.  on 8 october 2010 the applicant was charged with contempt of court and criminal libel of the judge who presided over the appeal proceedings in the first criminal case (“the second criminal case”).8.  on 29 august 2007 the investigator made the applicant sign an undertaking to stay in novosibirsk for the duration of the proceedings in the first criminal case.on 13 november 2008 his request was refused; the judge held that the application of the travel restriction was justified on account of the applicant’s previous failures to appear.her decision was upheld on appeal by the district court on 27 january 2009 and by the regional court on 16 march 2009. the regional court justified its decision in the following manner: “mr manannikov stated at the hearing that, should the travel restriction be lifted, he would move freely in the russian territory and also go abroad.11.  on 26 may 2011 an identical travel restriction was imposed on the applicant in the second criminal case, on the ground that he had allegedly missed an interview with the investigator earlier that month.13.  on 12 october 2010 the applicant’s flat was searched in the framework of the second criminal case, allegedly to uncover evidence showing that he had written the blog post.the investigator issued the decision to remove m. as the applicant’s counsel, relying on the legal provision that prevented witnesses from representing defendants in the same criminal case.at the preliminary hearing on 1 july 2011, the novosibirsk regional court accepted that the rights of the defence had been undermined by reason of the investigator’s failure to address the applicant’s objections to the participation of the legal-aid lawyer.the regional court returned the case to the prosecutor with the instruction to remedy the violation.as counsel m. had refused to testify, no conflict between the interests of the defendant and those of his representative could have arisen, and the investigator had not had any legal grounds to exclude her from the proceedings.24.  on 23 december 2010 the applicant showed up at the district court to hear the decision on his complaint about the retention of electronic devices (see paragraph 15 above).they told the applicant that he would be taken to another judge of the same court who would decide on the investigator’s application for his placement for an in-patient psychiatric assessment in the framework of the second criminal case.moreover, the applicant objected to the prosecutor’s request, in particular, on the ground that he was the sole guardian of his ailing mother who would be left to her own devices in his absence.accordingly, the court considered necessary to commit the applicant for an in-patient assessment lasting no longer than thirty days with a view to determining what his mental state had been at the time the imputed offence of libel had been committed.the court further ordered that the custody of the applicant’s mother be transferred to the guardianship authority in the oktyabrskiy district in novosibirsk.
4.  the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in štitare.5.  on 30 may 2000 the belgrade third municipal court ordered a socially-owned company kmg trudbenik (hereinafter “the debtor company”), based in belgrade, to pay to the applicant a specified amount on account of salary arrears, plus the costs of the civil proceedings (judgment no.this judgment became enforceable on 19 june 2000.6.  on 13 march 2002, upon the applicant’s request to that effect, the fourth belgrade municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor company to pay the applicant’s enforcement costs (enforcement order no.i-viii 101/2002).7.  on 7 october 2003 the enforcement proceedings were suspended due to the institution of compulsory settlement proceedings before the belgrade commercial court (“the commercial court”).8.  on 9 december 2011 the commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor company.9.  on 6 march 2012 the applicant submitted his request for enforcement of the 30 may 2000 judgment (“enforcement request”) to the insolvency manager.the insolvency manager neither rejected the applicant’s claim nor forwarded it to the commercial court.10.  on 24 february 2014 the applicant thus submitted his enforcement request with the commercial court, and on 1 october 2014 he supplemented it.11.  on 6 august and 27 october 2014 the applicant complained about the inactivity of the acting judge in the insolvency proceedings.12.  on 13 october 2014 the commercial court rejected the applicant’s enforcement request as having been lodged out of time.13.  on 28 january 2015 the commercial appellate court rejected the applicant’s appeal, and upheld the commercial court’s decision of 13 october 2014.14.  on 24 march 2015 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal, complaining of the decision of 28 january 2015.15.  however, on 19 may 2016 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s appeal as unfounded.
6.  on 20 december 2014 the bratislava iv district court ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention in the context of criminal proceedings in which he was prosecuted for committing the criminal offence of manslaughter.the reason for his detention was the risk of reoffending.7.  on 3 march 2015 the applicant submitted a request to the district prosecution office for release from pre-trial detention.the request was received by the latter on 4 march 2015 and dismissed on 5 march 2015, following which it was transferred to the district court for a judicial determination.8.  on 26 march 2015 the district court held a hearing and dismissed the applicant’s request for release.the written version of that decision was served on the applicant on 14 april 2015 and, after several unsuccessful attempts at delivery, was served on the applicant’s lawyer on 21 april 2015.9.  the applicant’s lawyer lodged a written interlocutory appeal with the district court within the statutory three-day period, namely on 24 april 2015. the case file was transferred to the bratislava regional court on 29 april 2015 and the applicant’s appeal was dismissed in chambers on 7 may 2015. the written version of that decision was served on the applicant’s lawyer on 18 may 2015.10.  on 1 june 2015 the applicant filed a constitutional complaint, relying inter alia on article 5 § 4 of the convention.he formally challenged the proceedings held before the district curt, the decision of the regional court of 7 may 2015 and the proceedings preceding this decision.11.  on 30 march 2016 the constitutional court declared the part of his complaint in respect of the proceedings held before the district court admissible and the remainder inadmissible.the constitutional court held that it had found no irregularities in the regional court’s decision of 7 may 2015.12.  on 21 june 2016 the constitutional court found a violation of the applicant’s right guaranteed under article 5 § 4 of the convention.the constitutional court scrutinised only the district court’s proceedings and concluded that they had lasted 44 days.the district court had therefore failed to deal with the applicant’s request speedily and to serve the written decision on him promptly.with respect to the financial compensation, the constitutional court referred to “the principle of fairness”, “the particular circumstances of the case”, the duration of the delays and the intensity of the interference, and concluded that the finding of a violation of the applicant’s right constituted a sufficient redress.
6.  on 29 december 2007 n., the owner of two rooms in flat 10 located at 3‑3, ulitsa anny severyanovoy, moscow, signed a deed of gift in respect of the rooms for ya.the moscow city department of the federal registration service (the “registration service”) registered the deed and ya.’s title to the rooms.7.  on an unspecified date the investigative committee opened criminal investigation into m.’s actions who was suspected of having tricked n. into signing the deed of gift for ya.’s benefit.according to the sale contract, the applicant paid 300,000 russian roubles (rub) for the rooms.9.  on 11 july 2008 the preobrazhenskiy district court of moscow issued a seizure order in respect of the rooms within the framework of the criminal investigation on the charges of fraud against m. 10.  on 16 july 2008 the registration service registered the sale agreement between ya.and the applicant and the applicant’s title to the rooms.11.  on 28 september 2009 the district court found m. guilty of multiple offences, including a fraud in respect of the room later purchased by the applicant, and sentenced him to fourteen years’ imprisonment.the court established that m. had tricked n. into signing the deed of gift in respect of the two rooms whilst m. had actually sold the rooms to ya.13.  on 7 february 2014 the department of housing of the city of moscow (the “housing department”) brought a civil action seeking restitution of the title to the two rooms to the city of moscow and the applicant’s eviction.14.  on 29 december 2014 the presnenskiy district court of moscow granted the housing department’s claims.accordingly the rooms should be considered a bona vacantia and should be transferred to the city of moscow, even though the applicant had bought the rooms in good faith.the court transferred the title to the rooms to the city of moscow and ordered the applicant’s eviction.15.  on 18 june 2015 the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 29 december 2014 on appeal.16.  on 26 october 2015 the city court refused to grant the applicant leave to a cassation appeal against the judgments of 29 december 2014 and 18 june 2015.18.  the parties did not provide any information as regards the enforcement of the judgments in the city’s favour.
6.  on 10 august 2011 the competition protection office (“the office”) initiated proceedings against the applicant company under section 23 of the prevention of the restriction of competition act (hereinafter “the competition act”, see paragraph 25 below), following a complaint from two television stations that the applicant company had abused its dominant position.8.  on 21 september 2011 the office issued an inspection report which indicated that on 11 august 2011 officers of the office had arrived at the applicant company’s premises at 9.05 a.m. mr v., the applicant company’s director, had not been present and none of the applicant company’s employees had allowed the inspection to be carried out.according to the report, mr s., the direct marketing executive, explained to the officers that he was not authorised to accept and sign the inspection order or the order to initiate proceedings against the applicant company.it is stated in the report that in a loud voice he then asked the officers to leave, pointing with his hand in the direction of the exit and showing no intention to cooperate with the officers, despite being warned by them that refusal to cooperate would be regarded as an obstruction of the inspection, resulting in a fine.10.  by an order of 21 february 2012 the office fined the applicant company 105,000 euros (eur), 0.2 % of the company’s annual net turnover in the preceding year, for obstructing the inspection on 11 august 2011. the obstruction had been mr p.’s unwillingness to cooperate with officers and to immediately facilitate access to evidence and its preservation.waiting in the reception area for the applicant company to prepare for the inspection or for the authorised person of the company to arrive ran contrary to the purpose of an unannounced inspection, which was to secure evidence.in setting the fine, the office considered that the inspection had been delayed for one hour and thirty minutes, and for twenty-six minutes the applicant company’s conduct had been outside the officers’ control and could have resulted in the destruction of incriminating evidence.it also had regard to the subsequent exemplary cooperation of the applicant company and the fact that this had been the first time a fine had been imposed under the competition act.in particular, the four witnesses, who had been present at the premises on the day of the alleged obstruction, would prove that the applicant company had not obstructed the inspection or refused to cooperate with the officers.the court emphasised that although the applicant company had contested the facts as established by the office (see paragraph 10 above), it had not challenged the fact that the officers could not immediately after their arrival at the company’s premises secure the evidence.in particular, the majority of the management had been absent, while mr p. had refused to cooperate and had asked the officers to leave the premises until the arrival of his superiors.in this connection, the court held that making the officers wait in the reception area while the company prepared for the inspection ran contrary to the purpose of an inspection.the court also rejected the argument that mr p. could not obstruct the inspection, finding that he was a contractual worker working in the name of the applicant company in accordance with section 31(5) of the competition act (see paragraph 25 below).the agency also ordered the applicant company to end the above infringement of competition rules, notably section 9 of the competition act and article 102 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu).it held that the examination of the witnesses proposed by the applicant was unnecessary because the facts of the case had already been fully established by the agency, which had provided logical and convincing reasons for each of the central issues in dispute.
during the altercation, the applicant pushed the intoxicated person and punched the other one.the court considered that the detention was necessary because the applicant was accused of a serious offence and there appeared to be a risk of his interfering with the investigation, absconding and re-offending.he also submitted that he had cooperated with the investigators from the beginning of the investigation and that he could not leave the country because his travel documents had been seized.10.  on 11 july 2014 the ialoveni district court examined the prosecutor’s request for a prolongation of the applicant’s detention and a habeas corpus request lodged by the applicant.the applicant had no right to leave the town without approval by the court and to communicate with the persons involved in the criminal investigation.11.  on 22 july 2014 the chișinău court of appeal upheld the prosecutor’s appeal, quashed the above decision and ordered the applicant’s remand in custody for a period of thirty days.the reasons given by the court of appeal were that the applicant could abscond, interfere with the investigation and re-offend.14.  on 17 september 2014 the prosecutor’s office lodged an application for the prolongation of the applicant’s detention arguing, inter alia, that between 22 july 2014 and 25 august 2014 the applicant had absconded from the investigating authority.15.  on 23 september 2014 the ialoveni district court upheld the prosecutor’s request and prolonged the applicant’s detention for a period of thirty days.he submitted that, on 22 july 2014, when the chișinău court of appeal had quashed the ialoveni district court’s decision of 11 july 2014 and had ordered the prolongation of his detention, he had not been arrested but advised to go home.the court found that the risk of the applicant’s absconding was real because he had absconded from investigating authorities between 22 july and 25 august 2014.18.  on 17 october 2014 the public prosecutor’s office applied to the ialoveni district court for a prolongation of the applicant’s detention for another thirty days.19.   on 22 october 2014 the applicant requested access to the casefile with a view to obtaining a copy of the materials filed by the public prosecutor together with his application of 7 october 2014. he argued that the public prosecutor’s application was accompanied by a set of documents, while he had only received a copy of the application.20.  on 22 october 2014 the ialoveni district court upheld the public prosecutor’s application and ordered the prolongation of the applicant’s detention for thirty days on the ground that there was a risk of absconding and interfering with the investigation.22.  on 14 november 2014 the public prosecutor’s office applied again to the ialoveni district court for a prolongation of the applicant’s detention.
in reply to the applicant’s question, the nizhniy novgorod childcare authorities explained, in a letter of 12 may 2014, that a child was considered to be of “young age” until 18 years old and that “for the time being” meant until a change of circumstances, for example the child’s reaching the age of ten or fourteen.in such circumstances, and based exclusively on the interests of the child and on the situation in which he is now, taking into account the child’s age, the court considers it opportune [целесообразно] to grant the residence order in respect of [x] to his mother [m.] for the time being.it held: “having analysed the entirety of the evidence in the case file, including the child authorities’ opinions on the merits of the case, [the district court] made a reasoned finding that granting a residence order in respect of [x] to the father was not in the interests of the child who, after the parents’ separation, had been brought up by his mother.furthermore, the refusal to examine the first applicant’s counterclaim had not breached his rights as the domestic courts had to give a residence order to the parent who could better meet the needs of the child, irrespective of which of the parents had been the first to apply for a residence order in his or her favour and of whether the other parent had lodged a counterclaim or not.26.  on 13 march 2015 the nizhniy novgorod childcare authorities informed the first applicant that they had had a meeting with m. during which she had been told that she had to keep the child’s father informed about the child’s whereabouts and that the child was entitled to maintain contact with his grandparents and other relatives.28.  on 6 october 2015 a judge of the nizhniy novgorod regional court refused to refer the first applicant’s cassation appeal against the residence order to the presidium of that court for examination, finding no significant violations of substantive or procedural law which had influenced the outcome of the proceedings.29.  on 27 october 2015 a judge of the supreme court of the russian federation refused to refer the case to the civil chamber of the supreme court for consideration, finding no significant violations of substantive or procedural law which had influenced the outcome of the proceedings.it amended the contact schedule, holding that in addition to the contact time determined by the district court, the applicants should also have contact (i) from 3 to 7 p.m. on x’s birthday each year at x’s place of residence; (ii) on the first wednesday and third friday of each month from 3 to 7 p.m. at x’s place of residence; and (iii) for half an hour every day by means of internet communications.44.  on 13 march 2017 a judge of the nizhniy novgorod regional court refused to refer the first applicant’s cassation appeal against the contact order of 27 april 2016, as upheld on appeal on 25 october 2016, to the presidium of that court for examination, finding no significant violations of substantive or procedural law which had influenced the outcome of the proceedings.46.  on 18 april 2017 a judge of the supreme court of the russian federation refused to refer the first applicant’s cassation appeal against the contact order of 27 april 2016, as upheld on appeal on 25 october 2016, to the civil chamber of the supreme court, finding no significant violations of substantive or procedural law which had influenced the outcome of the proceedings.49.  on 27 april 2015 the first applicant, acting on his own behalf and on behalf of the second applicant, lodged a claim with the nizhniy novgorod regional court seeking compensation for the non‑pecuniary damage sustained as a result of the excessively long examination of the child residence dispute, and costs and expenses.there had been important delays in the proceedings attributable to the district court, in particular excessively long intervals between hearings, adjournments caused by repeated failures to inform the parties of the dates of scheduled hearings and substantial delays in serving the reasoned judgment of 4 april 2014 and the hearing record on the parties and in forwarding the parties’ statements of appeal to the regional court.when deciding on the amount of compensation, the regional court noted that the case had concerned a child residence dispute and that the delay in its examination had created legal uncertainty as to the child’s residence and had hindered the exercise by the first applicant of his contact rights.54.  on 19 august 2015 a judge of the nizhniy novgorod regional court refused to refer the first applicant’s cassation appeal against the decision of 8 may 2015, as upheld on appeal on 8 july 2015, to the presidium of that court for examination, finding no significant violations of substantive or procedural law which had influenced the outcome of the proceedings.56.  on 27 november 2015 a judge of the supreme court of the russian federation refused to refer the first applicant’s cassation appeal against the decision of 8 may 2015, as upheld on appeal on 8 july 2015, to the administrative chamber of the supreme court, finding no significant violations of substantive or procedural law which had influenced the outcome of the proceedings.
5.  the applicant was born on 7 february 1977. in july 1997, when the applicant was 20 years old, he requested a residence permit for denmark, via the danish embassy in amman, on the grounds of his marriage in 1997 to a stateless palestinian woman, x, from lebanon, who lived in denmark and had obtained danish nationality.10.  by a judgment of 11 march 2009 the district court in aarhus (retten i aarhus) found him guilty, jointly with others, of trafficking approximately 1 kg of cocaine from holland to denmark in the period from around 28 february 2008 to 4 march 2008, for the purpose of distribution, contrary to article 191 of the criminal code.14.  having regard thereto and to the seriousness of the crime, the district court did not find that the circumstances mentioned in section 26, subsection 1, of the aliens act made expulsion inappropriate, or that this would be in breach of article 8 of the convention.by judgment of 25 november 2009 the high court upheld the conviction and sentence, although the latter was to include 22 days remaining from his conviction in 2006. it also found that expulsion would not be contrary to the principle of proportionality and upheld that order.accordingly, we find that it cannot lead to a revocation of the expulsion order that [the applicant] and his spouse living in denmark, whom he married in a muslim ceremony, have three minor children from their marriage, that he has received visits from his spouse and children about once a week since his arrest and that his spouse cannot enter jordan because of her debt to the former authorities.we have emphasised in this respect that the above information was known already at the time of the judgment delivered by the high court on 25 november 2009 and that he could not subsequently have had a justified expectation that he would be able to exercise his right to a family life in denmark.in our opinion, it cannot lead to a revocation of the expulsion order either that [the applicant’s] former spouse and the three minor children from their marriage live in denmark and that his eldest child is in respite care due to a disease.in this respect we have emphasised that the information about the children, including the disease of the eldest child, was known at the time of the judgment delivered by the high court on 25 november 2009. the immigration service also finds that the unsubstantiated information provided by [the applicant’s] counsel, that several of [the applicant’s] children suffer from mental problems as a result of the separation from [the applicant] cannot lead to a revocation of the expulsion order either...” 21.  in connection with the case, the applicant’s ex-wife, x, gave statements to the police on 7 and 12 september 2012. her statements, reproduced in two police reports, were read out in the district court and stated, inter alia: “x stated that she and the applicant had been married from 1997 to 2001. x was now a danish national, but was originally a stateless palestinian from lebanon.from thursday to sunday of the same week, he would live in the institution and go to the special school from there....” 22.  before the district court, x confirmed the statements that she had given to the police.in the case of [the applicant’s] deportation, she and the children would remain in denmark as the children and she had no chance of managing elsewhere.as material changes in his circumstances, [the applicant] has referred to the circumstances that the health of his children has deteriorated, that his wife’s possibility of accompanying him to jordan following his deportation has been reduced, and that during the period since the high court judgment of 25 november 2009 the risk has increased that he will also be punished in jordan for the drug offence for which he has served a sentence in denmark.with reference to that, and based on the information on the risk of double punishment, the court finds that there have been no such material changes in the applicant’s] personal circumstances as to satisfy the conditions for revoking the expulsion order.as article 8 of the european convention on human rights has accordingly not been violated either, the court cannot allow his claim that the expulsion order be revoked.” 26.  the applicant filed an appeal against the decision with the high court, before which the applicant and x were heard, and the ministry of foreign affairs was consulted anew.it concluded as follows: “for the reasons given by the district court, it is found on the basis of the evidence produced before the high court, that there have been no such material changes in the applicant’s circumstances as set out in section 50, subsection 1, cf.the information presented to the high court on the risk of double punishment upon return to jordan and on the intention of the applicant and his ex-wife to remarry cannot lead to a different outcome”.
7.  by law (the civil code read in conjunction with the re‑letting of urban property (regulation) ordinance – see relevant domestic law below), the applicants are obliged to renew, on an annual basis, the lease entered into by their ascendants, and may not demand an increase in rent.the applicants claim that the operation of the restaurant and bar is a profitable economic activity that generates an income to the caterer of around eur 150,000 or more annually.the amendments however also gave the relevant minister the power to regulate conditions relating to clubs, thus allowing for the possibility of future amendments (see paragraph 19 below).the proceedings were brought against the attorney general (hereinafter referred to as “the ag”), the prime minister (hereinafter referred to as “the pm”) and the king’s own band club (the lessee).the applicants further submitted that, in 2009, the law had been amended, allowing for an increase in rent and the establishment of a cut‑off date for existing “protected rents”, but the amendments in the law did not cover properties rented out as clubs.the applicants had submitted that the property had a rental value of eur 269,100 a year, while the ag and the pm had submitted that the property had a rental value of eur 93,000 a year.keeping in mind the estimated rental values presented before the court, and the income that the kobc was generating from its bar, the court awarded eur 300,000 in damages to the applicants (to be paid half by the ag and the pm jointly, and half by the kobc).the costs of the proceedings were to be paid, half by the ag and pm, and the other half by the kobc.14.  on 6 february 2015 the constitutional court overturned in part the judgment of the first‑instance court, and concluded that there had been no violation of the applicants’ rights.15.  the constitutional court found that contrary to that pleaded by the government, the applicants did have title of ownership over the property at issue.however, in line with domestic case-law the constitutional court concluded that, because the agreement had been entered into voluntarily with full knowledge of the consequences it would lead to (that is, that the rent due could not be raised and the rent agreement could not be terminated), then the applicants could not allege a violation of their rights.the constitutional court further held that the amendments to the law of 2009, mentioned by the applicants, did not affect their position which remained the same as that when the rent agreement had been entered into [in 1946], and therefore there was no reason for the principle of pacta sunt servanda (“agreements must be complied with”) not to be given full effect.19.  pending the constitutional redress proceedings (on appeal), on 1 january 2014, the conditions regulating the leases of clubs regulations (hereinafter ‘the regulations’), subsidiary legislation chapter 16.13 of the laws of malta came into force (see relevant domestic law).20.  the regulations provided that the rent payable to the owners by the band clubs holding the property under title of lease was to be increased by 10% (from the previous year) every year until 2016 and as from 1 january 2016 the rent was to be increased by 5% (from the previous year) every year until 2023, following which it would increase every year according to the index of inflation.as from 2015 the tenant also had to pay an additional rent calculated at the rate of 5% on the annual income derived by the club.
the government did not dispute the principal facts of the cases, as presented by the applicants, but questioned the involvement of servicemen in the events.35.  in november 2007 the investigators obtained statements from the police officers on duty at the time of the arrest, mr kh.v, and mr a.d. they stated that on 21 may 2004 officers from the north-caucasus regional operative military headquarters and/or the federal security service (“the fsb”) had arrived at their traffic police station and arrested three persons on suspicion of their being members of an illegal armed group.45.  having questioned mr rustam makayev’s father and wife, who confirmed the account of the events, as described above, the investigators suspended the proceedings on 22 february 2002 for failure to identify the perpetrators.in the meantime, in september and november 2003 the investigators examined the crime scene and questioned the applicants’ neighbour, ms r.a, who had witnessed the events of 1 december 2001. her statements were similar to those of the applicants before the court.according to the applicant, the investigators had lost their initial complaint of the abduction, which led to a delay in the opening of the criminal case.76.  having checked the identity documents, the men ordered mr ruslan edilsultanov to get into one of the uaz vehicles and then drove off with him in the direction of the village of stariye atagi.84.  from the material in the case file it appears that between 2003 and 2005 the investigative authorities took some steps, the nature of which is unknown, as the copies of the relevant documents submitted by the government are illegible.having received and examined the documents, the servicemen left the applicant’s youngest son in the courtyard and took the other two, mr salakh yakhyaev and mr anzor yakhyaev, away with them.109.  in the meantime, the investigators resumed the investigation on 4 september 2010. taking that into account the shali district court dismissed the applicant’s complaint on 7 september 2010.120.  after the first applicant lodged a complaint with the government of the chechen republic the investigation was resumed on 20 january 2006. on the same day the authorities carried out an examination of the crime scene.the request was granted on 4 march 2009. no pertinent information on the abduction was found during an examination of the classified files on 7 april 2009. on the next day the proceedings were suspended again.157.  on 13 october 2004 the investigation in respect of the case was suspended for failure to identify the perpetrators and then resumed on 24 may 2005. the applicants were informed of that resumption on 14 june 2005.160.  on 27 august 2011 the first applicant requested the investigators to inform her about the progress in the proceedings and to grant her access to the case file.172.  on 6 april 2005 the investigator in charge of the case issued an information note describing the course of the proceedings and the main versions of the events, according to which mr zayndi dudarkayev had been variously abducted by servicemen, members of an illegal armed group, or private persons aiming to extract information/obtain a ransom or to pursue a blood feud.on 28 march 2011 the court allowed the complaint and ordered the investigators to grant her access to the contents of the investigation file.
6.  in january 2012 the applicant had an agreement with a person (“x”) according to which he promised to help him apply for a spanish visa at the spanish consulate in moscow.they were to travel to moscow by train, however, x did not show up at the train station at the time of leaving and the applicant left for moscow alone with the money he had previously obtained from x in the amount of 520 euros.7.  in the meantime x lodged a criminal complaint against the applicant accusing him of fraud.criminal proceedings were initiated against the applicant in march 2012 on the basis of that complaint.8.  since the prosecutor in charge of the case could not locate the applicant, he applied to an investigating judge for a detention warrant in respect of the applicant for a period of thirty days.the prosecutor argued in support of the remand that the applicant had been hiding from the investigating authorities.9.  on 8 february 2013 the râșcani district court ordered the applicant’s remand in custody for a period of thirty days.in support of its decision, the court argued that the applicant had been absconding from the investigating authorities and that he could hinder the investigation and influence witnesses.at the border he was informed that he was being wanted by the police and that he had to present himself at the râșcani police station.11.  on 13 october 2015 the applicant went to the râșcani police station where he was immediately arrested and placed in detention.12.  on 15 october 2015 the applicant appealed against the order of 8 february 2013. he argued, inter alia, that he had not been aware of the criminal investigation against himself and that he had learned about it upon his return to moldova.it did not give an answer to the applicant’s argument that he had not been aware of the criminal investigation against him.15.  in the meantime the applicant was detained in prison no.13. according to him, he was detained in an overcrowded cell; the cell was equipped with a squat toilet which was not properly separated; the food was insufficient and of poor quality; he could have only one hour of outside exercise per day and only one shower per week.16.  by a final judgment of the supreme court of justice of 12 july 2017 the applicant was convicted of fraud and given a suspended sentence of four years imprisonment.
the government did not dispute the principal facts of the cases as presented by the applicants, but questioned the allegation that servicemen had been involved in the events.having checked the identity documents, the servicemen forced mr magomed-emin mezhidov into one of the apcs and drove off in the direction of the filtration camp.on the same day the investigation in the case was joined to the investigation into the abduction, and suspended for failure to identify the perpetrators.20.  the applicants are close relatives of mr akhyad shakhidov, who was born in 1964, and of his brother, mr khamzat shakhidov, born in 1968. the first applicant is the wife of mr akhyad sakharov; the second, third and fourth applicants are his children.35.  five years later, on 28 february 2014, the investigation was resumed, particularly, due to the need to examine the applicants’ consistent allegation of the involvement of state servicemen in the abduction, which had not been duly examined since the beginning of the criminal proceedings.39.  the second applicant followed the abductors’ vehicles up to a military checkpoint at the entrance to the military compound of special investigative group-1 (“the military compound”) (первая специальная следственная группа), located about five hundred metres from their house in the direction of avtury.70.  on 26 march 2008 the materi chechni (mothers of chechnya), an ngo with offices in moscow and the republic of ingushetia, complained on behalf of the first applicant to the prosecutor general’s office that the investigation into her son’s death had been ineffective.76.  on 16 october 2004 an officer of the valerik traffic police informed the head of the achkhoy-martan district police that on the night of the abduction a convoy of military vehicles, consisting of two apcs and two ural lorries without registration numbers, had left valerik, passed through a checkpoint, and driven off in the direction of urus-martan.82.  on 2 july 2010 the first applicant asked the authorities to inform her about the progress in the investigation and to resume the proceedings in the criminal case.96.  on 5 july 2011 the applicants lodged a complaint against the investigators with the urus-martan town court, seeking the resumption of the investigation.100.  the first and second applicants are respectively the sister and the wife of mr musa zaurbekov, who was born in 1964. the third, fourth, fifth and sixth applicants are his children, and the seventh applicant is his mother.121.  on the same date, 26 july 2002, the investigators collected two machine-gun shells found in the house of ms z.u., who had been shot in the leg by the abductors.123.  on the same date, 27 july 2002, the investigators questioned the second applicant, who stated, in particular, that a few days after the abduction she had seen the abductors’ uaz vehicle entering the premises of the shatoy district police station.127.  on 16 february 2008 the first applicant requested that the investigators inform her about the progress in the proceedings, and sought information from the federal service for the execution of sentences on the possible detention of mr aslambek abdurzakov in russian detention facilities.147. on 6 april 2016 the investigators resumed the proceedings in order to question the applicant and take a sample of her saliva for inclusion in a database for identification of corpses found in the chechen republic.
subsequently, the diyarbakır public prosecutor took statements from him in the absence of a lawyer, concerning his involvement in the activities of hizbullah.9.  on 20 september 1994 the applicant participated in an on-site inspection (keşif) and a reconstruction of events (yer gösterme), in the course of which he confessed, in the absence of a lawyer, to committing some offences.10.  on 25 september 1994 the applicant participated in another on-site inspection and reconstruction of events, in the course of which he confessed, again in the absence a lawyer, to other offences.12.  on the same day, the applicant was questioned by the investigating judge in the absence of a lawyer.13.  owing to a lack of prison places, the applicant was not put in prison but was kept at the anti-terrorism branch of the diyarbakır security directorate for three more days, during which time he was allegedly subjected to torture again.14.  on 24 october 1994 the diyarbakır public prosecutor issued an indictment charging the applicant and twenty-one others under article 125 of the former turkish criminal code with seeking to destroy the unity of the turkish state and to remove part of the country from the state’s control by killing and injuring numerous individuals.16.  at the second hearing held on 23 january 1995 the applicant gave evidence in the presence of his lawyer and retracted the statements he had made to the police and the public prosecutor, alleging that they had been obtained through torture.18.  at the hearing held on 26 january 1996 the state security court informed the applicant that he was entitled to lodge a complaint with the public prosecutor concerning his allegations of torture against the police officers.24.  while the criminal proceedings against the applicant were pending, on 18 june 1999 the constitution was amended and the military judge sitting on the bench of the diyarbakır state security court was replaced by a civilian judge.25.  in the first thirty-four hearings that were held until the hearing of 20 july 1999, the composition of the diyarbakır state security court changed seventeen times.each time the previous reports were read out as a result of the change in the composition of the trial court.26.  at the hearing of 20 july 1999, the diyarbakır state security court, composed of three civilian judges, read out the previous reports as a result of the change in the composition of the trial court.the trial court relied on, inter alia, the statements the applicant had given to the police and the public prosecutor, the reports of the reconstruction of events and the on-site inspection, as well as the statements of some of the co-accused and the witness f.e.it rejected the applicant’s contention that he had been tortured while in police custody on the grounds that according to the medical report dated 4 october 1994, no traces of ill-treatment had been found on him.it appears from the decision of the court of cassation that the applicant’s request for a correction of his age had been dismissed by the diyarbakır assize court.
26.  in the application form it is stated that the applicant’s counsel lodged a criminal complaint with the parma public prosecutor alleging, amongst other things, that the prison administration had failed to properly care for the applicant, and that the he had been left without medical assistance following the fall on 15 december 2012. however, there are no specific details about when that complaint was lodged, and no information was provided as to its outcome.as to the applicant’s continued hospitalisation – albeit in the context of detention – and the adequacy of the care he received, the experts considered that san paolo hospital guaranteed an excellent level of treatment and the presence of clinical specialists who could ensure timely interventions in the event of complications.48.  it is apparent from the material in the case file that, during the applicant’s detention in parma and milan, his lawyers lodged applications with different courts responsible for the execution of sentences, seeking the suspension of his prison sentence for medical reasons under articles 146 and 147 of the criminal code (see paragraphs 81 and 82 below for the relevant domestic law provisions) and the replacement of his detention with more lenient custodial measures.it first of all reiterated and expressed its agreement with the conclusions of the milan court in its decision of 3 october 2014. it referred to the reports prepared by the medical staff at san paolo hospital and the independent medical experts appointed by the milan court in concluding that, notwithstanding the seriousness of the applicant’s medical conditions, he was not being detained in a correctional facility, but rather in a civilian hospital, and was responding to the treatment administered in that setting.54.  by a decision of 9 june 2015 the court of cassation dismissed the applicant’s appeal lodged against the milan court’s decision of 3 october 2014. it considered that the reasoning of the milan court hinged on the need to safeguard the detainee’s right to health to the fullest extent possible, and could not be deemed to be at odds with the provisions of the criminal code regulating stays of execution of prison sentences for health reasons.57.  the 2006 decree imposed the following restrictions: –  restrictions on visits by family members (a maximum of a single one‑hour visit per month); –  no visits with non-family members; –  a prohibition on using the telephone; –  no sums of money above a fixed amount to be received or sent out; –  no more than two parcels to be received per month, not exceeding a certain weight, but permission to receive two special parcels per year containing clothing and bed linen; –  no right to participate in elections for prisoners’ representatives or to be elected as a representative; –  no handicrafts; –  no food requiring cooking to be purchased; –  no more than two hours’ outdoor exercise per day, of which one could be spent in the library facilities, gym, and so on, and in groups of no more than four persons.60.  on 8 march 2013, in an application addressed to three different courts for the execution of sentences (bologna, rome and parma) as well as to the minister of justice, the applicant’s counsel sought revocation of the special prison regime provided for by section 41 bis of the prison administration act, a key argument being that, in the light of the deterioration in the applicant’s cognitive functioning, the reasons as to why the regime had been applied originally were no longer relevant.68.  the order further gave an overview of information provided by different police bodies, prosecution offices, the anti-mafia investigations directorate, and the minister of the interior, which had been requested with a view to ascertaining the persistence of the conditions justifying the extension of the regime (istruttorie relative alla preesistente attualità ed alla permanente gravità delle esigenze di prevenzione ai fini della proroga).70.  the order focused in particular on the findings of the dna, which outlined the applicant’s criminal profile as well as cosa nostra’s (the sicilian mafia) ongoing criminal activities, and called attention to the fact that one of the most prominent members of the applicant’s criminal organisation was still on the loose.75.  as with the 2014 order, the minister of justice reiterated the regime’s rationale and purpose and provided an overview of information provided by different police bodies, prosecution offices, and the minister of the interior – information which had been requested with a view to ascertaining the persistence of the conditions justifying the extension of the regime.76.  the order acknowledged that the caltanissetta and florence ddas had confirmed their previous negative opinion as to the renewal of the regime with regard to the applicant, and that the caltanissetta dda had relied on the deterioration in the applicant’s health to reach its conclusions, while the florence dda’s opinion had hinged on the finding that there were no longer any ongoing criminal investigations involving the applicant.77.  as reported in the order, the palermo dda had concluded that the application of the section 41 bis regime was still absolutely necessary to prevent and interrupt the applicant’s lasting and dangerous relations with the outside world and with other detainees which would allow him to pursue the illegal activities that he had headed for decades.with regard to the applicant’s health, the palermo dda stated that, on the basis of the clinical information in its possession, it agreed with the rome court’s decision (see paragraph 73 above), and it quoted an extract from the decision in which the court had stated that it could not rule out with absolute certainty the applicant’s being able to convey criminally relevant messages pertaining to the organisation’s criminal activities.it relied primarily on the applicant’s “criminal profile”, his multiple convictions for heinous crimes, and the ongoing activities of cosa nostra and its continuous reorganisation, in addition to the fact that a prominent member of the criminal organisation who had had a documented relationship with the applicant in the past was still on the run.with regard to the applicant’s health, the dna reiterated the content of its 2014 opinion on the extension of the special prison regime and quoted extracts from it to the effect that the imposition of such a regime in no way interfered with the applicant’s medical care, and modifying the regime would not have an impact on his health.
one of the participants was an undercover journalist working for a weekly journal, n. 9.  at the journal’s request, a preliminary investigation was instituted against the applicant, and on 11 february 2010 she was questioned by the police concerning certain statements she had made during the seminars which had been directed against the doctrines of islam.11.  at the hearing on 18 january 2011 the vienna regional criminal court (landesgericht für strafsachen wien  “the regional court”) informed the applicant that the court might adopt a different legal classification in the matter from the one contained in the charge.12.  at the end of the hearing on 15 february 2011 the regional court acquitted the applicant in relation to several of the statements originally included in the indictment under article 283 of the criminal code.even though criticising child marriages was justifiable, she had accused a subject of religious worship of having a primary sexual interest in children’s bodies, which she had deduced from his marriage with a child, disregarding the point that the marriage had continued until the prophet’s death, when aisha had already turned eighteen and had therefore passed the age of puberty.in addition, the court found that because of the public nature of the seminars, which had not been limited to members of the freedom party, it was conceivable that at least some of the participants might have been disturbed by the statements.however, the manner in which religious views were attacked could engage the state’s responsibility in order to guarantee the peaceful exercise of the rights under article 9. presenting objects of religious worship in a provocative way capable of hurting the feelings of the followers of that religion could be conceived as a malicious violation of the spirit of tolerance, which was one of the bases of a democratic society.the court concluded that the interference with the applicant’s freedom of expression in the form of a criminal conviction had been justified as it had been based in law and had been necessary in a democratic society, namely in order to protect religious peace in austria.18.  the court of appeal stated that the reason for the applicant’s conviction had not been that the events had purportedly taken place more than a thousand years ago and similar conduct would no longer be tolerable under today’s criminal law and contemporary moral and value concepts, but because the applicant had accused muhammad of paedophilia by using the plural form “children”, “child sex”, “what do we call it, if it is not paedophilia?” without providing evidence that his primary sexual interest in aisha had been her not yet having reached puberty.as to the applicant’s argument that those who had participated in the seminar knew of her critical approach and could not be offended, the court of appeal found that the public seminar had been offered for free to young voters by the austrian freedom party education institute, and at least one participant had been offended, as her complaints had led to the applicant being charged.19.  on 16 april 2012 the applicant lodged a request for a renewal of the proceedings (antrag auf erneuerung des strafverfahrens) with the supreme court (oberster gerichtshof), pursuant to article 363a of the code of criminal procedure (strafprozessordnung), and relying on article 6 § 1, article 7 § 1 and article 10 of the convention.as regards the alleged violation of article 10, it found that the applicant’s conviction under article 188 of the criminal code constituted an interference with the right to freedom of expression, which had however been justified under article 10 § 2 of the convention.in cases where the impugned statements not only offended or shocked, or expressed a “provocative” opinion, but had also been considered an abusive attack on a religious group – for example an abusive attack on the prophet of islam, as in the applicant’s case – a criminal conviction might be necessary to protect the freedom of religion of others.the courts therefore had to examine the meaning of the impugned statement, as well as the context in which it had been made and whether the statement was based on fact or was a value judgment.22.  applying the above considerations to the applicant’s case, the supreme court held that she had not aimed to contribute to a serious debate about islam or the phenomenon of child marriage, but merely to defame muhammad by accusing him of a specific sexual preference, based on the assumption that he had had sexual intercourse with a prepubescent child, in order to show that he was not a worthy subject of worship.moreover, the measure taken by the criminal court had also been proportionate, as the applicant had only been ordered to pay a fine of eur 480. the supreme court therefore dismissed the applicant’s request for a renewal of the proceedings.
4.  the facts, as submitted by the parties, are similar to those in association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos.5.  the applicants or their close relatives participated in demonstrations and were injured or killed by gunfire during the events of december 1989 in bucharest, slobozia, târgoviște and reșița, which led to the fall of the communist regime.6.  in 1990 the military prosecutor’s offices from several cities opened on their own motion criminal investigations into the use of violence against the demonstrators.the applicants’ injury and their close relatives’ deaths were investigated along with most of the cases in a main criminal investigation recorded in file no.7.  the most important procedural steps were mentioned in association “21 december 1989” and others (cited above, §§ 12-41) and in sidea and others v. romania ([committee] no.889/15, §§ 8-11, 5 june 2018).subsequent relevant developments of the criminal investigation are as follows.8.  on 1 november 2016 the military prosecutor ordered the initiation in rem of a criminal investigation for the offence of crimes against humanity in respect of the same circumstances of fact.up to february 2017 further steps were taken in gathering information from domestic authorities, the prosecutor’s office contacting 211 civil parties, questioning members of the political party which took over the presidency at the time of events, planning the taking of evidence from military officers and other participants in the events, verifying the activity of the relevant military units and the audio/video recordings broadcast by radio and television.9.  from march 2017 the military prosecutor examined military and civilian archives, including the vast archives of the romanian senate.they also viewed and transcribed more than 400 hours of audio/video recordings.they proceeded with the re-examination of several witnesses.they questioned military personnel involved in the december 1989 military operations and fifty-one members of the political party which ruled at the time and of other authorities.they verified the documents indicating the military units’ actions from that period.10.  at the date of the latest information communicated by the parties to the court (29 march 2018), the criminal investigation was still ongoing.
from march to december 2012 the prosecutor and the applicants, along with the other defence counsel in the proceedings, repeatedly submitted arguments in further preliminary hearings about various issues, such as the evidence submitted by the prosecution, the deadline for the defence to file pleadings and the defence’s request to dismiss the case.8.  on 19 december 2012, after consulting the prosecution, the applicants and the other defence counsel, the district court judge decided that the trial would take place from 11 to 23 april 2013. the same day, the second applicant replied to the judge’s email stating that, although it was reasonable to decide dates for the trial, he wanted to remind the judge that the case was not ready for trial at that time because the prosecution had not submitted the requested evidence and issued a witness list.during the second of these preliminary hearings, the applicants and the other defence counsel requested more time to study the evidence and the postponement of the trial, inter alia, because the submission of evidence had not been concluded.the applicants stated, inter alia, that they had not been informed about the deadline to submit their pleadings to the supreme court before its ruling of 4 april 2013, the prosecution had neglected to send them a copy of its pleadings, the defence had not had adequate access to important documents, the prosecution had tapped telephone conversations between them and their clients and the whole procedure had in general violated their applicants’ rights under the constitution, the cpa and the convention.furthermore, the applicants were each fined 1,000,000 icelandic krónur (isk; approximately 6,200 euros (eur) at the material time) under section 223(1) (a) and (d) of the cpa for offending the court and causing unnecessary delay in the case by not attending the trial on 11 april 2013 and thereby damaging their clients’ and the other defendants’ interests.before the supreme court, the applicants primarily requested that the district court judgment be annulled as to the imposition of their fines and, as a subsidiary request, that the fines be reduced, were the supreme court to reject their request for annulment.24.  according to the second applicant’s summary of the oral pleadings before the supreme court the applicants argued, inter alia, that a decision to impose court fines was an ex proprio motu decision of the court, without the parties’ involvement, and could therefore not be quashed and referred back to the first instance court.furthermore, the applicants argued that referring the case back to the district court for a new trial due to a violation of the cpa and article 6 of the convention could never be legitimate at this point as the time-limits for imposing fines on them had expired.their decision not to attend the trial in spite of the district court rejecting their request to relieve them of their duties as defence counsel was not in accordance with the law or in the interest of their clients or the other defendants.when it became clear that [the applicants] would not fulfil their duty of attending the trial and the court was considering imposing fines on them, they should have been summoned to a special hearing and given an opportunity to present their case and submit further arguments to that end, beyond what they had already clearly raised in their correspondence with the district court.instead [the applicants] were relieved of their duties at the hearing on 11 april 2013 and a decision to impose fines on them was taken in the judgment delivered on 12 december 2013. as stated in chapter v of the judgment the prosecutor lodged an appeal regarding this part of the case.for reference see the judgment of [the court] in the case of weber v. switzerland from 22 may 1990 and the judgment in the case of t v. austria from 14 november 2000. accordingly, with reference to the reasoning of the appealed judgment, the decision on the fines imposed on [the applicants] must be upheld.” 29.  the minority shared the majority’s opinion that the applicants’ conduct in not attending the trial in the criminal case against their clients had not been in accordance with the law and had been a violation of their duty as defence counsel.30.  however, the minority held as follows: “when it became clear that [the applicants] would not attend the hearing, a hearing should have been convened immediately, according to provisions of [chapter xxxv of the cpa], and [the applicants] given notice of the charges and the opportunity to object to the decision to impose the fines.however, the decision to impose fines on [the applicants] was made in the judgment of 12 december 2013, without notifying them, who were not defence counsel any more, of those intentions and without allowing them to defend themselves, both as regards the decision to impose the fines and the amount.in accordance with the aforementioned, the processing of the case before the district court was flawed, but no legal provision allows this part of the criminal case to be referred back to the district court to be heard again.
without specifying the periods of his detention in particular cells, he stated that he had been held in four cells, with the following characteristics: - cell 1, measuring about 70 square metres and accommodating 50 prisoners; - cell 2, measuring about 100-120 square metres and accommodating 85 prisoners; - cell 3, measuring about 120-130 square metres and accommodating 110 prisoners; - cell 4, measuring about 45 square metres and accommodating 35 prisoners.on many occasions during the daytime, while the prisoners were absent, searches were carried out in the applicant’s cell, as a result of which the cell was left in a mess and some personal belongings and documents from the applicant’s case file went missing.for example, his letter of 23 february 2009 to the court (which the court, in fact, received in due time) was not sent by the prison administration and the court’s letter of 21 january 2011 was received by him a month after being dispatched by the court.17.  the government challenged the trustworthiness of part of the applicant’s submissions concerning the conditions of his detention, specifically his allegations that he had been detained in cells with poor sanitary and hygiene conditions together with inmates suffering from tuberculosis.in support of their account of the facts, the government submitted: information notes concerning living conditions in the prison, issued by the prison governor in reply to a request from the government; an extract from the applicant’s detention card concerning the provision of bedding; and records of completed disinfection operations carried out in the prison in july and october 2011.(b)  medical assistance 20.  the government submitted that throughout the period of his detention in the prison the applicant had been provided with adequate treatment for different medical issues he had complained of and his health had generally remained stable.21.  according to the summary of the applicant’s medical record submitted by the government, upon arrival at the prison in april 2007 the applicant underwent a medical examination and was found to be healthy; he did not request medical assistance until march 2009.(c)  other issues relating to the applicant’s detention 26.  the government could not provide any factual information about whether any force had been applied to the applicant by prison guards, or about the searches conducted in his cell, because the time-limit for keeping the relevant documents had expired and the records had been destroyed.according to a certificate issued by the prison governor, to which the government referred, the applicant had sent only one letter to the court, on 3 december 2008, and had received no reply.29.  lastly, the government contended that the applicant had made no complaints to the domestic authorities concerning the material conditions of his detention, his alleged ill-treatment and the poor medical assistance provided to him.31.  on a number of occasions before and after his application to the court the applicant, at his request, was provided with copies of different documents from his case file, including judgments of 22 january 2007 and 28 march 2007 in his criminal case, his indictment and appeals against his conviction.32.  by letters of 8 and 15 september 2008 the brovary town court, at which his case file was kept, informed the applicant, inter alia, that the case file did not contain his cassation appeals or any replies from or judgments of the supreme court.33.  by a letter dated 14 january 2009, the court invited the applicant to submit a copy of the judgment of the supreme court of 23 october 2007. further to this letter, on 7 february 2009 the applicant submitted requests to the brovary town court and the supreme court, asking for a copy of their refusals to provide him with the judgment requested or a copy of his request with an acknowledgment of receipt.34.  on 17 february 2009 the brovary town court informed the applicant that the case file did not contain any letters or judgments of the supreme court.35.  on 9 april 2009 the applicant was provided with a copy of the supreme court’s judgment in his criminal case and on 13 april 2009 he submitted it to the court.
5.  on 6 october 2009 the first applicant, deputy head of the municipal administration at the time, was arrested on the charges of abuse of power and bribery.and k. alleged that they had bribed the first applicant in order to facilitate the purchase of plots of land.6.  on 19 november 2010 the moscow regional court opened the trial in the first applicant’s case.7.  on 23 march 2011 k. complained to the court that certain publications about the trial had an adverse effect on his private life.he alleged that the publications in the local newspaper about the trial and his role in it had been damaging to his reputation.9.  on 24 march 2011 the prosecutor asked the court to hold the trial in camera.the court granted the prosecutor’s request and decided to hold the trial in camera in order to protect the interests of the witnesses.10.  on 11 august 2011 the regional court found the first applicant guilty on two counts of abuse of power and two counts of bribery and sentenced her to 7.5 years’ imprisonment and a monetary fine.11.  on 12 october 2011, having heard the judge rapporteur, the prosecutor, the first applicant and her counsel, the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the first applicant’s conviction in part (one count of abuse of power and one count of bribery in respect of ts.’s attempt to purchase a plot of land) and quashed it in part (one count of abuse of power and one count of bribery in respect of k.’s attempt to purchase a plot of land) remitting the matter for fresh consideration.the court also reduced the first applicant’s sentence and the amount of the fine.12.  on 8 october 2013 the regional court found the first applicant guilty as charged, as regards charges of abuse of power and bribery in respect of the bribe paid by k., and sentenced her cumulatively to 7 years and 3 months’ imprisonment and a monetary fine.14.  on 4 august 2009 the second applicant was arrested on the charges of extremism and fraud.15.  on 31 march 2011 the savelovskiy district court of moscow fixed the trial for 14 april 2011. the court decided to hold the trial in camera in order to ensure security for the parties to the proceedings and their family members.16.  on 30 september 2011 the district court found the second applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to 9 years’ imprisonment.17.  on 14 december 2011, having heard the judge rapporteur, the prosecutor, the second applicant and his counsel and the counsel for the civil party, the moscow city court upheld, in substance, the second applicant’s conviction on appeal.
according to the report, there were two primary reasons for the problematical situation of minorities in turkey: a theoretical reason tending to define the supra-identity in terms of “race” (ırk) and religion as turkish (türk) and not as türkiyeli (“coming from turkey”, “citizen of turkey”), which resulted in alienating the infra-identities of citizens who do not belong to the turkish “race” or the muslim religion; and an historical/political reason stemming from the paranoia (paranoya) inherited from the dismantling of the country in the recent past, a syndrome referred to in the report as “the sèvres syndrome”[1].9.  having explained that the governments in the 1920s and 1930s had attempted to create a homogeneous and monocultural nation, the report stated that, having regard to the presence in the country of a patchwork of different cultures and identities, and in the light of global developments as regards the organisation of society up until the 2000s, now was the time to revise the citizenship concept and to adopt, like all the european nations, a multi-identity, multicultural, democratic, liberal and pluralist societal model.it consequently proposed rewriting the constitution and the relevant legislation from a liberal, pluralist and democratic angle, including the participation of the organised fringes of society; guaranteeing the rights of persons laying claim to different identities and cultures to preserve and develop those identities on the basis of equal citizenship; making central and local administrations more transparent and democratic such as to ensure participation and oversight by the citizens; signing and unreservedly ratifying the international treaties laying down the universal standards of human rights, and in particular the council of europe’s framework convention for the protection of national minorities; and, as regards international treaties, discontinuing the practice of entering reservations or interpretative declarations tending to negate infra-identities in turkey.on 26 october 2004, for example, an mp speaking in the national assembly used, with regard to the authors of the report in question, expressions such as “hired boffins” (entel devşirme), “individuals spitting their venomous saliva”, “people in the pay of foreigners”, “persons who hate the words ‘turkish nation’”, “traitors”, “those who want to split up the republic of turkey”, and “enemy of the turks”.at the beginning of the conference, which was shown on television, an ultranationalist trade unionist, f.y., who was also a member of the consultative council, interrupted the meeting by ripping up a copy of the report in front of mr kaboğlu and saying “this report is fake and unlawful, we will not allow it to be read.” 12.  in february 2005 the prime minister’s office informed the applicants and twelve other members of the consultative council that their term of office would end on 5 february 2005. the consultative council has not been reconvened by the government since that date.after criminal proceedings lasting some four years and seven months, the applicants were acquitted on the charge of incitement to hatred and hostility; as regards the charge of denigration of the state judicial organs, since the justice minister had not consented to the opening of criminal proceedings – a legal precondition for that particular offence – the case was struck off the list.those who want to see the turkish nation as a minority in this country will have us to contend with.” 21.  on 8 november 2004 the daily newspaper ortadoğu also published b.a.’s statements, including the following: “this  report is the result of a line of thought that has been put about for years with a view to dividing and separating us ... i would appeal to those responsible, and i swear that the price of the soil is blood, and if need be blood will be shed.” 22.  on 7 january 2005 the applicants brought civil proceedings against b.a.26.  on 26 october 2004 a.t. published an article in the daily newspaper yeniçağ including the following passages: “the rapporteur for the second set of sèvres negotiations, prof. dr baskın oran ...”, “the treasonous report (ihanet raporu) penned by baskın oran”, “when the time is ripe, they will be held to account for having prepared a treasonous report ...” 27.  another article by a.t., published on 31 october 2004 in the same newspaper, contained the following passage: “... the report, concerning minority and cultural rights, [was drafted by] twenty-four leftist, separatist, subversive [persons] unhappy about the unity of the country [who deserve] the death penalty ...” 28.  on 4 november 2004 the yeniçağ newspaper published another article signed by a.t. which included the following sentences: “f.y.why do these gentlemen ignore the protests against the irregularities committed during the preparation of this report, [and why] do they prefer to attack those who exercise their right to tear up this bumph dubbed as a ‘report’?” 29.  in another article published on 5 november 2004 in the same paper, a.t. stated the following: “... the lickspittles with their report on minorities and cultural rights are threatening the country’s integrity ... i̇brahim kaboğlu says ‘atatürk did not say türk, he said türkiyeli’ ... anyone who goes so far as to hijack the words of mustafa kemal shows his bad faith, separatist aims and treachery...” 30.  another article by a.t., published on 6 november 2004 in yeniçağ, contained the following statements and expressions: “within the prime minister’s office people are working on dismantling turkey, and when we intervene we are accused of using brute force ...; be careful, twenty-four persons did vote for this report, but they did not sign it.the sèvres apologists deserved a good thrashing... no punches were thrown, and yet they consider the ripping up of the bumph as a brutal act ...” 31.  on 7 november 2004, a.t. wrote the following in his article published in the same newspaper: “... no one mentions the fact that the intention had been to publish the treasonous document [clandestinely].in a dissenting opinion, one member of the court of cassation considered that a.t.’s articles had overstepped the bounds of the right to criticism as protected under the right to freedom of expression, on the grounds that those articles had comprised insulting expressions explicitly targeting the applicants.like little dogs rolling over and wagging their tails when their food is served in their dog-bowls or when [they are promised] a bone, they begin their subtle attacks ... those who pose as the eyes, ears and spleen of the trojan horse infiltrating our country, the fools and idiots posing as smart alecs ...; in this report on minorities prepared by this insolent, perfidious and pathetic minority, the losers, who would never have dared commit this type of treason before, are clearly targeting the indivisible integrity of the state and the nation ...; some losers who, their whole lives long, have never got rid of their paranoia about turks ... designate as ‘sèvres paranoia’ the watchful and persevering attitude of those who represent the heart, head and intelligence of our nation against the new sèvres dictates and are attempting to insult them, driven on by their wilfulness; their shared characteristic is apostasy ...; someone has said ‘he who is not a communist at the age of twenty is an ass, and he who is not a capitalist at the age of thirty is the ass’s son’.just look at this assailant (baskıncı[2] eleman) who drew up this scandalous report on minorities on behalf of the consultative council on human rights ... this is the treacherous dagger which this man, ... disguised as a scientist, and the minority which he is using, has perfidiously stabbed into the heart of the republic of turkey and into the unity and peace of our nation...!considering that the impugned article overstepped the bounds of admissible criticism and infringed the dignity of the applicants, the court ordered the defendants to pay the latter damages in respect of the non-pecuniary damage sustained.it found that the first section of the impugned article had consisted of severe criticism of the attitude of turkish intellectuals to national issues, that the second section on baskın oran had amounted to a statement of a critical opinion on the report in question, and that the expressions used in the last section had not concerned the applicants.
besides the applicant’s signature, the statement bore an additional signature which resembled that of the lawyer appointed on his behalf and, at the foot of the page, the date of 19 april 2008.in this statement, which was in romanian and signed by the applicant, the lawyer, the interpreter and the prosecutor, the applicant reiterated the previous statement given to the police (see paragraph 9 above) but this time stated that he had not known about the lsd in his luggage until he had unpacked at the dormitory.he stated, among other things, that after the search on the evening of 18 april 2008, he had been detained by the police from 10 p.m. until the next day, when the prosecutor’s request to remand him in custody had been rejected by the court.the applicant alleged that he had not known at the time about the lsd, which had been a present from his friend, and that he had only discovered it when he had unpacked at the dormitory.the court however held that the applicant could not claim that he had not been aware of the contents of his luggage since in his first statement (see paragraph 9 above) he had declared that he had personally packed the lsd in a black bag in his suitcase.], not only did he refuse to testify before this court, but he tried – personally and through his lawyers – to exclude from the case the statements he gave before the prosecutor, claiming that he had not been made aware of his rights and that he had not been satisfied with the services of the interpreter.as regards the services of the interpreter, the defendant could have complained to the prosecutor if he was not satisfied, which he failed to do.” 18.  the applicant appealed against that judgment, reiterating his previous arguments.in reply to his arguments, it noted that he had been represented by a lawyer and had benefited from the services of an interpreter throughout the entire criminal proceedings, in compliance with the guarantees of article 6 of the convention.the court further held that: “the nature of the case and the people involved, in a special location – a university campus – required urgent investigative measures, therefore it cannot be claimed that the presumption of innocence had been breached or that the defendants had been deprived of their right to defence.” 20.  the applicant filed an appeal on points of law (recurs).he argued, among other things, that he had been held at the police station and at the prosecutor’s office without legal justification for an unreasonable length of time (twenty-two hours); he also stressed that his initial confession had been taken while he had been detained at the police station without an interpreter, in the absence of a lawyer and following threats by the police officer guarding him.he further submitted that the most serious charges against him had been based only on this initial confession and on o.d.a.’s statement – also taken in the absence of a lawyer – as well as on the findings of the search that, in his opinion, had not been carried out in compliance with the legal procedural requirements.the applicant added that his right to be informed promptly in a language which he understood and in detail of the nature and cause of the accusation against him, as provided for by article 6 § 3 of the convention, had been breached.22.  the court undertook a fresh analysis of the evidence in the file and decided that the guarantees of a fair trial within the meaning of article 6 of the convention had been respected as regards both defendants since they had been provided with legal assistance and had benefited from adversarial proceedings in which all their arguments had been examined and replied to.... were in compliance with the legal requirements ... for the respective stages of the investigation, they reflected their wishes at the relevant time, both defendants having the capacity to understand the rights presented to them, being students and even in the absence of legal studies, they could have understood the extent of their rights and obligations.” 24.  the court further observed that o.d.a.it also noted that the file included the prosecutor’s decision appointing an english language interpreter in the case and minutes signed by the applicant and the interpreter attesting that the applicant had been informed of his right to be represented by a lawyer of his choice and of the right to remain silent (see paragraph 10 above).
25.  the cerknica centre’s records of the ipt’s meeting show that on 12 january 2012 the applicant again asked the cerknica centre if she could see e. the second contact session took place on 31 january 2012. the applicant cancelled the next scheduled contact session which was to take place on 28 march 2012 because of her alleged departure to france.furthermore, in her reports of the sessions, the social worker noted that the foster parents encouraged e. to establish contact with the applicant and the relatives present at the sessions, and that they were accessible and communicative with respect to the applicant and her questions about e. following a request made by the applicant at the ipt meeting in february 2014 for help in establishing her relationship with e., the social worker and the foster parents offered her help with regard to future contact sessions and encouraged her to engage more actively in establishing the relationship.30.  as requested by the applicant in may 2016, the inspection authorities of the ministry of labour, family, social affairs and equal opportunities carried out an inspection with a view to determining whether the cerknica centre had impeded contact between the applicant and e. their report and the documents in the file show that on at least on five further occasions the cerknica centre informed the applicant that she should institute proceedings before the ljubljana district court if she was not satisfied with the existing arrangements.34.  on 15 february 2016 the cerknica centre sent the applicant some photos of e. 35.  on 7 march 2011 the cerknica centre lodged an application with the ljubljana district court seeking that the applicant and g. be divested of their parental rights, on the grounds that they had neglected and abandoned e., had not taken care of her basic needs, had repeated the problematic behaviour, and had jeopardised the well-being of the child.with regard to the applicant’s understanding of the proceedings, the ljubljana district court concluded, on the basis of dr k.’s expert opinion as well as the applicant’s own statements, that she was regularly taking the medication and that she did not lack the capacity to be a party to the proceedings at issue.acknowledging that the illness could be controlled and the symptoms managed by medication, as well as noting that the course of the condition depended on each individual, dr m. stressed that the prognosis for the applicant’s illness was not good, and therefore it was not possible to expect her to be able to take care of e. in particular, it was noted that, notwithstanding the episodes of remission, schizophrenia, like some other mental illnesses, led gradually to a permanent deterioration in a person’s capacities, and such a process would occur despite the applicant’s medical treatment.the expert concluded that contact with the mother was burdensome and forced upon e. the expert also noted that, when observing the contact session, he had not noticed any emotional connection between the applicant and e. 43.  on 3 april 2014 the ljubljana district court issued a new decision divesting the applicant of her parental rights in relation to e. on the basis of section 116 of the family act (see paragraph 60 below).it found that the lower court’s arguments relating to the applicant’s permanent inability to take care of e., the absence of a family bond between her and e., her inability to establish a relationship with e. during the contact sessions, and the benefits of providing e. with a substitute family for permanent care and emotional stability, justified the withdrawal of her parental rights in the child’s best interests.as regards the applicant’s argument concerning discrimination against mentally ill people, the constitutional court found that the withdrawal of her parental rights had not been based on the fact that she suffered from mental illness, but on the fact that she had been permanently incapable of taking care of e. and the finding that there was no prospect that the family would ever be reunited.53.  the koper district court appointed an expert in psychiatry and paediatric psychiatry, dr z., who, inter alia, carried out a psychiatric examination and an interview with the applicant, and held a paediatric psychiatric interview with e. in her expert opinion, dr z. emphasised the applicant’s inability to establish an adequate relation with e. notably, her findings showed that the applicant was emotionally unresponsive, lacked empathy, had a distorted view of reality, and was not capable of either perceiving the child as an individual or reacting to her needs.since, in the present case, it was the child’s biological mother who did not know how to respond or touch the child, the contact experience could be traumatic for e. dr z. also emphasised the relevance of the applicant’s negative attitude towards e.’s adoptive parents, which could be harmful to e. she observed that, in the past, e.’s adoptive parents had encouraged e.’s contact with the applicant and had not acted as her competition.the expert refused to arrange a contact session between the applicant and e., as she believed that that would be contrary to the professional rules of medicine and harmful for e. 54.  on 9 august 2016, after holding a hearing, the koper district court dismissed the applicant’s application for the regulation of contact (predlog za ureditev stikov) and an interim decision.furthermore, the adoption had resulted in a different legal basis which the court had to apply in determining contact between the applicant and e. in particular, since the applicant was no longer considered to be e.’s parent, the relevant provision for the regulation of contact became section 106.a of the family act, which regulated a child’s contact with people who were not his or her parents (see paragraph 60 below).55.  in its assessment, the court relied on dr z.’s expert opinion (see paragraph 53 above) and the statements of the social worker who had supervised the contact sessions in the past and observed that, during the sessions, the applicant had been largely passive and there had been no proper interaction between her and e. it concluded that there was no personal connection between the applicant and e. having regard to the nature of the actual relationship between the applicant and e., the applicant’s health situation at that time, her inability to form a relationship that would be beneficial to e., her negative attitude towards the adoptive parents, and the consequences the contact would have for e., the court found that the contact would not be in her interests.the koper higher court emphasised that in cases like the one at hand, where the interests of the biological mother, the child and the adoptive family had to be balanced against each other, the interests of the child constituted the main guidance.
7.  on 7 april 2009 the applicants were returning from chişinău to their home village when the minibus in which they were travelling was stopped by masked armed men at 11.10 p.m. the men ordered the bus driver to drive to the police headquarters in chişinău (“the police headquarters”), where the applicants, together with other passengers, were ordered to stand with their hands behind their heads.14.  on the same day at around 11 p.m. the applicants and five other female detainees were ordered to enter the back section of a police minivan measuring 2.5 square metres and were taken to an unknown destination, without any explanation of the reasons for the move.17.  on 23 july 2009 the applicants made a complaint to the prosecutor general’s office, referring to the verbal abuse to which they had been subjected, as well as to the order to undress in front of male officers.19.  on 10 september 2009 the military prosecutor’s office, which had been tasked with examining all complaints of ill-treatment during the events of april 2009, decided not to launch a criminal investigation in response to the applicants’ complaint of 23 july 2009 to the prosecutor general’s office, in the absence of any evidence that an offence had been committed.the applicants found out about that decision on 14 october 2009. on 15 october 2009 their lawyer challenged the decision, noting that the investigation had not been prompt or thorough; that they had not undergone any expert psychological examination to verify whether it could be concluded that they had suffered psychological trauma; that the decision had been based solely on the declaration by the officers involved that they had not been at work on the relevant day, without verifying whether they had been urgently called in to work to deal with the emergency situation on 7 april 2009; and that no criminal investigation had been launched by that date.20.  on 16 november 2009 the applicants’ lawyer received a letter from the prosecution informing her of the decision of 9 november 2009. on 20 november 2009 the applicants challenged the decisions of 10 september and 9 november 2009 before the rîşcani district court.the court found that the investigation had been superficial and listed a series of actions which had not been carried out, such as interviewing the arresting officers and those responsible for escorting them and registering their arrest; verifying the reasons for their transfer to drochia police section, the person who had ordered the transfer and the reason why the prosecutor had not established a breach of applicable legislation as a result of that transfer; determining the reason for the prosecutor’s failure to examine the applicants’ complaint within the statutory seventy-two hours.from the beginning of the trial, that court had held four hearings and postponed five others for various reasons such as the absence of the prosecutor, of one of the applicants or of their lawyers, as well as annual leave taken by the prosecutor and the judge.the court also noted that the accused had committed the offence “owing to the situation obtaining on 7-8 april 2009 in chișinău, [when] peaceful protests [had] escaped the control of law-enforcement authorities ... result[ing] in mass disorder, with the destruction of sites of national importance”.however, it upheld the judgment adopted since the applicants had not indicated any specific errors in the application of the law by the lower court, which had taken a lawful and reasoned decision and had properly individualised the sentences in view of the nature and seriousness of the offence.(ii)  proceedings against officer a.c. 32.  on 16 april 2010 the criminal investigation that had started on 2 february 2010 against the three police officers (see paragraph 21 above) was discontinued in respect of a.c. the prosecutor summarised the applicants’ statements and referred to the results of the identity parades during which each of the applicants had identified a.c. as the person who had taken them to the room in which they had been ordered to undress and do sit-ups.in addition, the applicants’ will to resist police intimidation had been completely broken since the reason for their detention had not been explained to them, nor had they been informed of the rights which they had had, in the absence of a guarantee of being able to defend those rights.it had been also unclear why the prosecutor had not charged a.c. with the criminal offence of excess of powers (article 328 of the criminal code, see paragraph 37 below), but had preferred to examine the case under the contravention code, with the effect of letting a.c. go unpunished.35.  on 26 july 2010 the applicants challenged in court the decisions of 16 and 22 april 2010, as well as that of 10 june 2010. the lawyer formulated essentially the same arguments which she had made in her complaint to the prosecutor (see paragraph 33 above).since the prosecution had decided to discontinue the criminal proceedings against a.c. and in the absence of any new circumstances warranting the reopening of the investigation, it was contrary to article 4 of protocol no.
according to the risk assessment contained in his individual management plan drawn up by tartu prison on 16 january 2013 (kinnipeetava individuaalne täitmiskava), the applicant had been punished five times for criminal acts and was assessed to be a danger to the public, prone to risks and impulsive.8.  permission for prison leave under supervision (lühiajaline väljaviimine) was granted on 14 may 2013. the decision (käskkiri) made reference to the fact that the applicant was considered highly dangerous and had received several disciplinary punishments which were still in effect.the decision was accompanied by an order (korraldus) of the same date which detailed how the prison leave would be organised, specifying that the applicant had to be escorted by at least three prison officers and that, as a preventive measure, he had to wear both hand and ankle cuffs.9.  on 15 may 2013 the applicant and his brother (also a prisoner in the same prison), were to be transported to the funeral service in the same prison van.the applicant signed a document about the prison escort regime (kinnipeetavale isikule lühiajalise väljaviimise raames kohaldatav saatmisrežiim) which explained the rules about being escorted, including the obligation to wear hand and ankle cuffs.the applicant then decided not to go to the funeral and was taken back to the prison approximately twenty minutes later.his brother was thereafter transported to the funeral at 10.02 a.m. and reached the cemetery at 10.57 a.m. 11.  on 9 september 2013 the applicant lodged a request with tartu prison, asking for compensation in the sum of 7,500 euros (eur), claiming that the use of hand and ankle cuffs had been unjustified and that the prison authorities had wished to expose him to the public and to his family in such degrading circumstances.with regard to the conditions in the transport van, the court noted that the applicant had refused to be transferred and therefore had never been subjected to the conditions described.the court considered it plausible that the applicant had decided not to attend the funeral because he had not wanted his relatives to have a bad impression of him.however, there was no sign that the prison authorities had particularly wanted to degrade him in front of his family by resorting to the use of hand and ankle cuffs.he claimed, inter alia, that there had been no reason to conclude that he would have been embarrassed to be in shackles in front of his family, and that the main reason he had decided not to go to the funeral had been the transport conditions.15.  on 7 october 2014 the tartu court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the judgment of the first-instance court.since the applicant had foregone being transferred to his grandmother’s funeral, there had been no unlawful act on the part of the prison authorities.as the transfer van had never left the precincts of the prison, he could not claim compensation for something that might have happened or for any trauma that might have occurred had he taken the prison leave.16.  on 10 november 2014 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law, stating that he stood by the same submissions he had made to the lower courts.
10.  the fact-finding commission established by the batman governor’s office consisted of, among others, the governor, deputy governor and mayor of batman, the director of the batman security directorate, the director of the local office of the ministry of public works and settlement, the directors of the tüpraş refinery and the turkish petroleum corporation (türkiye petrolleri anonim ortaklığı – hereinafter “tpao”) and the presidents of the local chambers of architects, mechanical engineers and geological engineers.17.  the members of the technical commission, with the exception of the tüpraş representative, also stated in the same report that while they had not been able to establish the source of the leak conclusively, their investigation suggested that the leak may have originated from the tüpraş refinery.18.  upon the instruction of the prime minister’s office, which had deemed the aforementioned report of the technical commission to be insufficient, another commission was established under the coordination of the ministry of energy and natural resources for the purposes of ascertaining the cause of the explosion.21.  in accordance with the proposal in the above interim report, on 17 august 2005 the local environment board of the batman governor’s office decided that no business or occupation permits should be granted in the area designated as the “red zone”, which consisted of an area of 200 x 300 metres where the contamination was at its highest, until the underground clean-up operation in the area was completed.it held that while its proximity to the site of the explosion suggested that tüpraş was responsible for the explosion, it was not possible to determine whether any of the individual suspects should bear liability for it, particularly given that the leak had been ongoing for a considerable amount of time and that the suspects would surely have taken action had they been aware of the leak.the following findings were made in the report: (i)  the product that had leaked underground was gasoline; (ii)  it was highly likely that the contamination had been caused by an underground accumulation of gasoline that had leaked from one or more sources over a long period; (iii)  given the location and movement of the underground contamination slick and the ground water flow direction, the source of the leak must have been in the south, where the tüpraş facilities were located; they stated that any leak originating from the ant pipeline would have generated a contamination slick in a northwesterly/northerly direction alongside the pipeline, which had not been the case; this left the tüpraş refinery as the only plausible source of the leak.45.  the judgment of the batman civil court, which was the first occasion on which the tüpraş refinery was publicly confirmed as the source of the leak by a court of law, was upheld by the court of cassation on 30 january 2007. a request made by tüpraş for rectification of that decision was rejected on 18 june 2007.it also claimed, inter alia, that: (i)  given the proximity of the site of the explosion to the tüpraş facilities, many wells had been dug around the tüpraş oil tanks to locate the source of the leak; however, none of those wells had revealed any oil leaks; on the other hand, wells dug around the perimeter of the refinery had revealed the presence of oil that had leaked from elsewhere towards the refinery; (ii)  the scientific analysis of the samples obtained from the site of the explosion showed that the leaked material had not been produced by tüpraş; (iii)  the expert reports submitted to the criminal case file found that tüpraş could not be held liable for the explosion; (iv)  although the pipeline between tüpraş and ant had officially been out of use since 1992, it had been noted after the explosion that the pipeline in question had actually been full of oil; moreover, the pressure tests carried out subsequently showed that the pipeline had been punctured and was leaking oil; (v)  the complaints arising from the security measures taken in toptancılar sitesi after the explosion, such as the ceasing of commercial activity and the denial of occupation licences, were outside the competence of tüpraş.the experts carried out an on-site inspection at the applicant’s property on 7 march 2007, and reported their findings on 12 march 2007. they mainly noted the following: (i)  the impact of the explosion had been equivalent to that of an earthquake with a magnitude of 9 on the richter scale; (ii)  the applicant’s property, which was used as business premises, had been mostly repaired by the time of the on-site inspection and commercial activity had resumed; some cracks were nevertheless visible on the walls; (iii)  the infrastructure of the building, including water, electricity and telephone connections and the sewer system, had had to be repaired as a result of the damage sustained in the basement; (iv)  leaving aside the estimated wear and tear of the property since its construction, the structural damage was noted to be try 13,278.36; (v)  given the magnitude of the explosion, it was inevitable that the walls and structural joists of the property would sustain cracks; moreover, the explosion had considerably slowed down real estate sales in the area; having regard to these factors, it was estimated that the applicant’s property had lost 50 % of its value, corresponding to try 66,483.25; (vi)  a drop of 60 to 70 % had been noted in the rental income of property owners in toptancılar sitesi subsequent to the explosion; in these circumstances, the applicant’s loss of rental income for the eighteen months following the explosion was calculated to be try 5,400.51.  on 18 april 2007 the batman civil court allowed the applicant’s compensation claim in so far as it concerned the depreciation of the value of his property and the structural damage it had sustained as a result of the explosion, but rejected the claims concerning a loss of rental income for lack of sufficient evidence.the civil court held in its decision that both the original claims and the subsequent request to increase those original claims had been brought within the one-year time-limit set out in article 60 § 1 of the former code of obligations, bearing in mind that the relevant time-limit would only start running when both the damage and the tortfeasor responsible for that damage became known to the victim.53.  on 18 february 2008 the 4th chamber of the court of cassation quashed the judgment of the first-instance court, holding that the time-limit for bringing an action under article 60 § 1 of the former code of obligations, which had started running on the date of the explosion, had expired by the time that the applicant had brought his claims.the applicant’s claim that he had brought the action subsequent to the establishment of the tortfeasor as tüpraş in a case brought earlier by other property owners could not stop the running of the time-limit from the date of the explosion.he mainly made the following arguments: (i)  the court of cassation’s ruling that merely guessing, or being in a position to guess, the tortfeasor was sufficient to trigger the article 60 § 1 time‑limit ran counter to the doctrine and settled practice of the court of cassation on the issue, which unambiguously required certain and exact knowledge of the tortfeasor before the time-limit could start running; the applicant relied in this connection on a judgment of the joint civil chambers of the court of cassation dated 22 november 1974, as well as to some articles drafted by legal scholars and practitioners dating as far back as 1992; (ii)  the studies conducted in the aftermath of the explosion showed that the explosion had not been a simple accident, but had involved very complex elements; bearing in mind that it had taken even the experts in the field almost one year of scientific studies to establish the exact cause of the explosion, and another year after that to identify its source, a simple layman such as him could not be expected to have known the tortfeasor on the very day that the explosion took place; (iii)  in these circumstances, he had only acquired the requisite knowledge of the tortfeasor upon the finalisation of case no.he also stated that the 7th chamber of the court of cassation had ruled in many cases concerning the same explosion that for the purposes of the time‑limit rule set out in article 60 § 1, the requisite knowledge of the tortfeasor could not be considered to have been acquired before the respective actions had been brought (see the cases noted in paragraph 68 below).
she submitted in particular: (a)  that the csm had not taken into consideration a number of facts on which she had relied in her defence and which were corroborated by various items of evidence; (b)  that in its establishment of the facts the csm had made no reference to the intentional element of the disciplinary offence; (c)  that the disciplinary penalty was based on insufficient or irrelevant evidence; (d)  that the conduct complained of had not amounted to a disciplinary offence, that she had simply been exercising a legitimate right and that the authorities had disregarded the principle of administration in good faith; (e)  that the csm had failed to give reasons for its decision not to suspend enforcement of the penalty; and (f)  that the penalty imposed had been disproportionate to the acts of which she had been accused.hence, any appeal will be aimed at obtaining a declaration that the impugned act is null and void or non-existent, rather than a fresh assessment of the criteria employed by the administrative body or of the question whether those criteria were applied correctly, with particular regard to the establishment of the key facts ... the position taken by the judicial division is that, although the supreme court has the power to assess and sanction a failure to take necessary and relevant steps in disciplinary proceedings, it cannot take the place of the competent administrative body – the csm – in gathering the evidence (aquisição da matéria instrutória) or establishing the key facts.its sole task is to ascertain, on the basis of the available evidence, whether the establishment of the facts was reasonable, and hence to verify whether the authority [whose decision is contested] examined (or re-examined) the facts set forth in the indictment and those submitted by the defence, [and whether it] gave adequate reasons for the establishment [of the facts], which the supreme court has no option but to uphold ... according to the supreme court’s case-law, an appeal may relate to the sufficiency or otherwise of the evidence and facts on which the decision to impose a disciplinary penalty was based.the supreme court may only assess the reasonable and coherent nature of the relationship between the facts as established by the authority [whose decision is contested] and the evidence on which its decision was based ... the extent of the supreme court’s review of the facts is confined to ascertaining that the assessment [made by the authority whose decision is contested] was not defective; it cannot re-examine the evidence relied on and deliver a fresh judgment on the basis of that evidence.it must therefore, against this background, examine any contradictions, inconsistencies and insufficiency in the evidence and any manifest errors in the assessment thereof, in so far as these defects are apparent ...” 30.  in the case at hand the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s arguments regarding the establishment of the facts, finding as follows: “there were no errors in the assessment of the facts on which the decision [by the csm] was based, or in the interpretation of those facts.the reasoning was based on facts which, once established in accordance with the principle of the free assessment of evidence, do not preclude the assessment made in the present case ... [the assessment of the facts] was not arbitrary, haphazard, obscure or incoherent.” 31.  the supreme court also dismissed the remainder of the applicant’s arguments, to the effect that the conduct complained of did not amount to a disciplinary offence, that she had simply been exercising a legitimate right and that the authorities had disregarded the principle of administration in good faith.it is not the task of the supreme court to reconsider this decision, but merely to verify whether it was appropriate to the offence committed and whether the penalty imposed was proportionate to that offence ... the determination of the penalty falls within what is known as the technical and administrative [margin of] discretion, which is not subject to judicial scrutiny except in cases of gross and manifest errors and particularly of failure to comply with the principle of proportionality as regards the appropriateness of the penalty ... having regard to the foregoing, and since it has been established that a fine, set at twenty days, should be imposed by way of a penalty, there is no basis for finding that the sanction imposed is disproportionate to the disciplinary offence or to the relevant legislative framework.” 33.  on 29 march 2011, following information received from the judicial investigator f.m.j., the permanent council of the csm decided to open a second set of disciplinary proceedings against the applicant (case no.towards her; (c)  she had not been questioned about the planned disciplinary penalty, which had not been proposed in the indictment; (d)  the csm had altered the legal classification of the facts and the manner of her involvement in the disciplinary offence, in breach of her defence rights, including her right to be heard; (e)  the csm had failed to give reasons for its decision not to suspend enforcement of the penalty; and (f)  the penalty imposed had been disproportionate to the facts.in principle, this will entail a negative review (proceedings to set aside rather than a full review), in which the court may not substitute its assessment for that of the administrative authorities with regard to elements falling within the scope of that discretion.” 46.  with regard to the establishment of the facts by the csm, the supreme court pointed to its case-law according to which judicial review could encompass only the insufficiency of the evidence and the facts in disciplinary proceedings; this did not entail conducting a fresh assessment of the available evidence or reaching a new and different conclusion on the basis of that evidence.48.  with regard to the applicant’s remaining arguments, concerning the procedural safeguards in proceedings before the csm, the supreme court found: (a)  that the fact that the judicial investigator had not proposed a penalty until the final report was in line with the statutory requirements and had been sufficient in view of the fact that the report had been duly notified to the applicant so that she could make whatever comments she deemed necessary; (b)  that the rights of the defence, and in particular the right to be heard, had not been infringed in the applicant’s case, given that her defence had related to the facts of the case rather than to the proposed penalty and the fact that it had been open to the csm to impose a heavier penalty than the one proposed; and (c)  that the legal reclassification of the facts had likewise not damaged the defence, given that it was in the context of the same facts that the applicant had breached her duty of honesty.the supreme court held as follows: “whether or not the provisions governing a special administrative action [ação administrativa especial] to set aside an administrative act permit the holding of a public hearing at an appellant’s request will naturally depend from the outset on the extent of the supreme court’s powers of review, as fashioned and regulated specifically by the status of judges act, with regard to the establishment of the facts and the taking of evidence in connection with the appeal.if that were the case the supreme court would repeat and add to the examination of the evidence produced in the disciplinary proceedings in order to ... form ... its own opinion as to the conclusions to be drawn from it ... however, as it follows from the uniform, settled case-law of the judicial division, this is manifestly not the legal position that is continuing to emerge, primarily, from the reinforced law represented by the status of judges act.” with regard to the evidence which the applicant proposed to produce during the hearing, the supreme court found that it was inadmissible and irrelevant, stressing in particular (a)  that the applicant’s request for evidence to be heard from the witness had been aimed at establishing the content of the draft decision of the plenary csm in the applicant’s disciplinary case; this ran counter to the confidentiality of the proceedings leading to the final decision; and (b)  that the documents submitted by the applicant went beyond the subject-matter of the disciplinary proceedings.65.  on the merits, the supreme court noted (a)  that there had been no manifest error or inconsistency in the establishment of the facts, or any indication that the evidence had been obtained unlawfully; (b)  that the csm had considerable discretion regarding the definition of the disciplinary offence, which was described in broad terms in the act, and that the supreme court could alter that legal classification only in the event of a gross, manifest error, which was not the situation in the present case; and (c)  that the applicant’s arguments that the proceedings before the csm had been unfair were unfounded, as the refusal to provide certain items of information had been duly reasoned.on this last point, the supreme court found as follows: “nevertheless, as ruled uniformly and consistently in this division’s case-law, ‘when it comes to fixing penalties in the context of disciplinary proceedings, a degree of [administrative] discretion exists which should be overridden only in cases of gross, manifest error ...’ ... in the light of the supreme court’s powers with regard to the scale of the penalty – which falls wholly within the discretionary powers [of the administrative authorities] in accordance with the above-mentioned case-law – we do not consider that the csm’s value judgment regarding the specific factual circumstances and the accused’s misconduct was apt to infringe the principles of proportionality and equality.furthermore, there is nothing in the case file to indicate that the choice of the [type] of sanction or its severity was based on any criteria other than the need to protect the public interest and the requirements of judicial ethics; accordingly, [the complaint concerning the] alleged abuse of powers is manifestly ill-founded ...” 67.  in a final decision of 30 september 2014 the csm, sitting in plenary session, after deciding that the penalties incurred by the applicant in the three sets of disciplinary proceedings referred to above should be imposed cumulatively (cúmulo jurídico das penas disciplinares aplicadas), unanimously ordered a single penalty of 240 days’ suspension from duty.
on 9 october 2012, and of violent behaviour against the applicant on 1 february 2013. the court ordered the mandatory psychiatric treatment of x in a hospital (mjera bezbjednosti obavezno psihijatrijsko liječenje i čuvanje u zdravstvenoj ustanovi), and the confiscation of two knives and a kitchen hammer.in the course of the proceedings x’s aunt submitted that about three months before attacking the applicant, x had become more aggressive and that she had reduced contact with him to a minimum.11.  the court found that there was a direct causal link between x’s mental state and the criminal offences he had committed, that there was a serious danger that he might commit a more serious offence (neko teže djelo), and that he required psychiatric treatment in order to prevent that from happening.owing to the failure of the state to undertake any preventive measure in respect of x, the applicant had been attacked by him and had suffered injuries.14.  in the course of the proceedings, on 20 december 2013 the court heard z.ɖ., a police officer, who had been patrolling for more than ten years in the neighbourhood where x lived and where the applicant’s bar was located.he stated that two to three days prior to the attack, the applicant had called the police to report x who had been “causing him problems” (stvarao mu problem) and who had told the applicant that he “would see who the boss in the neighbourhood was”.relying on section 148(1) of the obligations act, the court held as follows: “the court dismisses as factually and legally unfounded the applicant’s submissions that the state ought to have hospitalised x before the event here in issue, as the state bodies did order his hospitalisation as soon as the conditions for that had been met.the court has concluded that the state bodies acted in accordance with the law and their powers both pursuant to this event and other preceding events, and therefore the conditions for an award of compensation have not been met.” 16.  on 20 april 2015 the high court upheld the first-instance judgment.; (b) four months thereafter, x had attacked and injured the applicant; and (c) three days before the attack the applicant had complained to the police that x had threatened him.the applicant relied on article 28 of the constitution (see paragraph 22 below), and on the court’s findings in the case of branko tomašić and others v. croatia in respect of article 2 of the convention.the constitutional court reiterates that it is not competent to substitute the regular courts in assessing the facts and evidence, but that it is the task of the regular courts to [do so] (see the european court’s judgment in the case of thomas v. the united kingdom, 10 may 2005, no.the task of the constitutional court is to examine whether the proceedings as a whole were fair within the meaning of article 6 of the european convention and whether the decisions of the regular courts violate constitutional rights.therefore, the constitutional court is not competent to replace the assessment of the regular courts by its own assessment, as it is up to those courts to assess the evidence and establish the facts relevant for the outcome of the proceedings.20.  before 24 june 2013 (see paragraph 12 above) x had been hospitalised on several other occasions: (a) for an unspecified period in 1997; (b) from 29 november to 19 december 2001; (c) from 25 july 2003 to 8 july 2004 (following a court decision of 21 july 2003 to that effect, after he had set his flat on fire; once it was considered that he had achieved a stable clinical condition, x was discharged from the hospital); (d) from 31 january to 21 february 2006; (e) from 23 july to 29 september 2006; (f) on 15 february and 13 march 2007 (on the recommendation of the healthcare centre in podgorica following complaints from x’s neighbours); (g) from 5 june to 25 july 2008; and (h) from 24 september 2012 to 3 october 2012. that period of hospitalisation would appear to have been prompted by an attempt by x to commit suicide by taking a large quantity of medication.it is clear from the case file that between the periods of hospitalisation in 2008 and 2012, x had seen a psychiatrist on at least three occasions: on 1 november 2010, 22 september and 11 october 2011. two of the three medical reports state that x had regularly been taking medication.
7.  in his statement taken at the samandıra police station on 20 november 2007 the applicant told the police that his sons had apparently not gone to school after leaving home the previous day, and that they had left their mobile telephones at home.8.  on the same day, the police informed the kartal public prosecutor of the disappearance of the applicant’s sons.the public prosecutor instructed the police to take the statements of those who could have information as to the two children’s whereabouts, and to keep him informed of developments.12.  on 27 november 2007 the kartal public prosecutor’s office asked the turkish telecommunication institution to provide a record of the individuals who had called aykut aka’s mobile telephone in the past three months, together with their complete identity information and addresses.and a.d., had contacted the coast guard as they had spotted a corpse at the bottom of the sea off the emirgan coast.the student identity card subsequently discovered in the victim’s pocket suggested that the body was that of the applicant’s son, aykan aka.the body was subsequently taken to the morgue of the i̇stinye state hospital, where the applicant confirmed the identity of his son.14.  on the same day, a post mortem examination was conducted on the body in the presence of the kartal public prosecutor.following his request, the samandıra gendarmerie command had managed to locate the owner of the number from which the message had been sent (m.y.17.  on 26 november 2007 the police questioned the principal of the secondary school which the applicants’ sons had attended, along with aykan’s school friends, y.d.20.  on 3 december 2007 the sarıyer public prosecutor’s office requested detailed information on incoming and outgoing calls pertaining to four telephone numbers which had been apparently used by the applicant and his sons in the period between 5 and 30 november 2007.22.  according to a report prepared by the police on 28 december 2007, the cctv footage from 19 november 2007 of the place where the bodies were recovered did not reveal any information that could shed light on the circumstances of the applicants’ sons’ suspicious deaths.the decision simply noted that the cause of death had been established as drowning by the forensic medicine institute, and that no evidence of a crime had been found.the lack of an effective investigation into the incident had impaired his trust in the justice system, which had compelled him to participate in a live tv show in the hope of gathering information that could shed light on the circumstances of his sons’ deaths.27.  on 10 june 2008 the bakırkoy assize court dismissed the applicant’s objection, holding that the sarıyer public prosecutor’s decisions not to prosecute had complied with the procedure and law.
7.  on 20 june 2006 the colleague filed an administrative claim with the department of education of the regional government of castilla-león aimed at seeking redress for the malfunctioning of the public administration.8.  on 25 january 2007 the colleague instituted judicial proceedings (recurso contencioso-administrativo) against the implied rejection of her request of 20 june 2006. she claimed that the applicant had subjected her to workplace harassment, from the academic year 2000/01 onwards in particular, and that the competent authorities had failed to take any measures to prevent it.the colleague further requested compensation from the regional administration of castilla-león in the amount of 74,434.12 euros (eur), as well as reinstatement in her position as a teacher at the león school of arts and crafts, requesting that all appropriate measures be taken to prevent any possible risks, particularly psychosocial, in the workplace.9.  on 19 december 2007, after notice of the aforementioned application was given, the respondent – the regional administration of castilla-león – contested the claims and requested the dismissal of the application.2491/2011) of 2 november 2011, the high court of justice of castilla-león (administrative chamber) ruled against the regional administration of castilla-león, ordering it to pay compensation to the plaintiff in the amount of eur 14,500. it concluded that the situation suffered by her amounted to workplace harassment and that the education authorities, despite being aware of the situation, had not taken effective measures to bring it to an end.although the court acknowledged that not all the acts or behaviour attributed to the applicant could be considered psychological harassment, it found that on the basis of the evidence collected a situation of psychological harassment in the workplace had been shown to exist.the high court of justice included the following reasoning concerning the applicant, who was frequently identified by name: “... from the documentary, witness and expert evidence [in the proceedings] [the court] can find that ... a situation of psychological harassment in the workplace has been shown [to exist] on the basis that the head of department’s conduct towards the claimant met the material element – unjustified professional harassment – the temporal element – regular and repeated – and the element of intent – malicious and not by chance – of the so-called bullying (mobbing) ... a) not all the acts or behaviour that the plaintiff attributed to mr vicent ... constitute psychological harassment towards her ... b) ... although it should also be considered established that the behaviour ... of mr vicent ... was to a certain degree general or collective, ... in the particular case of the plaintiff ... this general behaviour of a lack of respect and manners was translated, more intensively and strongly, into repeated and conscious professional discredit, of underestimation and mockery of her teaching ability, that resulted not only from the documented complaints already described ..., but particularly from the expressive witness evidence ...” 11.  on 15 december 2011 the applicant requested to have access to the file and to become a party to the proceedings.12.  by a decision of 23 january 2012, the high court of justice of castilla-león granted the applicant access to the file but refused his request to be a party to the proceedings on the basis that he could not be considered to be an interested party in liability proceedings against the public administration.the high court of justice of castilla-león dismissed it by a decision of 2 march 2012. on the one hand, the court held that the request for annulment of the proceedings had been made outside the time-limit prescribed by law, since an “appeal for annulment” (incidente de nulidad) should have been submitted within twenty days of the date the applicant became aware of a possible breach of his rights.the court took into account that the applicant had claimed that he had learned of the judgment through the publication of information in a newspaper on 9 and 10 december 2011, and that in any case on 15 december 2011 (the date on which he had requested access to the file and to become a party to the proceedings) he had clearly known the decisive elements for his complaints.it stressed that the proceedings were aimed at determining liability for the damage suffered by the claimant as a result of the acts of the authorities and staff working for the public administration.the national legislature had set up liability proceedings against the public administration excluding the possibility of its authorities or staff becoming interested parties to them even though in all cases the public officials concerned were identifiable; their professional conduct was being judged and hence their honour and moral integrity could eventually be affected; there was a possibility that the administration concerned would institute a “recovery action” against them; and the administrative or judicial decisions were subject to potential media coverage.despite acknowledging that public officials’ professional conduct was being judged and that their honour and moral integrity could be affected, the court held: (i) that the proceedings involved disputes exclusively between the public administration and alleged victims of the acts of its public officials; (ii) that the authorities and staff allegedly causing the damage could not be considered to be interested parties for the purposes of section 31 of law 30/1992; and (iii) that both liability and compensation are sought from the public administration, as opposed to the public officials concerned.lastly, the court stated that the public official concerned would only be considered to be an interested party in a recovery action (acción de repetición) under section 145(2) of law 30/1992, in which each and every one of the elements constituting the liability for which recovery was sought could be contested, including the acts attributed to him or her.otherwise, the proceedings would require each and every public official concerned (including, for example, the school management board and education inspectorate, or doctors, nurses, porters and so forth in cases related to healthcare) to be summoned to appear in proceedings in their own defence and with their own representatives, contrary to the regulatory developments, that essentially simplified the proceedings for the benefit of those injured or affected by the public administration.
6.  the first applicant brought a cassation appeal before the supreme court, challenging, inter alia, the impartiality of the president of the fourth section of the audiencia nacional and judge rapporteur of that judgment (hereinafter “the presiding judge”), as she had displayed hostility towards him during those criminal proceedings.8.  on 2 february 2011 the supreme court ruled in favour of the first applicant, finding that the presiding judge’s declarations during the trial had cast doubts on the absence of prejudice or bias.the supreme court stressed the following: “the significance of the judge’s action...cannot be reduced to an isolated assessment of the question raised by her, yet it must be put in direct connection with the comment that she made after the appellant refused to give an answer, as well as the nature of the charges, their legal characterization and the moment the question and the answer take place... the question put by the presiding judge and, very particularly, her reaction to the appellant’s refusal to give an answer, can be interpreted, from an objective perspective, as an expression of a previously formed opinion...about the significance assigned to the words spoken by the appellant...the appellant had objectives reasons to think that the judge was precipitately voicing out a value judgment on the criminal nature of [his statements]” 9.  the supreme court, assessing the proceedings as a whole, found that there were “objective reasons” to consider that the presiding judge (and judge rapporteur of the case) was expressing a prejudice against the first applicant about the significance that should be given to the phrases and words expressed by him, which had also led to a preconceived idea as to his guilt.this had taken place before the oral phase had terminated, i.e, before the presiding judge (as well as the whole panel) had had an opportunity to assess all the pieces of evidence brought before her and prior to the applicant’s right to have a last word.10.  as a result, a new and different composition of the fourth section of the audiencia nacional tried the applicant on the charge of encouragement of terrorism.11.  in 2009, criminal proceedings were brought against all the applicants before the audiencia nacional, on the grounds that a political party that the applicants intended to create was in fact under the control of the terrorist organisation eta.these proceedings were allocated to the fourth section of the audiencia nacional, whose composition consisted of the same judges that had taken part in the first set of criminal proceedings followed against the first applicant, which ended with the judgment of 2 march 2010, finally declared void by the supreme court on 2 february 2011. this time the presiding judge was not the judge rapporteur.the first and fifth applicants contested in particular the impartiality of the panel of the fourth section of the audiencia nacional reiterating the same arguments that were brought during the challenging proceedings before the audiencia nacional.16.  on 7 may 2012 the supreme court, in a 3 to 2 decision, partially upheld the applicants’ appeals and reduced their sentence to six years and six months’ imprisonment in respect of the first and third applicants and six years in respect of the second, fourth and fifth applicants.however, the supreme court rejected the applicants’ arguments concerning the alleged violation of the their right to an impartial tribunal by declaring that the bias displayed by the presiding judge against one of the applicants during previous and different proceedings did not reach the necessary threshold to believe that the judges (and, specifically, the presiding judge) had become again biased or prejudiced, not only against the first applicant but against all of them.the supreme court stressed the following: “to presume that every judge that has been declared biased in previous proceedings must be forcefully contaminated in any other further proceedings...implies to issue a universal judgment on bias that lacks a minimum objectives proofs ad causam...the question of subjective partiality or impartiality and even in many cases of objective impartiality is a very delicate one since it directly affect the composition of the tribunals subject to the rule of law.consequently, the appearances can only be relevant if they have a connection with the legal causes to challenge a judge as established by the lawmaker...in the sense that it is not possible to established different causes according to an analogic criterion or treating the appearance as an autonomous cause with its own procedural life...therefore, the complaint must be rejected” 17.  two of the supreme court’s judges issued two separate dissenting opinions.according to the first dissenting opinion (which was endorsed, in substance, by the second dissenting judge), the applicants’ right to an impartial tribunal had indeed been violated, because the preconceived idea showed by the presiding judge in previous criminal proceedings against the first applicant also affected her judgment during subsequent proceedings.on 27 june 2012 the first, second, fourth and fifth applicants lodged an amparo appeal with the constitutional court against these judgments, arguing, inter alia, that the panel composition of the fourth section of the audiencia nacional fell short of the requirements of an impartial tribunal.the constitutional court observed that the doubts on the presiding judge were in connection with previous proceedings dealing with a different subject, i.e. the determination on whether the first applicant had committed the crime of encouragement of terrorism, which differed from the charges they were all accused of in the framework of the second set of criminal proceedings.
according to the statement of the village mayor, mr m.s., made in the course of a subsequent criminal investigation, the local officials attempted to defuse the situation and urged the villages not to do anything illegal.today a meeting of villagers took place at which a negative opinion was expressed about the banditry and other [forms of crime] on the part of this category of people ... i invite the council members to speak responsibly and to express their opinion about the crime committed and about the decision of the villagers.i would like this meeting not to turn into something which aggravates inter-ethnic relations.” 10.  at the close of the meeting the council decided, in particular, to “support the decision of the meeting of the village residents to expel persons of gypsy ethnicity from the village”.the village council examined the question of “bringing the decision of the village council [of 8 september] concerning the expulsion of the persons of gypsy ethnicity into compliance with legal norms”.according to the general tenor of the statements, the applicants’ had been urged to leave by the police prior to the pogrom, and in their absence their houses had been ransacked by the mob – in particular, doors and windows had been smashed, and furniture and belongings destroyed or stolen.17.  applicants identified in the appendix asserted in their statements to ms duducehava, mr stoyanov or to the police in the course of the subsequent criminal investigation that they had been away from the village at the time of the events of 7-10 september 2002 and of the attack and had only learned about it later.19.  according to a report published on 20 september 2002 in the regional newspaper porto franko and information given at a press conference held on 12 september 2002 by the secretary of state (державний секретар) for the ministry of the interior and by the head of the odessa regional police department (“the regional police”), police officers had been present in force and had observed the attack.the villagers generally stated that there had long been tensions in the village between the roma and non-roma populations (many mentioning that this was connected with the alleged involvement of roma residents in the drug trade), and that on the night of 9 september 2002 several hundred individuals had ransacked the houses of the roma residents.specifically, she named mr o.m., mr p.m. and mr i.d., all of whom, she alleged, had incited the attack; she named m.s., the chairman of the village council, and o.v., the head of the district police department, as being among the officials who had allowed it.39.  on 31 december 2005 the head of the regional police informed mr stoyanov that the investigation had been suspended on 1 april 2003 and that the regional prosecutor’s office had examined the case and left the decision to suspend it in force.40.  on 25 january 2006 the dpo informed mr stoyanov of the decision not to institute criminal proceedings against the village officials (see paragraph 34 above) and stated that mr stoyanov could obtain information about the situation in the hooliganism case from the regional police, who were in charge of it.45.  on 21 march 2003 the ivanivskyy district court (“the district court”), having heard an appeal by the dpo, quashed the village council’s decision of 9 september 2002 on the grounds that it was contrary to the constitution and had been taken under the pressure exerted by a crowd of angry villagers in order to calm them down and prevent the lynching of the roma.48.  on 3 may 2007 the first three and the fifth to nineteenth applicants lodged a claim seeking to have the failure of the dpo and the district police to investigate the incident declared unlawful.50.  on 5 june 2008 the district court initiated proceedings concerning the claim brought by the first three and the fifth to nineteenth applicants under the code of criminal procedure in which they challenged the decision to suspend the investigation.according to the applicants, at the time of the application to the european court of human rights the proceedings were still pending before the district court and no decision had been made.
6.  on the morning of 23 november 2006 ms z.s.-k., who was at the time a judge of the zadar municipal court, reported to the police mr a.m., a photojournalist at narodni list, claiming that on that same morning he had secretly been taking photos of her in front of the municipal court building.on the same day, at the request of the police, the investigating judge of the zadar county court (županijski sud u zadru), mr b.b., issued a warrant for police to search through the camera used by a.m. and through narodni list’s computers with a view to finding photographs of ms z.s.-k. during the search, which was carried out on the same day between 2.45 p.m. and 4.05 p.m. on the applicant company’s premises, seven police officers in the presence of two witnesses inspected the camera in question and seven computers belonging to the company.on the same day that web portal also published a statement by the chairman of the croatian helsinki committee, ž.p., who expressed his organisation’s support for narodni list and stated that the photojournalist had been taking photographs in a public place, which was not against the law.the next day index published a commentary defending freedom of the press and criticising the conduct of the police and judicial authorities in the matter.9.  in the absence of incriminating evidence, on 12 december 2006 the zadar municipal state attorney’s office dismissed the criminal complaint against a.m. 10.  almost two years later, judge b.b., who had issued the warrant to search the applicant company’s premises, attended the opening of another newspaper in zadar started by mr s., a controversial local entrepreneur.14.  by a judgment of 10 march 2010 the municipal court ruled for the plaintiff and ordered the applicant company to pay him hrk 50,000[2] in compensation for non-pecuniary damage in the form of his tarnished reputation, as well as hrk 6,005[3] with respect to costs of proceedings.the relevant part of that judgment reads as follows: “it is undisputed between the parties that the impugned text constitutes a value judgment ... ... section 21(1) of the media act prescribes that a publisher who causes damage to another person by [publishing] information in the media is obliged to compensate [that person], except in cases prescribed by the same act (section 21(4)).... ... this court finds that the defendant [company], as the publisher, ... by publishing the impugned text entitled ‘judge b. should be put in the pillory’ and the [accompanying] photo of the plaintiff, exceeded the bounds of the freedom to publish information, to the prejudice of the plaintiff.for these reasons the plaintiff is entitled to compensation for non-pecuniary damage sustained by the breach of his rights of personality [prava osobnosti] within the meaning of section 22(1) of the media act and section 1100(1) and (2) of the obligations act – that is to say to just financial compensation in the amount claimed by the action.when determining the level of just financial compensation the court, guided by the principle of proportionality, took into account the consequences of the defendant [company]’s statements, which exceeded the bounds of acceptable criticism ...” 15.  by a judgment of 3 december 2010 the split county court (županijski sud u splitu) dismissed an appeal by the applicant company and upheld the first-instance judgment, which thereby became final.the relevant part of the second-instance judgment reads as follows: “... in its appellate arguments the defendant [company] actually states the reasons whereby it justifies the publication of the impugned article.in that sense the following statements are worth noting: ‘b’s arrival would have gone unnoticed had this judge not become ‘famous’ [even] outside croatia’s borders by illegally signing the warrant to search [the premises of] narodni list’ and ‘what b. is doing in journalistic circles is known only to the crew around s. in the western world journalists put such judges in the pillory’.[those statements] represent a grave personal media attack on the plaintiff [aimed at] settling scores with [him] in a very rude way, because of [the defendant company’s] dissatisfaction with a decision that the plaintiff adopted in the exercise of his duty as a judge.the article depicts the plaintiff as a person unworthy of judicial office and calls into question his professional competence ... the plaintiff’s honour, reputation and dignity, and also his professional dignity, were thereby violated, which justifies awarding non-pecuniary damages in respect of a breach of his rights of personality.... ... when publishing information containing value judgments, journalists are obliged to respect the dignity, honour and reputation of the person they write about and to avoid using insulting and demeaning expressions, because the publisher cannot escape liability for damages where ... a value judgment is expressed in an insulting manner.” 16.  the applicant company then, on 16 february 2011, lodged a constitutional complaint alleging violations of its freedom of expression and its right to fair procedure, both guaranteed by the constitution.
6.  she has worked as a kindergarten teacher for the greek ministry of education since 1983. on 23 august 2005, following her participation in a selection procedure, she was appointed educational coordinator of the hellenic republic at the general consulate of greece in chicago for a period of two years.on the same date, the minister of education issued a decision informing the educational coordinators that they were to remain in their posts until the completion of the next selection procedure.she applied to have the decision annulled, which the athens administrative court of appeal agreed to do as the applicant had been omitted from the decision without any specific reasoning (decision no.the applicant was therefore allowed to occupy the position until the successful completion of the next selection procedure.8.  on 24 september 2008 the applicant lodged an application for annulment of the ministerial decisions of 22 and 29 august 2008 on appointing the selected educational coordinators with the athens administrative court of appeal in so far as she had been omitted.the applicant complained that the ranking had not been published in the official gazette, as required by law, and that she had been erroneously awarded fewer points than she should have had.9.  on 16 july 2009 the applicant’s legal representative requested that the court accelerate proceedings, arguing that an educational coordinator’s term of appointment lasted two years and that the contested administrative act would soon expire.the 5 march 2010 hearing was adjourned to 4 june 2010 as the ministry had not provided the court with its submissions regarding the additional grounds for annulment.on 27 may 2010 the applicant sent a memorandum to the court, requesting that the case be heard speedily, adding that an eventual discontinuation of the trial would violate her rights under article 6 § 1 of the convention.adjournments took place on 4 june, 17 september and on 8 october 2010. on 26 october 2010, the ministry sent its observations to the court, and a hearing took place on 10 december 2010, when the two-year term for educational coordinators and the contested ministerial decision had already expired.11.  on 13 december 2010 the applicant submitted a memorandum requesting that the examination of her application for annulment be continued despite the expiry of the administrative act, arguing that she had special locus standi to continue to pursue the annulment process.as regards her chances of being selected as a deputy coordinator of education in a future selection procedure, the domestic court held that that was not a lawful reason to continue the procedure in court, because it concerned an uncertain, future administrative procedure.based on the above and on domestic law, the athens administrative court of appeal held that there was no need to adjudicate, on the grounds that the contested act was no longer in force (decision).as regards the applicant’s arguments that the eventual rejection of her application would violate article 20 of the constitution and article 6 § 1 of the convention, the domestic court held that the provision of article 32 § 2 of presidential decree no.having also regard to the possibility provided for by law to continue the trial if the individual could prove that he or she still suffered from unfavourable consequences that could be removed only by the annulment of the contested act, the right to judicial protection remained intact.
7.  the charges against the applicant and the brothers were based on a statement given by the victim’s father, mr v.n., who claimed to have witnessed the crime, and on other evidence, namely a hand grenade seized from the brothers’ home, as well as several forensic reports.he drove them to the farmhouse to see his son’s body and once there started claiming that the brothers and the applicant had killed him, without mentioning that he had witnessed the crime.junior, and mr s.p., testified that they lived in the same village, knew the victim’s family, and on the morning of 14 august 2004 had also been working on the farm, around two hundred metres from the crime scene.140/162) ordered by a prosecutor and implemented by the forensic centre of the ministry of labour, health and social affairs between 2 september and 22 october 2004 provided an analysis of bloodstains found on the trousers of one of the brothers.the blood was of type ab (ii), the same as that of the victim, while the owner of the trousers had blood type ab (iv).1700/10) ordered by a prosecutor and implemented by the forensic and special research centre of the ministry of justice between 7 september and 6 october 2004 provided an analysis of soil found on the brothers’ shoes in relation to soil at and around the crime scene.it accordingly found that the ongoing dispute between the three men and the victim and his family had been the underlying cause of the crime.in addition, the court relied on the forensic biological examination (see paragraph 11 above) and forensic soil examination (see paragraph 12 above), and other forensic evidence such as a forensic examination of the victim’s body and of the hand grenade, without elaborating on their relevance to the applicant’s conviction.15.  the applicant’s argument that he had an alibi for the presumed time of the crime in the light of the statements given by some of the defence witnesses (see paragraph 10 above) was dismissed by the court.junior and d.m., that they had found him at home shortly after the murder, and that he had not mentioned having witnessed the crime, despite having gone with them to the crime scene to verify the tragic news (see paragraph 9 above).the applicant further claimed to have an alibi to the effect that he had been seen alone in the centre of the village around the time of the murder, and noted that mr v.n.he argued that given the lack of any response to his main arguments, the conviction rendered by the first-instance court had relied on a mere doubt devoid of any evidence, in violation of article 503 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 31 below).in upholding the lower court’s verdict, the supreme court fully relied on the statement of the victim’s father, the statements of the other witnesses who were told by him that the applicant had killed his son, and the forensic evidence, without addressing any of the applicant’s arguments, including that none of the cited evidence had implicated him, and that the lower court had failed to address his arguments in that regard.24.  it does not transpire from the case file that the applicant raised any concerns before the prison administration or any domestic authority about the conditions of his detention in any of the penal institutions referred to above.on 17 december 2008, in view of the applicant’s complaint that the government had allegedly left his medical complaints – including those concerning headaches – unaddressed, the president of the section decided to indicate to the government, under rule 39 of the rules of court, to implement all necessary measures to assess his state of health.
12.  in a judgment of 21 december 2007, the investigation division of the court of appeal of douai (france), after acknowledging that the applicant had not renounced his entitlement to the rule of speciality[1], ordered his surrender to the belgian judicial authorities for the execution of the above‑mentioned arrest warrant.13.  having been surrendered to the belgian authorities at 10.40 a.m. on 31 december 2007, the applicant was interviewed by the criminal investigation police from 11.50 a.m. to 3.55 p.m. 14.  as shown by the police interview record, in accordance with article 47bis of the code of criminal procedure (code d’instruction criminelle) (see paragraphs 62-65 below), the applicant was notified that he was entitled to request the verbatim transcription of all the questions put to him and his answers, to request any investigative act or the conducting of any interview, and that his statements could be used in evidence.at the end of the interview record it was stated: “i (the investigating judge) have notified him that i have informed the deputy to the chair of the bar council, given that, at the current stage of the proceedings, he has not appointed counsel.” 22.  following the investigating judge’s examination, which finished at 5.42 p.m., the judge observed that a psychiatrist needed to be called immediately.23.  it is not in dispute that the applicant was not allowed to communicate with a lawyer between the time of his surrender to the belgian authorities and the end of his period in police custody on 31 december 2007. he was only allowed to consult with a lawyer, in accordance with the applicable law, once the decision had been taken by the investigating judge to remand him in custody (see paragraphs 21 above and 55-56 below).33.  the applicant was examined on that subject by the investigating judge on 18 august 2008. the information provided for by article 47bis of the code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 65 below) was repeated to him; he was also notified of his right to refuse the extension of the charges and to consult with his lawyer on this matter beforehand.37.  at the start of the trial in the assize court, on 1 february 2010, the applicant, assisted by his belgian counsel, filed a submission in which he requested that the records of the interviews conducted without legal assistance and the ensuing acts should be annulled and that the prosecution case should be declared inadmissible.it began by pointing out that the court’s case-law did not guarantee, in an absolute manner, the presence of a lawyer at all stages of the criminal proceedings from the first interview onwards and that the court had emphasised the need to take account of the proceedings as a whole when assessing whether the right to a fair trial had been upheld.40.  as to the consequences of the court’s case-law for the proceedings in the present case, the assize court took the view that, in respect of the french part of the proceedings, the applicant had initially waived his right to legal assistance.the assize court dismissed his allegation of pressure by the french gendarmes on the grounds that in one of his interviews (namely in the context of the reconstruction of 6 june 2008 referred to in paragraph 30 above) the applicant had given a different explanation as to why he had falsely accused the victim’s son, allegedly under duress, at the time of his arrest.41.  as to the belgian part of the proceedings, the assize court found that the applicant had not incriminated himself in respect of the charges, had not claimed that he had been put under any pressure by the investigators, had not been interviewed in a state of particular vulnerability, had expressed himself freely on the facts and had not in any way been compelled to incriminate himself, even being able to exercise his right to remain silent.on 5 november 2007] the jury considered decisive the consistent and mutually corroborative testimony of the youngsters who had seen only the defendant and the victim at the scene of the crime, without any other person being present, the threats previously made by the defendant against his victim and the various steps taken by philippe beuze (in particular the fact of hiding the axe in a bush) in preparation for the crime.on 17 september 2007] the jury found that the following evidence proved both the actual occurrence of the acts and the homicidal intention which had driven the defendant: – the defendant had deliberately arranged to be alone with a pregnant woman, whom he knew was thus placed in a weakened position; – he violently struck c.l., as shown by the medical findings, and left her for dead; – he then fled the scene without calling for help, even though he had the means to do so; – he subsequently sent text messages clearly showing his intention to kill c.l.47.  the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law against the assize court judgments of 1, 9 and 10 february 2010. alleging a violation of article 6 §§ 1 and 3 (c) of the convention, as interpreted in the court’s case-law, he relied on the right to be assisted by a lawyer and submitted that the presence of a lawyer during questioning was mandatory under the convention.5.  in the light of the following elements, there can be no automatic finding that it is irretrievably impossible for a person questioned by the police and the investigating judge without a lawyer to have a fair trial: the formal requirements laid down for the questioning of a suspect in article 47bis of the code of criminal procedure, the brevity of the police custody period, the immediate issuance to the person charged (upon notification of the arrest warrant) of all the documents referred to in sections 16(7) and 18(2) of the law of 20 july 1990, the right of the person charged to communicate immediately with his lawyer in accordance with section 20(1) and (5) of that law, access to the file as governed by section 21(3) of the law, the lawyer’s presence at the recapitulatory examination provided for in section 22(1), (2) and (3), and the rights set forth, in particular, in articles 61ter, 61quater, 61quinquies, 136 and 235bis of the code of criminal procedure.as can be seen from the following findings of the judgment appealed against [of 1 february 2010]: (i)  the appellant made no self-incriminating statements while in police custody; (ii)  prior to his first interview by the french gendarmerie, he expressly waived the legal assistance to which he was entitled under article 63-4 of the french code of criminal procedure; (iii)  the appellant was assisted by a lawyer from the time of his appearance before the investigation division of the douai court of appeal and for the two years of his pre-trial detention; (iv)  the appellant was at no point compelled to incriminate himself, and at all times expressed himself freely.
4.  the applicants were born in 1977 and 1964, respectively, and live in voronezh.5.  the applicants are lawyers practicing in russia.6.  between 2008 and 2010 the applicants, within the group of lawyers, consulted several municipal organisations about various legal issues and provided other legal service.however municipal organisations did not pay for the service and the applicants instituted proceedings seeking to recover the debt.7.  on 22 june 2010 the sovetskiy district court of voronezh granted the applicants claim against the municipal transport company and awarded them 40,020,000 russian roubles.the judgment was not appealed against and became final.it appears that the judgment was executed at the expense of the municipal budget.8.  on 9 january 2013 the prosecutor of the voronezh region applied to the district court for the extension of the time-limits for an ordinary appeal against the judgment of 22 june 2010.9.  on 13 june 2013 the district court refused to extend the time-limits.the prosecutor appealed.10.  on 8 august 2013 the voronezh regional court quashed the decision of the district court and extended the time limit for an ordinary appeal.the court found that the public interest had been concerned as far as the judgment had been executed by means of the municipal budget.thus the prosecutor had the right to lodge an appeal.11.  on 12 november 2013 the voronezh regional court granted the appeal lodged by the prosecutor and quashed the judgment of 22 june 2010 and ordered the reversal of execution.the judgment became final and was partially executed.
7.  on 9 march 2006 g.f. objected to that order by bringing a case against the applicant before the datça enforcement court.he requested that the court declare the enforcement order null and void on the grounds that he had made the payments in question in full.8.  in the first hearing g.f.’s representative requested the court to take out an expert report to determine whether the payments he had made corresponded to the alleged debt.the court adjourned its examination on the question whether an expert report would be sought to a hearing to be held on 10 may 2006.9.  in that hearing, the applicant’s representative left it to the court’s discretion for an expert to be appointed concerning the determination of the amounts that were already paid.10.  in the meantime, but before the hearing of 7 june 2006, the applicant’s representative requested that he be excused from that hearing since he had another scheduled court hearing elsewhere.11.  the court held the hearing as scheduled but noted that the applicant’s representative was excused.in that hearing, the court noted that the expert report had been submitted in the case-file and read its contents out in the presence of g.f.’s legal representative.the latter asked the court to rule in accordance with the findings in the expert report, which had concluded that all the relevant alimony payments had been made.the court scheduled a hearing for 21 june 2006 holding that the absent party be notified.12.  on 21 june 2006, in its final hearing, the court ruled against the applicant on the basis of the expert report in question.there is no indication in the transcript of the hearing that suggests that the court examined whether the applicant’s representative had been notified in due time.13.  on 31 july 2006 the applicant’s representative lodged an appeal before the court of cassation, arguing that the notice for the court hearing of 21 june 2006 had been served on him only on 26 june 2006, resulting in him and her client missing the opportunity to participate in the hearing and submit their observations on the findings of the expert report.he explained in that connection that the expert’s calculations had been erroneous and did not correspond to the bank transfer receipts in the case-file.14.  on 5 december 2006 the court of cassation upheld the decision of 21 june 2006 without responding to the applicant’s arguments.
the government also submitted detailed information about the hospital’s floor plan and noted that the relevant examination room measured 40 square metres, so the prison officers had not been in the immediate vicinity of the applicant.12.  following a referral by the prison medical unit for the applicant to be taken to hospital for an examination by an ear, nose and throat specialist, the prison director issued an order on 27 october 2011 assigning a four-member escort team equipped with firearms and ammunition to take the applicant to y hospital.they stated that although it appeared from the note in the applicant’s escort plan that he had refused to see a doctor at the hospital because of his handcuffs and ankle cuffs, his medical file nonetheless revealed that a short meeting between the applicant and the doctor might have taken place.a six-member team (four of whom were required to stay in the immediate vicinity of the applicant and two of whom had the task of “securing the convoy”) equipped with firearms and ammunition was assigned to escort the applicant.17.  according to the applicant, the prison officers had been aware that the visiting hours at the hospital were from 12 noon to 7 p.m., but he had been transferred to the hospital at around 11 a.m. his visit with his daughter had lasted only ten minutes because he had been there during the time that medical procedures were being performed on the patients.however, the time of the visit outside the hospital’s general visiting hours (from 12 noon to 7 p.m.) had been specifically agreed with the hospital so as to minimise contact between the applicant and other people.according to the escort plan, the applicant had arrived at the hospital at 10.50 a.m. and the visit had ended at 11.15 a.m. 19.  the government submitted an explanation drafted on 2 april 2012 by the head of the escort team on duty on the day of the visit.it stated that no medical procedures had been performed on the applicant’s daughter during the visit and that the visit had not been terminated – the applicant had wished to leave the hospital himself.20.  the government also submitted an explanation given on 18 august 2016 by the head of the hospital board, who admitted not remembering the actual visit but stated that according to the hospital rules and code of good conduct, the intensive care unit was very quiet and any information was passed on quietly, so as not to disturb anyone.21.  following the dismissal of his claims by x prison, the applicant lodged a claim with the tartu administrative court on 5 february 2012, alleging that the conditions and circumstances of the above-described visits had been unlawful.in the “facts and proceedings” (asjaolud ja menetluse käik) part of the judgment the court noted that the applicant had complained about the prison officers remaining in the examination room during the medical procedures and about his visit to see his daughter having taken place at the wrong time and being of limited duration.it noted that in his appeal the applicant had claimed that the administrative court had failed to address the obligation to wear prison clothing, the manner in which the prison officers had carried their weapons and special equipment and the breach of doctor-patient confidentiality.the court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s complaint about the prison officers’ presence during his hospital visits, as the prison officers had had a duty under the regulation of the minister of justice “prisoner escort duties and procedures” (see paragraph 36 below) to escort and guard him.in the “facts and proceedings” part of the judgment, the court of appeal noted that the applicant had, inter alia, complained that the visit to see his daughter had taken place at the wrong time, limiting his visit.the applicant also stated that the court of appeal had failed to address his complaint regarding the prison officers having taken him to see his child at the wrong time (thereby restricting the duration of the visit) and having stopped him from touching his daughter.
7.  according to a report drawn up by the police officers and signed by the applicant, on 19 november 2002 at 1.30 p.m., the applicant was taken into police custody on suspicion of membership of an illegal organisation, namely the hizbullah following an hour long armed conflict with the police officers during which he had resisted, had thrown a grenade and had fired back at the police officers.8.  on the same day at 1.50 p.m. the applicant was examined at the silvan state hospital, in diyarbakır, by a doctor who observed the following on the applicant’s body: 2 cm-long scrape on his lower left chest, handcuff marks on his wrists, a traumatic scrape on the front side of his right leg.also on the same day at 5.45 p.m. the applicant was examined at the diyarbakır state hospital by another doctor who made similar findings as those mentioned in the first medical report.9.  on 22 november 2002 the applicant was interviewed by police in the absence of a lawyer in the course of which he had allegedly sustained both physical and psychological ill-treatment.10.  on 23 november 2002 at the end of his police custody, the applicant was examined at the diyarbakır state hospital by a doctor who noted that there were no new signs of ill-treatment on the applicant’s body.according to the applicant, during the examination the police officers intervened and ordered the doctor to write that the applicant had some grazes on his wrists and ankles.11.  on 23 november 2002 the applicant gave a statement to the public prosecutor in the absence of a lawyer in which he accepted the accusations against him.on the same day the applicant was brought before the investigating judge at the diyarbakır state security court, who took his statements in the absence of a lawyer in which he had accepted most of the statements he had given to the police.according to his submissions before the court, the applicant claimed that he had admitted being a member of the hizbullah before the public prosecutor and the judge on account of the duress and the intimidation exerted on him by the police.he further claimed that the police officers had threatened him with excessive length of proceedings and had told him that if he had accepted the charges they would help him and release him from detention.12.  on 27 november 2002 the diyarbakır public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment, charging the applicant under article 146 of the former turkish criminal code with attempting to undermine the constitutional order of the state.13.  on 19 march 2003 the diyarbakır state security court held the first hearing on the merits of the case.during the hearing, the applicant gave evidence without a lawyer in which he denied his previous statements and the accusations.when asked about his statements before the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, the applicant stated that he had given self-incriminating statements as a result of the pressure from the police officers.16.  on 22 june 2007 the diyarbakır assize court found that, inter alia, on the basis of the applicant’s statements to the police, the public prosecutor and the investigating judge that the applicant had committed the offence under article 146 of the former criminal code and sentenced him to life imprisonment.
to the contrary, some witnesses among the chinese students submitted that they had been next to the applicant during the fight and that he had not been the one who had injured m. 22.  furthermore, several of the chinese witnesses told the police that w. had been particularly nervous after the incident, had destroyed the clothes he had been wearing on 1 may 2009 and had asked his parents for a considerable amount of money.with a metal skewer, but that it had been unlikely that he might have also injured m. next, the court referred to the statement of the police officer who had been on duty on 1 may 2009, that the applicant had been there all the time after the arrival of the police and that he had been calm, clean and without any injuries.25.  on 25 march 2010 the kharkiv regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) quashed the above-mentioned ruling, concluding that all the issues it raised could be clarified in the course of the trial and that an additional pre-trial investigation was not necessary.it was clear from the evidence in the case file that both the applicant and m. had been friendly and that both of them had tried to avoid the conflict.30.  on 2 july 2012 the kyivskyy court held that the deficiencies pointed out by the court of appeal in its ruling of 26 march 2012 had not been rectified and that the additional investigation, like the one carried out earlier, had been incomplete and superficial.the court observed that it was impossible to establish with precision the mechanism of the fatal injury to m. on the basis of the evidence of those witnesses.at the same time, in spite of requests by the applicant, it refused to admit in evidence any of the statements of the other chinese students, who had meanwhile left ukraine and could therefore not be questioned in court.the kyivskyy court held as follows: “... [pursuant to articles 85 and 86] and article 95 § 4 of the ccp [2012], the court may only base its conclusions on statements received directly at the court hearing or in accordance with the procedure [established by] article 225 of this code, and is not entitled to base judicial decisions on statements made to the investigator or prosecutor, or to refer to such statements.the court therefore holds that the reference by the applicant and his lawyer to the witness statements documented in the investigation’s reports and made either to the investigator or to the prosecutor outside of court hearings and not in accordance with the procedure [established by] article 225 of the ccp [2012], cannot be regarded as proper and admissible defence evidence.” 36.  the trial court further held: “..the court has no doubts regarding the circumstances of the case which it considers established ... the statements of the witnesses [sa., su.he observed that, under article 5 § 2 of the ccp 2012, the admissibility of evidence was to be assessed in the light of the ccp provisions in force at the time when that evidence was obtained.furthermore, the applicant referred to article 8 of chapter 11 of the transitional provisions of the ccp 2012, which stipulated that the issue of the admissibility of evidence obtained prior to the entry into force of the new ccp was to be decided in accordance with the procedure applicable prior to its entry into force (see paragraph 45 below).accordingly, he considered that the trial court should have been guided by provisions of the ccp 1960 when deciding on the admissibility of the evidence including the witness statements given by the chinese students.given that under the ccp 1960 evidence obtained in the course of a pre-trial investigation was admissible in criminal proceedings (see paragraph 44 below), the applicant complained that it had been unlawful and unfair to exclude the witness evidence for the defence and that by doing so the trial court had substantially aggravated his situation and had deprived him of the opportunity to defend himself.the trial court thoroughly verified [that evidence] and assessed it in an objective manner.” 40.  the court of appeal did not comment on the applicant’s argument about the applicability of the ccp 1960 on the assessment of the admissibility of evidence.the higher specialised court was silent on the applicant’s argument on the admissibility of the defence evidence in the light of the ccp 1960.
their property was damaged in the course of a counterterrorist operation in 1999-2000. the applicants did not pursue criminal remedies in order to determine the exact circumstances or identify the perpetrators of the damage.7.  the first applicant’s flat was damaged during the hostilities in 1994‑1995, and then destroyed in 1999-2000. it was situated in a 70-flat apartment block at 21 tereshkova street in grozny, chechnya.11.  in june 2010 the applicant was informed that her application had not been examined by the commission since the building in question had not been entered in the register of destroyed buildings.the register was to be updated by the technical unit of the federal authority on construction and municipal services (техническая группа федерального агентства по строительству и жкх по формированию перечня разрушенного жилья на территории чеченской республики, hereafter “the technical unit”).however, in august 2005 the work of the technical unit had been put on hold and the list of destroyed housing has not been updated since that time.on 12 august 2010 the staropromyslovskiy district court of grozny rejected the first applicant’s claim, pointing out that the commission was unable to proceed in the absence of the corresponding entry in the register.on 21 march 2013 the leninskiy district court of grozny rejected the first applicant’s claim, referring to the expiry of the time-limit and the lack of legal grounds for such claims.18.  in april 2010 he was informed that his application had not been examined by the commission since the address in question had not been entered in the register of destroyed buildings.on 5 july 2010 the staropromyslovskiy district court of grozny rejected his complaint since the commission was unable to proceed in the absence of the technical unit’s register.20.  the second applicant sought to obtain damages from the government of chechnya for the damaged property and for failure to compensate the damage by alternative means.his claim was dismissed for failure to comply with the limitation period in a judgment of the leninskiy district court of grozny of 27 june 2013, upheld on appeal on 7 november 2013 by the supreme court of chechnya.21.  the government submitted a letter issued by the chechen government on 13 january 2016, in response to a request for information in relation to the applicants’ situation.the letter stated that the commission had ceased to exist in january 2014. it had held a final meeting on 16 september 2013 and, according to the minutes of the meeting (no.in respect of the first applicant, the letter stated that her house had been inspected by the technical unit, which had confirmed its destruction (without specifying the date or any reference to the inspection record); however, for unknown reasons the building had not been entered in the register.the second applicant’s house had been inspected by the technical unit, which had found that it had not been destroyed (without specifying the date or any reference to the inspection record).
6.  at the time of the events the applicant was the owner of a company, incorporated in moldova, which ran an erotic video-chat business in chișinău.8.  on 7 march 2015, at the request of a public prosecutor, the centru district court ordered that the applicant be remanded in custody for a period of thirty days.the applicant appealed against the order and argued that his detention had not been based on a reasonable suspicion that he had committed an offence.he argued that the prosecutor and the court which had ordered his detention had applied an extensive interpretation of the provisions of the criminal code concerning the offence of pimping.9.  on 16 march 2015 the chișinău court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and held that there had been grounds to believe that he might abscond or interfere with the investigation.the court did not respond to the applicant’s argument about a lack of reasonable suspicion and the allegation of extensive interpretation of the criminal law.10.  on 31 march 2015 the centru district court upheld a request by the public prosecutor and prolonged the applicant’s detention for another thirty days.the applicant appealed on the same grounds as on the first occasion.11.  on an unspecified date the applicant lodged a habeas corpus request, which was upheld by the centru district court on 27 april 2015; the applicant was released from detention.12.  during the proceedings the applicant explained that, prior to starting the video-chat business, he had consulted a lawyer to make sure that the activity was legal in moldova, and he had been assured that it was not illegal.13.  on 30 december 2016 the centru district court found the applicant guilty as charged but ordered that the criminal proceedings against him be terminated on the basis of an amnesty law.one of the conditions for applying the amnesty law was for the applicant to admit his guilt and express remorse.14.  in deciding the case, the court sought an opinion from the state agency for the protection of morality as to whether the acts committed by the female models employed by the applicant could be qualified as prostitution and, thus, whether the applicant’s activity could be qualified as pimping.the opinion of 21 october 2015, which was the key element in convicting the applicant and was subsequently used in other similar cases, stated that the actions of the female models employed by the applicant could be considered acts of prostitution, in that their clients could obtain sexual gratification as a result of the models’ performance and because the models were paid for those acts.thus, the fact that the applicant obtained revenue from the above activity could be considered pimping.
it took into account the stabbing incident of 11 february 2012, the applicant’s history of aggressive behaviour and emotional characteristics (see paragraphs 12–13 below), and the need to ensure the health and safety of all those employed and detained in the prison.10.  the applicant lodged a complaint against the decision with the tartu administrative court, but as he had failed to pay the state fee, the court refused to examine it.the authorities also provided a detailed summary of incidents, altogether seventeen, which had occurred in prison between february 2002 and the incident of 11 february 2012 and which involved unlawful activity, disruptive behaviour and insubordination, and repeated violence or the threat of violence on the part of the applicant against the prison officers.14.  taking this into account, as well as the fact that on 30 may 2012 the applicant had, in a telephone call to the ministry of justice, said that he would be left with no option but to assault a prison officer, the prison authorities held that it would not be possible to discontinue the additional security measures.15.  by the first decision of 10 august 2012 the following additional security measures were imposed on the applicant: (i)  placement in a locked isolation cell to better monitor him and prevent contact with other prisoners, towards whom he might become violent; (ii)  restriction on his freedom of movement and communication inside the prison to prevent contact with other prisoners, whose health he might endanger; (iii)  a ban on using the prison’s sports facilities, as it was not possible to ensure the restrictions on his freedom of movement and communication while escorting him to these facilities.16.  the use of handcuffs on the applicant outside of his prison cell was at first not prolonged, but the decision was amended by another decision of the same date which required him to be handcuffed via the hatch on his cell door even before anyone entered.19.  on 2 march 2013 the applicant lodged an appeal with the tartu court of appeal, requesting that the judgment of the tartu administrative court be quashed and that the decisions of 10 august 2012 be declared unlawful, as it was no longer necessary to annul them as they had ceased to have effect six months after they had been adopted.23.  on 1 april 2014 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law with the supreme court against the judgment of the court of appeal in the joined cases.25.  the decision relied on the already mentioned information (see paragraphs 12 and 16 above) and a new personal risk assessment dated 26 september 2012 (which considered the applicant to be dangerous; it noted that he had a low tolerance to stress and that aggressive behaviour was one of the coping strategies which helped him get his way).it found that the prison authorities had correctly assessed that the applicant could still be considered unpredictable and dangerous to other prisoners and the prison officers and that the application of security measures – as a preventive step – had been justified.the court held that the first-instance court should have found the decision of x prison of 15 february 2013 unlawful with regard to the period 10 to 14 february 2013, since x prison had been obliged to review its decisions of 10 august 2012 within no more than six months.it upheld the remainder of the judgment of the tartu administrative court of 4 october 2013. in doing so, the court relied, inter alia, on the information gathered by the prison security department (see paragraph 25 above), which the court examined in closed proceedings as the material was confidential.the court found that the aforementioned information gave x prison sufficient grounds to believe that, upon the lifting of the additional security measures, the applicant would pose a danger to other prisoners and the prison officers.36.  between 5 september 2012 and 13 march 2013 the applicant participated in a social reintegration programme entitled “the right moment” (focusing on issues such as the mapping of problems, emotions and thoughts; expression and verbalisation of feelings; coping with conflict and tolerating different viewpoints) and between 27 march and 31 july 2013 in the “anger management” programme.42.  with reference to his musical activity, the applicant submitted a document dated 1 december 2014 in which the x prison authorities explained that in relation to the incident of 11 february 2012, the applicant had not been allowed to take part in musical or art activity, but added that such a right had been granted as of october 2014.
9.  in the meantime, on 21 july 2000 the police asked the canadian interpol office to check whether the applicant’s car and two other vehicles were being sought by the police in canada, under whose name they had been registered, whether they had been registered for export, and whether the car documents were genuine.10.  on 29 december 2000 the police asked the zagreb state attorney’s office (općinsko državno odvjetništvo u zagrebu) to decide on the status of the vehicle.11.  on 23 march 2001 the zagreb state attorney’s office instructed the police to ask for the relevant information from the canadian interpol office.13.  according to the available data, the canadian interpol office did not respond to the request of the police.14.  by a decision of 2 may 2002 the zagreb state attorney’s office ordered that the car be returned to the applicant, whereupon, on 7 may 2002, the police did so.he argued that the car had been returned to him in a state of disrepair because it had not been stored properly and, in any event, it had fallen in value during the two years it had been kept by the police, which had been an unreasonably long period.16.  the opinion of an expert obtained by the court during the proceedings suggested that the cost of repairing the applicant’s car amounted to hrk 35,275.95 and that its value had dropped by hrk 22,000.18.  the courts held that the temporary seizure of the applicant’s car had been lawful as it had been based on articles 177, 184 and 218 of the code of criminal procedure, and that therefore the state could not be held liable for damages.19.  the applicant then concurrently lodged an extraordinary appeal on points of law with the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske) and a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske).20.  in his appeal on points of law the applicant asked the supreme court to pronounce itself on a legal question which he considered important for the uniform application of the law, namely, whether the owners of objects temporarily seized for the purposes of criminal proceedings were entitled to compensation for the inability to use those objects, in a situation where, eventually, no criminal or minor-offence proceedings had been instituted.21.  in his constitutional complaint the applicant argued that the judgments of the first and second-instance courts had been in breach of his right of ownership, guaranteed by article 48 of the croatian constitution.22.  by a decision of 21 february 2012 the supreme court declared the applicant’s appeal on points of law inadmissible, finding that the legal question he had raised was not important for the uniform application of the law.23.  on 23 january 2014 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint and served its decision on his representative on 7 february 2014. the court examined the case primarily under article 29 § 1 of the croatian constitution, which guarantees the right to fair procedure, and held that the contested judgments had not been arbitrary.as regards the applicant’s argument that his right of ownership guaranteed by article 48 of the constitution had been violated, the constitutional court held as follows: “the constitutional court protects the right of ownership at the constitutional level in a manner that prevents any restriction or taking of [property] by the state authorities, unless the restriction or taking is provided for by law ... ... interferences with ownership by other legal subjects (natural or legal persons) are property disputes of a private-law nature.the constitutional court also examines such decisions by judicial and other authorities if it finds that the contested decision, having regard to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the constitution, is based on an unacceptable legal view or is so wrong and lacking in sound legal reasoning that it can be described as arbitrary.
15526/10, 8 november 2011) found that the investigation into the applicant’s arguable claim of ill-treatment by the police during the arrest had not been effective, contrary to the requirements of the procedural limb of article 3 of the convention.the court thus concluded that the applicant had been subjected to inhuman and degrading treatment by the police, in breach of the substantive limb of article 3 of the convention.8.  on 16 august 2012, in the context of the procedure for the execution of the court’s judgment, the government submitted an action plan indicating that the applicant had sought the reopening of the case against the police officers implicated in the incident (s.p., v.b., d.k.11.  following the court orders for the reopening of the proceedings against the police officers, the zagreb municipal state attorney’s office (općinsko državno odvjetništvo u zagrebu; hereinafter: “the state attorney’s office”) assumed responsibility for conducting the investigation.12.  on 13 june 2014 the state attorney’s office informed the applicant that it had opened an investigation in respect of the police officers concerning his allegations of ill-treatment during his arrest on 11 august 2006. the applicant was also served with the decision on the opening of the investigation, which indicated that in the further course of the proceedings it would be necessary to question him, his parents and his common-law wife, ms t.v., as well as the relevant police officers, and that a forensic expert report concerning the injuries which the applicant had sustained in the incident would be ordered.in addition, the applicant was served with a list of his rights as a victim in the proceedings, which included, in particular, the right to be represented by a lawyer, to lodge a civil claim, to propose that certain facts be established and evidence obtained in the proceedings, and to have access to the file.13.  on the same day, the state attorney’s office received a letter from the applicant’s lawyer (dated 12 june 2014) asking whether further proceedings would be conducted and whether the applicant would be able to propose that certain evidence be obtained in the proceedings.stated that he had seen the applicant and the police officers talking in the flat and that at one point the applicant had tried to punch one of the police officers, after which the police officers had engaged in suppressing his resistance.22.  on 27 november 2014 the state attorney’s office asked the zagreb emergency service to provide the names of the members of the medical team who had intervened at the scene during the applicant’s arrest.23.  however, on the basis of a statement given by one of the suspects, v.b., the state attorney’s office established the identity of one of the paramedics who had intervened at the scene.25.  the state attorney’s office found that the forensic expert, d.m., needed to be questioned concerning his report and that he should be presented with some further evidence obtained during the investigation, namely photographs of the crime scene and the individuals concerned taken immediately after the incident, the statements of the relevant police officers and the statement given by the paramedic.the latter stated that the injuries to the applicant’s face could not have been caused when the police officers had attempted to prevent the applicant from self-harming by holding his face, but that it was possible that he had banged his head against the stretcher while being transported by the paramedics.also explained that, having seen the photographs of the applicant taken after the incident, he did not believe that the injuries he had sustained had been caused by beating, but were likely to have been caused by the commotion during the arrest.27.  on 9 december 2014 the state attorney’s office, by a reasoned decision analysing all the evidence obtained and the facts established during the investigation, terminated the investigation on grounds of lack of evidence of any ill-treatment or any other excessive use of force by the police during the applicant’s arrest.one of the experts, v.p., concluded that the injuries on the applicant’s body could have been caused by blows or by the body being dragged across the floor, and that the injuries to his hands and legs could have been caused by impact against a hard surface.
the applicant challenged the authenticity of the police reports and the witness statement of the two police officers on the grounds that he had been arrested by different police officers, but his objection was dismissed.on the basis of the written statements and testimony of two police officers the justice of the peace found the applicant guilty of taking part in an irregular public gathering conducted without prior notification and fined the applicant 1,000 russian roubles (rub), equivalent at the material time to about 25 euros (eur), under article 20 § 2 of the code of administrative offences.he also testified that the police officers who had placed the applicant in the police bus were the same officers who had signed the report and who had appeared at the first-instance hearing.on the basis of written statements by two police officers the justice of the peace found the applicant guilty of taking part in a meeting conducted before 7 a.m., in breach of regulations, and fined him rub 1,000 under article 20 § 2 of the code of administrative offences.the justice of the peace refused to admit video evidence and dismissed the eyewitness statements on the grounds that the eyewitnesses were likely to be the applicant’s supporters and were therefore biased.on the basis of the written statements of two police officers the court established that the applicant had taken part in an irregular public meeting and had disobeyed a lawful order from the police to disperse.the justice of the peace rejected the statements of the three eyewitnesses, on the grounds that they had given different estimates of the number of people present at the venue, the number of police officers who arrested the applicant, and the time of his arrival at the meeting.the applicant was found guilty of disobeying the lawful order of the police, in breach of article 19 § 3 of the code of administrative offences, and was sentenced to fifteen days’ administrative imprisonment.the applicant asked for the police officers on whose reports and statements the justice of the peace had based the judgment to be cross-examined, as well as eight eyewitnesses, and for the video recording of the arrest to be admitted as evidence.the three eyewitnesses examined at the applicant’s request testified that the applicant, after ending his picket, had walked down the street while speaking with a fellow activist, surrounded by journalists; he remained on the pavement, did not chant slogans, and carried no banners; several other participants in the picket remained standing with their banners, at a certain distance from each other; the police arrested the applicant without any warning or explanation.on the basis of written reports by two police officers the justice of the peace established that the applicant had organised and led a group of thirty people, thus holding a march without the approval of the local authorities; that they were heading from lubyanskaya square to lefortovo detention facility, and that at 9 maroseyka street the group had obstructed the road, thus halting traffic.she dismissed the witness statements in the applicant’s favour on the grounds that they contradicted the evidence in the case file and found the applicant guilty of taking part in a march which had not been duly notified to the authorities.according to the police report, when the applicant was being seated in the police vehicle he was waving at the crowd and trying to attract media attention, thus demonstrating a refusal to comply with the police order and resisting the officers in the performance of their duties.39.  on the following day, 25 february 2014, at an unidentified time, the applicant was brought before the judge of the tverskoy district court, who examined the charges under article 19 § 3 of the code of administrative offences.on the basis of the written reports by the two police officers, the judge found the applicant guilty of taking part in a meeting which had not been notified to the competent authority in accordance with the procedure provided by law, and fined him rub 10,000 (equivalent to about eur 200) under article 20 § 2 of the code of administrative offences.
9.  on 20 june 2007 the first applicant was arrested by agents of the ministry of national security (“the mns”) on suspicion of planning to murder z.f., at that time the head of the absheron district executive authority, because of a professional dispute between them.11.  on 21 june 2007 the sabail district court, referring to the official charges brought against the first applicant and the prosecutor’s request, remanded the first applicant in custody for three months.the judge substantiated the necessity of the measure by the seriousness of the first applicant’s alleged criminal acts and the possibility of his absconding from and obstructing the investigation.the relevant part of the decision read as follows: “having examined the material in the criminal case and having agreed with the submissions of the first deputy prosecutor general of the republic of azerbaijan that the accused, a. aslanov, attempted to commit a particularly serious crime, that it was needed to prevent his unlawful actions, that there were sufficient grounds to believe that, if released, he would abscond from the investigation and disrupt the establishment of the truth about the case and relying on articles ... decided ...” 12.  on 22 june 2007 the first applicant appealed against that order, claiming that his detention was unlawful.the relevant part of the decision reads as follows: “the court bench considers that the first-instance court, having taken into account that a. aslanov could obstruct the investigation, the nature of the criminal act, and the fact that the punishment for committing such an act is over two years’ imprisonment, was correct in considering it necessary to apply the preventive measure of remand in custody in respect of him.therefore, the court bench does not consider that the representative’s appeal should be allowed at this stage of the investigation.” 14.  on 20 june 2007 the first applicant was taken to the pre-trial detention facility of the mns and detained in a cell alone.16.  it appears from the medical documentation in the case file that, following the first applicant’s dialysis at the central oil workers’ hospital, he was taken directly to the medical facility, where he remained until his death.the investigator asked the experts to establish whether the first applicant suffered from coronary heart disease, postinfarction cardiosclerosis, end-stage kidney failure, diabetes and poor eyesight and if so, to determine the level of seriousness of the conditions and establish whether he could continue his medical treatment in the medical facility where he was being detained.the part of the decision regarding the first applicant’s medical care in detention reads as follows: “in accordance with the forensic report’s findings, in the medical facility where he was detained the accused a. aslanov was placed under the full control of the doctors specialising in the medical fields indicated in the report and the continuity of his [dialysis] has, until now, been ensured.” 27.  on 27 september and 11 october 2007 the first applicant’s lawyer asked the ministry of justice to provide him with a copy of the document listing the serious illnesses precluding the detention of prisoners.in particular, the lawyer asked the court to acknowledge a violation of the first applicant’s right to medical assistance in detention and declare unlawful the ministry of justice’s decision not to provide him with the document listing the serious illnesses precluding the detention of prisoners.on 27 november 2007 the first applicant’s lawyer asked the president of the sabail district court to examine the case as soon as possible in view of the real risk to the first applicant’s life.29.  on 26 january 2008 the first applicant’s lawyer received a copy of a decision dated 3 december 2007 by the sabail district court refusing to examine on the merits the complaint lodged on 23 november 2007. the sabail district court refused to admit the action on the grounds that the first applicant had failed to specify the rights that he considered had been breached.32.  according to the sabail district court’s decision of 4 march 2008, the first-instance court decided to leave without examination the action due to failure of the parties to attend the hearing.the court relied on article 259.0.6 of the code of civil procedure which provided that the action was left without examination if the parties failed to attend the hearing without asking in advance the court to examine the action in their absence.37.  following the first applicant’s death on 22 january 2008 (see paragraph 17 above), on 21 february 2008 the sumgayit court of appeal decided to continue the appeal proceedings in respect of the first applicant at the request of the second applicant.
7.  on 7 april 2008 the trade union entered into negotiations with russian railways, seeking a general pay raise and the introduction of long‑service bonuses for the relevant staff.on 25 april 2008 the trade union committee decided that the staff of russian railways in two suburban moscow sectors should participate in the strike as from 4 a.m. on 28 april 2008. the trade union committee’s decision referred to minimum services which would be provided during the strike, although the parties have not made any submissions in this regard.the strike caused delays in circulation of the trains in the sector where the applicant worked.(a year previously, on 8 june 2007, the applicant had been officially reprimanded for having stopped the train 50 metres after the platform).the second breach was the applicant’s refusal to take up his duties during the strike on 28 april 2008.10.  the applicant complained to a court that he should not have been dismissed for having participated in the strike organised by his trade union.11.  on 19 august 2008 the case was heard by the meschanskiy district court of moscow (“the district court”).the court confirmed the lawfulness of the applicant’s dismissal for a repeated failure to properly perform his professional duties.regarding the applicant’s participation in the strike, the court relied on the railway acts of 1995 and 2003 (articles 17 and 26 (2) respectively – see paragraphs 15 and 17 below).the court stressed that those limitations were aimed at securing safety on the railway and that railway workers were subjected to stricter disciplinary rules than workers in other sectors of industry.the applicant was a locomotive driver; therefore, his work was directly linked to the circulation of trains, shunting, and the provision of services to passengers.the district court concluded that the applicant had been precluded from participating in the strike.relying on a report dated 29 april 2008 issued by the moscow interregional transport prosecutor’s office, the district court furthermore noted that the strike had caused a number of cancelled and delayed trains which had resulted in “massive violations of the rights and lawful interests of citizens, leading to their belated arrival at their workplaces and educational institutions, at medical facilities providing health care, [and] for long-distance trains, bus runs and flights”.the district court did not discuss the question of whether advance notice of the strike had been given or other issues related to the lawfulness of the strike of 28 april 2008.12.  on 29 january 2009, following an appeal by the applicant, the moscow city court confirmed the judgment of 19 august 2008.
concluded a down‑payment agreement (kontratë kapari) according to which the applicant deposited just under half of the sale price as a down-payment (kapar), the remainder to be paid upon the regularisation of the house’s status and the conclusion of the sale agreement.8.  on 8 december 2011 the applicant moved into the house on the basis of the down-payment agreement.14.  on the same day the applicant sent text messages to the chief of police and the district prosecutor, seeking the authorities’ protection against further violence.22.  on 12 december 2012 the vlora district court decided to discontinue the proceedings on the basis of article 387 of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccp”) as an amnesty had been granted in respect of that offence pursuant to the general amnesty act (law no.36.  on 17 january 2013 the forensic experts confirmed that strangulation marks and haematomata on the head as a result of the events of 8 september 2012 and a suture (as a result of surgery) had been found on the applicant’s body.they further stated that on the basis of the documents in the case file, namely the hospital certificate of 27 november 2012, the magnetic resonance images, and the report of a consultation with a particular neuropsychiatrist, the damage found on the magnetic resonance images was unrelated to the events of 8 september 2012; they had been caused as a result of conditions that had existed before the trauma.the decision also made reference to two forensic examinations of 10 september 2012 and 17 january 2013. the decision, in so far as relevant, reads as follows: “... on the basis of the forensic examination of 10 september 2012 it was found that the bodily injuries had rendered her temporarily unfit for work for over nine days.... the offences set out in articles 89, 277 and 275 of the criminal code, in respect of which investigations have been opened, have a maximum term of imprisonment of two years, and were committed prior to 30 september 2012. under these circumstances, there are grounds which mean that the investigation (procedimi penal) cannot continue.” 38.  the applicant lodged an appeal against the prosecutor’s decision of 15 february 2013 with the general prosecutor of albania.she requested that the investigation be continued by the district prosecutor on account of theft in collusion with others, destruction of property, torture and constraint through threat or violence for the acquisition of property under articles 134, 150, 86, 109/b of the cc respectively.40.  on 11 july 2014 the general prosecutor sent the file to the fier district prosecutor’s office to proceed with the applicant’s complaint concerning the impartiality of the vlora district prosecutor.41.  on 2 and 3 november 2017, the government and the applicant, respectively, informed the court that the applicant had lodged a complaint with the vlora district court against the prosecutor’s decision of 15 february 2013 under article 329 of the ccp.46.  on 3 november 2017 the applicant informed the court of the outcome of the third investigation.50.  on 10 april 2014 the vlora district court discontinued the proceedings on the basis of article 387 of the ccp since an amnesty had been granted in respect of the offence pursuant to the general amnesty act.53.  on 3 december 2014 the tirana district court, following an application by the applicant, decided to quash the prosecutor’s decision and ordered him to continue the investigation.on 11 december 2017 the tirana prosecutor’s office declared its lack of competence and transferred the case to the vlora prosecutor’s office, which registered the case no.
5.  on 22 may 2008 the applicant arrived at the ik-8 correctional colony, yamalo-nenetskiy region.7.  on 9 april 2008 the justice of the peace of circuit no.2 of the krasnosulinskiy district of the rostov region (“justice of the peace”) sent a letter rogatory to the courts of tyumen region, asking them to interview the applicant and to establish whether he wished to attend the hearing in person.8.  on 22 april 2008 the tyumen regional division of the judicial department received the letter.9.  on 4 july 2008 a justice of the peace in labytnangi fixed an interview with the applicant for 18 july 2008 and sent two summonses to his home address, which his wife had listed in her statement of claim.10.  on 10 september 2009 the tyumen courts informed the justice of the peace that it had been impossible to reach the applicant.on the same day the justice of the peace decided to hold a hearing in the applicant’s absence, noting that although the applicant had his registered residence at the address mentioned by the plaintiff, he had not appeared for an interview before the justice of the peace.11.  on 18 september 2008 the justice of the peace granted the divorce.on the same day a copy of the decision was sent to the applicant’s home address.12.  on 20 november 2013, the applicant learnt of the judgment of 18 september 2008. he asked for an extension of the time-limit for lodging an appeal against it.he argued that he had never received the judgment of 18 september 2008 and that he had been previously unaware of the divorce proceedings.13.  on 26 december 2013 the justice of the peace heard evidence from the applicant’s former wife who claimed that the applicant should have been aware of the divorce proceedings in 2008 because his mother had received the final judgment of 18 september 2008. the justice of the peace held that an excerpt of the judgment had been served on the applicant in person on 31 october 2008 and refused the applicant’s application to extend the time limit for lodging an appeal.the hearing was held in the applicant’s absence.the applicant lodged an appeal against the decision.14.  on 15 may 2014 the krasnosulinskiy district court of rostov region upheld the decision of 26 december 2013, again in his absence.
6.  on 26 june 2012 mr n. reported to the inter-district investigative committee that, since 2010, his minor daughter, the applicant in the present case, had been repeatedly forced to have oral and anal sex with eleven men over a period of almost two years from october or september 2010 to june 2012. the men had filmed the events and had threatened to disclose this information to the public should the applicant refuse to comply with their demands.7.  in response to a complaint lodged by the applicant’s father, the authorities instituted a preliminary inquiry during which p., an investigator, questioned the applicant (who provided a detailed account of the above-mentioned events), subjected the applicant to a gynaecological examination (which did not detect any traces of sexual assault on the applicant’s body), conducted an inspection of the locations where the alleged rapes had taken place and collected wet towel wipes found at the location of the “t.l.” area (the applicant having explained that one of the rapists had wiped himself with a towel wipe).10.  having examined the material obtained in the course of the inquiry, p., the investigator, discerned no evidence to support the applicant’s allegations of rape and on 26 july 2012 issued a decision declining to open a criminal investigation against the alleged perpetrators.11.  on 2 august 2012 the head of the inter-district investigative committee quashed the decision of 26 july 2012, noting that the investigator had not questioned all the alleged perpetrators and had failed to obtain the results of the forensic examination.13.  on 17 august 2012 the deputy head of the investigative committee quashed the decision of 12 august 2012, noting that the investigator had failed to comply with the decision of 2 august 2012.in addition, he relied on the statements made by the other three alleged perpetrators and the results of the forensic analysis, according to which the sperm found on the towel wipes could belong to dzh.n.21.  on 17 june 2013 the forensic expert prepared a report concerning the examination of the flash memory drives of six mobile telephones which the investigator had earlier obtained from the alleged perpetrators.the polygraph specialist concluded, on the basis of the answers provided by m.g., that it was probable that he had blackmailed or threatened the applicant and had coerced her into performing oral sex on him at the b. hotel.26.  on 13 january 2014 the first deputy head of the republican investigative committee determined that the criminal investigation had been incomplete and perfunctory and quashed the decision of 6 december 2013, ordering a further investigation.29.  on 20 june 2014 the sovetskiy district court dismissed a complaint lodged by the applicant against the decision of 25 february 2014. on 20 august 2014 the supreme court upheld the said decision on appeal.30.  on 28 january 2015 the deputy head of the second division of the republican investigative committee quashed the decision of 16 may 2015 and reopened the criminal investigation against m.g.31.  on 29 january 2015 the district court dismissed the applicant’s complaint against the decision of 16 may 2014. on 1 april 2015 the supreme court of the dagestan republic upheld the decision of 29 january 2015 on appeal.he also indicated in the decision to discontinue the investigation that he had received a response from the relevant mobile-telephone service providers that they had not been able to obtain and submit information concerning mobile communications between the applicant and the alleged perpetrators.the investigator concluded as follows: “... the allegations that [the applicant was raped] are confirmed only by [the applicant] and her parents ... who learned about them from [the applicant].41.  in particular, the government did not submit any of the material referred to by the investigator in his decision of 30 january 2016 as regards mobile communications between the applicant and the alleged perpetrators.
7.  at 4.30 p.m. on 4 july 2013 the applicant was arrested near his car on a street in st petersburg by masked police officers of the special rapid response unit of the main directorate of internal affairs (guvd) of st petersburg and the leningrad region (собр гу мвд рф по санкт‑петербургу и ленинградской области­), and operational police officers of unit no.59); struck with a book to the head, ears and back of the head and made to kneel on small objects spread out on the floor (by ch., k. and p. during the search in his apartment); punched, kicked and dragged to the ground and spat upon in the face (during the search in the garage); punched in the head, abdomen and chest, nearly suffocated with a plastic bag placed over his head, struck several times in the torso and kicked in the left kidney (by ch., k. and p. from 2 a.m. to 6 a.m. in d.’s office at the st petersburg investigative committee), and threatened with a gun by ch.10.  from 7 to 8.30 a.m. on 5 july 2013 at the st petersburg investigative committee d. questioned the applicant as a suspect in the presence of a.d., a state‑appointed lawyer invited by d. according to the applicant, he asked a.d. to inform the internal security department of the ministry of internal affairs of his alleged ill‑treatment, but he did not do so.19.  on 2 september 2013 sh., an investigator at the st petersburg investigative committee in charge of a pre-investigation inquiry into the applicant’s alleged ill-treatment by the police, ordered a forensic medical examination of the applicant’s medical documents, stating that he was in custody and could not therefore appear for the examination in person.3575 p, which was carried out in the absence of the applicant from 13 to 18 september 2013 on the basis of the investigator’s order of 2 september 2013, and which comprised an analysis of the applicant’s medical records, the applicant had the following injuries: (i) bruising on his forehead; (ii) bruising on his chest and abdomen; (iii) an abrasion on his abdomen; (iv) abrasions on his right elbow joint and both knee joints, recorded on 5 july 2013; and (v) bruising on his arms, recorded on 8 july 2013. the expert concluded that the applicant’s injuries, as recorded on 5 and 8 july 2013, had been caused within the last fourteen to fifteen days.the expert did not exclude the possibility that the applicant’s injuries had been caused on 4 july 2013 and concluded that the injuries had originated from impact with a hard, blunt object or objects as a result of a blow or pressure (bruising), friction or a blow with friction (abrasions), and had not caused any “health damage” to the applicant.the investigator stated that it had been established based on the video recording of the applicant’s arrest that in the course of his arrest the applicant had been “knocked down” (повален) to the ground, where had remained lying for some time, face down and motionless.it was carried out in the absence of the applicant on the basis of the investigator’s order of 15 october 2013, and comprised an analysis of the applicant’s medical documents and photographs in which he could be seen lying on the ground face down after his arrest in the presence of several police officers of the special rapid response unit.the expert further reiterated the conclusions made in the previous report about the other possible causes of the injuries such as being struck and, in particular, that he did not exclude the possibility that the applicant’s injuries to his abdomen, taking into account their nature and localisation, could have equally been caused by being kicked in that area one or more times, as was alleged by the applicant.ch., k. and p., the police officers of the criminal investigation department who participated in the applicant’s arrest, stated that they had not seen the precise moment of his arrest, that is to say when he had been apprehended and laid face down on the ground by a. and b.s.according to a.b., the neighbours from the building nearby (whose names are not indicated in the investigators’ decisions) had allegedly seen the applicant attempting to run away from the police officers in the direction of his car; however, he had then been apprehended by the police officers of the special rapid response unit.34.  in the most recent refusal (5 september 2015) to open a criminal case – owing to the absence of the elements of offences under articles 286 (abuse of powers) and 302 (forced extraction of confession) of the criminal code in the actions of ch., k., p. and d. – sh.as to the abrasions on his limbs, head and abdomen, the investigator concluded that they had most probably been caused during the arrest as a result of the use of combat techniques on the applicant by the officers of the special rapid response unit and the applicant’s position (нахождение) on the ground.36.  on 25 june 2014 the oktyabrskiy district court of st petersburg dismissed the applicant’s appeal against the refusal of 9 december 2013. on 7 october 2014 the st petersburg city court quashed that decision on appeal and found the refusal in question unlawful and unsubstantiated; it ordered the investigating authorities to rectify the deficiencies.in particular, the court found that the investigator had not addressed the applicant’s arguments concerning the alleged threats and incidents of physical assault by the police during the search of the garage, and had not substantiated its refusal to open a criminal case.
the statement read as follows: “the wave of revolution that started in kobani must spread throughout kurdistan, and on that basis, we call for an uprising by the kurdish youth ... all those among our people who can make it to suruç must go there immediately without wasting a second, and every inch of kurdistan must rise up for kobani ... we call upon all our people, from 7 to 70, to make life unbearable for daesh and their collaborators the akp wherever they are, and to take a stand against these gangs [responsible for] massacres by fostering rebellion [serhildan in kurdish] up to the highest level.” (“kobani ile başlayan devrim dalgası tüm kürdistan’a yayılmalı ve bu temelde kürt gençliğinin ayaklanması çağrısında bulunuyoruz... bütün halkımız suruç’a gidebilecekler hemen bir saniye zaman kaybetmeden gitmeli ve kürdistan’ın her karış toprağı kobanê için ayağa kalkmalıdır... tüm halkımızı yediden yetmişe bulunduğu her yerde yaşamı işi̇d ve işbirlikçisi akp’ye dar etmeye ve serhıldanı en üst düzeyde geliştirerek bu katliamcı çetelere karşı durmaya çağırıyoruz.”) 18.  on 7 october 2014 the following statement by the kck executive council was published on the same website: “our people must carry on the resistance they have started against this terrible and insidious massacre, by spreading it everywhere and at all times.the magistrate ordered his continued detention, having regard to the existence of grounds justifying it; the nature of the alleged offences and the fact that they were among those listed in article 100 § 3 of the ccp; the reasonable suspicion that the applicant had committed a criminal offence within the meaning of article 5 of the convention; the strong suspicion against the applicant for the purposes of article 19 of the constitution; and the factual evidence grounding a strong suspicion that he had committed an offence for the purposes of article 100 of the code of criminal procedure.3713)), incitement to commit an offence (article 214 § 1 of the cc), condoning crime and criminals (four counts – article 215 § 1 of the cc), public incitement to hatred and hostility (two counts – article 216 § 1 of the cc), incitement to disobey the law (article 217 § 1 of the cc), organising and participating in unlawful meetings and demonstrations (three counts – section 28(1) of the meetings and demonstrations act (law no.(i) in a speech he had given in batman on 27 october 2012 in the offices of the peace and democracy party (“the bdp”, a left-wing pro-kurdish political party), the applicant had disseminated propaganda in favour of the pkk terrorist organisation by urging people to close their shops and not to send their children to school as a protest aimed at securing the release of the pkk leader.... at the time of the initial resistance in şemdinli [and] eruh [the first terrorist attacks by the pkk, carried out in the şemdinli district in hakkari and the eruh district in siirt on 15 august 1984], no one was aware of what was happening but the resistance has today created [the] reality of the [kurdish] people.(vi) the applicant was in charge of the political wing of the kck illegal organisation; the public prosecutor presented evidence against him including the following: –  two documents, entitled “documento” and “ikram ark”, discovered on a hard drive seized from the home of a certain a.d., who had been sentenced to eighteen years’ imprisonment for leading a terrorist organisation; according to those documents, the kck leader in turkey, s.o., had given instructions to several people, including the applicant, to visit the relatives of i̇.e., who had been mistakenly assassinated by the pkk; –  the records of intercepted telephone conversations between s.o.having regard to the number and nature of the charges against the applicant and the concrete evidence grounding a strong suspicion that he had committed an offence, and bearing in mind that he had yet to provide his defence submissions, that he had refused to appear before the investigating authorities, that the alleged offences were among those listed in article 100 § 3 of the ccp and that the grounds for keeping him in detention remained unchanged, it ordered his continued pre-trial detention.in a decision of 14 march 2017 the diyarbakır assize court dismissed the objection on the basis of the nature of the alleged offences, the state of the evidence, the period that the applicant had spent in detention, the strong suspicion that he had committed the offences in question and his refusal to appear before the investigating authorities during the investigation.having regard to the number and nature of the charges against him, the existence of concrete evidence grounding a strong suspicion that he had committed the offences in question and the upper and lower limits of the sentences prescribed for those offences, and bearing in mind that he had yet to provide his defence submissions, that he had refused to appear before the investigating authorities and that the grounds for keeping him in detention remained unchanged, it ordered his continued pre-trial detention.lastly, having regard to the contents of the conversations between senior officials of the pkk and the applicant, it found that it had been legitimate to consider that the applicant might have acted in accordance with the instructions of the leaders of a terrorist organisation.in finding a violation of the right to liberty and security of the members of parliament concerned, it had weighed the public interest inherent in the exercise of the right to be elected and to carry out political activities against the length of the applicants’ detention (four years, three months and twenty-two days in the mehmet haberal judgment (no.77.  concerning the applicant’s complaint that he had had no access to the investigation file, the constitutional court held that he had had sufficient means available to prepare his defence to the charges against him and to challenge his pre-trial detention, in view of the contents of the investigation reports submitted to the national assembly by the public prosecutors.it found that although the applicant had not had an unlimited right of access to the evidence in the file between 9 september 2016 and 2 february 2017, he had had sufficient knowledge of the substance of the evidence forming the basis for his pre-trial detention and had thus had the opportunity to properly contest the reasons given to justify the detention.turning to the risk of absconding, he observed firstly that the orders for the applicant’s initial and continued pre-trial detention had given two main reasons to substantiate that risk, namely the severity of the sentences prescribed by law for the offences in question and the fact that the applicant had refused to appear before the investigating authorities.82.  on 21 may 2018 the ankara 19th assize court, by a majority, dismissed the objection, on the following grounds: –  the existence of evidence grounding a strong suspicion that the applicant had committed the offences of which he was accused; –  the fact that the offences in question were among those listed in article 100 § 3 of the ccp; –  the severity of the sentences prescribed by law for the offences concerned; –  the finding that alternative measures to detention appeared insufficient; –  the applicant’s refusal to appear before the investigating authorities; –  the fact that the applicant’s defence submissions had not yet been obtained.
subsequent records stated that following a discussion during the drafting of the first record, the staff had decided to present the books for 1998 but not those relating to the tax year 2000. the inspectors stated that seven books and a total of 396 receipts had been submitted.summarising the content of the records drawn up until that point and referring to all the correspondence between her and the applicant company, she maintained that the company’s representatives had acted in a hostile manner and tried to obstruct the work of the inspectors by hiding information such as their names and the official address of the company, as well as by unjustly accusing her.the relevant parts of the search warrant read as follows: “pursuant to the şişli public prosecutor’s request dated 26 october 2000, it is decided that: 1.  a search will be carried out at the business premises of em export dış ticaret a.ş., located at ... mecidiyeköy, istanbul, taking into account that the account books and other documents to be examined are [being] presented to the authorities at that address.25.  on 23 january 2001 the tax inspectorate requested an extension of the audit period, on account of the substantial number of documents seized during the search and the fact that the applicant company had not submitted the missing documents until 23 december 2000. it also stated that the applicant company had not yet presented some of the documents requested.on 31 may 2001 the şişli criminal court of general jurisdiction decided to annul the remainder of the extended period, holding that the four months that had passed since the magistrates’ court’s decision must have been sufficient to conclude the audit.in that connection, among many documents examined, the report also referred to the information provided by the enforcement authorities, which specified the total amount paid to the applicant company by the iron and steel company and the interest rate applied in the calculation of that amount.reiterating the content of the records drawn up during the visits to that latter address, the report noted that after having obtained a search warrant from the magistrates’ court, the inspectors had had to seize the relevant documents and take them to the tax inspectorate, as the audit could not be carried out there due to the staff’s behaviour and as it was not the applicant company’s registered business address within the meaning of section 139 of the tax procedure act (law no.32.  the applicant company brought two sets of proceedings before the istanbul tax court, requesting the annulment of the income tax and the penalty imposed in respect of different periods of year 2001. it stated that both the tax and the penalty had resulted from the payment made to it by the iron and steel company following the judgment of the commercial court to that effect, and that the amount was not yet subject to any tax as proceedings were still pending before the court of cassation.had refused to make an inventory of the documents seized during the search, had prevented it from sealing the documents with its own seal and had distorted the facts in the search records as well as in the tax-assessment report she had drafted.referring to section 139 of the tax procedure act, the court held that the applicants’ behaviour before the search, as well as their failure to submit the required documents and to respond to the tax inspectors’ letters, had made it clear that the audit could not be conducted at the applicant company’s premises.in that connection, it held that the amount paid to the applicant company by the iron and steel company was subject to taxation and that the former had failed to clarify the source of substantial transactions with some of its partners.had distorted the content of certain documents she had seized during the search and had not notified it of the records she had drawn up during the course of the audit, in breach of the relevant legislation.37. the applicant company applied for rectification of the judgment, arguing that although the tax-assessment report pointed to the absence of certain receipts as one of the reasons for the penalty, those receipts and other important documents had unlawfully been taken from its premises during the search and had not been made accessible to the applicants later on.42.  the applicant company brought two sets of proceedings before the istanbul tax court, this time requesting the annulment of both the provisional income tax and the penalty imposed in respect of tax year 2000. it argued that the tax assessment report had been drafted in vague terms and had failed to clearly indicate the reasons for its conclusions.44.  on 27 april 2004 the supreme administrative court partially quashed the judgments, finding that although the annulment of the provisional taxation was in line with the relevant legislation, as the set-off period had elapsed, under the relevant provisions a penalty could still be imposed for failure on the part of the taxpayer to declare the correct amount.
9.  once the judicial committee of the notices and seizures department (comisión judicial del servicio común de notificaciones y embargos), together with the legal representative of the building owners and the police, entered into the building, they discovered that the occupants had dug an underground tunnel of about 4.5 m deep which ended in a small space.the physical torture that i am going to describe ... was very subtle so that it did not leave marks, but it caused intense pain ... and the other torture, well, it left marks ... above all the first one on my colleague ... the first act of torture was carried out by national police officers, as i say, as soon as they came ... they grabbed my colleague’s arm, the free one, and they fixed a rope to his wrist quite tightly and they took the rope out of the tunnel and three national police officers ... pulled him to try to get him out ... with the purpose of causing him pain, frightening him, you know.it was conducted at the end of the protest action, that is to say, the physical torture forced us to [release ourselves] from the tubes ... [t]he blood supply was cut off at the top, we could not move our fingers since the pain was very intense, we were like this for an hour, that is when fire fighters took the photograph because they did nothing else to us.this act of torture was also undertaken by two national police officers who appeared in some press pictures in ‘emasesa’ white overalls: i am not sure that if [people] have realised that both police officers with the ‘emasesa’ overalls appear [in the press pictures], well, these are the ones who carried out the torture[;] then they finished tying us up and left the place and right away some fire fighters arrived and then the firemen j., m. and l. took photographs as a prize ... at this point, and owing to suffering and the pain in his wrist, r.d.p.... decided to leave the protest action and release himself ... i said to them as a proposal: ‘look, i am not going to release myself, but i will cooperate with everything that is necessary to allow the underpinning of the structure ... [t]hey then tied me in the same position and, well, that is then when i decided to put an end to the protest action.well this was physical torture ... psychological torture was repeated eh, well it was continuous ... psychological torture was repeated several times and it was mainly perpetrated by fire fighters and consisted of brief psychological mistreatment ... they told us that it was impossible to take us out alive ..., that we would be killed by rubble because there was a bulldozer working right above us, [and] we were listening to the bulldozer ... [t]hey used the famous ‘oxygen measuring device’ which indicated that we were about to pass out ... they told us that the police were going to inject us with a sleep serum ... [t]hey told us that the police were going to introduce gas through the ventilation system, they did not specify which type of gas ... [t]hey also told us that they would release rats inside the tunnel ...” 18.  a female journalist asked the applicant whether the medical report had revealed any kind of physical or psychological damage, to which the applicant answered “not psychological” yet “physical”.19.  as a result of the statements, on 21 december 2007 the delegation of the government of andalusia lodged a complaint with the public prosecutor, requesting the initiation of a criminal investigation before the seville investigating judge no.the criminal judge considered that the first action carried out by the police (that is to say fixing a rope to their waist and wrist, respectively, and using force in an attempt to pull them out) had been a proportionate technique with the purpose of verifying whether the applicant and r.d.p.additionally, the criminal judge observed that the authorities had then taken the decision to tie the applicant’s right hand to his ankle in order to immobilise him, in view of the risk of the walls collapsing and the applicant’s threat to kick down the unstable wooden posts that had been installed by the fire fighters as a preventive measure.in this case “the applicant [had] exceeded the bounds of his right to freedom of speech ... by violating other people’s rights.” 24.  the criminal judge noted that the behaviour of the police officers did not disclose all the elements under the legal classification of torture within the meaning of article 174 of the spanish criminal code, which clearly defined torture as follows: “torture is committed by a public authority or official who, in abuse of office, and in order to obtain a confession or information from a person, or to punish him or her for any act he or she may have committed, or is suspected of having committed, or for any reason based on any kind of discrimination, subjects that person to conditions or procedures that, owing to their nature, duration or other circumstances, cause him or her physical or mental suffering, suppression of or decrease in his or her powers of cognisance, discernment or decision-making, or that in any other way attack his or her honour”.26.  the judge additionally found that the descriptions given by the applicant, in combination with the pictures that had been published by the press, could lead to the identification of the police officers in question.27.  in reply to the argument that the word “torture” had been used colloquially, the judge considered the following: “[t]he applicant’s repetition of the word torture reveals that it was not an occasional and exceptional use of such word in place, but it was exposed and expressed in full awareness and repeatedly in order to get the message across to listeners, i.e., that the applicant had been subject to torture by police officers and fire fighters.” 28.  the applicant lodged an appeal with the seville audiencia provincial, which on 28 june 2013 partially ruled in favour of the applicant and ordered the fine to be reduced to twelve month fine with a daily amount of eur 10. the audiencia provincial upheld the remaining elements of the first-instance judgment.in particular, the seville audiencia provincial indicated that the remarks made by the applicant had constituted a direct accusation of the crime of torture and that the applicant’s statements were a “deliberate way to personally and professionally discredit the police officers”.the applicant stated that the narrated facts at the press conference had been true, as had been recognised by the domestic courts in the framework of the criminal proceedings, yet the only thing that had differed had been the intention attributable to the police officers.ultimately, the applicant argued that restricting the use of the word “torture” to those scenarios where all the criminal elements of the crime were present was an excessive restriction on the right to freedom of expression and, in particular, on a social debate which concerns the methods used by public powers in order to pursue a legitimate aim.
by letter from the police of 18 march 2010, the applicant was notified that preliminary proceedings against him had been initiated and that he was accused of having insulted s. and of having pushed and punched him in the face, resulting in bruising to s.’s skull and jaw problems.7.  on 7 march 2011 the berlin tiergarten district court issued a penal order (strafbefehl) against the applicant, finding him guilty of libel and two counts of assault against s. and b., a guest at the event in question, and sentencing him to 80 day-fines of eur 30 each.the applicant, who had applied for access to, and been given copies of the file prior to the issuance of the penal order, lodged a timely objection against that order and asked to be given access to the file again, which was granted.10.  on 24 may 2011 the berlin tiergarten district court granted legal aid to s. and appointed his lawyer to represent him in the pursuit of the civil claims in the context of the criminal proceedings.the district court orally heard s. as well as b. and m., the latter two having been present at the event in question, as witnesses and also evaluated a medical certificate concerning the injuries sustained by s. it convicted the applicant of libel and two counts of assault and sentenced him to a fine of 90 day-fines of eur 15 each.in respect of the civil claims, it also ordered him to pay eur 430 in damages (eur 400 in respect of non‑pecuniary damage and eur 30 in respect of pecuniary damage) plus interest to s. s.’s lawyer had been given leave to address only the civil compensation claim.13.  on 4 july 2011 the judge presiding over the competent appeals chamber of the berlin regional court informed the public prosecutor’s office of his intention to appoint defence counsel for the applicant.in a written submission of 11 july 2011, he stated that he wished to pursue the appeal lodged by the applicant as an appeal on points of law (resulting in the competency of the berlin court of appeal, rather than of the regional court).in addition to complaining of a wrongful application of law to the merits of the case, he alleged a procedural error because no defence counsel had been present for the applicant throughout the trial before the district court.14.  on 14 march 2012 the berlin court of appeal dismissed the appeal on points of law, save for allowing the applicant to pay the fine in instalments.the legislature had deliberately chosen to limit the presumption that an accused cannot defend himself to cases where the competent court had appointed counsel for the victim for the private accessory prosecution in accordance with articles 397a and 406g §§ 3 and 4 of the code (see paragraph 20 below).in the present case, counsel for s. had been appointed by the court only in respect of the civil claims (see paragraph 10 above), but not for the private accessory prosecution, in respect of which counsel had been hired by s. at his own expense (see paragraph 8 above).15.  where counsel acted for the (victim and) private accessory prosecutor, without having been appointed by the court, the presumption contained in article 140 § 2 of the code did not apply.turning to the circumstances of the case, the court of appeal concluded that the applicant was capable of effectively defending himself without counsel and had indeed done so.it considered that the applicant had knowledge of the parts of the file relevant for the decision, which did not give rise to factual or legal difficulties, that the nature of the offences and the potential sentence at stake were not significant, and that the factual background and the taking of evidence were easily understandable.
it appears that the applicant had known v.g., who had drawn up a will on 5 april 2006 according to which she had bequeathed her apartment to the applicant.7.  on the same day forensic medical examinations, including autopsies, were ordered to determine, inter alia, the cause of death of the two sisters.10.  on 14 february 2007 the applicant submitted v.g.’s will to the notary and gave his acceptance to inherit her apartment.had bequeathed the apartment to her by the will certified by a public notary back in 1991, she had been informed that the applicant had submitted another will in respect of the same apartment according to which the apartment was to pass down to him.22 and 23 had correctly determined the causes of their death and, if not, whether it was possible that they had died as a result of having been poisoned.14.  it appears that at some point during the investigation the applicant stated that he had never visited the apartment where m.g.the results of the applicant’s psychiatric and psychological forensic inpatient examinations were received on 8 february 2008. three experts g.h., a.d. and m.a.and s.s. confirmed the presence of phosphorous compounds in the bodies of the two victims.21.  at the hearing of 25 september 2008, the applicant’s representative requested again the examination of the expert witnesses but his request was orally rejected by the trial court judge.the judge reasoned this decision by stating that as the subsequent expert opinions already explained the content of the first opinion issued by a.d., it was not necessary to call the expert witnesses.22.  on 21 october 2008 the yerevan criminal court found the applicant guilty of two counts of aggravated murder committed for gain and sentenced him to life imprisonment.in doing so, it mostly relied on the trial statements of the victims’ relatives and neighbours, who confirmed that the applicant had visited the sisters in their apartment several times; on the expert opinions; and on material evidence seized from the applicant’s apartment, namely the originals of the ownership certificate in respect of v.g.’s apartment, v.g.’s will drawn up on 5 april 2006 and a duplicate of v.g.’s death certificate.in finding the applicant guilty, the trial court also took into account the fact that he had previously been convicted of murder carried out for financial gain for killing an elderly woman to obtain possession of her apartment.23.  the applicant lodged an appeal arguing, inter alia, that he had been deprived of the opportunity to examine the experts with regard to their contradictory opinions.24.  on 12 february 2009 the criminal court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal without addressing the complaint about his inability to have the experts examined during his trial.
the government submitted that electricity was supplied round the clock but, to reduce power consumption as part of a nationwide energy‑saving strategy, the voltage of the general lighting in the institution had been reduced from 220 to 110 v. the applicant submitted that that meant that, even when the lighting had been on, the cell had been dimly lit and the light insufficient for activities such as reading and sewing.in particular, he alleged that he had been beaten on arrival at the colony on 4 october 2006 and that the guards had tried to place him into a psychiatric clinic in march 2007. the government denied those allegations.in support of their submissions they submitted a number of logs and reports from the prison authorities showing that portions compliant with the regulations in force had been distributed to the prisoners, and that the sanitary conditions had been checked and found to be appropriate.they also submitted several statements from inmates who alleged that they had served time with the applicant and stated that the conditions of their detention, particularly in terms of the provision of food, clothes and sanitary conditions, had been appropriate.12.  the applicant alleged that he had been repeatedly ill-treated by prison guards, that the prison authorities had intercepted, reviewed, blocked and delayed his correspondence, particularly that with the court and the parliamentary commissioner for human rights, and had persecuted and threatened him for having applied to the court.13.  it appears from the documents submitted by the parties that the applicant complained many times to various domestic authorities, notably the prosecutor’s office, alleging, in general, ill-treatment and persecution by the prison authorities.14.  registers of incoming and outgoing mail from the correctional colonies submitted by the government show that, in the period from 17 june 2008 to 1 december 2011 – the only period of the applicant’s detention for which specific information in this regard is available – the applicant sent and received more than sixty letters to and from various public entities, most notably various domestic courts, disciplinary commissions of judges, members of parliament and the presidential administration.for instance, in a cover letter of november 2011 to the judges qualifications commission of ukraine the governor of the second colony stated that he was forwarding a letter by the applicant concerning the initiation of criminal proceedings against the judges of the trial court that had convicted him.16.  the applicant alleged that the domestic authorities had denied him access to his criminal case file, thus preventing him from obtaining copies of documents related to his application to the court.they submitted documents from the domestic courts showing that the applicant had examined his criminal case file on 23 december 2011[1] and 11 january 2012 and that, by a letter of 25 january 2012, the trial court had sent him a number of copies of documents from that file.17.  after sending the court an authority form empowering mr markov to represent him, the applicant sent the court two letters, in april 2014 and april 2015, informing it that he wished to revoke the lawyer’s authority.18.  in subsequent correspondence between the registry, the applicant and the lawyer it transpired that the applicant was apparently upset about the lawyer’s inability to help him with matters unrelated to the proceedings before the court, such as sending him various goods and representation in unrelated domestic judicial and pardon proceedings.19.  when invited to comment on the first revocation, in may 2014 the applicant informed the court that he wished to cancel that revocation and maintain the lawyer’s authority.following this cancellation of the first revocation and before the second revocation the lawyer submitted observations in reply to those of the government on behalf of the applicant.20.  after the second revocation, the lawyer’s comments questioning the seriousness of the applicant’s wish to revoke his authority were forwarded directly to the applicant with an invitation to comment.
6.  on 18 april 2003 the applicant lodged an application with the court in which he complained of the unfairness of the criminal proceedings against him.8.  on 4 july 2007 the presidium of the supreme court quashed the appeal judgment of 31 october 2002 by way of a supervisory review and remitted the matter for fresh consideration.9.  on 29 november 2007 the supreme court held a new appeal hearing in which the applicant took part by means of a video link and was represented by state-appointed counsel, a. the court upheld, in substance, the applicant’s conviction.10.  on 15 january 2009 the court examined the admissibility and merits of the case and held unanimously that there had been a violation of article 6 §§ 1 and 3 (c) of the convention in that the applicant had not received effective legal assistance during the appeal proceedings in his criminal case.11.  on 14 september 2009 a panel of the grand chamber accepted the government’s request for the case to be referred to the grand chamber.in particular, the grand chamber concluded that the time allotted to the applicant for communication with his counsel had been insufficient and that the means of such communication had not ensured the requisite privacy.13.  on 13 october 2011 the president of the supreme court, referring to the court’s judgment in the applicant’s case, asked the presidium of the supreme court to reopen the proceedings.14.  on 23 november 2011 the presidium of the supreme court granted the president’s request, quashed the judgment of 29 november 2007 and remitted the matter to the appellate court for fresh consideration.the court’s employee responsible for the functioning of the video link was located outside the room in which counsel k. was present.she did not submit fresh grounds for appeal and made submissions to the court that appeared to be based on the grounds for appeal originally filed by the applicant and counsel a. the applicant, who was detained in novosibirsk, took part in the hearing by means of a video link.period of detention cell size (square metres) number of sleeping places number of inmates 322 from 7 to 8 february 20.  according to the government, the cells in which the applicant was detained were furnished with a sink, a table, a bench, a cupboard for storing food products, a coat stand, a mirror, a drinking water tank, a rubbish bin, wash basins, a heater, an electric plug and an alarm button.the temperature in the cells was maintained at +22 to +25oc in the summer and +19 to +21oc in the winter.in particular, the court held as follows: “regard being had to the evidence submitted, [it follows] that during the period under consideration the personal space afforded to each inmate in the cell where the applicant was detained ... was 2.6 sq.m. ... in view of the above, [the court] considers that it has been established that during the period under consideration the personal space afforded to the applicant in cell no.1 in novosibirsk was below the standards set forth in the national legislation and in the case-law of the echr.” 25.  according to the applicant, he received the compensation awarded to him by the judgment of 10 september 2013 in july 2016.
5.  prior to the above, in 2004, the applicant had lodged a claim with the martin district land office (obvodný pozemkový úrad) for restitution of a suite of real property consisting of several plots which came under special legislation provisions on restitution.the latter claim was calculated under the applicable national rules as pertaining to two “acts of legal assistance” (úkon právnej služby), in particular a first consultation with a lawyer, and the formulation of the action.in the former two, she proactively informed the court that the land office had taken decisions in respect of her restitution claim on 23 december 2011 and 12 january 2012 and contended that these decisions did not determine her claim in relation to all the plots concerned and that they had been taken with the aim of creating a false impression that there had been no unjustified delays in the proceedings.the latter submission was made in response to a request by the court to specify the plots in respect of which the applicant’s restitution claim was still outstanding.9.  in the submission of 23 march 2012 the applicant reiterated her claim in respect of legal costs, amending its scope as pertaining to five acts of legal assistance, including the three submissions mentioned in the preceding paragraph.as to the latter ruling, it summarised the applicant’s claim as pertaining to three acts of legal assistance (the first consultation with a lawyer, the formulation of the action, and the formulation of the submission of 2 january 2012).it found that the applicant had correctly calculated the value of the act of legal assistance and that the undertaking by her lawyer of those acts had been justified.there is no reference in the regional court’s decision to the remaining two acts of legal assistance in the summary of the applicant’s claim, in the courts’ reasoning, or in the operative part of its decision.relying on article 6 § 1 of the convention, she complained that the regional court had failed to provide any reasons for not allowing her claim for costs with respect to the remaining two acts of legal assistance.as she had been fully successful in the case, she normally should have been compensated in respect of the costs of all justified acts of legal assistance received.a reduction of the award could only have been based on exceptional circumstances within the meaning of article 150 of the code of civil procedure.however, in determining the issue of legal costs, the regional court had made no use of that provision and, in any event, no such circumstances pertained, in particular because the case concerned unjustified delays in proceedings before a public authority lasting more than seven years; her efforts to ensure an out-of-court solution had been futile and had left her with no alternative to asserting her rights in the regional court; legal representation before that court was mandatory, the applicant was disabled, and she was living on the allowance specified above.it noted that it was essentially aimed at the fact that the regional court had provided no explanation for deciding on and granting compensation in respect of three acts of legal assistance only.however, it was necessary to take into account that the value of the remaining two acts of legal assistance was only some eur 270. this was less than three times the statutory minimum wage, the limit that was otherwise applicable to admissibility of appeals on points of law.if the amount at stake was this negligible, the jurisdiction of the constitutional court could only be engaged in very exceptional circumstances and no such circumstances had been established in the applicant’s case.
following the last question, the applicant stated that m.k., one of the alleged members of the tdp at the time, had asked him to provide him with a fake identity card in order to escape abroad and he had provided him with the identity information of his brother.the lawyer, alleging that the police officers were recording phrases that had not been said by the applicant, also requested that the police officers remove that part of the applicant’s statement.9.  following the lawyer’s intervention the police officers took him out of the interview room allegedly under threat and would not allow him to represent the applicant any more.according to the applicant’s submissions to the court, after his lawyer was forced to leave, the police officers coerced him into signing self-incriminating statements which he had made while his lawyer was present, by indicating to him that they would involve his brother in the case if he refused to sign the statements.on the same day, the police resumed the interview and took additional statements from the applicant in the presence of his new lawyer.13.  on 29 march 2004 the public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court filed a bill of indictment against the applicant, charging him with aiding and abetting an illegal organisation under article 169 of the former criminal code.he accepted the statements he had given to the investigating judge and the fact that he had exercised his right to remain silent before the public prosecutor.according to the applicant, after his lawyer’s removal, the police had added to his statements the fact that he had passed the identity information of his brother to his co-defendant m.k.at the same hearing, the court noted that the investigation file relating to the allegations that the police officers had ill-treated the accused and had not allowed them to see their lawyers had been sent to the fatih public prosecutor’s office.20.  a document provided by the ptt (the postal, telegraph and telephone service) to the erzurum assize court shows that on 26 january 2007 the forthcoming hearing date was served on the secretary of the applicant’s lawyer.21.  at a hearing held on 24 december 2007 the applicant, at his request, made his final submissions to the erzurum assize court about the decision of the court of cassation.23.  in his appeal, the applicant alleged that he had not been notified of the hearing date and argued that he had been convicted on the basis of abstract police statements obtained under coercion.criminal proceedings against the police officers 26.  on an unspecified date the applicant, along with the lawyer concerned, lodged a complaint alleging that the police officers who had participated in his interview had unlawfully interfered with the questioning and had therefore breached his defence rights.the prosecutor stated that they had ill-treated the applicant and other suspects in police custody between 17 and 21 march 2004. it further held that they had not allowed the lawyers to examine certain documents, had not given them copies of those documents and had terminated the interviews on the grounds that the lawyers had interfered with the free will of the suspects and reminded them of their right to remain silent in the course of the interviews.subsequently, during the course of the applicant’s interview when he had informed him that he had the right to remain silent, one of the officers had shouted at him saying that he was “ill-mannered” (terbiyesizlik).
in respect of both applicants, most of the teachers submitted that their suspension from the school had disrupted the working order of the institution in so far as the applicants’ students had had to be transferred to the rest of the teachers, resulting in merged classes of sixty to seventy pupils.16.  on 24 october 2000 the applicants were invited by the supreme disciplinary council of the ministry of education (“the supreme disciplinary council”) to submit defence statements in response to the allegations concerning their active membership of the illegal terrorist organisation hizbullah and their alleged disruption of the peace, tranquillity and order at the workplace for ideological and political purposes.657. the relevant parts of the decision read as follows: “...the acts attributed to the applicant[s]: membership of the illegal terrorist organisation hizbullah and carrying out activities for the organisation, disrupting the peace, tranquillity and working order of the institution for ideological and political purposes.based on the following considerations, the recommendation for the applicant[s]’ dismissal was accepted unanimously ...” b.  proceedings before the administrative courts against the dismissal of the first applicant 19.  on 4 august 2001 the first applicant brought a claim against the ministry of education in the diyarbakır administrative court, challenging his dismissal.22.  on 4 march 2002, having regard to the fact that the first applicant had been dismissed on account of his alleged membership of a terrorist organisation, the regional administrative court granted his request for a stay of the dismissal decision and held that he had been charged with a criminal, not a disciplinary, offence, the determination of which could only be made by a competent criminal court.the relevant parts of the judgment read as follows: “the applicant and other civil servants holding various posts in the district have been the subject of a disciplinary investigation in connection with their alleged acts of ‘disrupting the peace, tranquillity and working order of the institution for ideological and political purposes; participating, provoking, encouraging or otherwise assisting in acts such as boycotts, occupations, obstructions, slowdowns and strikes or being collectively absent from work.’ the ministry of education’s investigation report dated 30 june 2000 recommended the applicant’s dismissal from public service because [he] was a member of the hizbullah terrorist organisation.hence, following an examination of the case file and investigation report, the court finds it established that the applicant committed the disciplinary offence in so far as he gave the organisation his profile and attended its lessons and meetings.” 25.  on 21 june 2005 the first applicant appealed against the judgment of the diyarbakır administrative court to the supreme administrative court, requesting a stay of the decision ordering for his dismissal from service.he complained, inter alia, that the criminal proceedings on charges of membership of an illegal organisation were still pending before the diyarbakır state security court and that, therefore, his dismissal without a conviction on the basis of abstract accusations infringed the presumption of innocence; that the allegations that he had disturbed the peace and order at the workplace remained completely unproven and unsubstantiated; and that in delivering its decision, the supreme disciplinary council had failed to comply with the six-month time‑limit set out in law no.it reiterated at the outset the three principal conditions for an act to be considered a disciplinary offence: (i) that it be carried out by the employees of an institution within that institution; (ii) that it disrupt the established order of the institution; and (iii) that the act constituting the disciplinary offence, as well as the related penalty, be set out in the relevant laws and regulations.in the light of this classification, the diyarbakır regional administrative court decided that the act attributed to the second applicant, that is, membership of a terrorist organisation, fell under the third category of acts punishable only under the criminal code, the determination of which could only be made by a competent criminal court.noting the discrepancy in the latter’s decision, the court stated that while the second applicant was being accused by the administration of membership of a terrorist organisation, the legal basis put forward for his dismissal was the disruption of peace and order at the workplace through ideological and political propaganda under section 125 (e) (a) of law no.657. considering that none of the people questioned at the school had witnessed such propaganda by the second applicant there, and bearing further in mind that “membership of a terrorist organisation” was not one of the exhaustive grounds for dismissal from the civil service listed in the relevant section, the second applicant’s dismissal had had no legal basis.the supreme administrative court firstly acknowledged that the charges against the second applicant of aiding and abetting an illegal organisation had been discontinued on account of the expiry of the five-year prescription period laid down for that offence, and that he had been acquitted of the remaining charges.referring to the second applicant’s statements given to the police, his cv obtained from the hizbullah safe house in istanbul and the bill of indictment filed against him by the mardin public prosecutor, the supreme administrative court then found it established that the second applicant was a member of a terrorist organisation who in addition had recruited members to the organisation and pursued the ideology of the terrorist organisation in the classroom.657. the relevant parts of the judgment read: “notwithstanding the discontinuation of the criminal proceedings against the applicant on charges of membership of an armed organisation and his acquittal on charges of murder and battery, the investigation and [criminal] case file reveal that the applicant’s profile was discovered in the organisation’s [safe] house in istanbul and that his statements to the police and the bill of indictment demonstrate the fact that he was a member of the organisation, recruiting new members and lecturing on its ideologies, facts which were corroborated by his statements and [cv].
7.  on various dates in the 1990s the employer of the adult male applicants (applicants 1, 3, 5 and 10), the security service of the ministry of finance, provided them with accommodation in its dormitory building in moscow.in particular, the district court established the following: (i) the building in question was federal property; it was used as a dormitory building under the operative management of the treasury; (ii) the dormitories had been designed for the temporary accommodation of persons during the period of their work, service or studies; (iii) the adult female applicants had been moved into the dormitory building by their husbands when the old housing code had been in force, prior to 1 march 2005; (iv) the ministry of finance had never issued any decision providing the adult female applicants with accommodation in that dormitory building; (v) no tenancy agreements had been concluded with the adult female applicants’ husbands in respect of the premises which they occupied; (vi) social tenancy agreements could be concluded with people living in dormitory buildings only in the event that the property was liquidated, however such a decision had not been taken in respect of the dormitory building in question.having regard to the above, the district court concluded that articles 53 and 54 of the old housing code and articles 69 and 70 of the new housing code, which allowed tenants under a social tenancy agreement to move members of their families into a property, were not applicable to the adult female applicants, and therefore they had to be evicted from the occupied housing without any alternative accommodation being provided.the district court noted that it had also taken into account that the adult female applicants had been registered as living in various regions of russia and the republic of moldova, where they retained a right of occupation in respect of living premises.they submitted that they had been residing in the building lawfully as spouses of the persons to whom the housing had been provided, and in any event, under domestic law (article 20 of the civil code, and articles 31 and 54 of the family code (see “relevant domestic law” below), they had a right to live together with their husbands and children.the local authorities asked the district court to take the interests of the minor applicants into account when making its decision and to dismiss the eviction claims.in particular, the district court referred to its findings in the judgment of 14 september 2007, with reference to articles 301 and 305 of the civil code (see “relevant domestic law” below), and found that: (i) irrespective of their status as family members of their husbands, the adult female applicants had no right to reside in the dormitory building, since it had been designed as temporary accommodation for persons working for the security service; and (ii) no tenancy agreement on occupying the dormitory building premises had been concluded with their husbands, and therefore the provisions of article 100 § 5 of the housing code, which allowed tenants to be joined by family members, were not applicable to them.the district court further stated that it had taken into account that the adult female applicants could decide themselves with which parent their minor children should live, especially as they (the adult female applicants) had been registered as living in various regions of russia and the republic of moldova, where they retained a right of occupation in respect of living premises.they submitted in particular that the courts had not indicated which rights, freedoms and interests of the claimant (the treasury) had been breached when their husbands had moved them into the dormitory building, or which rights would be breached if they were allowed to stay living together with their children in the building.in particular, they drew the attention of the appeal court to the position of the district court as regards their minor children’s place of residence, a position which, in their opinion, was in breach of article 54 of the family code (see “relevant domestic law” below).the city court referred to the findings of the district court in the judgments of 14 september 2007 and 14 april 2010. the city court found that the district court had duly assessed the adult female applicants’ arguments and dismissed them on the basis of the applicable domestic law.the city court further held that the adult female applicants’ argument that the eviction order had de facto prohibited their families from living together had aimed to reassess the conclusions of the judgment of the district court and, given the fresh conclusion that the district court had duly assessed the arguments before it, could not serve as a basis for quashing the judgment.27.  on an unspecified date the adult male applicants brought court proceedings against various authorities, including the government of moscow and the government of the russian federation, seeking to have their right to occupy the dormitory building indefinitely under a social tenancy agreement recognised.in particular, the court established that the adult male applicants had been moved into the dormitory building by their employer, the security service of the ministry of finance, between 1990 and 1995. therefore, on the date the new housing code had entered into force, they had already worked for the security service for more than ten years.in accordance with the applicable law, the adult male applicants could not be evicted from the residential accommodation which they occupied without being provided with alternative accommodation, and therefore their right to reside there was not limited by the duration of their work contracts and was therefore unlimited in terms of duration.
6.  the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in istanbul.7.  on 11 december 1995 the applicant, a traffic control officer, was hit by a car while on duty.he suffered bodily injuries as a result of the accident.an official disability report indicated that he had a reduced working capacity of 60%.8.  on the basis of this report the applicant, while reserving the right to increase his claims in due course, made an initial request for compensation to the ministry of interior, claiming 20,000 turkish liras (try) in pecuniary damages and try 5,000 in non-pecuniary damages.9.  following tacit dismissal of the claim by the ministry, the applicant brought a case for compensation before the istanbul administrative court for the amounts he had specified in his request to the ministry.10.  during the course of the proceedings, the court decided of its own motion to order an expert report to determine the exact amount of pecuniary damage suffered by the applicant.the report, which was submitted to the court on 26 september 2005, indicated the applicant’s pecuniary damages as 157,077 try.the applicant did not submit a request to the court to increase his initial claims in the light of that report.the istanbul administrative court in its decision delivered on 15 february 2006 only awarded him the amounts initially requested by him.
the founding members adopted several documents concerning the applicant association, including its charter, the relevant parts of which read as follows: article 1 “the church of real orthodox christians of macedonia [hereinafter “the church”] is a voluntary association of individuals, who exercise, through their religious beliefs and doctrinal sources, the freedom of religion ... through preaching; prayer; religious rituals; and other forms of expression.” article 3 “the seat of the [applicant association] is [the street name].” article 8 “the aims of the church are the following: ... -  to promote, stimulate and educate the members about the spiritual life and development; -  to hold and organise religious education; educative religious discussions and lectures; public religious debates; visits to monasteries ... to hold preaching sessions; prayer meetings ... and other orthodox rituals; -  to organise humanitarian funds and actions for the well-being and support of people; -  to take care and support all who are in a need of help ...; ... -  to inform the orthodox followers about religious holidays and culture; -  to publish bulletins, material, publications, books and advertising material with orthodox content; -  to organise and hold joint meetings, rituals and other religious activities with other orthodox churches in the state and abroad with whom the church is in union.” ...” article 9 “as part of its activity, the church will publish literature with orthodox content and establish funds, in particular, for: -  publication of bulletins and periodicals ...; -  publication of chronicles concerning the work of the members; -  publication of books; -  creation of funds for financial aid.” article 11 “the publication and humanitarian activity of the church, as well as the funds that it will establish, shall be financed by: -  sponsors; -  donations; -  contributions; -  funds gained by its own economic activities.” article 27 “the church will be financed by: -  economic activities; -  sponsorship; -  donations; -  voluntary contributions and funds, and so forth.” 6.  on 26 november 2008 the ministry of justice granted permission to the applicant association to use the word “macedonia” in the name.7.  on 3 december 2008 the second applicant, acting as an authorised representative of the applicant association, submitted an application for its registration as a religious association.by a letter of 19 december 2008, the skopje court of first instance (“the registration court”) acknowledged receipt of all appended documents and requested that the applicants complete the application by specifying the organisational form under which the applicant association sought registration.on 5 january 2009 the applicants replied that the applicant association sought registration as a church.whereas it confirmed that nationality documentation was in the file, the court held that it was unable to establish whether the application for registration had been submitted in good time.that decision was quashed on appeal by the skopje court of appeal, which found no reasons why the registration court had not sought that the applicants complete the application in that respect by its request of 19 december 2008.9.  on 10 may 2010 the registration court dismissed “the application of the applicant association” for registration, finding that it had requested registration as a religious entity under the legal status of churches, religious communities and religious groups act (“the 2007 act”) only for formal reasons, while in practice it would operate as an association of citizens to which the association of citizens and foundations act applied.in this connection, the court held that: (a) the text of article 1 of the charter was not identical to the text of section 2 of the 2007 act; (b) articles 9 and 10 of the charter specified that the applicant association would publish literature with religious content and would create funds, which, according to the court, was contrary to the aims specified in section 2 of the 2007 act.in this connection it was noted that articles 11 and 27 of the charter specified that the applicant association would be financed, inter alia, by economic activities (стопанска дејност), which was contrary to sections 30-33 of the 2007 act; (c) there was no evidence that the founding members and the second applicant were macedonian nationals; and (d) despite the fact that the founding members had adopted the required documents for registration of the applicant association, they had not discussed the issues specified in section 13(1)(2-6) of the 2007 act.10.  referring to sections 7 and 8 of the 2007 act, the court also found that: “the registration of the voluntary association of physical persons under the name ‘church of real orthodox christians of macedonia’ ... would violate the freedom of religion ... of all physical persons-believers who exercise the[ir] freedom of religion through already registered religious communities and, in particular, the lawful legal status of other registered voluntary associations of physical persons ... and their managing bodies; hierarchy; their competence; titles; religious activity and everything that is regulated by their rules ... ... the free manifestation of religion cannot endanger ... human rights and freedoms of others ...” 11.  the second applicant lodged an appeal with the skopje court of appeal in which he complained on behalf of the applicant association that the reasons given by the registration court were unclear and contradictory.in this connection he argued, inter alia, that he had submitted copies of nationality documentation for the founding members; that section 31 of the 2007 act provided that religious entities could publish relevant literature; that the sources of income provided for in the charter corresponded to those set forth in the 2007 act; and that the registration court had not explained how and why the registration of the applicant association would affect the religious beliefs and managing bodies of other registered religious communities.12.  on 16 december 2010 the skopje court of appeal upheld the lower court’s decision, finding that the reasoning contained therein was clear and consistent.it held that article 11 of the charter provided that the applicant association would be financed from funds obtained from economic activities, which implied that it would be for-profit, contrary to section 33(2) of the 2007 act.furthermore, the permission granted by the ministry of justice of 26 november 2008 (see paragraph 6 above) concerned “the church of real orthodox christians” and not “the church of real orthodox christians of macedonia”.lastly, it established that there was no evidence in the case file regarding the nationality of the founding members and the second applicant.
8.  according to the subsequent findings of the domestic court which convicted the applicant of aggravated robbery (see paragraph 18 below), the applicant had attacked g., whom he had known previously, and seized a certain amount of cash belonging to her employer, the company that ran the shop.9.  according the applicant’s account, which he maintained throughout the proceedings before the domestic courts and before this court, g. owed him money and he had gone to the shop to collect the debt.12.  on 23 july 2005 a number of reports were drawn up: (i) an arrest report according to which the applicant was arrested on suspicion of robbery; (ii) a record stating that the applicant’s procedural rights as a suspect had been explained to him, including the right to remain silent, to have a legal aid lawyer appointed and to consult him prior to the first questioning; (iii) a record stating that the applicant, having been informed of the right to legal assistance, had decided to waive it; (iv) a transcript of the applicant’s questioning as a suspect: the applicant’s account of events was as set out in paragraph 9 above.he repeated his account of the fight with the victim (see paragraph 9 above), adding that in the course of the fight the victim had hit him in the jaw with a mug.the expert noted that the applicant had a hematoma on his jaw and a number of cuts on his right hand, and concluded that the injuries were consistent with the applicant’s account.15.  on 17 october 2005, at the opening of the trial before the kharkiv kyivsky district court (“the trial court”) the applicant stated that he wished to defend himself and waived his right to legal assistance.the court relied on, inter alia: (i) the applicant’s admissions in the course of the trial; (ii) the victim’s court testimony, denying, in particular, having borrowed any money from the applicant, as well as her statements incriminating the applicant given in the course of a reconstruction of the crime scene and confrontation with the applicant; (iii) money and clothes with brown spots seized from the applicant on 22 july 2005;[1] (iv) testimony given by d., the applicant’s girlfriend, who denied any knowledge of the applicant having lent any money and stated, on the contrary, that he himself had been borrowing money from her; (v) the testimony of the victim’s sister and son, equally denying knowledge of any debt.the sister stated that at 7 p.m. on 22 july 2005 in the hospital, the victim had told her that she knew the attacker; (vi) the pre-trial statement of m., a sales clerk in a neighbouring shop, who had stated in the course of the pre-trial investigation that he had seen someone looking like the applicant enter the victim’s shop and then run away from it after the alarm had gone off; he had then discovered the victim injured.19.  as far as the applicant’s requests to call additional witnesses were concerned, the trial court stated that he had failed to indicate the names and addresses of those individuals, whom he had supposedly informed about the debt and who could have overheard a telephone call he had had with the victim’s son in that connection.23.  on 20 july 2006 the court of appeal held a hearing in the presence of the applicant and the prosecutor, and upheld the applicant’s conviction.24.  on 21 july 2006 the applicant asked the trial court to appoint a lawyer for him, for the preparation of an appeal on points of law to the supreme court.he also complained that he had not been provided with a lawyer before the first police interview on 22 july 2005, had been forced to waive his right to legal assistance on 17 october 2005 under duress from the police (see paragraphs 10 and 15 above), and that the court of appeal had failed to appoint a lawyer for him.18, where he served the rest of his sentence until being released on 3 october 2012. from 5 october to 14 december 2006 he was returned to the sizo to enable him to study the case file in preparation for his appeal on points of law.33.  in a letter to the court of 12 december 2008, the applicant submitted that the domestic authorities were refusing to provide him with certain documents, which could prove his innocence, for his application to the court, namely: (i)  the statement by m. and documents concerning the court’s efforts to summon that witness (see paragraph 18 (vi) above); (ii)  the statement of the victim; (iii)  documents concerning a civil claim for damages made by the shop that had been robbed; (iv)  the transcript of a particular hearing before the trial court; (v)  statements made by the applicant in the course of the investigation on 22 and 23 july 2005; (vi)  search and seizure records of 22 july 2005. the applicant added that he did have copies of the documents from the criminal case file but they were of poor quality, preventing him from sending them to the court.34.  on 23 august 2010 the registry pointed out to the applicant that his application was incomplete and asked him to provide copies of: (i)  his first appeal; (ii)  his requests for the appointment of a legal aid lawyer; (iii)  his appeal on points of law.
the minutes of the constituent assembly (записник од основачкото собрание) included the following statement: “... nuns gathered at the assembly do not accept the teaching of the macedonian orthodox church, (which) they consider wrong and unorthodox.we ... do not want to waste our life in religious doubt ... to be led by immature and non-religious people ... we would be offended on religious grounds if we are associated with another religious community ...” 5.  on the same date, the founding members created the following official documents: (a) a founding decision; (b) decisions authorising o.m.to represent the applicant association and submit an application for its registration; and (c) the charter (статут) of the applicant association.6.  the relevant parts of the founding decision read as follows: article 1 “this decision serves (the purpose of) the registration of stavropegic monastery of saint john chrysostom in the register of churches, religious communities (верски заедници) and groups (религиозни групи) in the republic of macedonia, as a voluntary, non-profit association of christians who do not belong to any religious community and, in particular, have nothing in common with the macedonian orthodox church.” article 3 “because it is a christian religious community ...” 7.  the relevant parts of the charter read as follows: article 1 “the stavropegic monastery of saint john chrysostom is a voluntary association of individuals who exercise, through their religious beliefs and doctrinal sources, freedom of religion ... through preaching, prayer, religious rituals, and other forms of expression.” article 2 “the stavropegic monastery of saint john chrysostom is a religious community founded by nuns (completely devoted to god) and private citizens (световни лица), whose religious beliefs correspond to the old and new testament (the bible).submitted an application for registration of the applicant association “as one of the religious communities” to the skopje court of first instance (“the registration court”).on 10 december 2008 the registration court requested that the applicant association submit evidence concerning the nationality of its founding members, a requirement with which the applicant association complied.9.  on 18 february 2009 the registration court refused to register “the voluntary association of physical persons named in the application as stavropegic monastery of saint john chrysostom”.it found that the application for registration did not meet the requirements laid down in sections 1 and 2 of the 2007 act on the legal status of a church, religious community and association (“the 2007 act”, see paragraphs 14 and 15 below) in that (a) it referred to a form of voluntary association of physical persons which was not covered by the act and (b) the registration of the applicant association “would violate the freedom of religion ‑ provided for in the convention and the constitution ‒ of other lawfully registered voluntary associations of physical persons”.as to the former, the court held that the 2007 act provided for the registration of churches, religious communities and groups but not of other religious entities, in this case a “monastery” (манастир), as specified in article 1 of the applicant association’s charter.10.  the applicant association complained about that decision, arguing that it had sought to be registered as a religious community under the name specified in the founding documents, which was evident from the application for registration.the applicant association pointed out that in 2002 the registration court had refused to register it as a non-governmental organisation and had ruled that an association with such a name should seek registration under the legislation regulating religious communities and associations that was in force at the time.11.  on 29 april 2009 the skopje court of appeal dismissed the applicant association’s appeal and upheld the lower court’s decision, endorsing the reasons given therein.lodged an appeal with the constitutional court complaining of a violation of freedom of thought and discrimination on religious grounds owing to the refusal by the registration court to register the religious community with which she was associated.lastly, the court stated that the complainant had requested that it review the application of the law by the registration court in the proceedings for the registration of the religious community, which, according to the constitutional court, was beyond its jurisdiction (u.br.189/09).
the verbatim record of the questioning suggests that her right to a lawyer and to a meeting with him before the first round of questioning (as well as her right not to incriminate herself) had been explained to the applicant before the start of the questioning.16.  on 17 november 2004, apparently during the lunch break, v. managed to see the investigator and requested to be admitted to the proceedings as the applicant’s lawyer on the basis of the agreement concluded with the applicant’s mother.17.  on the same date – between 8.15 and 11.30 a.m. according to the official records, and in the afternoon according to the applicant – a reconstruction of the crime was carried out in the presence of the investigator, two attesting witnesses and an expert in criminal law.the relevant record, which was signed by the applicant without any observations, suggests that before the reconstruction commenced, the applicant had been apprised of her constitutional right not to make self-incriminating statements and her right to refuse to participate in the reconstruction or to insist that it be carried out in the presence of a lawyer.he noted, in particular, that he had waited at the lubny itt until the end of the working day and had seen nobody coming out of the premises but the police officers from the orzhytsya police unit; this, in his opinion, constituted evidence that they had been “working with the applicant” in the lawyer’s absence.26.  during the reconstruction, the applicant provided details as to nine episodes of cattle thefts that she had allegedly committed as part of a group in 2003 and 2004 and showed the directions from which her accomplices had brought the stolen animals to her and the places where the cattle had been slaughtered by her.34.  on the same date, on 23 december 2004, during a court hearing regarding the application of the preventive measure, which was held in the presence of v., from 10 until 12 a.m., the applicant submitted, inter alia, that on the morning of 14 november 2004, at the police station, she had denied having participated in the thefts and had unsuccessfully requested the assistance of a lawyer.the court based the applicant’s conviction on: her voluntary surrender to the police and the self-incriminatory statements that she had made on 14, 17 and on 23 november 2004 (see paragraphs 12, 14, 18 and 26 above); confessions given by her accomplices during the pre-trial investigation; the records of the crime scene examinations; and statements by the victims (that is to say farm owners) and witnesses confirming the fact that animals had been stolen from the farms.it noted in this respect that the police officers concerned had denied all allegations of ill-treatment; a surgeon, n., who examined the applicant on 25 november 2004 (see paragraph 55 below) had submitted that he had found no bodily injuries when he had examined her; the forensic expert who had examined the applicant on 22 november 2004 had also attested that no injuries had been found by him on the applicant’s body (see paragraph 52 below); and attesting witnesses who had been present at the crime reconstructions (in which the defendants had participated) had submitted that the applicant and other defendants had given evidence of their own free will.46.  the applicant appealed, submitting that the district court had failed to comply with the instructions of the court of appeal and to duly examine the allegations made by her and her co-defendants of ill-treatment by the police.in doing so the court referred to (i) the applicant’s voluntary surrender to the police and to the further self-incriminatory statements that she had made during her questioning, which had been corroborated by those made by her alleged accomplices, and (ii) the fact that remains of animals had been found at the place pointed out by the applicant during the reconstruction of the crime.it furthermore stated that the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment had been correctly dismissed by the first-instance court as unsubstantiated, given that the police officers had denied any ill‑treatment and no injuries had been uncovered in the course of the applicant’s medical examinations of 22 and 25 november 2004 or during her further medical examinations in detention in view of the worsening of her chronic health conditions.as regards the alleged violation of the applicant’s defence rights, the supreme court noted that during the pre-trial investigation, the applicant had been informed of her right to a lawyer and that the lawyer of her choice had been admitted to the proceedings.according to the government, the decision was based on the results of the applicant’s medical examination of 22 november 2004 (see paragraph 52 above), the police officers denial of ill‑treatment and on the fact that the applicant had not raised any complaint about her ill-treatment during a court hearing on the application of a preventive measure.60.  on 21 december 2004 lawyer v. complained to the poltava prosecutor’s office about the lack of any response to the complaints lodged regarding the applicant’s ill-treatment; the failure to conduct a medical examination of her in the absence of police officers and in the presence of her lawyer; and violations of her defence rights.
17.  on 6 may 2011 the regensburg regional court, allowing the public prosecutor’s request of 5 may 2011, again ordered the applicant’s provisional preventive detention under sections 7(4) and 105(1) of the juvenile courts act, read in conjunction with article 275a § 5, first sentence, of the code of criminal procedure (see paragraphs 59 and 61 below).the court found that the applicant’s provisional preventive detention was necessary because there were weighty grounds for expecting that his subsequent preventive detention would be ordered under section  7(2)(1) of the juvenile courts act, read in the light of the judgment of the federal constitutional court of 4 may 2011.it had regard to: (i) a request lodged by the nuremberg general public prosecutor on 20 july 2011 requesting the dismissal of the applicant’s appeal; (ii) the findings of fact made by the regensburg regional court in its judgment of 22 june 2009; (iii) the findings of two medical experts in the proceedings leading to the judgment of 22 june 2009; (iv) the findings of two other experts in previous proceedings regarding the applicant’s mental condition and the level of danger that he posed; and (v) the new restrictive standards set by the federal constitutional court in its judgment of 4 may 2011.21.  on 29 august 2011 the nuremberg court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s complaint regarding a breach of his right to be heard and his objection to the decision of 16 august 2011. the decision was served on counsel for the applicant on 6 september 2011.23.  on 18 october 2011 the federal constitutional court communicated the applicant’s constitutional complaint to the regional government of bavaria, to the president of the federal court of justice and to the general public prosecutor at the latter court.25.  by submissions dated 1 january 2012 the applicant replied to the submissions of the regional government of bavaria, of the president of the federal court of justice and of the general public prosecutor at the latter court dated 28, 24 and 25 november 2011 respectively.the applicant alleged that judge p. had remarked to the applicant’s female defence counsel on 22 june 2009, immediately after the delivery of the regional court’s judgment ordering the applicant’s subsequent preventive detention, in reference to the applicant: “be careful that after he is released, you don’t find him standing in front of your door waiting to thank you.” he claimed that the remark had been made in the course of a discussion in camera between the judges of the regional court and the applicant’s two lawyers concerning the applicant’s possible transfer to a psychiatric hospital following the regional court’s judgment.even assuming that the applicant could reasonably consider the sense of the words “thank you” in the above context as meaning that the applicant could commit a violent offence, it had to be noted that the regional court, including judge p., had just established that the applicant still suffered from fantasies of sexual violence and that there was at that time a high risk that he would again commit serious offences against the life and sexual self‑determination of others.31.  furthermore, judge p.’s remark had reflected his view as it had been on the day of the regional court’s judgment of 22 june 2009. it did not suggest in any way that judge p. had not been ready to take an impartial decision in the present proceedings, more than two years after the impugned remark and following the conclusion of a new main hearing.33.  the regional court based its 164-page judgment on sections 7(2)(1) and 105(1) of the juvenile courts act, read in conjunction with the federal constitutional court’s judgment of 4 may 2011. it considered, firstly, that a comprehensive assessment of the applicant, his offence and, in addition, his development during the execution of the sentence relating to young offenders revealed that there was a high risk that the applicant, owing to specific circumstances relating to his person or his conduct, could commit the most serious types of violent crimes and sexual offences, similar to the one he had been found guilty of, if released.having regard to the case-law of the federal court of justice and the federal constitutional court, it considered that, whereas a mere “accentuation of the personality” was not sufficient to constitute a mental disorder within the meaning of the said act, such disorder did not have to be so serious as to exclude or diminish the criminal responsibility of the person concerned for the purposes of articles 20 and 21 of the criminal code (see paragraphs 82-83 and 88-89 below).36.  having regard to the findings of these experts, as well as to those of several medical experts who had previously examined the applicant since his arrest following his offence, the regional court was satisfied that the applicant has had violent sexual fantasies involving the strangulation of women since the age of seventeen.the court, having regard to the experts’ findings, observed that the applicant had hidden the sadistic motives behind his offence in the proceedings before the trial court in 1999, which, despite some indications of sexual deviance, had then interpreted the offence as an intended rape which had failed.38.  in an appeal on points of law against the regional court’s judgment of 3 august 2012, the applicant complained of the unlawfulness of his “retrospective” preventive detention and of the fact that the judgment had been delivered with the participation of a biased judge, p. 39.  on 5 march 2013 the federal court of justice dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law as ill-founded.45.  on 7 may 2011, following the quashing of the first preventive detention order and the new order for the applicant’s provisional preventive detention, he was transferred from the wing for persons in preventive detention in straubing prison to a wing for persons in detention on remand.
the checkpoint logbook had an entry which recorded the passage of the car through the checkpoint at 8 p.m. on 19 june 2003. subsequently, the time was changed to 7 p.m. servicemen manning the checkpoint told the applicants that at about 9 p.m. on 19 june 2003 they had seen something burning not far from the checkpoint.29.  in the evening the first applicant spoke to the head of the arshty police department, mr a.ts., who told him that a special sweeping-up operation was in progress in the village and that for that reason a large number of military servicemen were present in the village.the latter said that he had had a telephone conversation with the military commander of the headquarters of the federal forces at the military base in khankala, chechnya, who had informed him that mr sultan saynaroyev had been brought to the khankala military base on 23 october 2002 and that he would soon be released.35.  on 20 november 2002 the ingushetia minister of the interior informed the deputy head of the ingushetia government that the operational search activities conducted into the disappearance of mr sultan saynaroyev showed that the latter had been abducted by unidentified military servicemen, who had taken him in a military vehicle in the direction of the chechen republic.40.  on 10 january 2003 the acting head of the criminal investigation department of the ingushetia ministry of the interior reported to the investigators that on 29 november 2002 the united group alignment had confirmed that mr sultan saynaroyev had been detained by servicemen of the fsb, but that the fsb in a letter of 3 january 2003 had denied any involvement in the incident.he had not witnessed the moment of the abduction; however, he confirmed the presence of armed military servicemen and four apcs at the checkpoint at the time of the events in question.65.  in the meantime, on 19 may 2004, the fourth applicant requested the chechen governmental committee for the protection of the constitutional rights of russian citizens living in the chechen republic (комитет правительства чеченской республике по обеспечению конституционных прав граждан российской федерации проживающих на территории чеченской республики) to assist in the search for mr usman magomadov.73.  at about midnight the special operation was completed and the servicemen left ersenoy and drove to the settlement of vedeno; they travelled in a large group of military vehicles, including several apcs, ural military lorries and the uaz minivan containing mr alash mugadiyev and mr s.a. 74.  the applicant followed the servicemen to the settlement, where she met the commander of the vostok special battalion, mr y.d., who confirmed that her husband and several other residents of ersenoy had been detained by his battalion’s servicemen.having sent several requests to various state bodies for information, the investigators suspended the proceedings on 24 june 2013. on 13 november 2013 that decision was declared unlawful by a higher investigating authority and ill-founded on account of the investigators’ failure to establish the identity of the owner of the vehicle with the registration number 798ax95rus.147.  in the meantime, in november 2003 the investigators questioned the officers who had visited the checkpoint on the date of the abduction.156.  at the material time the “zapad” unit of the united military alignment (“the uga”) was stationed in the town of urus-martan, about one kilometre from the applicants’ house, situated in the vicinity of a bridge.164.  on 9 july 2009 the first applicant lodged a complaint with the achkhoy-martan inter-district prosecutor, alleging that the investigation of his son’s abduction by federal servicemen had been ineffective and requesting that the authorities grant him victim status in the criminal case and inform him about progress in the proceedings.173.  on 18 november 2009 the first applicant lodged a complaint with the achkhoy-martan district court alleging that the investigation had been ineffective and requesting the court to order the investigators to resume the proceedings and allow him to review the case file.on 11 december 2009 the court allowed the complaint, stating that for more than six years the investigation had been unlawfully suspended and that the applicant was entitled to review the entire contents of the case file.177.  the fifth, sixth and seventh applicants are, respectively, the daughter, the son and the wife of mr aslan tsurayev, who was born in 1972 (in the documents submitted the year of birth was also referred to as 1970).
7.  on 20 december 2013 the first applicant also brought the situation of the second and third applicants to the attention of the bucharest directorate general for social welfare and child protection (“the bucharest child protection authority”).9.  deciding in the interim proceedings (see paragraph 6 above), in a final decision of 5 may 2014 the bucharest county court ordered that the children should reside with their mother and that r. should pay monthly child support of 1,000 euros (eur) for each child until the end of the custody proceedings.10.  on 4 june 2014 the first applicant applied to the bailiff’s office for enforcement of the decision of 5 may 2014. her request was approved by the bailiff on 6 june 2014 and by the bucharest district court on 16 june 2014.as he failed to comply, the bailiff summoned him to bring the children on 17 july 2014 to the bailiff’s office, where the first applicant, two police officers and representatives of the bucharest child protection authority would be present.16.  following the meeting of 14 august 2014, on 9 september 2014 the bucharest child protection authority asked the bucharest district court to order a two-month psychological counselling programme for the children, under the provisions of article 912 of the code of civil procedure (psychological counselling for children who refuse contact with the estranged parent).on 22 january 2015, she drafted a final report, recommending as follows: “bearing in mind the numerous relationship problems identified, i consider it opportune to recommend an immediate[1] clinical psychological evaluation of the children and the parents, of the current relations between them, as well as their continued psychological counselling.” 18.  on 28 january 2015 the first applicant contacted the bucharest child protection authority again and explained that the behaviour exhibited by the children during their recent encounter made her fear that they were suffering from parent alienation syndrome because of their father’s influence over them.on 19 august 2016 the first applicant asked the bailiff to extend the enforcement order to the return of the children.the constanţa directorate general for social welfare and child protection (“the constanţa child protection authority”) visited r. and the children in the new location and kept in touch with the bucharest child protection authority.29.  on 7 march 2017, the constanta district court partially allowed r.’s opposition to the enforcement, finding that he had complied in full with the obligation to provide for the children since they lived with him and that he could not be asked, in addition, to pay child support in their favour.30.  in august 2017 the first applicant reinitiated the enforcement proceedings in respect of the return of the children, but on 12 september 2017 r. appealed against the enforcement order.on 19 september 2017 r. sought a stay of the enforcement, pending the outcome of his appeal; his request was granted by the constanţa district court on 25 september 2017. on 8 may 2018 his appeal was dismissed by a final decision rendered by the constanţa county court and the decision was notified to the first applicant on 31 may 2018.35.  the first applicant became aware of the content of that decision on receiving the government’s observations in the case (sent to her by the registry of the court on 28 july 2017).590a/5 may 2014, in so far as the romanian state had a positive obligation to urgently take all necessary legal measures in order to protect the [first applicant]’s right to family life, by immediately returning the children to their mother’s home, in order to avoid the parental alienation exhibited by the children towards the [first applicant].... the court notes that the first-instance court’s decision to set the children’s home with their father on the grounds that they were attached to him by strong affection and that they refused to communicate with [the first applicant], is the direct consequence of the non-enforcement of decision no.... the break of the family ties between the mother and her children will without any doubt become permanent if the children are to live with their father, and therefore any visiting programme for the mother and the children will be illusory and formal in so far as the mother was unable to obtain the enforcement of a final decision for more than four years and as during that time she practically could not even speak with the children.”
the applicant requested the housing authority to modify its earlier decision to include the above persons into the list of family members entitled to the housing certificate.in 2006 the city inter-departmental commission responsible for the state housing certificates program of the department of the housing policy and housing fund of moscow (the moscow housing commission) rejected his request and annulled its decision of 2002, referring to a change of legislation concerning the financing of the resettlement from closed administrative units.9.  on 9 april 2007 the znamensk town court of the astrakhan region granted his claim, having found the reference to the legislative changes inapplicable to the applicant’s case.the court confirmed the applicant’s and his four family members’ right to housing provision in the form of the housing certificate, to be performed at the expense of the federal budget and at the place of the claimants’ registration as persons in need of housing.the judgment became final on 20 april 2007. it appears that the debtor authority’s representatives were not present at the hearing and asked to examine the case in their absence, on the basis of their written submissions.10.  according to the letter of 4 july 2017 by the znamensk town court, on 6 june 2007 the court sent a copy of the judgment to the respondent authority by fax and mail.11.  on 10 february 2011 the department of the housing policy and the housing fund of moscow conducted a campaign for re-registration of persons in need of housing and sent the applicant a letter setting out a list of eleven documents to be provided, including, among others, a duly certified copy the decision to dismiss the applicant stating the reasons for the dismissal, as well as documents confirming his title to the flat in znamensk.he submitted a copy of the request of 10 february 2011 and the postal receipt dated 26 march 2011 and containing the requesting authority’s address in the “destination” part, in support of his submissions.13.  on 5 may 2015 the city property department of the government of moscow informed the representative of the russian federation to the court that at some point they had examined the applicant’s unspecified application concerning the housing issue.the authority established that a number of documents were missing from the applicant’s, namely, a duly certified copy of the decision to dismiss the applicant stating the reasons for the dismissal, as well as documents confirming his title to the flat in znamensk, and invited the applicant to provide the documents.accordingly, on 3 july 2012 the department of housing policy and housing fund of moscow had decided to strike the applicant’s family off the lists of persons in need of housing.14.  according to the letter of 22 august 2016 by the department of the housing policy and the housing fund of moscow to the representative of the russian federation to the court, the authority has not received a copy of the judgment of 9 april 2007, and the applicant had not applied “with documents” for a housing certificate.43-пп on housing provision to some categories of citizens, as of that date the provision of housing certificates had been ensured by the housing provision department of the ministry of defence.15.  on 1 november 2011 the administration of the closed administrative unit znamensk of the astrakhan region concluded a social tenancy agreement with the applicant in respect of the three-room flat in znamensk (see paragraph 7 above).on 20 june 2017 the social-tenancy agreement of 1 november 2011 was amended to specify that the three family members (the applicant’s wife, son and daughter) moved into the flat together with the applicant.
4.  the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in malyn, zhytomyr region.5.  on 17 november 1993 m. gave birth to a baby girl, k. given that the applicant had had relations with m. at the relevant time, on 2 december 1993 he accepted paternity of k. by submitting the relevant declaration to the authorities.6.  on 23 march 2000 the applicant married m. they divorced in 2006.7.  in july 2006 the applicant instituted proceedings in the malyn district court against m., challenging the paternity of k. the applicant claimed that, even though he had been married to another woman at the relevant time, he had had relations with m. and he had been sure that he was the father of the child and so accepted the paternity.however, in 2005 he had reason to doubt his paternity.8.  on 24 march 2008 the district court found for the applicant, relying on a genetic expert’s opinion which excluded the possibility of the applicant being k.’s biological father.the court noted that the applicant had a right to challenge his paternity given that there was no evidence in the file to suggest that he had known that he was not the father of the child when accepting paternity of k. 9.  m. appealed, stating that from january 1993 she and the applicant had lived together without being married and that she had never had any doubts about the applicant’s paternity of k. she argued, inter alia, that the genetic expert’s opinion was not reliable.10.  on 29 may 2008 the zhytomyr regional court of appeal quashed the first-instance court’s decision and held that, under article 56 of the family and marriage code, the applicant had not had a right to challenge his paternity because at the time that he accepted paternity of k., he was aware that he was not k.’s father.in support of that finding the court of appeal noted that before k.’s birth, the applicant and m. had not been married, they had not lived together (noting, in particular, that between february and april 1993 the applicant lived in another town), and the applicant had been married to another woman at the relevant time.11.  the applicant appealed on a point of law, contending that there were no grounds for the court of appeal to find that at the material time he was aware that he was not the biological father of the child.no such evidence was available in the file and the regional court of appeal had exceeded its powers in drawing such a conclusion.12.  on 9 september 2008 the supreme court of ukraine rejected the appeal by the applicant as unfounded.
6.  in february 2014 the first applicant lodged a petition with the parliamentary commission on petitions (“the commission”), requesting a change to the wording of the provision of the code for the execution of sentences in order that it would read that electronic items could be given to inmates by their friends and acquaintances as well as by their spouses, partners and close relatives.addressing the first applicant’s proposal that article 96 § 1 of the code for the execution of sentences be amended so that it would permit inmates to receive electronic items from their acquaintances or friends, as well as from their spouses, partners or close relatives, the commission held that the existing regulation was aimed at preventing inmates from receiving items acquired by criminal means – for example, by their accomplices in crime.7.  it appears from the information provided by the government that from 2007 onwards the first applicant had a computer game player, a computer game, and a television set; moreover, in november 2014 he purchased a laptop with his own money.it also appears from the information submitted by the government that the applicant has a sister, a brother, an aunt, an uncle and a cousin (that is to say close relatives).9.  on 19 may 2014 the vilnius regional administrative court ascertained that the second applicant had been confined to the prison hospital from 22 march until 13 april 2010, from 25 february until 4 march 2011, from 21 until 27 september 2011 and from 17 until 24 january 2014. the court also applied the three-year statutory time‑limit to part of the second applicant’s complaint.it held that the second applicant had been placed in overcrowded wards for fifteen days and awarded him 100 lithuanian litai (ltl – approximately 29 euros (eur)) in compensation for the fifteen days that he had spent in overcrowded wards during the periods from 21 until 27 september 2011 and from 17 until 24 january 2014. the second applicant’s other grievances were dismissed as unsubstantiated.the court recalculated the number of days and held that between 25 february 2011 and 4 march 2011 the second applicant had had 4.05 square metres of personal space at his disposal, and that between 17 and 24 january 2014 he had had 2.83 square metres of personal space.the court held that it was impossible to determine how much personal space the second applicant had had between 21 and 27 september 2011; accordingly, it calculated in favour of the second applicant the number of days during which he had not had enough personal space (that is to say the court calculated the number of such days and, in the absence of specific data, stated that the applicant had been held in overcrowded cells for more days than he probably had been held there).12.  in july 2013, the second applicant lodged a complaint about the above‑mentioned refusal with the prison department, which replied in august 2013 that the administration of vilnius correctional facility had acted in accordance with domestic law.13.  on 20 august 2013 the second applicant lodged a complaint with the vilnius regional administrative court regarding the refusal of the administration of vilnius correctional facility to allow him to receive an mp3 player from someone to whom he was not related.he asked the court to oblige the correctional facility administration to issue him with permission to receive equipment and other items from acquaintances in view of the fact that his relatives were not visiting him, and to award him compensation for non‑pecuniary damage in the amount of eur 10,137.however, as the person who had offered to bring him the player did not fall within the category of such persons, the refusal of the vilnius correctional facility administration had been lawful.16.  it appears from the information provided by the government that the second applicant had been working in vilnius correctional facility from 2 july 2012 until 31 march 2014 and had been receiving remuneration for his work.19.  it appears from the information provided by the government that the second applicant received a personal computer in january 2011 (which he returned to his relatives in june 2011); another personal computer, a monitor and headphones in june 2011 (which he returned to his relatives in july 2016); and a usb key (which was destroyed at the second applicant’s request in december 2016) and a laptop in august 2016.20.  from the information provided by the government it appears that the applicant was able to watch television as there were specially equipped rooms which the inmates could use at any time, given that they could freely move around the premises of vilnius correctional facility.
later she also lost the sight in her right eye and the sight in her left eye deteriorated which, according to the forensic examination report of 25 june 2007, was also due to the trauma sustained by the applicant on 2 april 1998.8.  on 8 may 1998 the slavyanoserbskiy district prosecutor’s office of the luhansk region (прокуратура слов’яносербського району луганської області  “the prosecutor’s office”) refused to institute criminal proceedings against two asylum employees (orderlies), n. and l. when questioned about the incident, the orderlies testified that on the morning of 2 april 1998 they had been cleaning the rooms when they had heard someone crying.other patients had told n. and l. that b. had beaten the applicant with a mop because she had hit b. the prosecutor noted that (i) b. was “without legal capacity because of a mental disorder” (недієздатна внаслідок психічного розладу) and thus could not be held criminally responsible for assaulting the applicant, and (ii) even though it appeared that orderlies n. and l. had been negligent in their duties (according to the asylum orderlies’ list of duties submitted by the government they were not allowed to leave patients unsupervised), which could possibly constitute a crime under article 167 of the 1960 criminal code (see paragraph 27 below), they were not considered to be “officials” who could be prosecuted under that provision.that decision was identical to the one of 8 may 1998 (see paragraph 8 above) and referred to the investigator’s findings (i) that b. had been “without legal capacity because of a mental disorder” (недієздатна внаслідок психічного розладу) and thus could not be held responsible for assaulting the applicant, and (ii) that even though it appeared that the orderlies n. and l. had been negligent in their duties, which could constitute a crime under article 167 (negligence of duties by officials) or article 140 of the new 2001 criminal code (negligent performance of duties by members of the medical profession), they were not considered to be “officials” or “members of the medical profession” who could be prosecuted under those provisions of the law.11.  on 10 february 1999 the applicant instituted civil proceedings against the asylum in the zhovtnevyy local court of luhansk, seeking compensation for non-pecuniary and pecuniary damage (the cost of medications and food expenses incurred while staying in a hospital between 2 and 30 april 1998 and between 18 and 26 may 1998 and the costs of dental prosthesis care).the applicant claimed that following negligence on the part of the asylum employees l. and n. she had been beaten by b. the applicant also indicated that the asylum should not have placed b. in one room with the applicant since b. had been known for her violent behaviour.in a court hearing the asylum’s representative submitted that in his view the applicant had initiated the conflict with b. herself and thus there had been no negligence on the part of the asylum’s employees.the court, having listened to the parties and witnesses and having examined the case material, concluded that on 2 april 1998 as a result of a fight between the applicant and b., “who at the material time was found to be without legal capacity” (яка на той момент була визнана недієздатною), the applicant had received injuries.the court further referred to the decision of the prosecutor’s office of 8 may 1998 (see paragraph 8 above) and held that harm had been inflicted on the applicant as a result of negligence by the asylum employees (orderlies).according to the demand, the applicant’s rights had been violated because there had been no internal investigation into the incident within the statutory time‑limit (of within ten days of the incident).the applicant asserted, in particular, that the asylum was avoiding delivering a report on the incident even though it was necessary to establish the facts surrounding the incident and to recover damages for the injuries sustained.the court also noted that even though b. had not been declared to be without legal capacity, at the time of the incident both she and the applicant had been under the supervision of the asylum, which should accordingly have been held responsible for the incident.23.  on 30 january 2013 the higher specialised civil and criminal court of ukraine, following an appeal by the defendant, quashed the decisions of the lower courts and remitted the case to the first-instance court for fresh consideration.the court noted that, according to the court decision of 3 october 2006, harm had been inflicted on the applicant as a result of negligence by the asylum employees.on 18 december 2013 the luhansk regional court of appeal upheld the judgment of 27 september 2013, noting that “the first-instance court had correctly established the degree of guilt of those who had inflicted harm”.
on 9 july 2013 the applicant was brought to šiauliai remand prison and was held there until 31 may 2016. in judgment of 23 december 2015 the applicant was sentenced to four years imprisonment by the klaipėda district court.following an appeal by the applicant, the judgment became final on 25 may 2016. the applicant was then transferred to alytus correctional facility and after serving his sentence was released on 30 june 2017.he complained of: overcrowding; of there being no partition wall between toilets and cells; of insufficient ventilation; of insufficient time in the open air; of insufficient time for showering; of the presence of cockroaches; of inmates smoking in the cells; of no long-stay or short visits; of the fact that he had not been allowed to go home; of the low energy value of the food provided; of the prohibition on receiving food from relatives and friends; and of the prohibition on having his own blanket and a music player.the court further held that the presence of toilets in the applicant’s cell had not corresponded to the requirements of domestic law, that the lighting had been insufficient and the temperature had been too low, and that the food provided had had insufficient energy value.the court noted that inmates could buy food and other necessities in the shops of the facility.as regards the prohibition on having his own blanket and a music player, the court held that the use of personal blankets was not allowed in accordance with domestic norms.as regards long-stay and short visits, the court held that remand prisoners did not have a right to long-stay visits but he had a right to short visits of up to two hours.the court also held that inmates could be allowed to go home for up to five days in the event of the death or serious illness of a spouse, partner or close relative, or in the event of a natural disaster that had caused serious pecuniary damage to the inmate, his or her spouse, partner or close relatives.8.  the applicant appealed, and on 11 february 2015 the supreme administrative court held that it was impossible to calculate for how many days the applicant had had sufficient personal space at his disposal, and decided to hold that for 245 days the applicant had not had sufficient personal space, and that this had been a breach of article 3 of the convention.he complained of overcrowding, low temperature, dampness, insufficient lighting, prisoners smoking in the cells, that his partner had not been able to pay him a long‑stay visit and that he had not been allowed to “take holidays”.it appears that the applicant had asked the prison management to allow him to receive a long-stay visit from his spouse and his sister on 28 april 2014.10.  on 5 december 2014 the šiauliai regional administrative court held that during the period between 4 april and 5 october 2014 – for 176 days – the applicant had had insufficient cell space.as regards long-stay visits, the court agreed with šiauliai remand prison and stated that the applicant had not been entitled to them under domestic law; he could have had short visits but, however, he had never asked for them.the court accepted the argument of the šiauliai remand prison that remand detainees had been held in prisons or correctional facilities for short periods of time and they were not in a similar situation to convicted inmates.the court awarded the applicant eur 869 in compensation for the material conditions of his detention.
it also found it established that the applicant company was objectively liable for disseminating defamatory statements and had infringed the political party’s right to reputation, ordering it to publish excerpts of the judgment on the 444.hu website and to remove the hyperlink to the youtube video from the online article.violated the plaintiff jobbik magyarorszagért mozgalom’s inherent right of protection against defamation by falsely claiming in his statements given to the second defendant on 5 september 2013 and uploaded to youtube.com, and to the sixth defendant on 7 september and uploaded to haon.hu that the events that had taken place on 5 september 2013 in front of the primary school of konyár, had been done by the plaintiff party, and that the people who had taken part in it were individuals associated with the plaintiff party.... the court obliges the first and second defendants to make the first and second paragraphs of this judgment publicly available within 15 days and for a period of 30 days on youtube.com at their own cost, and for the fourth defendant to make it publicly available on romaclub.hu, the fifth defendant on 444.hu, the sixth defendant on haon.hu, and the eighth defendant on hvg.hu.... the objective sanctions for the violation of inherent rights: pursuant to paragraph 1 of section 84 of the civil code, a person whose inherent rights have been violated shall have the following options under civil law, depending on the circumstances of the case: a) demand a court declaration of the occurrence of the infringement; c) demand that the perpetrator make restitution in a statement or by some other suitable means and, if necessary, that the perpetrator, at his own expense, make an appropriate public disclosure for restitution; d) demand the termination of the injurious situation and the restoration of the previous state by and at the expense of the perpetrator and, furthermore, to have the effects of the infringement nullified or deprived of their injurious nature.with regard to the restitution in accordance with paragraph 1 c) of section 84 of the civil code, the court ordered the defendants - pertaining to the infringement they have realized by their proceedings - to make public in the affected websites the first and second paragraphs of the judgment that contain the establishment of the infringement and at the same time affect the plaintiff and declare the falseness of the statement that was made publicly available.based on paragraph 1 d) of section 84 of the civil code, the court ordered the fifth defendant to deprive its related report of its injurious nature, but it rejected the same claim the plaintiff submitted against the eighth defendant, since it can be established by the facts of the case that the eighth defendant’s report available on hvg.hu merely links to the report that appeared on the website 444.hu maintained by the fifth defendant, therefore the latter’s deprivation of its injurious nature effectively results in the deprivation of the report on hvg.hu of its injurious nature.in the case in question, the court established it as a publicly known fact that the first defendant’s statement, which presented the plaintiff political party as such that committed an aggressive, threatening and racist event, and which was later on publicly disseminated by the other defendants, caused non-material damage in the assessment of the plaintiff political party.with regard to the first defendant, the court established the fact of imputability out of the conditions of indemnification for non-material damages.... in the case of the other defendants, the court did not establish their imputability with regard to the violation of law, and consequently, the court rejected the plaintiff’s claim for indemnification for non-material damages against the other defendants, as follows: in their own online news websites maintained by the fifth [the applicant company], sixth and eight defendants, the defendants in question published reports that presented the events of 5 september in the most realistic way, and they used the available information channels and forms of control in the expected manner.the fact that the defendants also included [mr j.gy.’s statements] does not violate the procedure expected from the staff of the press in such a situation [is] not regarded as a deliberately false publication, and therefore does not call for the establishment of whether the employees of the given defendants failed to examine the veracity of the facts, and in relation to this, failed to act with the precision necessary for the responsible practice of the constitutional right to freedom of expression.in contrast with this, it can explicitly be established based on the content of the testimonies and the submitted reports that the employees of the affected defendants acted with the precision necessary for the responsible practice of their work[:] they examined, exposed and presented the veracity of the facts[;] therefore they acted in a manner that would generally be expected from them in the given situation.the applicant company also emphasised that by making the interview with the first defendant available in the form of a link but not associating the applicant company with the video’s content, it had not repeated the statements and had not disseminated falsehoods.the essence of dissemination is the sharing of information, and owing to the objective legal consequence, it does not matter what the goal of the sharing was, whether the disseminator acted in good or bad faith, nor do the scope of publicity or the gravity of the infringement have any relevance.as regards the question of whether the applicant company’s activity constituted dissemination of information the kúria found: “both in criminal law and other cases of civil law, the kúria has taken the legal standpoint ... that dissemination is carried out by sharing or making public any information, as a result of which anyone can have access to the given content.21.  the constitutional court also reiterated its previous case-law concerning reporting about public figures’ press conferences, stating that such conduct did not qualify as dissemination if the report was unbiased and objective, the statement concerned a matter of public interest, the publisher provided the source of the statement and gave the opportunity to the person concerned by the potentially injurious statement a possibility to react.however, in the present case the kúria found that the aim of the publication had not been the presentation of j.gy.’s statements, but the presentation of the contradictory information concerning the event.
6.  on 7 april 2005 the kyivskiy district court of kharkiv found the applicant guilty of theft and of two counts of deliberately causing bodily harm to his wife and g., and sentenced him to one year’s imprisonment for the theft, one year’s imprisonment for deliberately causing bodily harm to g. and seven years’ imprisonment for deliberately causing bodily harm to his wife.in addition, as the applicant had continued to plead his innocence in relation the episode with g. and had objected to closing the proceedings in relation to that matter, and in view of the fact that meanwhile the offence had become time-barred, the court of appeal absolved the applicant from having to serve the sentence in respect of the episode with g. the remainder of the sentence, namely a term of seven years’ imprisonment for deliberately causing harm to the applicant’s wife, was upheld by the court of appeal.8.  on 8 may 2007 the supreme court dismissed an appeal by the applicant on points of law as unsubstantiated and upheld the findings of the court of appeal.the applicant referred in this respect to the relevant reports of the european committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman and degrading treatment and punishment (hereinafter, “the cpt”) in respect of their visits to ukraine.having relied on certificates issued by the prison authorities in march 2014, attesting to the conditions of detention in the unit on that date, the government submitted that the unit accommodated forty-two prisoners.the government submitted that the unit also disposed other premises, such as rooms for educational work, storage rooms for food and personal belongings of prisoners and a drying room, which the applicant was free to use between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. each day in order to compensate the scare attribution of space in his bedroom.according to the prison’s schedule, the inmates of the applicant’s unit had a bath once per week, and bedding and underwear would also be changed.13.  the government acknowledged the fact that, on a number of occasions, the applicant had been transported from the prison to different medical institutions.however, they could not provide any details relating to the conditions of the applicant’s transportation because the time-limit for keeping the relevant documents had expired and the records had subsequently been destroyed.15.  in his letter to the court of 27 november 2008, the applicant stated that his request of 26 september 2008 for copies of the necessary documents had remained unanswered, even though there was evidence that the request had been received by the kyivskiy district court of kharkiv.16.  according to the government, in 2004 and 2005, following the applicant’s requests, he had studied the case file in detail and had been served with copies of procedural documents in his case, save for a copy of his appeal on points of law, which was not available in the case file at the time.there is no evidence that, after his release, the applicant applied to the relevant authorities with a request to have access to his case file or to have copies of documents made.18.  the applicant alleged that the prison administration had deliberately delayed sending certain of his letters to the court, had monitored his correspondence and had withheld documents attached to some of the complaints, which he had asked them to send to the court.according to the applicant, he had also been persecuted by the administration of the prison for communicating with the court.21.  the relevant extracts from the reports of the cpt concerning conditions of transportation of detainees in ukraine can be found in yakovenko v. ukraine (no.
4.  the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in timişoara.5.  on 20 february 2003 the applicant, a bank manager at that time, was placed in pre-trial detention by the bucharest anti-corruption department of the prosecutor’s office, on a charge of taking a bribe in order to favourably influence the acceptance of a loan requested by m.g.6.  by a final judgment delivered on 13 april 2012 the high court of cassation and justice (“the high court”) convicted the applicant of taking a bribe.among the evidence which led to his conviction was the transcript of a phone conversation between the applicant and m.g.on 16 september 2002.7.  the conversation had been intercepted on the basis of a warrant issued by the prosecutor under the provisions of law no.51/1991 on national security (“law no.51/1991”) for the period between 13 august and 12 november 2002.8.  the applicant complained before the domestic courts about the lawfulness of the interception of his phone conversation and the accuracy of the transcript.he alleged that the court had held that law no.51/1991 did not afford the guarantees required under article 8 of the convention.however, the high court merely replied that the impugned interception had been lawful and within the scope of law no.51/1991.
the event had been approved by the city authorities in the form of a march followed by a meeting at bolotnaya square which was supposed to end at 7.30 p.m. the march was peaceful and held without any disruptions, but when the marchers arrived at bolotnaya square it transpired that barriers installed by the police had narrowed the entrance to the meeting venue, allegedly restricting the space allocated for the meeting.they were arrested at the venue of the event and taken to police stations, where they were charged with administrative offences and then convicted as charged by the justices of the peace.10.  according to the government, the applicant, as a participant in the authorised demonstration, had broken through the police cordon and tried to pass to the red square.the administrative arrest record indicated that the applicant had been arrested at 8.30 p.m. at the police station and released at 11.05 p.m. on the same day.[the applicant] did not react to the multiple lawful demands of the police to cease these actions and actively resisted while being taken to the police van, thereby demonstrating his refusal to obey the lawful orders of the police officers and preventing them from fulfilling their service duties, in breach of article 19.3 § 1 of the code of administrative offences.” 13.  on 29 may 2012 the justice of the peace of circuit no.on the basis of the statements of two police officers the court established that the applicant had committed an administrative offence under article 19.3 § 1 of the code of administrative offences, as described in the administrative offence record.on the way to the station at 8.55 p.m. her husband was arrested by the police officers, who gave no orders, and was taken to the police van.15.  on 16 july 2012 the district court examined and partly granted the applicant’s request to exclude the written statements of the police officers as inadmissible evidence.17.  on 23 august 2012 the district court held a hearing in the absence of the applicant and his lawyers, having mentioned that none of them had lodged a request to adjourn the hearing.the court questioned two police officers, who stated that the applicant, together with other participants of the demonstration, had pushed through the police cordon and tried to approach the kremlin; had pushed the police officers away; had thrown stones, glass bottles and smoke bombs; had disregarded multiple demands by the police to cease his actions; and had resisted arrest.19.  according to the government, the second applicant was arrested at 7.15 p.m. at bolotnaya square because she had been participating in breaking through the police cordon and had disregarded the police order to cease these acts and disperse.20.  the logbook of persons brought to the khoroshevskiy district police station indicated that the second applicant was taken there at 7.50 p.m. and released at 10.35 p.m. on 6 may 2012. the administrative file contained no record of the applicant being escorted to the police station.the administrative offence record stated as follows: “on 6 may 2012 at 7.15 p.m. [the applicant] took part in an authorised meeting at bolotnaya square in moscow, broke through the police cordon and tried to approach the kremlin.[the applicant] did not react to the multiple lawful demands of the police officers to cease these actions, thereby preventing them from fulfilling their service duties ... in breach of article 19.3 § 1 of the code of administrative offences.” 22.  the administrative case-file contained a police officer’s report which was drawn up on a template.on the basis of the police officer’s report, the applicant was found guilty under article 19.3 § 1 of the code of administrative offences and was sentenced to a fine of rub 500 (about eur 12 at the time).
the disruption of the air-conditioning system also meant that there was no ventilation and the air became foul with so many women in the wing when the weather was warmer in may and june.14.  on the basis of the above records, the government had put together a daily occupancy table for the purposes of the present case concerning the women’s wing.according to the table, during the relevant period there had been fifteen days when there were eight to ten detainees in the wing, three when there were eleven detainees in the wing, and at least sixty-three days where there were between twelve and twenty detainees.sent letters on behalf of the applicant to the commissioner for administration of the republic of cyprus (“the ombudsman”) complaining, inter alia, about the conditions of the applicant’s detention.sent a letter on behalf of the applicant to the independent authority for investigation of allegations and complaints against the police (“iaiacap”) complaining about the conditions of her detention and disputing the lawfulness of her arrest and detention.in the actual report by the investigator dated 25 june 2012, in so far as the applicant’s conditions of detention were concerned, it was stated that the heating at the station had been functioning in march 2012, apart from three days when the system had been under maintenance, and that blankets had been provided.sent a letter dated 4 april 2012 to the president of the supreme court of cyprus informing him of the problems and violations of rights that the applicant had suffered during her detention.20.  on 8 june 2012 mr l. loucaides, a lawyer who had been hired by s.e., sent a letter of complaint to the general director of the ministry of interior about the conditions of the applicant’s detention and the detention itself.... at the end-of-visit talks with the cypriot authorities, the visiting delegation made an immediate observation pursuant to article 8, paragraph 5, of the european convention for the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, requesting that the cypriot authorities take immediate steps to improve the conditions of detention of persons held in police custody for prolonged periods.59. by letter of 8 september 2008, the cypriot authorities informed the cpt that remand police custody rarely lasts longer than 16 days, and that, as regards immigration detention, pursuant to a recent decision of the minister of interior, he personally examines, on a case-by-case basis, the files of non-eu nationals detained for longer than six months.a solution to this problem cannot await the opening of the new aliens centre planned for 2012. the cpt has already described, in its previous report, the standards that accommodation provided to persons detained for prolonged periods under aliens an asylum legislation should meet.the cpt once again recommends that the cypriot authorities urgently review the conditions in the existing centres designed to hold persons deprived of their liberty under aliens/asylum legislation, in the light of the aforementioned standards, and that they ensure that any additional centres they establish comply with those standards.26.  furthermore, the ombudsman observed that although the station’s director had informed her that the detainees had access to hygiene products (for example, toilet paper, soap and shampoo), he had also informed her that in 2012 the budget for these products had been reduced from 3,000 euros (eur) to eur 400. this drastic cutback was not in line with the relevant cpt standards and the sum allocated was not enough to cover the needs of all the detainees.29.  the ombudsman concluded that the infrastructure of the facilities had serious shortcomings and inadequacies and was not compatible with the fundamental principles for the treatment of prisoners and international standards for detention and imprisonment.30.  the ombudsman made recommendations which included the immediate adoption of measures to add a window to each cell, to end overcrowding and the practice of detainees sleeping on mattresses on the floor, to provide personal hygiene products to detainees at any time and to review the budget that was allocated for this purpose.
5.  on 5 november 2009 a resident of gavar, h.h., reported to the police that at around 6.20 p.m. his car had been shot at by someone travelling inside a black sports utility vehicle (suv) on a street in gavar, as a result of which his son h. and his friend (who had been with him in the car) had received gunshot injuries and had been taken to hospital.9.  a.s., a person close to the applicants’ family and employed by them in one of their businesses, stated in his interview that on the day of the events in question he had met the applicants and h.p.10.  s.g., the applicants’ relative, stated during his interview that on the day of the events in question the second applicant had called him to enquire about the incident.he had later been informed by his son that the people gathered at the scene of the incident had told him that the applicants had shot at h.h.’s car.m.m., a friend of the mayor of gavar who was the applicants’ relative, stated in his interview that he had lent his car to the mayor (who had allegedly then helped the applicants to leave town).on the same day he had met the first applicant and given him the key to the apartment.17.  on 5 may 2010 the proceedings were stayed on the grounds that the identity of the perpetrator of the attempted murder was unknown and, as regards the incident of hooliganism, the accused had absconded.21.  on 7 september 2010 the main proceedings for attempted murder were once again stayed on the grounds that the identity of the perpetrator was unknown.29.  according to the government, at the end of the investigation the applicants and their representative acquainted themselves with the material in the criminal case file.in particular, the investigator stated that the confrontations requested by the applicants could not be conducted at that stage of the proceedings because (a) a warrant had been issued for a.s.’s arrest and his whereabouts remained unknown, and (b) h.p., exercising his rights as an accused, had refused to take part in a confrontation with the applicants.wrote to the regional court to ask that his pre-trial statements be taken into account since he was in another city for health reasons and did not wish to attend the trial as the events had made him suffer psychologically.33.  in the course of the trial, the regional court attempted to secure the attendance of h.h.on 10 august 2011 the gavar police informed the regional court that a.s., m.m., s.g. were not in the city and that they had no information about their place of residence.on 22 september 2011 the gavar police informed the court that daily visits by the police officers to h.h.’s place of residence had not yielded any results and that he had apparently not been seen there for about a year.the regional court also referred, inter alia, to the testimony of more than twenty witnesses obtained during the pre-trial and trial stages; the records of confrontations conducted as part of the investigation; a forensic medical examination report; a complex ballistic and fingerprint examination report; a complex ballistic and forensic chemical examination report; the record of an investigatory experiment; records of an operative-investigative measure; a vehicle inspection report concerning h.h.’s and the second applicant’s cars; a crime scene inspection report; a number plate recognition report concerning the second applicant’s car; transcripts of calls to and from several telephone numbers; and a complex forensic fibre examination report.
6.  the applicant was a journalist and an active member of the popular front party, which is one of the opposition parties.at the time of the events he wrote for the newspaper azadliq and participated in various media projects.the applicant was suspected of having committed the criminal offence of hooliganism under article 221.3 of the criminal code.by hitting the latter on the head with a glass water bottle and also punching and kicking him in the face.11.  on the same day the absheron district court, relying on the official charge brought against the applicant and a request by the prosecutor to apply the preventive measure of remand in custody, ordered the applicant’s detention pending trial for a period of two months, calculating the period of detention from 29 august 2014. the court justified the application of the preventive measure of remand in custody by referring to the risk of the applicant reoffending and obstructing the investigation’s functioning by influencing other participants in the criminal proceedings.the relevant part of the decision reads as follows: “... having examined the preliminary material of the case file (witness statements and forensic expert reports), the court considers that there are sufficient grounds to believe that there is a likelihood that the accused haziyev seymur mashgul oglu will obstruct the investigation’s functioning by influencing other participants in the criminal proceedings and reoffend.” 12.  on 1 september 2014 the applicant appealed against that decision, claiming that there had been no justification for the application of the preventive measure of detention pending trial, and that his pre-trial detention amounted to a violation of article 5 of the convention.in this respect, he submitted that there was no evidence in the case file proving the existence of any risk of his reoffending or obstructing the investigation’s functioning.he also argued that he could not in any way obstruct the investigation’s functioning, as all the protagonists involved in the incident had already been identified and examined by the forensic expert.the applicant also challenged the charge against him, claiming that he had only defended himself against the physical assault by m.h., whom he had not known before the incident.13.  on 12 september 2014 the sumgayit court of appeal dismissed the appeal, finding that the first-instance court’s decision was justified.in particular, the appellate court dismissed the applicant’s complaint relating to the legal classification of his action as hooliganism, but remained silent as to his above-mentioned specific complaints concerning the lack of justification for his pre-trial detention.in support of his application, he pointed out that he had a permanent place of residence, that he had no criminal record, and that there was no proof that he could obstruct the investigation and reoffend.17.  on 27 october 2014 the prosecutor in charge of the case filed the bill of indictment with the absheron district court for trial.20.  on 20 november 2014 the absheron district court held a preliminary hearing in which it decided, inter alia, that the preventive measure of remand in custody in respect of the applicant should remain unchanged, without citing any grounds.21.  on 29 january 2015 the absheron district court found the applicant guilty under article 221.3 of the criminal code and sentenced him to five years’ imprisonment.
7.  he observed the trial against three high-ranking members of the communist-era military council of national salvation who had ordered the imposition of martial law in poland in december 1981.10.  the applicant was in the courtroom when on 12 january 2012 the warsaw regional court (sąd okręgowy) was to deliver its judgment in the case described above.11.  at 1.30 p.m., after the judges had arrived in the courtroom, the applicant jumped behind the judge’s table and shouted: “this is a mockery of justice!” (tutaj trwa kpina z wymiaru sprawiedliwości).in view of the audience’s refusal to leave the courtroom, the judge who was presiding over the trial decided to announce the judgment from a different room.here, in the applicant’s absence, the warsaw regional court imposed on him a disciplinary custodial penalty of fourteen days for contempt of court (“for the breach of the solemn nature, serenity and the course of court proceedings, to the degree making the announcement of the judgment impossible”).17.  on 12 january 2012 a written decision, in the form of an extract from the court minutes as described in the preceding paragraph, was issued to that effect.19.  on the day of the trial in question, that is 12 january 2012, a warrant was issued ordering the applicant’s placement in a penal facility with a view to his serving the penalty.20.  on 19 january 2012 the applicant was served with a warrant and then arrested so that he could be committed to warsaw remand centre to serve the penalty in a closed regime.since only a copy of the first page of the applicant’s appeal has been submitted to the court, it is unclear whether the applicant had also raised the argument of the lack of impartiality of the judges who had punished him for contempt of court.24.  on 1 february 2012 the appeal together with the regional court’s comments was received by the warsaw court of appeal.25.  on 2 february 2012 – the fourteenth day of the applicant’s detention – the prison board of the warsaw remand centre decided that the applicant should be detained under a semi-open regime (with the possibility to leave his cell during the day).29.  on 22 march 2012 the warsaw court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s interlocutory appeal, finding that the applicant’s disrespectful behaviour had interfered with the solemn nature of court proceedings and with the court’s dignity, and had disrupted the proceedings.it had been premeditated as the applicant had known that the announcement of the judgment had been scheduled for live media broadcast.the court also considered that the applicant’s behaviour could not be explained by an emotional disagreement with the court’s ruling because at the time of the incident the applicant had been unaware of the outcome of the trial.the applicant had wished to disturb the order of the proceedings irrespective of their result.
4.  the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in blagoevgrad.5.  he had been employed by the national security service, at the regional office of blagoevgrad, as an agent since 1998. on account of the nature of his duties, he had held a security clearance permitting him access to classified information constituting state secrets.according to the applicant’s job description, being in a possession of such a security clearance had been a prerequisite to him holding his post.6.  on 20 november 2013, the director of the national security service issued a decision to revoke the applicant’s security clearance allowing access to classified information.the decision did not contain any reasoning in respect of that revocation, apart from a reference to section 59, in relation with section 40 § 1 f) and h); section 41 c) and d), and section 42 a) and b) of the classified information protection act (see paragraphs 12 and 13 below).7.  the applicant lodged an appeal against the revocation with the state commission for information security.the latter, by a decision of 9 january 2014, upheld the revocation.8.  on 6 march 2014, the director of the national security service ordered that the applicant be dismissed.the reason given for the termination of his employment was the revocation of his security clearance, possession of which was an indispensable precondition for him to be able to perform his duties.9.  the applicant challenged his dismissal at two levels of jurisdiction.he contested the lawfulness of the dismissal procedure, arguing that he was not able to challenge, in the course of the procedure before the state commission for information security, the facts on which the revocation of the security clearance permit was based.the director of the national security service abused his powers in dismissing the applicant, who was not allowed an opportunity to defend himself.10.  by its judgment of 19 march 2015, the blagoevgrad administrative court rejected the applicant’s claims, reasoning that the decision of the director of the national security service to revoke the applicant’s security clearance was a final and valid administrative act, and it rendered the applicant’s dismissal inevitable because he was no longer able to perform his duties.the court added that the applicant had exhausted the remedy provided by law by challenging the revocation decision, and that the latter had become final; in addition, the court was not competent to examine, within the framework of the dismissal proceedings, any questions related to its lawfulness.11.  on 11 july 2016, the supreme court of cassation upheld that judgment, confirming that the decision to revoke the applicant’s security clearance was not amenable to judicial review.
3.  the list of applicants and the relevant details of the applications are set out in the appended table.4.  the applicants sued different state and municipal unitary companies (the debtor companies) in several unrelated sets of court proceedings.5.  on the dates set out in the appended table domestic courts by separate judgments made pecuniary awards in favour of the applicants to be paid by the debtor companies.in application no.34145/11 the courts also ordered the debtor company to take certain action in favour of the applicant, as specified in the appended table.6.  the companies were incorporated as state or municipal unitary enterprises.they provided services specified in the appended table.7.  on various dates insolvency proceedings were opened in respect of some of the debtor companies.the companies were subsequently liquidated.the dates on which the insolvency proceedings started and ended are tabulated below.
6.  the property in warsaw which gives rise to the present application (two adjacent plots of land with a detached house situated on it) was originally co-owned by the applicants’ predecessors, the d. family and the k. family.7.  the land and the building in question fell under the decree of 26 october 1945 on ownership and use of land in warsaw by virtue of which the warsaw municipality (and after 1950, the state treasury) became the owner of all plots of land located in warsaw.8.  according to a further donation contract, a sale contract and the rules on inheritance, since 1998 the rights and claims to the land and the building have belonged in 3/6 to the third applicant, in 2/6 to the second applicant and in 1/6 to the first applicant.9.  on 22 june 1988 the third applicant filed with the mayor of warsaw an application for restitution of the right of ownership of the building and the land in question pursuant to the land administration and expropriation act of 29 april 1985 (ustawa o gospodarce gruntami i wywłaszczaniu nieruchomości).consequently, the mayor granted the applicants the right of perpetual use of the land and declared that they retained the ownership of the building located thereon.13.  on 21 november 2005 the mayor of warsaw issued a decision, granting the applicants the right of perpetual use of the land.the mayor decided to return the ownership of the building to the applicants and decided on the annual amount of fees to be paid for the perpetual use of the land.15.  on 5 december 2007 the warsaw self-government board of appeal quashed the decision of 21 november 2005 (see paragraph 13 above) and remitted the case for re-examination.16.  on 15 october 2008 the applicants lodged with the warsaw regional administrative court a complaint about the inactivity on the part of the mayor of warsaw.18.  on 18 june 2009 the mayor of warsaw issued a new decision, granting the applicants a right of perpetual use of the land and the ownership of the house.19.  on 30 june 2009 the applicants applied to the warsaw self‑government board of appeal contesting the amount of fees for the perpetual use of land.24.  on 24 may 2013 the applicants signed a notarial deed by virtue of which they acquired the ownership of the building and a right of perpetual use of the land.29.  on 20 june 2013 the applicants applied to the mayor of warsaw for transformation of their right of perpetual use of land into the right of ownership under the act of 25 july 2005 on transformation of a right of perpetual use into a right of ownership.31.  on 3 october 2013 and 3 september 2014 the warsaw self‑government board of appeal and the warsaw regional administrative court, respectively, upheld the first-instance decision.33.  on 14 april 2016 the board of the mokotów district issued a decision on the free of charge transformation of the right of perpetual use of the land into the right of ownership.
11.  his first statement of 16 june 2012 reads as follows: “... i woke up at around 8.30-9.00 a.m. and i don’t know what came into my mind but i told myself that i must do something with those roma people, it was nothing specific ... i put on my boiler suit and slippers, took a gun – a pistol which i had in my wardrobe ... this morning i loaded the gun, ... got into my car and went to deal with everything, including the roma ... afterwards, i wanted to shoot myself; somehow it weighed heavily [on my mind] ... i went down to hurbanovo, where i arrived at around 9.20 a.m. ... i went across the city of hurbanovo and i came to the houses at the end of the city, where roma live.... by the next house ... i saw a gate opened and roma in the yard, i pulled up, got out of the car and entered the yard ... i had the gun already in my hand as i was getting out of the car ... they were sitting and i started to fire shots at them ... i wanted to kill them.had been developing burnout syndrome as another of the possible motivating factors.” 22.  in his conclusion, the psychologist found that an important motive determining his behaviour before and during the crime could have been his continual frustration about his own work and the fact that he had been unable to resolve the public-order issues in the town – in particular, the problems concerning the roma part of the population.(d)  the indictment 25.  on 11 december 2012 the special prosecutor filed a bill of indictment with the specialised criminal court (špecializovaný trestný súd) (hereinafter “the scc”), charging mr j. with (i) premeditated first-degree murder under article 144 § 1 and § 2 (c) of the criminal code, with reference to article 138 (j) of the criminal code, partly accomplished and partly attempted (zločin úkladnej vraždy, sčasti dokonaný a sčasti v štádiu pokusu), and (ii) the offence of carrying a concealed weapon under article 294 § 1 and § 2 of the criminal code, in concurrence with the offence of illegal entry into a dwelling under article 194 § 1 and § 2 (a) of the criminal code, with reference to article 138 (a) of the criminal code.26.  the special prosecutor referred to, inter alia, the testimony of mr j., of the applicants, and of other witnesses, as well as the expert reports and the statements given by the experts when they had been interviewed, including the psychologist’s statements concerning the earlier violent confrontation between mr j. and roma children, and mr j’s growing feelings of helplessness, his fear of the roma, and his belief that in acting as he had he had believed that he was solving an issue with the roma.27.  as regards the legal classification of the offence of murder, the bill of indictment reads, in the relevant part, as follows: “it is necessary to classify ... the action of the accused, as far as it concerns the shooting [and killing] of the five members of the lakatoš family ... as ... the offence of first-degree murder within the meaning of article 144 §§ 1 and 2 (c) of the criminal code ... in the present case, there was no accidental behaviour (murdering) caused by the arising of a situation (for example, an argument or ... outburst at the place in question); rather, the murder was premeditated (that is to say a motive had been considered in advance).... [m]oreover, the experts also identified a longer and continuing internal feeling of dissatisfaction with the state of affairs ... which resulted exactly in the decision to go and shoot with an intention to kill and which had also manifested itself for several moments externally; for example, by the earlier obtaining of an illegal weapon.” the special prosecutor furthermore argued that the intention to kill was obvious from the manner in which the accused had acted.28.  between 25 and 28 march 2013 a public hearing took place, during which mr j. gave no evidence, stated that he did not deny the charges, and responded affirmatively to the presiding judge’s questions as to whether he understood the facts of the crime, whether his defence rights had been properly granted, whether he comprehended the legal status of the offence, whether he had been informed of the penalties under the law for the criminal offences in question, and whether he had confessed to the crime voluntarily.owing to the fact that mr j., his lawyer, and the prosecutor had all waived their right to appeal, the judgment contained only a brief description of the criminal act in question and the sentencing part, pursuant to article 172 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure.the court established that: “[the accused] ... after he woke up at around 9 a.m. ... with a view to definitively resolving the problem with the unintegrated [neprispôsobiví] citizens of hurbanovo by causing their deaths, took a weapon [and] loaded it with two full magazines; in addition ... he took twelve pieces of single 7.62 x 25 mm ammunition and ... drove himself to the front of the family house ... in hurbanovo, where at around 10.10 a.m. he left the vehicle, unlawfully entered the yard ... and without a word ... aimed and shot eight times at persons at the yard ...” 33.  mr j. was sentenced to nine years’ imprisonment.in sum, they claimed that the scc had erroneously concluded that mr j. had had diminished soundness of mind at the time that the crime had been committed, and that as a consequence the scc had imposed an inappropriately low sentence, which could not serve to discourage the future occurrence of the behaviour in question.39.  they furthermore complained of the ineffectiveness of the criminal prosecution owing to the questionable quality of the expert report and the alleged bias of its authors, the court’s refusal to order a second expert opinion, the fact that it had been impossible for their lawyer to ask questions and cross-examine the expert witnesses, the absence of any reasoning in the final judgment, and the lack of any assessment of the racial overtones of the crime.the constitutional court can assess other applicants’ complaints only generally on the basis of other documents from the [respective] case file (in particular, the expert opinion and minutes from the main hearing).” 41.  in so far as the applicants complained of the failure of the criminal justice authorities to address the racial motive of the attack, as well as their inability to challenge the conviction and the sentence, the constitutional court considered that these complaints were directed against provisions of the code of criminal procedure and the position of an injured party under slovak criminal law.42.  in addition, the court scrutinised the adequacy of the sentence and summarised that the accused had been diagnosed with diminished soundness of mind at the time of the commission of the crime.as to the applicants’ complaint about the lack of a decision on their claim for damages in the criminal proceedings and the lack of any reasoning given by the court in respect of their claim for damages, the constitutional court referred to the supreme court’s reasoning and rejected this part of the complaint.
5.  on 28 august 2007 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of child molestation and on the same day he was brought before a judge at the gaziosmanpaşa juvenile court, who placed him in detention on remand.6.  on 3 september 2007 the applicant filed an objection against the decision on his detention.on 18 september 2007 the beyoğlu juvenile assize court dismissed his objection on the basis of the case file, without holding a hearing.8.  on 16 december 2007 the bakırköy public prosecutor filed an indictment with the bakırköy juvenile assize court, charging the applicant with child molestation.9.  on 31 december 2007 the bakırköy juvenile assize court ordered the continuation of the applicant’s pre-trial detention on the basis of the case file, and decided that it had no jurisdiction ratione loci and that the case should be heard by the beyoğlu juvenile assize court and referred the case file to the latter.10.  on 24 january 2008 the beyoğlu juvenile assize court declared itself incompetent ratione loci as well and sent the case file to the court of cassation to render its decision on the conflict of jurisdiction ratione loci.on the same date the court also ordered the continuation of the applicant’s pre-trial detention on the basis of the case file.11.  on 30 january 2008 the applicant filed an objection against the decision on the continuation of his pre-trial detention.on 14 february 2008 the bakırköy juvenile assize court dismissed his objection on the basis of the case file, without holding a hearing.13.  on 13 august 2008 the trial court held a preparatory hearing and ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention on the basis of the case file.on 12 september 2008 and 9 october 2008, respectively, the court ex officio examined the applicant’s detention on remand on the basis of the case-file and decided to extend it.at the end of that hearing, the court ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention.15.  during the hearings held on 21 january 2009, 14 april 2009 and 21 july 2009, at which the applicant was present, the trial court ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention on remand.between the hearings, which were held with regular intervals of one month, the court ex officio examined the applicant’s detention on remand on the basis of the case‑file and decided to extend it 16.  on 3 november 2009, at the end of the fifth hearing before the court, the applicant was released pending trial.17.  according to the latest information in the case file, the criminal proceedings against the applicant were still pending.
and stolen from him a combine-harvester radiator, a portable water hose, a tamburitza and eur 60. he also stated that he had stayed in the car because he had refused to participate in the robbery.and that the dna evidence collected from the car found in the vicinity of l.m.’s home matched the dna profile of the third applicant.24.  on 10 july 2008 the public prosecutor issued an indictment against the applicants and r.k. for robbery allegedly committed on the night of 27 to 28 march 2008 (count 1) and for burglary allegedly committed on 26 and 27 march 2008 (count 2).he added that the tamburitza, the combine-harvester radiator and the portable water hose, which had been found by the police on 28 march 2008 at about 1 a.m., had belonged to him.the witness stated at the hearing that he was 50-60% certain that the second applicant had been the one who had got off the bus at aurometal (the witness had been able to observe him from the bus for about thirty seconds); the third applicant could have been the other one, but the witness was not sure because he had seen him only from behind.m.p., a police officer, stated that on 14 march 2008, following the tip-off from u.đ., he had gone to the house in marka oreškovića street and found the applicants, r.k. and some other roma people there.o.s., one of the experts who examined the dna evidence collected from l.m.’s home and from the car found in the vicinity of l.m.’s home, explained his report of 8 july 2008 according to which the material matched the dna profiles of l.m.37.  on 23 january 2009 the public prosecutor applied to the court to have the statements that r.k. had made to the investigating judge read out at the trial.119/08 concerning the severed case of r.k.; judicial records according to which the first applicant had three prior convictions, the second applicant had no prior convictions, the third applicant had two prior convictions, and, lastly, r.k. had nine prior convictions; and a police report of 14 march 2008 (see, in this regard, the witness statements of u.đ.earlier that day had been probably the first and the third applicants (rather than the second and the third applicants, as stated by u.đ.on the basis of the statement of r.k. made on 4 april 2008 and the other evidence set out above, it convicted the applicants of burglary and robbery.41.  in their appeal, the applicants argued, inter alia, that the statement of r.k. of 4 april 2008 ought not to have been admitted because they had not been able to test that evidence by means of cross-examination.42.  on 9 march 2010 the novi sad court of appeal (apelacioni sud) upheld the judgment of 30 march 2009. it acknowledged that the statement of r.k. made on 4 april 2008 had been the sole evidence against the first applicant and that the only corroborative evidence against the second and third applicants had been the statement of u.đ.made at the trial on 23 january 2009 and the dna evidence belonging to the third applicant found in a car abandoned in the vicinity of the crime scene.it relied, in this regard, on article 337 § 1 of the code of criminal procedure as well as the fact that r.k. had made the statement in question in the presence of his counsel, v. juhas đurić, who had shortly thereafter become counsel for the applicants.
8.  in 1988, one of the co‑owners had taken legal action to collect arrears of ground rent for eleven years and to evict couple s. by a judgment of the court of appeal (civil jurisdiction) of 27 may 1992, couple s. was ordered to pay the arrears; however, the court did not order their eviction.nevertheless, couple s. continued to occupy the apartment by title of lease since the law (article 12(2)(b)(i) of the housing (decontrol) ordinance as amended by act xxii of 1979 – see relevant domestic law below) provided for the conversion of a temporary emphyteusis into a lease, irrespective of the owners’ consent.13.  neither the applicants, nor their late father ever accepted any rent paid by couple s. on the following grounds: the rent due as calculated according to the law was far less than the rental market value of the apartment; the law in question (article 12 of the housing (decontrol) ordinance) was in breach of their rights as stipulated in article 1 of protocol no.1 to the convention; the conditions imposed by article 12 of the housing (decontrol) ordinance were disproportionate and did not pursue a legitimate aim; the owners were being denied enjoyment of their own property; and structural changes had been made to the premises without the applicants’ late father’s permission (or of any of his brothers).14.  according to a report of an ex-parte architect drawn up on 25 january 2011, the market value of the apartment at the time was that of eur 125,000. constitutional redress proceedings (a)  first-instance 15.  on 18 october 2012, the applicants filed proceedings before the civil court (first hall) in its constitutional jurisdiction.they alleged that their predecessors had no alternative but to enter into a contract of temporary emphyteusis in order to prevent the apartment from being requisitioned, and once that contract of temporary emphyteusis had been converted into an indefinite lease, by imposition of the law and against their will, the applicants had lost the property for an indefinite period and had no means of recovering it.furthermore the rent due to them, as established by the law, failed to strike a fair balance between the rights of the owners and the rights of couple s. they also argued that they needed the apartment for their own use.in this area the margin of appreciation available to a legislature in implementing social and economic policies was necessarily a wide one, both with regard to the existence of a problem of public concern warranting a measure of control and as to the choice of the rules for the implementation of such a measure.recognizing that a balance between the right of owners, the state, and the person occupying the apartment needed to be struck, and that according to the european court of human rights such balance had not been struck in the case of amato gauci v. malta (no.18.  the court held that article 12 of the housing (decontrol) ordinance did not deprive the applicants of their property, but it impacted the ability of the applicants to use the apartment.furthermore, the rent payable to the applicants did not reflect the value of the property in question ‑ the court‑appointed expert had established that the rental value of the apartment in 2014 was eur 3,000 annually, and that the rental value of the apartment in 1998 had been eur 2,000 annually.however, in the court’s view the applicants could not validly argue that article 12 of the housing (decontrol) ordinance, as amended by act xxii of 1979, had infringed their rights since the temporary emphyteusis had been entered into in 1981, when the amendments to the housing (decontrol) ordinance by act xxii had already been introduced.the calculation of the rent due for the lease (upon conversion of the temporary emphyteusis to a lease), did not only depend on the inflation rate but also on the ground rent that had been payable at the time of the temporary emphyteusis.the constitutional court considered that the ground rent payable at the time of the temporary emphyteusis for the property at issue should have been eur 1,476.27 a year (based on the inflation index for 1981 as being 408.16, and in the light of the fact that the inflation index for 1998 was 580.61 ‑ time when the court expert had estimated the rental value of the apartment for that year at eur 2,100) and not mtl 120 (around eur 280) as the parties had agreed.21.  the constitutional court therefore concluded that the owners of the apartment (which had now been inherited by the applicants) knew that: i) they were agreeing on a ground rent that was relatively low in amount; ii) when the temporary emphyteusis ended it would be converted into a lease that could be inherited and renewed (because article 12 of the housing (decontrol) ordinance as amended by act xxii was already in effect at the time the temporary emphyteusis agreement was entered into); and iii) that the value of the rent would be worked out on the basis of the ground rent that was being paid, in proportion to the rise in living standards.
6.  on 22 november 2013 the director of company m. lodged a complaint with the klaipėda police, alleging that the applicant’s wife, who had been providing accounting services to company m., had unlawfully transferred large amounts of money from that company’s bank account to other companies.the director of company m. was questioned as a witness and stated that in may 2012 he had entered into a contract for accounting services with company a., of which the applicant was the director.in accordance with that contract, the applicant’s wife had begun providing accounting services to company m. in the beginning he had been happy with her work, but later he had noticed certain bank transfers which appeared suspicious to him.8.  on 4 december 2013 the applicant’s wife was granted the status of a “special witness” in the investigation; in line with the code of criminal procedure (hereinafter “the ccp”), she was questioned about her own possibly criminal activity and was exempted from liability for refusing to testify or giving false testimony (see paragraph 27 below).she also stated that the transfer to company a. had been made by mistake, and the entire amount had been returned to company m. within a week.he refused to give testimony in relation to his wife’s actions and the payment of ltl 120,000 received by company a. from company m. 10.  on 26 may 2014 a prosecutor from the klaipėda regional prosecutor’s office gave the applicant a fine of ltl 650 (approximately eur 188) for refusing to testify, as provided for in article 163 of the ccp (see paragraphs 31 and 32 below).he argued that the status of a “special witness” was similar to that of a suspect, and therefore he should not have been compelled to testify against his wife, who had such status.12.  on 9 june 2014 a senior prosecutor from the klaipėda regional prosecutor’s office dismissed the applicant’s complaint on the grounds that, in accordance with the ccp, only the family members of a suspect or an accused were exempt from liability for refusing to testify, but the ccp did not extend such a privilege to the family members of a “special witness” (see paragraph 19 below).he also asked the court to refer the matter to the constitutional court for a ruling on whether the ccp provisions which exempted the family members of a suspect or an accused from liability for refusing to testify, but not the family members of a “special witness”, complied with the constitution.14.  on 9 july 2014 the klaipėda district court dismissed the applicant’s complaint and upheld the reasoning in the prosecutor’s decision (see paragraph 12 above).it stated that the applicant’s right not to testify against his wife would have been breached only if his wife had had the status of a suspect and not that of a witness.it also considered that the applicant’s request to refer the matter to the constitutional court was “subjective and legally unfounded”.15.  subsequently, the applicant lodged an appeal with the klaipėda regional court, but on 22 july 2014 that court refused to examine it, on the grounds that there was no provision for such an appeal in law.the applicant then lodged an application to reopen the proceedings with the supreme court, but on 23 september 2014 the court ruled that it had no authority to reopen proceedings concerning procedural penalties imposed under article 163 of the ccp.his wife worked as the financial director of company a., and from may to november 2012 she had provided accounting services to company m. the applicant stated that he had not known how or why ltl 120,000 had been transferred to the bank account of company a. he knew only that that entire amount had been returned to company m. within a week, in a transfer carried out by his wife.
10.  on 2 december 2015 (in the documents submitted the date was also referred to as 27 november and 4 december 2015) the komi department of the federal security service (“the komi fsb”) issued a letter requesting that the fms annul (revoke) the first applicant’s residence permit.given the above, we ask you to annul the residence permit of the turkish national mr emer akchay, in accordance with the russian legislation.” 11.  the above request by the komi fsb specified neither the grounds for the measure nor the nature of the alleged threat.12.  on 8 december 2015 the komi fms annulled the first applicant’s residence permit with reference to section 9(1)(1) of the foreign nationals act, which provided for the revocation of the residence permits of foreign nationals who posed a threat to the national security of the russian federation or its citizens.15.  on 17 february 2016 the komi fms issued a decision ordering the first applicant to leave russia within five days of receiving the decision, under the threat of deportation, and banning his re-entry into the russian federation until 19 september 2018. the first applicant was informed of that decision on 7 april 2016.19.  on 31 december 2015 the first applicant appealed to the syktyvkar town court (“the town court”) against the annulment of his residence permit, stating that the komi fsb’s request of 2 december 2015 to annul his residence permit had been made on national security grounds which were unknown to him, and that the subsequent decision of the komi fms complying with that request and annulling his residence permit was unlawful and disproportionate.at the hearing, representatives of the komi fsb informed the court that the first applicant had received eleven (in the documents submitted the number was also referred to as twelve) administrative fines for speeding, for which six tickets had been issued in 2015, three tickets in 2014 and two tickets in 2013. in addition, in 2015 the first applicant had been fined for other traffic violations, such as driving a vehicle with a defect, on three occasions.when the first applicant’s representative asked the komi fsb’s representative why, despite all of the alleged administrative infractions, the first applicant’s permanent residence permit had been extended yet again in february 2015 without any problems, the komi fsb’s representative replied as follows: “the international situation is complicated, therefore the attitude in russia towards violations by foreign nationals has become stricter”.the first applicant’s representative invited the applicants’ neighbour, ms ch., to the hearing, who testified that she had known the first applicant for twenty years, that he was a well-respected man who helped local orphans, that he worked for the good of the local community, and that he had a wife and son and was the breadwinner of the family.the court did not make any references to the nature of the threat posed by the first applicant to national security, other than stating that his record of administrative offences for the last three years had provided the necessary basis for the komi fsb’s request to annul his residence permit.amongst other things, its submissions of 15 april 2016 stated the following: “... state security bodies, in particular the federal security service, have the right to evaluate the activities of foreign citizens and stateless persons as [people] representing a threat to defence, the security of the state, public order or health, and the court has no right to interfere with that authority.therefore, the federal security service is not supposed to provide the court with documents substantiating the grounds for its decisions concerning the undesirability of the residence of a foreign citizen in the russian federation, as such documents contain state secrets, and the court does not have authority to request those documents ...” 26.  amongst other things, the fsb’s further submissions to the court of 15 april 2016 stated the following: “... the information concerning the annulment of the residence permit was provided to the federal migration service by the federal security service on the basis of classified decision no.18577c of 27 november 2015 concerning the applicant’s actions posing a threat to the national security of the russian federation and its citizens, [actions] which serve as the basis for the annulment of the residence permit, in accordance with section 9(1) of the foreign nationals act ... the [komi] fsb provided the court of first instance with [only] information whose disclosure was not limited ...” 27.  on 5 may 2016 the komi supreme court examined the appeal and upheld the annulment.40- фз on the federal security service of 3 april 1995, the right to assess the activities of foreign nationals as [people] representing a threat to the state’s defence capacity or national security, or public order or health, is within the competence of the russian fsb and lies within the discretion of the security service.within administrative proceedings, the court does not have the right to assess the [information relating to] factors threatening national security which has been obtained in respect of a foreign national ...” as for the first applicant’s allegations regarding the adverse effect of the measure on his right to respect for family life, the court stated as follows: “the annulment did not represent an inadmissible interference by the authorities with the right to respect for family life”.32.  on 19 july 2016 the town court rejected the first applicant’s appeal, referring to his administrative infractions and stating that “the impugned decision had been taken in accordance with the law and within the authority of the komi fms”.
6.  on the same day, the judge at the i̇stanbul assize court decided to restrict access to the investigation file, under article 153 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure (the “ccp”), law no.5271. the judge also decided to delay the second and third applicants’ right of access to their lawyer for twenty-four hours pursuant to section 10 of the prevention of terrorism act (law no.7.  on 26 august 2007 the applicants were questioned by police officers from the anti-terror branch of the i̇stanbul security directorate, in the presence of their lawyer.8.  on the same day, the applicants were also interrogated by the public prosecutor, in the presence of their lawyer.the prosecutor read out the transcripts of the intercepted conversations to the applicants.9.  on 26 august 2007, after having taken the applicants’ statements, the judge at the 10th chamber of the i̇stanbul assize court ordered their pre‑trial detention.10.  on 31 august 2008 the applicants’ lawyer filed an objection against the decision of 26 august 2007 ordering the applicants’ detention, and requested their release.on the same day, the 10th chamber of the i̇stanbul assize court, relying on the public prosecutor’s written opinion, which had not been communicated to the applicants or their representative, dismissed the objection without holding a hearing.at the end of those hearings, the court ordered the continuation of the applicants’ detention.15.  at the end of the third hearing, held on 20 november 2008, the court prolonged the applicants’ detentions.on 28 november 2008 the 11th chamber of the i̇stanbul assize court dismissed the objection, without holding an oral hearing and based on the written opinions of the public prosecutor, which had not been communicated to the applicants or their representative.16.  on 19 december 2008 the court ex officio examined the applicants’ detention on remand on the basis of the case-file and decided to extend it.17.  at the hearings held on 19 march 2009 and 16 july 2009, in which the applicants were present, the trial court ordered the continuation of the applicants’ detention on remand.20.  on 1 july 2016 the court of cassation quashed the judgment of the first instance court in so far as it concerned the convictions of the first and third applicants.21.  according to the latest information in the case file, the criminal proceedings against the first and third applicants are still pending before the i̇stanbul assize court.
was caught red-handed while accepting the sum of 1,650 euros (eur) from a detainee’s relative... a criminal investigation into influence peddling was opened and, according to the initial findings in the case, it was found that the suspect had received eur 9,850 of the eur 11,000 she had sought for intervening to influence favourably the conditional release of that detainee or the allocation of his work placements.as the object of the offence of influence peddling was a sum of money exceeding eur 10,000, the file was transferred to the national anticorruption department.” 12.  on the same day, at the request of a local television channel, axa tv, the applicant gave a short statement providing mainly the same information as was contained in the press release.lodged a complaint with the superior council of the magistracy (“the scm”) seeking the commencement of a disciplinary investigation against the applicant in connection with the manner in which he had informed the media about the incident of 21 october 2008. she contended that at the time of the incident she had been the judge delegated to baia mare prison and because of the applicant’s press release and interview with axa tv it was suggested by the media that she might be the alleged recipient of the money.16.  the disciplinary commission for the prosecutors of the scm instituted an investigation against the applicant in connection with two disciplinary offences, namely failure to observe the secrecy of deliberations or the confidentiality of documents that are of a secret nature, and adopting a disrespectful attitude towards colleagues in the exercise of his duties under article 99 letters d) and k) of law no.22.  when questioned by the scm at the hearing of 31 march 2009, the prosecutor in charge of the case at the nap stated that the press release issued by the applicant had not jeopardised the outcome of the criminal investigation.the relevant part of the letter sent by the national audiovisual council read as follows: “on 11 november 2008 the council, convened in a public meeting, examined the report prepared by the inspection department and watched a recording of the broadcast mentioned in your complaint.... it was noted that the news item had been broadcast on 22 october 2008 at 9.30 p.m. as the information broadcast did not contain any specific reference to you, the item could not infringe your right to a protected public image.as regards the fact that the applicant had issued the press release after the case had been transferred to the nap, the prosecutor concluded that the action had complied with the practice observed by the public prosecutor’s office.the lawyer also pointed out that the applicant had observed the confidentiality of the investigation and had referred only to the activity carried out by his office without making statements which could have led to the identification of the magistrate, judge or prosecutor who was the alleged recipient of the money from v.f.from the way in which the press release was drafted, “the circle of magistrates who could have been the recipients of the money was restricted and limited and made possible the identification of the judge delegated to baia mare prison in the person of judge g.e.” as the six-month term of her delegation expired just at the time of the events in question, the mass media made speculative suggestions that the termination was connected with the influence‑peddling case.33.  they noted, among other things, that: (i)  the names of the persons who were allegedly to receive money from the influence peddler were not mentioned in the press release or in the television interview; there was only a general, impersonal reference to the judges and the prosecutors who were involved with the conditional release of detainees; (ii)  individuals in this sphere included not only the judge delegated to the prison but also the judges who examine requests for conditional release at first instance and on appeal, as well as the prosecutors who attend the hearings concerning these requests.axa tv’s reference to the judge whose involvement with the prison had just ended was made in an additional comment that was not included in the press release; (iii)  the reference to the delegated judge made possible the identification of the magistrate, but since this statement was attributable exclusively to the television channel, the latter should bear responsibility for all subsequent comments and speculations; (iv)  only the additional information concerning the end of the delegated judge’s mandate allowed the identification of judge g.e.possible damage to her reputation could therefore not be imputed to the press release from the prosecutor’s office; (v)  the press release from the prosecutor’s office attached to the maramureş county court and the interview with the defendant referred to the offence of influence peddling and not to the offence of active bribery.it also pointed out that the applicant had observed recommendation rec(2003) 13 of the committee of ministers of the council of europe in so far as he had not disclosed confidential information concerning the criminal investigation to the media and had not in any way undermined the outcome of the criminal proceedings.it held that the applicant should have limited his press release to the minimum of information, which would not have allowed the identification of any magistrate as the alleged recipient of the money obtained by the influence peddler from the detainee’s family.48.  on 19 may 2009 the deputy chief prosecutor in the prosecutor’s office attached to the maramureş county court lodged a complaint against the applicant, claiming that the latter had continued to act as chief prosecutor in spite of the scm’s decision of 5 may 2009 by which he had been removed from that position (see paragraph 43 above).
to make, within 15 days, the required advance payment to cover the costs of the publication of the winding-up order in the official gazette in the amount of sit 150,000[3].had refused to contribute to the advance payment and had preferred to wait for the competent court to wind up the company of its own motion, in accordance with the then applicable legislation (see paragraph 40 below).had not performed any transactions through its bank account in a period of twelve consecutive months, on 19 january 2001 the ljubljana district court – acting in its capacity as the registry court – initiated proceedings to strike off the company from the court register pursuant to the financial operations of companies act 1999 (hereinafter “the foca”; paragraphs 41-52 below).the decision was sent to the registered address of l.e., but since no representative of the company was there to receive it, a delivery slip was left in its mailbox, notifying the company that the relevant correspondence could be collected at the post office.on 12 february 2001 the decision was returned to the registry court with the information that the addressee had failed to collect it.by sending it to the company’s address, but like the previous decision, it was returned on 4 june 2001 with the information that the addressee had failed to collect it.on 5 june 2002 the court issued a writ of execution, ordering the seizure and sale of all tangible movable property of the applicant and six other members of l.e.at the request of the creditor, on 30 november 2004 the court expanded the writ, ordering the payment of the judgment debt by direct deduction from the earnings of the applicant and of three other members of l.e.moreover, the applicant was of the view that the onus was on the creditor to establish that he had been an active member of the company.26.  in its judgment of 12 march 2005, the ljubljana local court found that the onus of proving his status as passive member was on the applicant and that he had failed to prove that he had not been an active member of l.e.the court established that with his 11.11% share in the company, the applicant had enjoyed the rights of a minority member, and furthermore, he had been employed by the company and actively involved in its management since april 1993. in his capacity as acting director and later managing director, he had been authorised to act on behalf of the company.lastly, the court considered that, as a minority member, the applicant could have and should have proposed the appointment of a new director at a general meeting of the company, since pursuant to domestic law all companies had to have a director.it observed, inter alia, that the constitutional court had found the measure of lifting the corporate veil under the foca to be in line with the principle of the separation of a company’s assets from those of its members and thus consistent with the constitution.what was crucial was that the applicant had been actively involved in its management and that he had had the rights of a minority member pursuant to section 445 of the companies act 1993 (see paragraph 37 below).the court noted that, in contrast to section 6 of the companies act 1993 which required the creditors of a company to prove that a member of the company had abused the corporate form (see paragraph 34 below), the foca had introduced a “non-rebuttable” presumption that the members of a struck-off company were deemed to have undertaken joint and several liability for any outstanding debts of the company.
5.  the first applicant was born in 1988, the second applicant was born in 1994 and the remaining applicants were born in 2010-2016. according to the last letter sent by their representative to the court on 20 may 2018, they currently reside in poland, where their asylum applications are under consideration.they submitted that they had attempted to lodge asylum applications several times on the polish border, but each time the border guards had refused to accept their applications and returned them to belarus (see m.a.in the space for a signature on each of the seven decisions, the first and second applicants wrote “azul’” in cyrillic (азуль) – they submitted to the court that that word was often used by chechen asylum seekers to mean “asylum”.12.  the border officer who was on duty at the medininkai checkpoint that day submitted the following official report to a senior officer: “i hereby inform you that on 16 april 2017, at 12.15 p.m., at the medininkai border checkpoint ... a russian national [m.a.]they submitted to the court that they had told the border guards that they were seeking international protection and asylum and that the first applicant had been tortured in chechnya.16.  the border officer who was on duty at the kena checkpoint that day submitted the following official report to a senior officer: “i hereby inform you that on 11 may 2017 ... when i was examining the train [from moscow to kaliningrad], at around 12:00 p.m., the following russian nationals [the applicants] submitted their documents for inspection.seven refusal of entry decisions were issued in respect of these individuals ... at 3.10 p.m. the individuals were transferred to border officers of belarus via the medininkai border checkpoint.” 17.  the applicants were detained at the border checkpoint for several hours and then they were returned to belarus.they submitted to the court that they had had with them a written asylum application in russian, prepared by a belarussian human rights organisation, and they had given that application to the lithuanian border guards.they provided the court with a copy of that application and a photograph of the application, together with their train tickets, taken on what they claimed to be the premises of the border checkpoint.the first and second applicants signed the decisions concerning them, but those concerning the children (the remaining applicants) were not signed.20.  the border officer who was on duty at the vilnius railway checkpoint that day submitted the following official report to a senior officer: “i hereby inform you that on 22 may 2017 i was on duty at the vilnius railway border checkpoint.at around 10.50 p.m. ..., upon the arrival of a passenger train [from minsk to vilnius], it was detected that nationals of the russian federation did not have valid schengen visas or residence permits ... ... the above-mentioned individuals were returned via the medininkai border checkpoint on 23 may 2017, at 4.24 a.m.” the report mentioned the names of the second applicant and three of the children.21.  the applicants were detained at the border checkpoint overnight, and in the morning of 23 may 2017 they were returned to belarus.on 16 june 2017 the court decided to apply rule 39 of the rules of court, indicating to the polish government that the applicants should not be removed to belarus.25.  in january 2018 the second applicant and the remaining applicants went to belarus again and managed to submit asylum applications on the polish border.
it appears that the applicant’s restitution process took two directions: at first she agreed to receive part of the land in the vilnius region and then she asked to receive another 0.32 hectares in the vilnius region, and she wanted to receive some land in the city of vilnius (see paragraphs 8-22 below).12.  on 30 july 2015 the national land service (“the nls”) decided to restore the applicant’s property rights to 0.0315 hectares of her father’s land by transferring her right to a plot of land of 0.1599 hectares.18.  on 27 june 2005 the vilnius county administration (“the vca”) restored the applicant’s property rights to 0.0973 hectares of her father’s land by transferring to her a plot of land in vilnius for the construction of an individual house.23.  on 4 november 2004 the vilnius regional administrative court examined a claim lodged by the applicant that the vca had been protracting the adoption of a decision on the restoration of her property rights in vilnius.the court found that the authorities had asked the applicant to provide a document which she had in fact already provided and held that the authorities had failed to act in due time in the process of restoring her property rights.the applicant asked the court to oblige the vca to restore her property rights to 0.3013 hectares of land in vilnius and to 1.72 hectares in the vilnius region, as well as to award her 10,000 lithuanian litai (ltl, approximately 2,896 euros (eur)) in respect of non-pecuniary damage.the court held that the applicant had to be included on the list of citizens wishing to receive land in didžioji riešė, but that due to the authorities’ inactivity, she had not been included on the list.the court ordered the vca to issue a decision restoring the applicant’s property rights to 0.6223 hectares of land within three months of the date on which the aforementioned court decision became final.the court stated that 5.44 ares of land had been returned to the applicant in natura in total and that the applicant’s property rights to 0.6223 hectares of her father’s land had not been restored.the court held that the decision regarding the applicant’s right to the restitution of 0.32 hectares of land had not yet been adopted and that the applicant had been offered the option of monetary compensation.she also claimed that she had lost the right to the restoration of her title to 0.2 hectares of land in the city of vilnius because ‒ after a change in the domestic regulations ‒ the maximum plot size that could be restored for the construction of an individual house was now fixed at 0.12 hectares (see paragraphs 28 above and 37 below).it held that in 2000 she had applied to the authorities for the restitution of 2 hectares of her father’s land in the vilnius region instead of the original plot her father had owned in vilnius county (see paragraph 8 above).the court noted that the process of restoration of the applicant’s property rights had been carried out in several stages: in 2005 she had received a plot of 0.0937 hectares in pašilaičiai, vilnius (see paragraph 18 above); in 2006 a document confirming that she had a right to receive 0.32 hectares of state redeemable land had been drawn up; and in 2006 and 2013 her property rights had been restored to 0.0544 hectares and 0.0005 hectares respectively (see paragraphs 18 and 20 above).as regards the plot for the construction of an individual house, the court held that a decision to restore the applicant’s property rights to 0.0937 hectares of land had been issued in 2005 and had not been challenged.it held that although the applicant claimed that the authorities had failed to execute the decisions of the courts to restore her property rights, she had never challenged the authorities’ decisions to restore her property rights to certain plots of land.
6.  according to a police report drawn up on 21 june 2005, the police division responsible for fighting organised crime and drug trafficking (“the police”) received information from an undisclosed source that an individual called “ursu-degweed” was a member of a network of dealers that was trafficking drugs in constanţa.on 21 june 2005 the prosecutor authorised the use of an undercover police agent, who was to be helped by a police informer, d., to follow a lead regarding the applicant’s alleged criminal activities.at the time of the events, the applicant was a student; d. was an acquaintance of the applicant, studying at the same university.she informed him that a common friend, l., could help him to find a dealer, set the price for the drugs and sent the money by mail (postal order) on 23 june 2005.10.  in his first statement to the police, given on 26 june 2005, the applicant disclosed that the dealer who had sold him the drugs was called b. and helped the police to set up an operation to catch him in the act of committing a crime.he had received two tablets as a gift; he had kept one for himself and had given the other one in exchange for the cannabis resin, found in his possession at the search.12.  the applicant maintained his allegations in a statement given in the presence of two lawyers of his choice on 19 july 2005. he added that he had accepted to provide d. with the ecstasy tablets in the hope of having an intimate relationship with her during his stay in constanţa.his lawyers insisted on the importance of hearing evidence from d. 15.  on 5 june 2007 the constanţa county court convicted the applicant of drug trafficking and sentenced him to one and a half years’ imprisonment suspended on probation.it confined itself in noting that the activity of the informer, d., had been lawful, without referring to the question whether she had been authorised to act as an undercover agent.the relevant part of its reasoning read as follows: “the applicant’s argument that the informer, d., had incited him to commit the offence could not be retained.143/2000.” 16.  the constanţa county court did not provide any reasons justifying the fact that, in spite of the applicant’s insistence, d. had not been heard.in convicting the applicant, it relied on his own statements, corroborated by the statements made by the friends who had accompanied him on his trip to constanţa on 25 june 2005, as well as on reports produced by the undercover agent and the police following the police operation organised on 25 june 2005 when the applicant had been caught in the act of committing a crime.17.  the applicant appealed against the judgment of 5 june 2007. his lawyers reiterated that he had been entrapped by the police and that d. should be heard by the court.18.  on 22 october 2008 the constanţa court of appeal noted that d. had never given evidence as a witness before the investigating authorities and that her name had only been mentioned in the reports drafted by them.he claimed that he had been unduly incited by d. to commit the offence of which he had been found guilty and that throughout the proceedings he had not had an opportunity to have her questioned.
7.  on the same day the makiyivka town police inspected the scene of the accident and questioned m., who was br.’s passenger at the time of the accident.according to the results of the technical examinations, the applicants’ son swerved into the oncoming traffic lane and collided with br.’s car, which was moving in the opposite direction.10.  on 18 april 2002, after the applicants had lodged their complaints, the makiyivka district police opened a criminal investigation into the circumstances of the applicants’ son’s death.12.  in the course of the above investigations, on 4 november 2003 the chief department of investigations at the ministry of internal affairs issued instructions as to the manner in which the case was to be investigated.it was emphasised that there had been contradictions in the evidence; the scene of the accident had not been inspected properly; br.’s car had not been seized; the circumstances of the accident had not been noted carefully; and the witnesses had not been identified.13.  on 2 july, 4 september and 29 october 2004 the criminal case was terminated because the investigators considered that it had been the applicants’ son who had contravened traffic rules and caused the accident resulting in his own death.15.  on 5 november 2007 the investigator ordered a new technical expert examination, which was completed on 19 june 2008. according to the results of the examination, it had been the applicants’ son who had contravened traffic rules and caused the accident in which he had died.16.  on 23 june 2008 the investigator terminated the criminal proceedings because of the death of the applicants’ son.17.  on 1 september 2009 the prosecutor quashed the decision of 23 june 2008, noting that the applicants had objected to the grounds for termination of the proceedings, and therefore it had been for the court to take a final decision in the case.18.  on 29 september 2009 the investigator asked the gornyanskyy district court of makiyivka (“the district court”) to close the criminal case concerning the traffic accident in which the applicants’ son had died.19.  on 23 june 2010 the district court rejected the investigator’s request and sent the case back to the prosecutor’s office, finding that there had been procedural errors in referring the case to the court.20.  on 3 september 2010 the investigator closed the criminal case by his own decision, on the grounds that the person responsible for the accident had died.22.  on 31 january 2012 the district court discontinued the criminal proceedings because of the death of the person responsible for the accident.23.  on 24 april 2012 the donetsk regional court of appeal quashed the decision of 31 january 2012 as unlawful, finding that the first-instance court should carry out a full examination of the case and give judgment, either finding the applicants’ son guilty or acquitting him.25.  on 7 april 2014 the donetsk regional court of appeal quashed the above judgment, finding that the first-instance court had violated the applicants’ right to defence, and remitted the case for a fresh examination by the same court.
7.  on 8 march 2004 the vilnius county administration (hereinafter “the vca”) restored the property rights of the first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth applicants, as well as p.m. and n.m., by giving them all joint ownership of 5.80 hectares of agricultural land and 3.20 hectares of forest in naujakiemis, an area in the vilnius city municipality.8.  on 31 march 2006 the first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth applicants signed two preliminary agreements (preliminariosios sutartys) with the seventh applicant by which they undertook to sell her the two plots and the seventh applicant paid them 1,000 lithuanian litai (ltl, approximately 290 euros (eur)).9.  on 29 august 2008 the prosecutor of the vilnius region (hereinafter “the prosecutor”) lodged a claim with the vilnius regional court, seeking to have the first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth applicants’ property rights to the nine hectares given to them annulled.the prosecutor submitted that the two plots given to the applicants were covered by forest which, being situated within a city, was considered a forest of national importance and could therefore only be owned by the state (see the relevant domestic law cited in beinarovič and others v. lithuania, nos.according to the information provided by the prosecutor, forests of national importance covered the entire plot of 3.20 hectares, as well as 1.37 hectares of the other plot (see paragraph 7 above).the prosecutor asked that after annulling the first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth applicants’ property rights to the two plots, their preliminary agreements with the seventh applicant (see paragraph 8 above) also be annulled.the court held that the applicants could not be considered as having acquired their property rights in good faith (sąžiningi įgijėjai) because the information about the presence of forests on their land had been available in a public register and any diligent person should have known that, under the constitution, forests of national importance could only be owned by the state.11.  the court annulled the restoration of the first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth applicants’ property rights and ordered them to return the two plots to the state.it also annulled the preliminary agreements between them and the seventh applicant and ordered them to return to the seventh applicant the ltl 1,000 (approximately eur 290) which she had paid them pursuant to those agreements (see paragraph 8 above).13.  on 23 february 2012 the first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth applicants received a letter from the national land service (the institution which took over the relevant functions of the vca after an administrative reform – hereinafter “the nls”) confirming that, after the courts had annulled their property rights to nine hectares of land, they had retained the right to have those property rights restored.the applicants were informed of the forms of restitution provided for by the domestic law (ibid., § 92) and asked to inform the authorities of their preferred form of restitution.14.  on 8 and 30 may 2012 the first applicant sent letters to the nls on behalf of all the aforementioned applicants, asking that land in the original location which was not covered by forest be returned to them.15.  on 26 july 2012 the nls sent a letter to the first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth applicants which stated that it might be possible to give them two plots in naujakiemis, measuring 4.44 and 0.07 hectares, so if they wished to receive those plots, their requests would be considered when the land plan was being prepared.as for the restoration of property rights to the remaining land, the applicants were asked to consider alternative forms of restitution (ibid., § 92) and to inform the authorities of their choice.19.  on 28 august 2017 the nls adopted decisions to restore the first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth applicants’ property rights to the remaining 4.5885 hectares by means of monetary compensation of eur 5,307, corresponding to the indexed value of the land (that is to say, the value established by relevant public authorities).
5.  on 30 july 2004 the samara regional court sentenced the applicant to life imprisonment.6.  the government submitted the following information as regards the personal space afforded to the applicant during his detention in the colony: cell no.10 from 29 october to 26 november 2014 18 2 6 from 26 november 2014 to 2 april 2015 18 2 010 from 2 april 13 december 2015 4 1 6 from 13 to 23 december 2015 18 2 010 from 23 december 2015 to 9 august 2016 4 1 10 from 9 august to 7 september 2016 18 2 010 from 7 september to 26 december 2016 4 1 7 from 26 to 27 december 2016 18 2 10 from 27 december 2016 to 21 july 2017 18 2 3 from 21 july to 3 march 2017 18 2 6 from 3 march 2017 to date 18 2 7.  the government further submitted that from 21 october to 11 november 2009, from 14 to 18 december 2013, and from 5 october to 26 december 2016 the applicant had been detained in correctional colony no.8.  according to the applicant, the inmates are housed in double or single cells.the double cells measure approximately 18 m² and the single ones approximately 4 m².the inmates are given buckets, to compensate for the lack of a toilet, which they have to empty every morning in a cesspool located some two metres away from the recreation area.10.  the windows in the cells are covered with three layers of metal bars or screens.the milk is often sour, and the fruit juices are diluted with water.10 since 2010. the temperature in the cell does not exceed +120c during the winter.he is confined to his cell 22 hours a day and is entitled to one and a half hours’ outdoor exercise per day.14.  from july 2007 to december 2016 the applicant was not allowed to grow a beard or to have his hair longer than 0.5 cm.his hair was completely shaved off 2 to 4 times a month, and he had to shave his face 2 to 3 times a week.15.  on an unspecified date the applicant complained to the prosecutor about the compulsory shaving.16.  on 13 december 2013 the prosecutor replied that the compulsory shaving of the head and beard to which the applicant had been subjected had been unlawful, and that the prosecutor’s office had informed the administration of the correctional colony where the applicant was serving his prison sentence.the prosecutor also informed the applicant of his right to appeal either to a higher-ranking prosecutor or a court.
7.  the first applicant was born in 1937, the second applicant was born in 1930, the third applicant was born in 1934, the fourth applicant was born in 1945, the fifth applicant was born in 1930, the sixth applicant was born in 1954, the seventh applicant was born in 1926 and the eighth applicant was born in 1929. they all live in vilnius.9.  between 1995 and 2001 the administrative authorities or courts acknowledged that the first, second and third applicants had the right to have their property rights restored in respect of plots of land in gudeliai, and that the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth applicants had the right to have their property rights restored in respect of plots of land in kriaučiūnai.10.  in 2005 and 2006 the vilnius county administration (hereinafter “the vca”) restored the applicants’ property rights by giving them the following plots: - the first, second and third applicants – a total of ten hectares in gudeliai; - the fourth and fifth applicants – a total of two hectares in kriaučiūnai; - the sixth and seventh applicants – a total of 8.149 hectares in kriaučiūnai; - the eighth applicant – 4.6663 hectares in kriaučiūnai.11.  on various dates in 2008 the prosecutor of the vilnius region (hereinafter “the prosecutor”) lodged claims with the vilnius regional administrative court, seeking to have the applicants’ property rights to some of the land given to them annulled.the final decisions were taken by the supreme administrative court between january and march 2010. by virtue of those decisions, the applicants’ property rights were annulled with respect to the following plots: - the first, second and third applicants – 3.66 hectares; - the fourth and fifth applicants – 0.52 hectares; - the sixth and seventh applicants – 1.22 hectares; - the eighth applicant – 1.2 hectares.13.  in 2010 and 2011 the fourth and fifth applicants sent several letters to the vca and subsequently to the national land service (the institution which took over the relevant functions of the vca after an administrative reform – hereinafter “the nls”), asking that their rights to 0.52 hectares be restored by new land in kriaučiūnai being given to them or, if that was not possible, land of equivalent value in a different area in vilnius.however, the seventh applicant submitted to the court that that decision had not been related to her property rights annulled by the domestic courts (see paragraph 12 above), and the government did not argue otherwise.15.  in february 2012 all the applicants received letters from the nls confirming that, after the courts had annulled their property rights, they had retained the right to have those property rights restored.the applicants were informed of the forms of restitution provided for by the domestic law (ibid., § 92) and asked to inform the authorities of their preferred form of restitution.the applicants again received similar letters from the nls in july 2012 stating that there were 4,806 other candidates waiting to receive plots for the construction of an individual home in the vilnius city area, and thus the restitution process would take a long time.17.  in july 2012 the fourth applicant received a letter from the nls informing her that a plot of land was being prepared for her in medininkai, in the vilnius region.18.  in august 2012 all the applicants sent letters to the nls in which they asked, inter alia, to be allocated plots of land for the construction of individual homes in vilnius in the order of priority, or to receive compensation in respect of the pecuniary damage which they had sustained as a result of the annulment of their property rights.25.  in january 2018 the first, second and third applicants (or their heirs – see paragraphs 5 and 6 above) sent a letter to the nls stating that they had expressed their wish for their property rights to be restored in kind and not by monetary compensation.they informed the nls that their complaint was being examined by the european court of human rights, and that the nls should refrain from any unilateral actions which might make the court’s decision impossible to implement.26.  at the date of the latest information provided to the court (12 october 2018), the applicants’ property rights had still not been restored with respect to the following plots: - the first, second and third applicants – 3.66 hectares; - the fourth and fifth applicants – 0.52 hectares; - the sixth and seventh applicants – 1.22 hectares; - the eighth applicant – 0.5181 hectares.
8.  the applicant served his sentence in a number of correctional colonies, including, from 11 may 2010 until 7 april 2011, the slovyanoserbsk correctional colony in the luhansk region (hereinafter, “the colony”).13.  in his application form of 8 november 2010 the applicant described the conditions of his detention in the following fashion: since 13 may 2010 he had been held in an isolation cell, which measured 4.5 sq.m. 14.  following the communication of the application to the respondent government, the applicant submitted that the average living space per inmate in the dormitory cells of the colony was 2.8 sq.m. he referred in this respect to the report (dated 23 november 2011) of the european committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment (hereinafter, “the cpt”) on its visit to ukraine from 9 until 21 september 2009 (cpt/inf (2011) 29), which mentioned overcrowding in respect of most of the colony’s dormitories.he submitted in particular that on 22 july and 9 september 2009 the prison administration had handed him two letters from the court and on 18 december 2010 a letter from the parliamentary secretariat, all of which had been opened by the administration.they show that in the period from 22 july 2009 until december 2010 the applicant sent at least forty-seven letters to various public entities – correspondence which, under domestic law (see paragraph 40 below), was subject to monitoring by the prison authorities – most notably various domestic courts, the high council of justice, the department for the execution of sentences (the executive agency in charge of prisons) and parliament.the letters to non-exempt addresses are accompanied by brief summaries of their content (for example, in respect of the letter of 18 february 2010 addressed to a domestic court it is noted that it concerned “study of the file, presence at a hearing”) or are marked in the register as “application”, “petition” or “complaint” (“звернення”, “клопотання” or “complaint”, respectively), while letters to the court and the lawyer are marked as “sealed letter”.17.  according to the applicant, in november 2009, while he was in the kyiv sizo, somebody poisoned him; as a result, he developed gastroduodentitis (inflammation of the stomach and duodenum), which became chronic.20.  on 18 march 2010 the applicant underwent a radiological examination of his intestinal tract, as a result of which the sizo general practitioner confirmed the diagnosis of chronic gastroduodentitis.21.  from 6 until 19 april 2010 the applicant was hospitalised in the medical unit of the kharkiv sizo and treated for his gastroduodentitis.24.  the next day a general practitioner at the correctional colony at which the applicant was being held at the time recommended hospitalisation in the prison hospital at temnivka, a specialist prison hospital for the kharkiv region.30.  from 24 april until 4 may 2012 the applicant was treated in the medical unit of the colony in which he was detained at the time for his osteochondrosis and disk protrusion.the doctors explained that surgery was needed in view of the ineffectiveness of the conservative care that he had received and the increase in pain that he was suffering.the second category is the intermediary one, the first constituting the severest level of disability and the third the least severe.37.  in the course of his detention the applicant also underwent several chest x-rays (which revealed no abnormality), and was diagnosed with bronchitis and a fungal infection of the nails; he was prescribed treatment for that infection.
in his subsequent appeal (see paragraph 28 below) the applicant’s lawyer alleged that there was a discrepancy between the victim’s original statement and his statements at the confrontation in that at the confrontation the victim claimed that he had seen the applicant only once before the attack.16.  the investigator refused the applicant’s request, stating that the police had made an attempt to question sh., but he had refused to give evidence, relying on his privilege against self-incrimination, and that it was impossible to extract the bullets from the victim’s body because the victim’s mother had not permitted the exhumation of his body.the revolver and the gun were of approximately the same size and colour; the revolver had a white stripe on the grip, whereas the pistol did not.the trial court also examined both weapons: it noted that both weapons were small, fully fitting into the hand, were the same colour (black) and that the only difference between them was that the revolver had a revolving cylinder while the pistol had a magazine.23.  dr n., the surgeon who had operated on the victim, stated that he had discovered no projectiles in the body in the course of the surgery, even though x-rays had shown small foreign objects in the victim’s tissues.24.  the investigator who had organised the identification parade, and t., who had been in the identification line-up with the applicant (see paragraph 12 above) stated that during the identification parade they had seen y. confidently identify the applicant as the perpetrator, approach the applicant and ask “why did you shoot me?”.the conviction was based, in particular, on: (i)  the victim’s statements given during the pre-trial investigation, including in the course of the face-to-face confrontation with the applicant (see paragraph 13 above); (ii   the results of the identification parade (see paragraph 12 above); (iii)  the results of the examination and forensic expert analysis of the pistol and the revolver (see paragraph 22 above); (iv)  the statements of ty., k. (the café employee), of the participants in the identification parade, and the victim’s girlfriend and mother (see paragraphs 19, 21, 24 and 25 above).the court held that the inconsistencies in the victim’s statements could be explained by the fact that he had been drunk at the time, had been suffering from serious injuries, and by the fact that the shooting had taken place at night on a dark street.he stated that y. had been heavily drunk, so he could not have seen the gunman; the pistol and the bullets found in the applicant’s flat did not belong to him and had been planted by the police; the trial court had not given due consideration to the statements of ty.; during the identification parade the applicant, t. and g. had been seated, therefore y. had been unable to assess their height; during the same parade only the applicant had worn a light-coloured leather coat and had been in his forties, exactly like the gunman y. had described.the applicant’s lawyer also pointed out an inconsistency between the victim’s original statement and his statement in the course of the confrontation with the applicant in respect of whether the victim had known the applicant before the attack (see paragraphs 11 and 13 above).just before the search, the applicant had opened the flat with his own keys and the search had been conducted in the presence of attesting witnesses, so the gun and the bullets could not have been planted.32.  in february 2009 the applicant’s sister, who was representing the applicant before the court at that time, asked the trial court to give her the police records of the questioning of y. and his girlfriend, documents concerning the applicant’s search after his arrest, the minutes of the court hearings, and the police report concerning the identification parade.33.  on 13 may 2009 the court asked the applicant’s sister to provide copies of the applicant’s appeals, stamped by the court of appeal and the supreme court, to prove that they had been received by both courts.37.  the trial court replied that the applicant’s sister had already received a copy of the appeal lodged with the court of appeal and the trial court was not empowered to send her another copy.
6.  the applicant was the principal of a private school in the town of dubno, in the rivne region.7.  on 30 march 2000 criminal proceedings were initiated against the applicant for failure to comply with a court decision ordering the reinstatement of a teacher at the private school.8.  according to the applicant, at about 9.00 a.m. on 29 may 2000 officers from dubno police broke down the front door of the applicant’s house.10.  on 9 april 2001 the dubno inter-district prosecutor’s office discontinued the investigation into the applicant’s criminal case, having regard to the insignificance of her offence.13.  on 30 january 2004 and 13 march 2006 the dubno town court issued judgments in the applicant’s case, which were quashed as unfounded by the rivne regional court of appeal.14.  on 30 january 2007 the dubno town court convicted the applicant of failure to comply with a court decision, and decided that it was appropriate to punish her with a fine.15.  on 17 april 2007 the rivne regional court of appeal dismissed an appeal by the applicant and upheld the judgment of 30 january 2007.16.  on 13 november 2007 the supreme court refused to examine an appeal by the applicant on points of law, on the grounds that she had failed to comply with procedural rules when submitting it.the expert stated that the injuries had been caused by blunt solid objects; they could have been sustained in the circumstances described by the applicant.18.  on 30 june 2000 the rivne regional prosecutor’s office, having conducted a pre-investigation inquiry, refused to initiate criminal proceedings against the police officers because of the absence of the constituent elements of a criminal offence.in 2016 the office of the government agent was informed that the file on those inquiries had been destroyed, along with other files relating to the same period, after the expiry of the statutory period for keeping such records.20.  on 29 may 2003 the applicant lodged a civil claim with the dubno town court, seeking damages for the violation of the inviolability of her home and her unlawful arrest and ill-treatment on 29 may 2000.21.  on 9 july 2007 the dubno town court found that on 29 may 2000 the applicant had been ill-treated and unlawfully taken from her home to the investigator’s office.the court found that the authorities had acted unlawfully and that they had violated her right to the inviolability of her home, right to liberty and right to respect for human dignity.25.  on 13 july 2009 the higher administrative court returned the applicant’s appeal without examining it on the merits, after finding that she had failed to comply with the procedural requirements for submitting appeals.
6.  on 29 november 2000 the prosecutor’s office attached to the bihor county court (“the prosecutor’s office”) discontinued the criminal proceedings which it had opened against the applicant on 24 november 2000 for bribe taking.7.  on 10 january 2001 the prosecutor’s office attached to the bihor court of appeal quashed the above-mentioned decision of its own motion and ordered that the proceedings against the applicant be reopened.10. on 16 august 2002 the prosecutor’s office ordered the seizure of the applicant’s movable and immovable assets up to the value of the damage allegedly incurred by avab.the order was enforced by the bihor police department on 19 december 2002 by seizing part of the immovable properties owned jointly by the applicant and his wife, in particular four plots of intra muros agricultural land, a home and annexes.12.  between 7 october 2002 and 6 february 2006 the bihor county court (“the county court”) adjourned the proceedings twenty-four times to allow the parties to prepare their defence, for the court to summon the parties and the witnesses, to hear evidence, and for deliberations.also, at a hearing on 10 february 2003, the court dismissed the applicant’s challenge against the order of 16 august 2002 on the grounds that the measure was temporary and had been enforced correctly.13.  on 13 february 2006 the county court examined the applicant’s case on the merits and acquitted him of abuse of office.on 19 september 2006 the court quashed the judgment of 13 february 2006 and referred the case back to the first-instance court for re-examination on procedural grounds.16.  between 30 november 2006 and 1 april 2010 the county court adjourned the proceedings thirty-two times to allow the parties to prepare their defence, for the court-assigned expert to produce two expert reports, and for the court to summon the parties and the witnesses, to hear evidence, for deliberations, and to allow the judges to exercise their right to strike.also, at a hearing on 4 june 2007 the court adjourned the examination of the applicant’s request for the measure imposed on his assets to be lifted pending the court’s determination of the case.17.  on 8 april 2010 the county court examined the applicant’s case on the merits, acquitted him of abuse of office and dismissed avab’s civil claim.19.  between 21 september and 16 november 2010 the court of appeal adjourned the proceedings twice to allow the parties to prepare their cases, to summon them, and for the court to deliberate.on 23 november 2010 the court dismissed the appeals of the parties and upheld the judgment of the first-instance court.20.  the applicant and avab appealed on points of fact and law against the judgment to the high court of cassation and justice (“the court of cassation”).23.  on 4 march 2012, once the applicant had submitted certified copies of all the courts’ judgments, the bihor land and immovable property register removed the annotation concerning the seizure measure imposed on his immovable property from the above-mentioned register, which had prevented him from freely disposing of it.
5.  on 16 may 2014 the applicant lodged a civil claim against the state, alleging that he was being detained in overcrowded and unsanitary cells.he also complained that toilets were not properly partitioned from the rest of the cells and thus the prison staff could see him use the toilet.he submitted that his health had deteriorated as a result of the inappropriate conditions of his detention and claimed 450,000 lithuanian litai (ltl, approximately 130,300 euros (eur)) in respect of non-pecuniary damage.6.  on 19 january 2015 the vilnius regional administrative court allowed the applicant’s claim in part.it firstly held that the time-limit for claiming damages was three years after the damage arose, and accordingly dismissed the part of the applicant’s claim concerning the period before 16 may 2011 as time-barred.on the basis of documents provided by the prison administration, the court found that from 16 may 2011 to 15 may 2014 the applicant had spent 1,082 days in lukiškės remand prison.m. for the remaining time the personal space available to him was found to be in compliance with the requirement of 3.6 sq.m. 7.  the court also quoted the report of the european committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment (“the cpt”) on its visit to lithuania in 2012. according to that report, nearly all the inmates in lukiškės remand prison were confined to their cells for twenty-three hours per day, with no out-of-cell activities other than outdoor exercise lasting one hour in small and dilapidated yards (see paragraph 13 below).the court noted that the prison administration had not provided any evidence that the situation in the prison had changed.8.  furthermore, the court ruled that toilets had not been partitioned from the rest of the cells in the manner required by relevant domestic regulations.it stated that, in accordance with accepted social norms, inability to use the toilet in private was degrading and humiliating to the individual.9.  the court considered that the applicant had not proved that his health had deteriorated as a result of the conditions of his detention.it awarded the applicant eur 80 in respect of non-pecuniary damage, taking into account the “scope, intensity and duration” of the violation of his rights and the economic conditions in the country.10.  the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision, arguing that the first-instance court had erred by dismissing part of his claim as time-barred, that the conditions in lukiškės remand prison had not improved and that his health had deteriorated because of them.on 10 november 2015 the supreme administrative court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the first-instance court’s decision in its entirety.
5.  in december 2007 the applicant lodged a claim with the dzerzhynsk court against the social insurance fund (“the fund”), seeking damages for injuries caused by a work-related accident.6.  by a judgment of 17 january 2008, the above court allowed the claim in part and awarded the applicant certain amounts in damages.7.  in particular, on 25 january 2008 the applicant lodged through the dzerzhynsk court a statement of intent to lodge an appeal (“the statement of intent”; заява про апеляційне оскарження).the copy of the statement of intent submitted to the court bears the dzerzhynsk court’s stamp with reference number 1561 showing 25 january 2008 as the date of receipt.on 13 february 2008 the applicant lodged the appeal itself, in which he requested that the appellate court quash the judgment of 17 january 2008 and award him the claimed damages in full.a copy of the appeal bears the dzerzhynsk court’s stamp, with 13 february 2008 showing as the date of receipt.the applicant stated that no separate procedural decisions had been made about his appeal because it had been mislaid by the court.8.  in a ruling of 18 march 2008 the donetsk regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) examined the appeal lodged by the fund, rejected it as unsubstantiated and upheld the judgment of 17 january 2008. the ruling did not mention the applicant’s appeal, and only stated that at the hearing, which was held on the same day, the applicant and his representative had contested the fund’s appeal and had asked the court to reject it.9.  according to the transcript of the court hearing on 18 march 2008, the applicant’s representative stated during the hearing that the applicant had lodged the statement of intent on 25 january 2008 and the appeal itself on 13 february 2008. she also stated that they were not challenging the judgment of 17 january 2008 as regards the application of the law but rather were merely seeking an award of the full amount of damages claimed by the applicant.the applicant’s representative also asked the court of appeal to reject the fund’s appeal.the applicant submitted that at the hearing his representative had also produced a copy of his appeal and had asked the court of appeal to join it to the case file; however, the latter refused to do so.a copy of the appeal in cassation submitted to the court shows that the applicant had dated it 17 may 2008. in it the applicant stated that he had lodged an appeal against the judgment of 17 january 2008 but that when he had arrived at the appellate hearing on 18 march 2008, it transpired that his appeal had been mislaid and his submissions had therefore not been examined by the court of appeal.he thus asked the supreme court to quash the ruling of 18 march 2008 and to remit the case for fresh examination.it stated that the court of appeal had examined the appeal lodged by the fund, but that the applicant had not personally appealed against the judgment of 17 january 2008 and for this reason the case could not be reviewed in cassation.the decision of the supreme court indicated that the applicant’s appeal in cassation had been lodged in “april 2007”.
6.  on 18 april 2003 the applicant’s employer, grebinkivska district state administration (“the administration”), received a statement from the grebinkivskyy district prosecutor’s office dated 17 april 2003 (“the prosecutor’s statement”).the document analysed the amount of preventive social work performed by the applicant in connection with minors in 2002 and concluded that the applicant, as the head of the juvenile service department of the administration, had no knowledge of the relevant law and displayed an irresponsible attitude towards her professional duties.the document contained a demand that the applicant be disciplined.7.  on 21 april 2003 the administration examined the prosecutor’s statement and decided to give the applicant a warning against the use of excessive formalism in her work.on 14 may 2003 the administration informed the prosecutor’s office of the actions taken in consequence of their consideration of the prosecutor’s statement.8.  on 10 april 2004 the applicant brought civil defamation proceedings against the grebinkivskyy district prosecutor’s office, prosecutor mr b., the poltava region prosecutor’s office and the state treasury of ukraine, alleging that the prosecutor’s statement contained untrue information relating to her professional activity and that this negative evaluation of her attitude to work had damaged her honour, dignity and professional reputation.she asked the court to order the grebinkivskyy district prosecutor’s office to retract the prosecutor’s statement and to pay her compensation for non-pecuniary damage.9.  on 8 december 2005 the pyryatynskyy district court of poltava region applied defamation law as contained in the civil code of 2003, the prosecutor’s office act and the information act.it considered the case on its merits and allowed the applicant’s claim in part.10.  on 17 july 2006 the poltava regional court of appeal did not challenge the approach of the first-instance court in considering the case under civil law defamation provisions.however, it disagreed with the application of the civil code of 2003 and applied the old civil code of 1963. it partly allowed the claim and increased the level of compensation awarded to the applicant for non-pecuniary damage.11.  on 20 september 2006 the state treasury of ukraine appealed against the decision to the supreme court.12.  on 6 february 2008 the supreme court of ukraine quashed the above decision of 17 july 2006 and closed the proceedings, finding that the case should not have been examined in civil proceedings.the court indicated that the prosecutor’s statement should have been contested either before a superior prosecutor (in accordance with section 22 of the prosecutor’s act) or before “a court”.7 of the plenum of the supreme court of ukraine dated 28 september 1990, entitled “on the application of legislation by the courts regulating defence of honour, dignity and reputation of citizens and organisations” (“the resolution”), it was not possible to file a civil defamation claim in respect of statements contained in courts’ decisions or decisions of various investigative bodies.
7.  according to the government, to enforce the judgment of 23 june 2005 the authorities held a public auction to determine a company to perform the renovation of the applicant’s flat in yakutsk.on 3 october 2008 the applicant refused to let the employees of the winner private company in, and they were unable to start the renovation works in the flat.in november 2008 the bailiffs sent a notification to the applicant that the renovation works were scheduled for 19 november 2008, but the notification was never delivered to her, as in the meantime she had moved to a different town.in march 2009 the bailiffs and the local administration employees attempted to visit the flat in question and compiled an act on the applicant’s absence from the flat.8.  on 11 november 2004 the justice of the peace of the 41st court circuit of yakutsk granted the applicant’s complaint about the bailiffs’ inaction in various rounds of the enforcement proceedings concerning other judgments in her favour and ordered the bailiffs’ service of yakutsk to pay the applicant 200,000.15 russian roubles (rub) of compensation.9.  the applicant requested to amend the judgment, to replace the respondent authority by the ministry of justice of the russian federation.referring to the applicant’s request, on 9 february 2005 the justice of the peace, of the 41st court circuit of yakutsk annulled the judgment of 11 november 2004 and ordered that the proceedings be reopened.on 20 december 2005 the yakutsk town court left the applicant’s action against the bailiffs without examination, for the applicant’s lack of interest in maintaining the case.the court found that the respondent company, when calculating the communal charges, had failed to take account of the water provider’s failure to supply water to the applicant’s flat in summer, as well as of the applicant’s absence from home for a specific period of time.the court ordered the enterprise (1) to count rub 25,500 already paid by the applicant towards her debt in respect of communal charges; to recalculate the charges on account of (2) the applicant’s long-term absence and (3) the lack of hot water supply; and (4) to provide information about communal services already paid by her.the court found, in particular, that the enterprise was a due respondent, as the yakutsk administration had delegated to it the power to collect communal charges from the population.14.  according to the government, on 14 december 2004 the company’s activity was discontinued as the company was re-structured in the form of transformation (реорганизована в форме преобразования) and incorporated as open joint-stock company oao “payment processing centre” («оао еркц», “the oao”).the parties did not provide information on the owners of the newly-created company’s shares, did not submit a copy of the transfer and acceptance act and did not provide any details on the legal succession issue.16.  referring to a “notification” dated 19 april 2005 by the municipal unitary enterprise “payment processing centre”[1], the government submitted that on an unspecified date the judgment had been enforced in part, in so far as the obligations to count the amount toward the applicant’s debt and to recalculate the charges on account of the lack of hot water were concerned.18.  on 12 september 2007 the bailiffs’ service discontinued the enforcement proceedings in respect of the remaining part of the judgment on account of the impossibility to enforce it and returned the writs of execution to the yakutsk town court.
9.  on 28 july 2008 the prosecutor of the vilnius region (hereinafter “the prosecutor”) lodged a claim with the vilnius regional court, seeking to have p.s.’s property rights to 2.50 of the 8.17 hectares given to him annulled.the prosecutor asked that after annulling p.s.’s property rights to that part of the land, the applicants’ property rights to it also be annulled.on 24 may 2010 the court of appeal dismissed an appeal lodged by the applicants, and on 10 december 2010 the supreme court dismissed their appeal on points of law, upholding the lower courts’ decisions in their entirety.11.  on 15 december 2008 the prosecutor lodged a further claim with the vilnius regional court, seeking to have p.s.’s property rights to 0.15 hectares of the 8.17 hectares given to him annulled, on the grounds that it was covered by a forest of national importance, as well as to have the applicants’ property rights to that part of the plot annulled.13.  on 23 september 2010 the court of appeal dismissed an appeal lodged by the applicants, and on 11 april 2011 the supreme court dismissed their appeal on points of law, upholding the lower courts’ decisions in their entirety.15.  on 14 november 2008 the prosecutor lodged yet another claim with the vilnius regional court, seeking to have p.s.’s property rights to 0.87 hectares of the 8.17 hectares given to him annulled, on the grounds that it was covered by a forest of national importance, as well as to have the applicants’ property rights to that part of the plot annulled.the court annulled the vca’s decision to restore p.s.’s property rights in the part concerning the 0.87 hectares, as well as the sale agreement between p.s.19.  on 23 february 2012 the applicants received a letter from the national land service (the institution which took over the relevant functions of the vca after an administrative reform – hereinafter “the nls”) confirming that, after the courts had annulled p.s.’s property rights to 3.52 hectares of land, he had retained the right to have those property rights restored.the applicants were informed of the forms of restitution provided for by the domestic law (ibid., § 92) and asked to inform the authorities of their preferred form of restitution.20.  on 24 july 2012 the applicants received another letter from the nls which stated that there was a possibility for the applicants to receive a plot of land for the construction of an individual home in the vilnius city area, but as there were 4,806 other candidates waiting to receive plots in the area, the restitution process would take a long time.the applicants were asked to consider an alternative form of restitution, such as being given a plot of land in a rural area, a plot of land for the construction of an individual home in a different city, or monetary compensation (ibid.).they submitted that the annulment of their property rights to 3.52 hectares of land had caused them pecuniary damage in the amount of ltl 627,630 (approximately eur 181,770), consisting of the value of the 2.50 hectares of land which had been taken away from them (see paragraph 9 above), according to a private assessment, as well as the amounts which the applicants had been ordered to pay to s.m.the applicants asked to be allocated a plot of land for the construction of an individual home in vilnius in the order of priority, and if that was not possible, to be informed how many plots were available in vilnius and when they might expect to receive one.24.  on 21 april 2015 the applicants sent a letter to the nls, asking it to temporarily suspend the planning of the two aforementioned plots “while court proceedings [were] ongoing” (kol vyksta teismai).28.  at the date of the latest information provided to the court (15 october 2018), the applicants’ property rights to 3.29 hectares of land had still not been restored.
the applicant and his brother had got out of the van and asked to see the police officers’ identity cards.then one of the police officers put his fingers in the applicant’s nostrils and pulled him up and the applicant tried to push that police officer away.thinking that the plain-clothes police officers, who had refused to show him their identity cards, could in fact be robbers, the applicant got hold of a wooden stick from the back of his van to defend himself.one of them grabbed the wooden stick and started hitting the applicant’s brother, while another officer hit and kicked the applicant.although the applicant’s brother asked the officers to take the applicant to a hospital, they did not listen to him.the doctors noted that, as it travelled through the applicant’s body, the bullet had damaged the applicant’s small and large intestines, and considered his injury to be life-threatening.a neurosurgeon who examined the applicant concluded that the applicant’s injuries amounted to a “permanent deterioration in the functioning of one of his organs or his nerves”.three neurosurgeons who examined the applicant stated in their report of 11 december 2009 that they had observed atrophy (wasting away of the muscle) of the applicant’s thigh muscles and sensory loss on the front of the thighs.and the remaining officers in respect of the applicant’s complaints of ill-treatment and an objection lodged by the applicant against that decision was rejected on 31 october 2008.had fired in the air twice before firing in the direction of the applicant without aiming at a particular part of his body.14.  the applicant lodged an objection against the assize court’s decision and argued, in particular, that the decision to suspend the pronouncement of the conviction would encourage other police officers to carry out similar acts against members of the public.16.  in the meantime, the applicant instituted proceedings against the ministry of the interior before the i̇zmir administrative court and claimed 11,000 turkish liras (try) in respect of pecuniary damage and try 50,000 in respect of non-pecuniary damage.in its decision of 17 june 2010 the i̇zmir administrative court found the ministry responsible for the damage suffered by the applicant and awarded him try 712 (approximately 370 euros (eur) at the time) in respect of pecuniary damage and try 50,000 (approximately eur 26,000) in respect of non‑pecuniary damage, plus statutory interest.17.  on 21 april 2014 the supreme administrative court upheld the i̇zmir administrative court’s decision insofar as it concerned the pecuniary damage but quashed the part of the decision concerning the non-pecuniary damage because it considered that the applicant had also been partly responsible for the incident.18.  the case file was returned to the i̇zmir administrative court which decided on 24 february 2016 to award the applicant try 20,000 (approximately eur 6,200 at the time) plus statutory interest in respect of non-pecuniary damage.
6.  the program was adopted on 10 july 1995 by the government of russia, in accordance with the decree of the president of the russian federation no.the gup undertook to provide the applicant with the flat and to transfer it to the applicant’s ownership once it was accepted for exploitation, and the applicant was to pay the price of the flat.built the flats and transferred them to the gup, which was acting for the administration of the kamchatka region, to be registered as the administration’s property.10.  on 2 february 2001 the applicant brought a court action against the gup for non-compliance with contractual obligations and provision of appropriate housing in accordance with the contract, instead of the flat initially provided to him.on 25 march 2002, acting on the applicant’s appeal, the tambov regional court (“the regional court”) quashed the lower court’s judgment and remitted the case for a new examination, for the court’s failure to establish substantial facts of the case and to examine some items of evidence referred to in the judgment.on 23 october 2002 the regional court granted the applicant’s appeal and found that the lower court had raised and examined issues falling outside the scope of the applicant’s claims.15.  on 28 january 2003 the district court allowed the claim in part and awarded the applicant a sum of money which was larger than that pursuant to the judgment of 11 september 2002. on 26 march 2003, on the appeal of the applicant’s counsel, the regional court quashed the judgment, in particular, for a failure to address the important circumstances of the case, and remitted the case for a fresh examination.on 20 august 2003 the regional court annulled the judgments, having found that the lower court had incorrectly applied the norms of substantive law, and ordered a new examination of the case by the first-instance court.on 10 march 2004, on the appeal of the defendant, the regional court set aside the judgment as it contained an incorrect interpretation of the substantive law, and remitted the case for a fresh examination.20.  on 20 april 2006 the presidium of the regional court granted his request, quashed the judgments of 5 may and 27 july 2005 as issued in breach of procedural and substantive law, and ordered that the case be re‑examined by the first-instance court.the court ordered the dissolution of the shared-construction agreement between the applicant and the state unitary enterprise “united direction for construction of the kamchatka region” concerning the construction of housing.24.  according to the government, on 2 november 2007 the applicant applied to the bailiffs’ service with a request to open the enforcement proceedings and enclosed a copy of the writ of execution.on 31 october 2008 the bailiffs’ service informed the applicant that the debtor had paid the amount due under the judgment, and re-invited him to submit his banking details.28.  the state unitary enterprise “united direction for construction of the kamchatka region” (the gup) was set up by a decision of the administration of the kamchatka region.the company, incorporated as a unitary enterprise at the material time, had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to it by the administration in order to carry out its statutory activities.
6.  in october 2002 the zalishchytskyy local court of ternopil region issued a writ of enforcement in a case against a private company, u. the parties did not provide any documents related to the proceedings against company u.9.  on 3 april 2006 the applicant participated in this auction and bought the above construction for uah 26,000 (at the material time around eur 4,200).the applicant submitted copies of the bills according to which he had paid the above amount in full.11.  on an unidentified date, a third person s. lodged an administrative claim against the bailiffs and the applicant seeking to declare the bailiff’s seizure and sale of the shed unlawful as in fact it belonged to him.in view of this claim, in october 2006 the sales contract between the applicant and t. was annulled by the parties and the applicant returned the money to t. on 23 november 2006 the zalishchytskyy local court of ternopil region found that the shed belonged to s. and thus the bailiffs had unlawfully seized and sold it.in the relevant resolution it was noted that the applicant sustained pecuniary damage and had not been reimbursed the money he had paid at the auction.the amount of the damage aggravated the charges against the bailiff.in the text of the sentence the applicant is referred to as a witness.14.  in may 2008 the applicant instituted civil proceedings against the bailiffs’ service and the local department of the state treasury claiming compensation for pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage.the applicant referred to provisions on compensation of damage of the civil code of ukraine, in particular article 1174, and to article 11 of the law of ukraine “on the state bailiffs’ service” according to which damage caused to an individual by actions or omissions of a state official, in particular, by a bailiff during enforcement proceedings, had to be compensated by the state (see paragraphs 19 and 21 below).16.  following the defendant’s appeal, on 12 march 2009 the chernivtsi regional court of appeal quashed this decision and rejected the applicant’s claims as unsubstantiated.the court held that since the applicant was not a party to the enforcement proceedings in the case against company u. he could not claim damages from the bailiffs under article 11 of the law of ukraine “on the state bailiffs’ service” (see paragraph 21 below).the court of appeal did not examine the applicability of the civil code provisions, relied upon by the applicant and the local court.the court further noted that the applicant failed to demonstrate that the shed had been in fact seized from him without any compensation, or that the sales contract with company m. in charge of the auction had been dissolved.17.  the applicant appealed in cassation stating that he no longer owned or used the shed as its seizure and sale were found unlawful by the court decision of 23 november 2006 (see paragraph 11 above) and it had been returned to s. he noted that the money he paid at the auction had not been reimbursed.
7.  on the same day the prosecutor’s office attached to the high court of cassation and justice authorised the police division responsible for combatting organised crime and drug trafficking to use an undercover agent in order to identify members of the network.the justification given for such an operation was that, on the basis of information gathered during a preliminary criminal investigation, there was a strong indication that the applicant belonged to a drug-dealing network which provided drugs such as cannabis, ecstasy and hashish to drug users known to him in craiova.according to the report drafted by the agent on the same day, the applicant confirmed that he had a small amount of cannabis and hashish in his possession and offered to sell it to the agent.14.  on 17 august 2007 the police officers, acting in league with the undercover agent, caught the applicant red-handed while he was selling 7.54 grams of cannabis to the undercover agent.19.  on 12 september 2007 the prosecutor’s office attached to the high court of cassation and justice issued an indictment naming the applicant and five co-accused, and the case was registered with the dolj county court.22.  on 14 may 2008 the county court heard evidence from the undercover agent, in the presence of the applicant who was assisted by his lawyer.the undercover agent stated that he had been introduced to the applicant by a drug user, who had informed him that the applicant had been trying to find buyers for hashish and cannabis.when determining his sentence, the court – referring to articles 74 (a) and (c) and 76 of the romanian criminal code – took into account as mitigating circumstances the applicant’s good behavior before and after committing the crime.25.  the court based its findings on (i) the statements given by the co‑defendants, the undercover agent and witnesses, (ii) the transcripts of the recorded phone conversations, and (iii) technical and search reports.it held that the applicant’s defence argument – according to which he had acted at the undercover agent’s instigation – was not viable as the undercover agent had not forced the applicant to sell him drugs.moreover, the defence argument was contradicted by the statements given by the applicant during the criminal investigation and by c.b.s., one of the co-accused.it also noted that the investigating authorities had found out that the cannabis sold by the co-accused had been gathered from a park located in craiova and that it had been cultivated by c.b.s.28.  on 19 november 2008 the craiova court of appeal allowed the applicant’s appeal and partly set aside the judgment of the first‑instance court.30.  the applicant submitted that – as was clear from the transcripts of the recorded phone conversations – all the drug transactions had taken place at the initiative of the undercover agent.the court of last resort addressed all the arguments submitted by the applicant and his lawyer, including the matter of his having been incited by an agent provocateur.
5.  the applicant was born in 1974 in khabarovsk and is serving a life sentence in the sverdlovsk region.6.  from 25 may 2012 to 10 april 2014 the applicant was held in penal colony ik-56 in the sverdlovsk region.7.  on 15 july 2013 the applicant asked the governor to allow him a short meeting with four adult relatives, his mother, sister and two cousins.he also asked for the meeting to be held without a glass partition between him and his visitors or the presence of a prison officer.8.  from 15 may to 16 july 2014 the applicant was transferred to remand prison sizo-1 in khabarovsk – where his family still lived – to take part in another investigation.9.  on the day after his arrival at the prison, he asked the prison governor to authorise a short meeting with four family members – his sister, two cousins and aunt – without a physical partition between him and the visitors or the presence of prison officers.he pointed out that, pursuant to section 18 of the pre‑trial detention act, visits are subject to written authorisation from the official or authority in charge of the criminal case.furthermore, the rules of internal order in remand prisons required that visiting rooms be equipped with a physical partition and that visits be supervised by a prison officer.10.  on 3 june 2014 the applicant asked the governor to authorise a long meeting with his mother and sister.he relied on article 89 of the code of execution of sentences (ces) and emphasised that the remand prison was equipped with rooms for long-stay visits which could be used by convicted prisoners serving their sentence in that prison.three days later the governor replied that the applicable law did not make a provision for long-stay visits in respect of remand prisoners.11.  the applicant subsequently asked the authorities in charge of the criminal case to authorise short visits from his family members.on 11 june and 1 august 2014 the investigator and the deputy head of the investigations department, respectively, rejected his request.they informed the applicant that “the authorities in charge of the investigation were not preventing [him] from having short visits from his family members as long as it did not contradict russian law, including the code of execution of sentences”.13.  according to a certificate issued by the governor on 27 april 2017, the applicant did not have any short or long-stay visits during his time in the khabarovsk remand prison.
he then returned to the usa to deal with the necessary formalities, temporarily leaving x in tashkent with her maternal grandparents, b. and s., because her state of health after her mother’s death prevented her from travelling.13.  during the following months the first applicant applied to the russian consulate in uzbekistan, to the russian embassy in uzbekistan and to the russian ministry of international affairs for assistance in recovering his daughter.14.  by letter of 29 september 2009, the ministry of international affairs informed the first applicant that on 18 september 2009 officials from the russian consulate in uzbekistan had visited b., s. and x in their home in tashkent.on the same day the moscow childcare authority questioned b.’s representative, who stated that the first applicant lived in the usa, often travelled for work and could not therefore take care of his daughter.25.  hearings were held on 19 november and 15 december 2010. the first applicant reiterated the arguments set out in his complaint of 1 september 2010. he also stated that he permanently lived and worked in the usa, had a stable income and could provide his daughter with everything she needed.he also submitted the following documents from the usa: x’s school records; x’s and his own character references from the neighbours, x’s teachers and the parents of her school friends; certificates from his employer confirming his income and health insurance covering himself and his daughter, and stating that his post was based in washington, dc, and did not require frequent travel; an opinion by the doctor who had treated x’s mother that, in view of an increased hereditary risk of cancer, x needed regular medical supervision in a specialised clinic; and a description of the first applicant’s flat in washington, dc, by a real‑estate agent.they submitted affidavits by x’s teachers that when the first applicant had visited x at school in january 2010, the girl had been frightened and had asked them to call her grandparents.31.  on 19 april 2011 the mayor of the mirzo-ulugbek district of tashkent appointed s. as x’s guardian, finding that her mother had died, that her father’s whereabouts were unknown and that she had been brought up by s. since 2008.34.  at the end of the hearing of 21 june 2011 the cheremushinskiy district court decided to send a request for assistance to the uzbek courts, asking that x be questioned about the following matters: –  whether her grandparents were preventing her from seeing or contacting her father; –  when she had seen her father for the last time; –  whether she missed her father; –  whether she wanted to live with her father; and –  whether she talked to her father over the telephone and, if so, on whose initiative the telephone calls were made.40.  the hearing of 1 february 2012 was adjourned until 27 february 2012 because the first applicant and his counsel did not appear and because the childcare authority needed additional time to prepare a new opinion on the case, taking into account the child’s wishes.taking into account x’s wishes and the opinion of the childcare authority, the court held that it would be in x’s best interests to remain with her grandparents.the district court noted at the outset that it had been unable to obtain the first applicant’s submissions on the case.it had sent two requests for assistance to a competent russian court, asking it to collect the first applicant’s submissions; the russian court had however replied that it was impossible to obtain the first applicant’s submissions because he did not live at his registered place of residence.the district court then found that x had been living with her maternal grandparents since 2008. the first applicant had not taken part in her upbringing and had not supported her financially.46.  on 8 october 2012 a judge of the moscow city court refused to refer a cassation appeal lodged by the first applicant to the presidium of that court for examination, finding that no significant violations of substantive or procedural law had influenced the outcome of the proceedings.
5.  the applicant was born in 1950 and, at the time of the last communication from him to the court, was detained in torez correctional colony.8.  the judgment was based, in particular, on (i) the victim’s statements made at the pre-trial stage; (ii) the statements of a number of witnesses (comprising nannies, a classmate and a psychologist) made during the court hearings, who had reported incriminating statements that a. had made to them.witness k. had testified that, in the relevant period, she had had sexual relations with the applicant; (iii) the conclusions of experts who had examined the applicant and the victim.the experts had concluded that the victim’s hymen had been broken and it was unlikely that that had been caused by unintentional actions; the victim and the applicant both had a fungal infection on their genitalia; the examination of the applicant’s genitalia had not revealed any obstacle to his having sexual relations; the victim suffered from a light mental retardation and the applicant did not suffer from any psychiatric illness.according to the applicant, the trial court had refused to order an additional expert examination to determine whether, because of any disease of his “internal sexual organs”, he had been unable to engage in normal sexual intercourse at the relevant time.the appeal contained the following statement: “the court’s conclusion as to my guilt is based only on indirect evidence and on the statement of a minor [a.11.  the applicant submitted that the breaking of a.’s hymen was explained by the fact that he had accidentally penetrated her with his finger while bathing her.12.  the applicant further complained of the trial court’s refusal to order an additional expert examination to determine whether he had any diseases of his “internal sexual organs” which would have prevented him from sustaining an erection and engaging in sexual intercourse.13.  the applicant asked the supreme court to reclassify his actions as “abuse of a minor” (розбещення неповнолітніх), a lesser offence than rape, and to impose a non-custodial sentence.14.  on 9 june 2008 the supreme court refused to consider the case in cassation and upheld the lower courts’ findings.15.  on 27 november 2008 the court’s registry asked the applicant to provide copies of his appeal, his appeal in cassation and the decision of the supreme court in his case, to supplement his application.16.  he accordingly requested those documents from the trial court, the court of appeal and the supreme court.17.  on 19 january 2009 the court of appeal advised the applicant that he needed to address his request for the copies to the trial court.18.  on 26 january 2009 the trial court informed the applicant that it was not empowered to send him the requested copies.19.  on 28 january 2009 the supreme court informed the applicant that it was not the court’s practice to issue copies of appeals in cassation or of its decisions.
18.  a transcript of the conversations on the video tapes recorded at the flat showed that the applicant had been proselytising islam to v. and ku., discussing her hatred for russians and the need for a “holy war” against them, praising the leaders of the chechen insurgency, and telling her flatmates about the insurgent camps in the caucasus.], and put the following questions to him: 21.  the next day an investigator granted the motion in the part concerning the questioning of a., questioned him and informed the applicant about the decision on her motion.49.  at certain points in her testimony the applicant mentioned a. in passing, stating that they had no personal relationship, that he had helped her with finding accommodation free of charge, that he had called her on the phone, given her two books by the american historian paul klebnikov, and that he had told her to follow the policemen’s orders at the time of her arrest.52.  immediately after viewing the videotape the applicant’s lawyer s. submitted oral motions to summon attesting witnesses b. and k. and police officer a. the relevant part of the trial records reads as follows: “lawyer s.: i request to summon the attesting witnesses who were present during the personal search of murtazaliyeva, that is, b. and k., in order to determine the relevant circumstances [and] whether or not plastic explosives were planted.prosecutor: i object, because the accused was questioned and stated that the record [of the search] had been drawn up without any violation of the law... the court decided that the motion for summoning the attesting witnesses would not be granted.accused: i agree with these statements in part, but do not agree that he had no contacts with the girls without me and that we maintained contact only over the phone.” 53.  immediately afterwards the defence proceeded to submit evidence in the form of character references about the accused and lodged motions to subpoena the applicant’s phone records and conduct a forensic psychiatric examination of witnesses v. and ku.they provided their own account of the events, alleging that the substance of the accusation was based on misinterpretation of the applicant’s conversations and actions and that the explosives had been planted by the police.the speech by the lawyer u. included the following statement made in passing while describing the applicant’s attitude to the military conflict in chechnya and religion: “i think that this whole criminal case is a set-up against murtazaliyeva by law-enforcement agents.” for her part, the applicant’s speech contained the following relevant part: “... as to conversations in the apartment, many things do not match.i do not admit my guilt on any of the charges ...” the defence’s closing arguments contained one-off statements about the explosives having been planted by the police in the applicant’s handbag, but did not refer to the alleged double fingerprinting or the applicant’s lack of control over her possessions prior to the search, or to any matters concerning the choice and participation of the two attesting witnesses.and informed him that she had been stopped by a police patrol for an identity check and that she had been requested to go with them to the police station; he recommended that she follow the policemen’s orders.” in contrast to its approach with regard to the testimony of other witnesses, the court did not cross-reference a.’s statements with those of other witnesses and did not refer to his testimony in support of any conclusions.it referred to the testimony by the patrol officers and the officers at the police station, who had denied those allegations, and to the fact that, according to the official report, the personal search of the applicant had preceded the taking of her fingerprints, and there had been no evidence that the fingerprints had been taken twice, as the applicant had alleged.no one can recall who invited the attesting witnesses and how, and when ... according to the testimony by witness a., read out during the hearing and relied upon by the court in the judgment, he talked on the phone not only with murtazaliyeva, but also with arresting police officers; [these were not the police officers questioned during the hearing, since they did not mention talking to a. in their multiple statements at the pre-trial and trial stages of proceedings].66.  the supreme court held that the videotape had been shown at the request of the defence and that no objections or complaints, including that not all of the videotapes had been shown, had been lodged with the court after the videotape had been played.68.  in june 2005 the applicant’s lawyer s. lodged a supervisory review complaint, referring, inter alia, to the trial court’s failure to summon and question witness a. and attesting witnesses b. and k. the complaint in the relevant part labelled a. as “a key witness”, who, following the instructions of his superiors, had “covered” the applicant for more than two months, provided her with a job and accommodation and controlled her actions and movements, including her arrest.in respect of the attesting witnesses the complaint stated that “the examination of the attesting witnesses could have resolved the significant contradictions in the statements [and] could have served as the basis to corroborate or disprove the circumstances immediately prior to the search.” 69.  on 13 september 2005 the supreme court rejected the supervisory review complaint.
7.  on 4 december 2008 the prosecutor of the vilnius region (hereinafter “the prosecutor”) lodged a claim with the vilnius regional court, seeking to have the applicant’s mother’s property rights to the six hectares given to her annulled.the prosecutor asked that after annulling the applicant’s mother’s property rights to the plot, the applicant’s property rights to it also be annulled.however, on 15 september 2009 the vilnius regional court allowed the prosecutor’s claim and annulled the vca’s decision to restore the applicant’s mother’s property rights to six hectares of land, as well as the applicant’s property rights to that land.9.  the applicant and the vca lodged appeals against that decision, arguing that the restoration of the applicant’s mother’s property rights had complied with the relevant legislation.11.  on 23 february 2012 the applicant received a letter from the national land service (the institution which took over the relevant functions of the vca after an administrative reform – hereinafter “the nls”) confirming that his mother had retained the right to have her property rights to six hectares of land restored.it stated that there was no more vacant land in pagiriai and asked the applicant to inform the authorities of his choice as to one of the forms of restitution provided for by the domestic law (ibid., § 92).12.  on 24 july 2012 the applicant received another letter from the nls which stated that there was a possibility for the applicant to receive a plot of land for the construction of an individual home in the vilnius city area but as there were 4,806 other candidates waiting to receive plots in the area, the restitution process would take a long time.he submitted that the annulment of his property rights to six hectares of land had caused him pecuniary damage in the amount of 251,217 lithuanian litai (ltl – approximately 72,760 euros (eur)), according to an assessment of the value of the land carried out in may 2012. in the applicant’s view, being put on the list with 4,806 other candidates and being made to wait for an undetermined period of time for restitution was unacceptable.he asked to be allocated a plot of land for the construction of an individual home in vilnius in the order of priority, and if that was not possible, to be informed how many plots were available in vilnius and when he might expect to receive one.according to the minutes of the meeting, which were approved by the nls, he stated that the question of the restoration of his property rights was pending before the european court of human rights, that he was dissatisfied with the available vacant land and that he refused to choose any plots (žemės sklypų nesirinko).according to the minutes of the meeting, which were approved by the nls and signed by the applicant, he asked to be shown the plots which had been offered to him at their location and not just on a plan.16.  at a subsequent meeting held on 17 may 2016, the applicant stated that he had seen the plots offered to him but that they could not be used according to their purpose because of their uneven surface and the presence of electricity and other installations on them.according to the minutes of the meeting, which were approved by the nls and signed by the applicant, he was dissatisfied with the size and location of the plots which had been offered to him.according to the minutes of the meeting, approved by the nls and signed by the applicant, he again refused to make any decisions (susirinkimo metu jokių sprendimų nepriėmė) and repeated that he was waiting for a response from the european court of human rights.19.  at the date of the latest information provided to the court (13 february 2018), the applicant’s property rights to six hectares of land had still not been restored.
they submitted that they and the deceased belonged to the thrace muslim community and that therefore any questions relating to his estate were subject to islamic religious law (sharia law) and the jurisdiction of the mufti, rather than to the provisions of the civil code.they contended that the application of muslim customs and sharia law to greek nationals of muslim faith was laid down in the provisions of article 14 § 1 of the 1920 treaty of sèvres (ratified by decree of 29 september/ 30 october 1923) and articles 42 and 45 of the treaty of lausanne (ratified by decree of 25 august 1923) (see paragraphs 65-68 below).it found that the consequent inability of such persons to draw up a public will was in breach of article 4 (principle of equality), article 5 § 1 (free development of personality), article 5 § 2 (principle of non-discrimination) and article 13 § 1 (freedom of religious conscience) of the constitution, as well as article 14 of the convention and article 1 of protocol no.the court added that although the application of sharia law was based, inter alia, on international law, and in particular on the combined effect of articles 42 and 45 of the treaty of lausanne, it should not result in the islamic law of succession being applied in such a way as to curtail the civil rights of greek muslims, because the aim of the treaty had not been to deprive the members of that minority of such rights, but to strengthen their protection.the court held that since the testator was free to choose the type of will he wished to draw up in the exercise of his rights and therefore to draw up a public will in accordance with article 1724 of the civil code, he was not obliged to follow islamic law, which did not cover matters relating to such wills.16.  more specifically, the court of appeal noted that the decision taken by the deceased, a greek citizen of muslim faith belonging to the thrace muslim religious minority, to ask a notary to draw up a public will, choosing personally to decide how and to whom he would bequeath his property, fell within his legal right to dispose of his property in anticipation of his death, under the same conditions as other greek nationals.2345/1920 (on the provisional arch-mufti and muftis serving muslims residing in the territory) reproduced the contents of article 11 § 8.1 of the treaty of athens, pursuant to which muftis exercised their jurisdiction over muslims in the spheres of marriage, divorce, maintenance payments, guardianship, trusteeship, capacity of minors, islamic wills and intestate succession.examining the reasoning of the court of appeal’s judgment, it concluded that that court’s determination of the case had breached the relevant legislative provisions, because the law applicable to the deceased person’s estate had been the islamic law of succession, which formed part of domestic law and applied specifically to greek nationals of muslim faith.it noted that the estate in question belonged to the category of property held “in full ownership” (mulkia) – public land which had belonged to the ottoman administration, the full ownership of which had been transferred to private individuals and which had been governed by sharia law during the ottoman occupation – and that, consequently, the impugned public will had to be deemed invalid and devoid of legal effect on the grounds that sharia law recognised no such institution.183/2015 of 15 december 2015 the court of appeal set aside the judgment delivered by the rodopi court of first instance on 1 june 2010. in line with the court of cassation’s judgment, it held that the relevant legislative provisions had been intended to protect greek nationals of muslim faith, constituted a special body of law and did not breach the principle of equality secured under article 4 of the constitution or the right of access to a court as guaranteed by article 6 of the convention.it therefore considered itself bound by the court of cassation’s judgment of 7 october 2013 and could not overrule it, thus being unable to allow a request by the applicant to seek a preliminary ruling from the court of justice of the european union concerning the interpretation of section 5(2) of law no.21.  on 8 february 2016 the applicant appealed on points of law against the judgment of the court of appeal, and the hearing in the court of cassation was scheduled for 11 january 2017. she put forward a number of grounds of appeal.22.  in her first ground of appeal she submitted that the impugned judgment had been insufficiently reasoned as regards one specific point which she considered to have had a decisive influence on the outcome of the proceedings, namely that it had ignored the question whether her husband had been a “practising muslim”, which was a precondition for the application of the special body of law.it emphasised that the court of appeal had assessed the facts of the case in the light of substantive law and had given sufficient reasons for its determination of the fundamental issue of recognising the invalidity of the will.31.  in 2011, meanwhile, the testator’s sisters had applied to the istanbul civil court of first instance for the annulment of the will, in accordance with the principles of private international law enshrined in the turkish civil code.
the execution of the remainder of his sentence was suspended on probation, subject to the condition of long-term therapy for his drug addiction.in february 2009 the execution of the remainder of the sentence of the judgment of 9 july 2007 was suspended on probation and the applicant was released from prison.15.  on 31 july 2002, after the conviction of 10 january 2002 (see paragraph 9 above), the competent authority of neustadt ordered the expulsion of the applicant to turkey.on 14 january 2005 the rhineland-palatinate administrative court of appeal reversed the decision of the administrative court and quashed the expulsion order.in this context the court of appeal referred, in particular, to the fact that the applicant had at the time not yet undergone inpatient therapy, which he was willing to do.20.  on 22 may 2014 the neustadt administrative court ordered the reduction of the re-entry ban to five years and dismissed the remainder of the applicant’s appeal.it found that the expulsion order did not contravene the binding force of the judgment of the court of appeal of 14 january 2005 (see paragraph 15 above) since it was essentially based on events subsequent to that judgment, in particular the judgments of the district court of 9 july 2007 (see paragraph 11 above) and the judgment of the regional court of 9 december 2010 (see paragraph 13 above).the authority had correctly established that the applicant posed a current and concrete danger to the basic interests of germany, and that his expulsion was indispensable to preserve these basic interests.21.  the administrative court essentially based its conclusions on the seriousness, the frequency and the drug context of the criminal offences, as well as on the expectation that the applicant would be likely to commit such offences again.not even favourable conditions, such as the drug therapy as of august 2008, the suspension of the remaining sentence, further therapy, the expected paternity and finally the birth of his child brought about substantial changes in the applicant’s life.the authorities had correctly taken account of the applicant’s interests, of the fact that he had been born in germany and that he had family in germany, in particular his daughter and his sister.making explicit reference to article 8 of the convention and the court’s case-law, the administrative court established that the reasons at the heart of the expulsion were sufficient to justify it, even though the expulsion might cause hardship for the daughter, who did not live with the applicant.the applicant’s interests were sufficiently taken into account by limiting the re‑entry ban and he could, moreover, apply for a further reduction of the re‑entry ban, if the relevant facts were to change.24. on 25 march 2015 the rhineland-palatine administrative court of appeal rejected the applicant’s request for leave to appeal, endorsing the administrative court’s assessment, while also taking into account the developments that had taken place since.28.  on 17 march 2016 the competent authority rejected an application by the applicant concerning a further reduction of the duration of the re‑entry ban.
9.  on 17 june 2006 the investigator in charge of the case wrote a letter to the prosecutor, noting that the applicant had affiliations with the criminal world and had been following “[a] thief’s traditions”, and that it should have been expected that he would commit various offences.the applicant’s conviction was based on the victim’s statement in court, the results of the identification parades, and the statement which the victim’s friend had made in court.on 23 may 2007 the victim wrote to the appeal court, informing the judges that she was pregnant and claiming, on the basis of a medical certificate, that she had been asked to stay in bed and could not appear in court.in view of the investigator’s explanations regarding the photo identification report, the defence once again requested that the appeal court summon the victim.the applicant’s lawyer maintained that it was necessary to examine her in court in order to establish the circumstances surrounding the photo identification parade, and also to verify the value of the necklace that had been stolen.on the basis of that statement, the prosecutor asked the court to rely on the victim’s statement given before the first-instance court.having heard the parties’ arguments, the appeal court concluded the following: “... the examination of the case should continue, since as it appears from the victim’s ... application submitted to the court, she cannot appear in court because of her pregnancy, which is also confirmed by an extract from her medical file; hence, the court cannot compel her to appear.however, the applicant’s guilt had been proved by the victim’s consistent statements during the pre-trial investigation stage and before the trial court, by the results of the identification parade, and by the evidence given by the victim’s friend.the appeal court rejected the aggravating circumstance, concluding that the price of the necklace, as claimed by the victim, had not been proved.20.  in the period april-may 2007, acting at the request of the applicant’s lawyer, a private eye clinic called mzera eye clinic examined the applicant’s medical file and confirmed the diagnosis of a uveal cataract in his left eye.following the diagnosis being confirmed, on 2 september 2007 he was enrolled in an anti-tuberculosis treatment programme under the dots programme (directly observed treatment, short-course – the treatment strategy for the detection and cure of tuberculosis recommended by the world health organization).25.  on 28 october 2008, relying on rule 39 of the rules of court, the applicant asked the court to indicate to the government that he should be transferred to a medical establishment where he could access appropriate medical examinations and treatment, and have an operation to prevent him from losing his eyesight.26.  on 3 november 2008, under rule 54 § 2 (a) of the rules of court, the president of the chamber requested that the government provide the court with a specific treatment plan aimed at safeguarding the applicant’s eyesight.27.  on 18 november 2008 the government submitted the applicant’s medical file to the court, and also gave an account of the treatment which he had been receiving in prison as of january 2007. according to the submitted information, on 14 november 2008 the applicant was seen by an ophthalmologist, who recommended that he receive treatment for conjunctivitis before a decision was made about surgery.according to the relevant note signed by the applicant and his ophthalmologist, the applicant refused the operation offered by the prison authorities.
14.  on 17 december 2008 the sputum test revealed the presence of tuberculosis bacteria, and a susceptibility test regarding first-line drugs for the treatment of tuberculosis was ordered (“the first susceptibility test”).2 and enrolled in a dots (directly observed treatment, short-course) programme, the strategy for the detection and treatment of tuberculosis recommended by the world health organization.therefore, a second susceptibility test was ordered in respect of the second-line drugs for the treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (“the second susceptibility test”).he continued to receive the previously prescribed anti-tuberculosis treatment with the first-line drugs pending the results of the second susceptibility test.20.  on 10 april 2009 the results of the second susceptibility test were received by the prison hospital, and they demonstrated that the disease was responding to all but one drug out of the second-line drugs.on the same day, a forensic medical examination was carried out to determine the exact cause of g.t.’s death, which confirmed that he had died of a massive pulmonary haemorrhage, a fatal complication of the disease.27.  on 19 november 2009 a prosecutor from the chief prosecutor’s office who was supervising the investigations carried out by the investigative department of the ministry of prisons forwarded the applicant’s appeal against the investigator’s refusal to grant her victim status to the director of that department, “for an appropriate response”.as regards his involvement in the dots+ programme, one of the experts noted that it was only in february and april 2009 that the treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis had become possible in the ksani facility and the prison hospital respectively.it noted that g.t.’s enrolment in the dots programme and later in the dots+ programme had been in compliance with the national standards on the treatment of tuberculosis.33.  on 22 july 2010 the tbilisi city court allowed an application by the applicant and ordered that the investigation should be reopened in order for g.t.’s sister to be questioned.it was closed again on 15 october 2010 after g.t.’s sister had been questioned and after a forensic examination of the unsigned and undated prescription had been carried out to identify whether its author was indeed one of the doctors from rustavi prison no.2. as the handwriting examined in the forensic examination did not resemble the handwriting of any of the doctors at the prison in question, the investigator concluded that g.t.’s sister’s allegations were manifestly ill-founded.35.  the relevant national and international materials concerning the problem of tuberculosis in georgian prisons at the material time, the treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in georgian prisons at the material time, and the world health organization guidelines for the management of drug-resistant tuberculosis are summarised by the court in the case of makharadze and sikharulidze v. georgia (no.36.  at the material time, the management of prisons, including the provision of medical care to prisoners was a responsibility of the prison department of the ministry of prisons (see order no.60 of the minister of prisons approving the regulations of the prison department, 24 february 2009).
6.  on an unspecified date a trial by jury was opened in the applicant’s case in the altai regional court.7.  on an unspecified date the jury returned a guilty verdict against the applicant and three other defendants.by a judgment dated 17 may 2012 the regional court sentenced the applicant to nineteen years’ imprisonment.8.  on 6 september 2012 the supreme court of the russian federation quashed the verdict on appeal, in view of contradictory conclusions contained in the jury’s verdict, and remitted the matter to the trial court for fresh consideration.9.  on 30 january 2013 the jury returned a guilty verdict in respect of the applicant and three other defendants.had informed the jurors that it was the second trial and that the applicant and other defendants had already been found guilty of her son’s murder.had also advised the jurors to check out the information concerning her son’s murder on the internet.12.  on 26 february 2013 jury foreperson g. signed a statement in which she indicated that she “had not been aware” of any instances of undue influence on the jury by ch.13.  on 27 february 2013 the regional court sentenced the applicant to nineteen years’ imprisonment.14.  on 28 february 2013 the trial judge asked the bailiffs’ service to conduct an inquiry in response to the statement made by juror v. 15.  on 18 march 2013 the deputy head of the bailiffs’ service responded to the trial judge as follows: “it follows from the reports submitted by the bailiffs ... and the bailiffs’ group supervisor that on the relevant dates the jurors were supervised by the bailiff ... while they were in the courtroom or in the jurors’ room.none of the jurors contacted [the bailiffs’ service] as regards the [jurors’] security or interference with the fulfilment of the jury’s duties.” 16.  following an appeal lodged by the applicant and two other defendants, on 8 august 2013 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the applicant’s conviction.had exerted undue influence on the jury, the court stated as follows: “[the court] rejects as unsubstantiated the argument ... that the jury’s verdict was ... a result of unlawful influence exerted by ch.according to the trial record, the jury members were selected in compliance with the requirements set out in [the rules of criminal procedure].the materials in the case file show that ... ch.[the court] discerns no violations of the rules of criminal procedure, including those alleged by [the defendants], that would justify the quashing of the verdict.”
the event had been approved by the city authorities in the form of a march followed by a meeting at bolotnaya square which was supposed to end at 7.30 p.m. the march was peaceful and held without any disruptions, but when the marchers arrived at bolotnaya square it transpired that barriers installed by the police had narrowed the entrance to the meeting venue, allegedly restricting the space allocated for the meeting.she was arrested at the venue of the event and taken to a police station, where she was charged with an administrative offence.10.  according to the government, the applicant was arrested at 6 p.m. at bolotnaya square because she had been participating in breaking the police cordon.at 7.20 p.m. she was taken to taganskiy district police station, which was also indicated in the record of her transfer to the police station for the purpose of compiling an administrative file.11.  the record of administrative arrest indicated that the applicant had been arrested at 8.45 p.m. at the police station.the latter was accused of disobeying lawful orders of the police, an offence under article 19.3 § 1 of the code of administrative offences.the administrative-offence record reiterated the reports and notes of the police officers, stating as follows: “... [the applicant], acting as part of a group of 1,500 citizens, took part in an authorised meeting ... during the event [the applicant] committed a breach of the rules on holding public events, [that is to say] she broke the police cordon ... thereby preventing police officers from carrying out their service duties, in breach of article 19.3 § 1 of the code of administrative offences.” 13.  according to the applicant, at the police station she was not allowed to make a phone call, despite making insistent requests.she told the police that she was the mother of a fifteen-month-old child left at home with a babysitter and requested that her family be notified of her arrest, but this was also refused.she stated that during the demonstration she had happened to be in the middle of the crowd, which had pulled her towards the police officers.on the basis of the police officers’ reports and explanations and the records of administrative transfer and arrest, the court established that the applicant had committed an administrative offence under article 19.3 § 1 of the code of administrative offences, as described in the administrative-offence record.the court decided, however, to absolve her from administrative liability on the grounds that her offence had not entailed serious consequences and that she had a baby born in 2011. the justice of the peace issued her a warning.17.  on 26 july 2012 the applicant lodged a complaint under chapter 25 of the code of civil procedure with the dorogomilovskiy district court of moscow about her allegedly arbitrary arrest on 6 may 2012 and detention until 7 may 2012, the termination of the rally at bolotnaya square and the conditions of her detention at the police station.18.  on 3 september 2012 the court refused to examine the complaint on the grounds that the contested acts of the police had been the matter of the administrative proceedings and could not be challenged separately.19.  on 20 may 2013 the moscow city court quashed the part of the decision of 3 september 2012 concerning the refusal to examine the complaint about the conditions of detention, and upheld the remaining part.20.  on 23 october 2013 the dorogomilovskiy district court dismissed the applicant’s complaint about the conditions of her detention at the police station as unsubstantiated.
time has consolidated the public’s belief that most candidates want to become parliamentarians so that they can for a couple of years take advantage of the privileges they grant themselves or of those informal benefits which come through the development of the system of relationships associated with their functions.and if i do this it is not to help the voters, because imposture by an individual reveals itself without reserve to the perceptive masses, whereas one by a group or party does not, especially when one can use all the presidential and municipal logistical powers, impressive amounts of funds and an unsuspected power to persuade individuals with little training.and he does not intend to reach such a position only based on his well-known lucidity, but also with the help of some financial support for the intellectual efforts he wishes to make for the benefit of the many.for the following day he might no longer admit to anything, he may switch to another political party, if he is given more, he may even sell part of the electoral district where he ran and if nobody wants it, he can go to smirnov because it is warmer in tiraspol than in huedin.” 7.  on 9 april 2009 m.i.-i.he also complained about the distribution of leaflets before the election, which had reproduced the contents of the article of 6 november.8.  the applicant confirmed that he was the author of the article in question and that everything he had written had been true, as proved by documents from the arbitration tribunal of the cluj chamber of commerce, which would become available to the court.had been partially granted on 7 april 2009, as the repayment deadline had been set for 30 april 2010. the court considered that even if true, the applicant’s statements had been defamatory and should not have been made public in the media, especially since they concerned matters of a private, commercial nature.the court held that even if it was not the applicant who had produced or distributed the leaflets, there was a causal link between the publication of the article and the harm caused to m.i.-i.’s reputation because if he had not produced his article in the first place, there would have been no leaflets and no amplification of the negative effects on m.i.-i.’s image.12.  the court then focused on the terms used by the applicant in his article, in particular calling the defendant an impostor, which was found to be insulting and lacking factual justification as there existed no criminal complaints of fraud against m.i.-i.13.  the applicant appealed, arguing before the cluj county court that the publication of the article in question during a parliamentary election campaign had had the role of informing the public, in good faith, about a political figure.he argued that during election campaigns the press had the essential role of informing the public about future members of the romanian parliament.it considered that the manner in which the applicant had acted proved that he had not complied with the duties and responsibilities inherent in the exercise of the freedom of expression: “the seriousness of his allegations and of the acts imputed to m.i.-i.hold him [the applicant] responsible for showing the highest rigour and a special caution, the lack of which would breach the rights of others.” 15.  the county court confirmed that the lower court had correctly estimated that it had been necessary to balance the right to private life on the one hand and freedom of expression which contributed to a debate of public interest on the other, holding that: “to insult, to defame a person cannot be justified and legitimate when one party aims to unilaterally expose in the press private litigation of a commercial nature involving two private parties.in assessing the existing conflict between the exercise of freedom of expression in the press and the necessity to protect the reputation and the rights of others, the court estimates that even though the applicant’s allegations made in a press article during an electoral campaign, concerned a potential member of the romanian parliament, thus were of public interest, there are limitations to freedom of expression, the applicant having been bound to act within the limits given by the public interest in protecting the reputation and the rights of another person, including his or her right to be presumed innocent.undoubtedly, when the article was published in the newspaper f., the applicant did not comply with the minimum requirements of diligence prescribed by article 10 § 2 of the convention, in the sense of acting in good faith and in accordance with the journalistic ethics so as [to ensure that] the provided information be trustworthy, notwithstanding the dose of exaggeration or provocation allowed in such situations.” 16.  nevertheless, the county court allowed the applicant’s appeal in part and reduced the damages to eur 5,000, considered to be more proportionate to the damage sustained by m.i.-i.
it highlighted the existence of a well‑established corrupt practice of representatives or employees of certain named construction companies which bribed public officials responsible for overseeing construction site safety (sicurezza antinfortunistica) to omit to carry out compulsory safety checks on companies allegedly connected with the above‑mentioned company f. 9.  further details about the commission’s work and the relevant investigation and trial are set out in berardi and others v. san marino ((dec.), no.12.  in particular, the judge considered b. as being the de facto dominus of the companies under investigation and found that he had been responsible for giving orders and instructions to the various formal directors of the companies to bribe the first and the second applicant in order to avoid safety checks at his companies’ construction sites.the court found that witness statements had been corroborated by the bank accounts showing disbursements, the sums of money deposited by the applicants in their bank accounts in the relevant years (2005‑12), and the testimony of another person, who had stated that she had often seen the officials come to the office to meet m. (the formal administrator of a company which was owned and actually controlled by b.)13.  the judge held that the offence had to be classified as direct bribery (corruzione propria) under article 373 § 1 of the criminal code as the applicants had been exercising discretionary powers arising from their office while carrying out the criminal acts.14.  as to the penalty, the judge stated, in general terms, that he had calculated it on the basis of parameters such as the number of acts of bribery, the type of acts which had been the subject of the bribery, the role of each accused person and the time‑frame in which they had carried out the criminal act.16.  by a judgment filed in the registry on 12 january 2016 the judge of criminal appeals (giudice d’appello penale) upheld the first‑instance judgment in the part relating to the applicants, but reduced the sentence to five years’ imprisonment, a four‑and‑a‑half‑year prohibition on holding public office and exercising political rights, and a fine of eur 20,000. the judge did not apply the increased penalty provided for by article 50 of the criminal code (for a continuing offence), which had been applied by the first‑instance judge, because the first‑instance judge had not indicated the specific extent of the increased penalty he had applied, solely stating that the penalty had been determined with regard to the several acts of corrupt conduct.indeed, there was no explanation as to why the applicants had regularly deposited money in their bank accounts when there had been a real‑estate and construction boom or why the deposits had then declined after a crisis in the sector in general, and more specifically after one that had affected the companies concerned.in the light of the clear evidence of payments having been made to the first and second applicants, there was no need to enter into a detailed analysis of their role on the construction sites.that pact had involved, on the one hand, a promise not to create problems for the construction companies in question, that is, favourable treatment for friends, and, on the other hand, it had been done in exchange for the making and receiving of regular payments of money.indeed, the duration of the pact had required various amendments to the applicable tariffs, which had also depended on the rotation of the people and companies involved.in connection with the date on which the punishable act had been committed (tempus commissi delicti), with all the elements of the offence being present, the court considered that the period in question was the whole time from the initial pact and lasting throughout the execution of each act constituting its renewal.the prolonged nature of the act in question had had various consequences: (i) third persons who had not been involved in the original pact had nevertheless become accomplices in the offence of bribery; (ii) limitation periods had to start running from the date of the last payment involving the accused and (iii) as in the case of continuing offences, an amendment to the relevant law during the period of the crime had to be applied also to the continuing offence of bribery of which the applicants had been accused.19.  the court noted that if the acts ascribed to the applicants had amounted to bribery inducing omission (that is, a private “corruptor” had paid the public officials to fail to do their duty), then it was true that such acts could have been considered as not constituting a crime at the time, or more precisely, that they had constituted the offence of indirect bribery, covered by paragraph 2 of the old law.according to the judge of criminal appeals, the amended article 373, which expressly provided for the crime of direct bribery to include the promise of an omission or payment for a past omission, did not create a new crime but amounted solely to a more serious legal classification of acts which already constituted a crime.20.  in conclusion, the judge dismissed the idea that the acts for which the applicants had been found guilty should have been classified merely as bribery inducing omission (formerly indirect bribery, then qualified as direct bribery after the entry into force of the new law).
10.  by a letter of 13 july 2012 the state education authority (staatliches schulamt – hereinafter “the education authority”) informed the competent family court that the applicants were deliberately and persistently refusing to send their children to school and provided a chronological list of administrative fines and criminal investigations against the applicants – amongst others for hitting one of the daughters – as well as of other incidents since 2005. the education authority concluded that the children were growing up in a “parallel world” without any contact with their peers and that they received no attention of any kind which would enable them to have a part in communal life in germany.in the oral hearing, on 6 september 2012, the applicants stated that they had paid the administrative fines imposed on them for not sending the children to school and that, despite the state sanctions, they would continue to homeschool their children.already in a previous written submission the applicants had confirmed their unwillingness to send their children to school and had stated that the authorities would have to remove their children from the family home and take them away from them entirely if the children were ever to go to a state school.12.  on 6 september 2012 the darmstadt family court withdrew the applicants’ right to determine their children’s place of residence, their right to take decisions on school matters and right to apply to the authorities on behalf of their children, and transferred these rights to the youth office.in its reasoning the court stated that the parents’ persistent refusal to send their children to a state school or a recognised grant-aided independent school not only violated section 67 of the hesse school act (hessisches schulgesetz) (see paragraph 31 below) but also represented an abuse of parental authority which risked damaging the children’s best interests in the long term.independent from the question of whether it could be ensured that the children were acquiring sufficient knowledge through the applicants’ homeschooling, the children’s not attending school was preventing them from becoming part of the community and learning social skills such as tolerance, assertiveness and the ability to assert their own convictions against majority-held views.on 22 november 2012 a member of staff of the youth office, acting as the children’s guardian, attempted to take the children to the education authority’s premises to conduct the learning assessment.a second attempt to take the children to the learning assessment on the same day by two members of the public-order office and a police patrol also failed on account of the children’s refusal to accompany them.however, staff of the education authority were not allowed to enter the family home when they arrived for the appointment in january 2013. the father spoke to the members of staff and explained that he believed that the family court’s decision had been unlawful and that he alone was authorised to decide whether his children attended school or not.as to the law, the court outlined that the decision to withdraw parts of parental authority under articles 1666 and 1666a of the civil code (see paragraphs 25 and 26 below) presupposed a significant endangerment of the best interests of the children, which the parents were unable or unwilling to prevent.to establish such an endangerment, a process of balancing the various interests had to be undertaken, during which the rights and interests of the children and of the parents as well as the interests of society had to be considered.applying these principles to the case at hand, the court concluded that the applicants’ persistent refusal to ensure that their children attended school risked damaging the best interests of the children.22.  following the return of the children on 19 september 2013, they attended school for the school year of 2013-14. on 16 may 2014 the education authority lodged a criminal complaint against the applicants for failing to comply with rules on compulsory school attendance.the court held that, as pointed out in its decision of 25 april 2013 (see paragraph 15 above), the applicants’ persistent refusal to send their children to school constituted child endangerment and that neither their temporary schooling nor the learning assessment of the children had changed that conclusion.however, the court continued, the situation had changed in comparison to that of august 2013, at which point – according to the information provided by the youth office – several elements had led to the children’s removal from the family home: a risk emanating from the children’s father to their physical integrity could not be excluded; failed attempts to bring the children to school by the police had led to the risk of the children internalising the attitude that laws had had no bearing on them; attempts to carry out a learning assessment had failed owing to the resistance of the applicants; and according to the information available at the time, it had been possible to assume that the children had had no contact with anyone outside of the family whatsoever.
6.  the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in sofia.7.  the applicant’s grandfather owned part of a real estate.he donated his part to the applicant’s cousins in 1997. the applicant’s grandfather died on 16 january 2003.8.  on 13 february 2004 the applicant brought proceedings under section 30 of the inheritance act 1949 before the sofia district court.she claimed that, by donating his part in the immovable property in 1997, her grandfather had infringed her right to a “reserved share” in his inheritance, given that the immovable property in question represented his entire estate.in a decision of 2 march 2005 the court upheld her claim by diminishing the part of the estate donated to the applicant’s cousins and restoring the applicant’s “reserved share” in her grandfather’s inheritance.9.  following an appeal by the other party, on 20 september 2007 the sofia city court quashed the first instance court’s judgment and rejected the applicant’s claim for restoration of her “reserved share” in her grandfather’s estate.in particular, referring to interpretative decision no.1 of 4 february 2005 by the supreme court of cassation (“scc”), the court found that the applicant had not complied with the statutory requirements for claiming her reserved share.the court held that, given that her cousins to whom the real estate had been donated could not be considered “heirs-at-law”, the applicant should have claimed the reserved share of the inheritance by means of an “inventory”.10.  following a cassation appeal brought by the applicant, on 24 march 2009 the scc upheld the sofia city court’s findings in full in a final decision.
21.  as noted above, on 9 march 2012 the applicant reported the threatening letter received on 7 march 2012 to the ministry of internal affairs and the prosecutor general’s office, complaining that it was blackmail in connection with her journalistic activity, and asking the prosecution authorities to ensure her safety, to investigate the matter, and to hold those responsible for the threat and the video accountable.22.  on 15 march 2012, one week after the applicant’s formal complaint and a day after the video was posted, the prosecutor general’s office launched criminal proceedings under article 156 (breach of inviolability of private life) of the criminal code on the basis of the applicant’s request, and assigned the case to the baku city prosecutor’s office.28.  according to the applicant, during the meeting in her flat on 19 march 2012, mr n.j. admitted, in the presence of the investigators, the applicant, her lawyer and three of her friends, that in july 2011, on a day off work, saturday (either 2 or 9 july 2011), on the instructions of his supervisor, he had installed a second telephone line and connected the wires from the ats to the telephone box outside the applicant’s flat.29.  on 21 march 2012 the applicant asked the chief prosecutor’s office and the baku city prosecutor’s office to question mr n.j. then, according to her, on 3 april and 12 april 2012 she visited the baku city prosecutor’s office to get an update on the status of the investigation, but to no avail.32.  between april 2012 and august 2013, the investigator issued a series of decisions ordering expert examinations of the following items: the still images sent to the applicant and the yeni müsavat newspaper; wires found in the applicant’s flat; a disc containing the video recording published on “mustavat.tv”; the postal packaging in which the threatening letter and the still images had been sent to the applicant and the yeni müsavat newspaper; and a disc containing the video recording published on “ictimaipalatka.com”.39.  on 12 august 2013, after the publication of the second hidden video recording in july 2013 (see paragraph 20 above), the applicant lodged a complaint against the prosecuting authorities with the sabail district court under the judicial supervision procedure, noting that there had been no effective investigation for over a year, and that the prosecuting authorities had limited themselves to vague indications to the effect that the investigation was ongoing.40.  by a decision of 13 august 2013 the sabail district court refused to examine the complaint, finding that it had no competence to examine it under the judicial supervision procedure, because the matter complained of was not among the exclusive list of types of decisions and steps by the prosecuting authorities, established by articles 449.3.1 to 449.3.7 of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccrp”), that could be challenged under the judicial supervision procedure.42.  on 28 august 2013 the applicant lodged another complaint with the sabail district court under the judicial supervision procedure, with content similar to that of the previous complaint of 12 august 2013. on 30 august 2013 the sabail district court rejected the complaint, for the same reasons as in the decision of 13 august 2013. on 9 september 2013 the applicant appealed.it further noted that the investigating authorities had taken a number of investigative steps, in particular: “at the request of [the applicant], on 15 march 2012 the prosecutor general’s office opened a criminal case under article 156.1 of the criminal code and assigned the investigation to the investigation department of the baku city prosecutor’s office.thereafter, in order to discover the traces of crime and material evidence and to determine other circumstances important for the case, [the investigating authorities] conducted, with the participation of an expert, a criminalist, [the applicant], her representative and attesting witnesses, an inspection of the place of the incident, namely the flat located at ..., and owned by ..., where the applicant lived as a tenant, took relevant material evidence from the place of the incident, ordered and obtained expert reports, and made relevant inquiries and issued instructions relating to the case.” 50.  the status report then provided information about the period during which the applicant had rented the flat, as well as the identities of individuals to whom she had subsequently sublet the flat, and the financial arrangements between them.53.  the status report concluded as follows: “on 13 and 17 april 2012 [the applicant] was invited to the investigation department in connection with the necessary investigative steps, but she did not appear; she only appeared for questioning on 26 april 2012. since the beginning of the investigation, in addition to [the applicant] and her representative being summoned by the investigation, on 17 march, 3 april and 14 april 2012 the administration of the baku city prosecutor’s office received visits from her and her representative during which they heard her requests and gave specific instructions to the investigation team for full, impartial and comprehensive conduct of the investigation.” 54.  as to the information mentioned in paragraphs 50 and 52 above, according to the applicant she herself had reluctantly provided much of the above information to the investigators at the request of a prosecutor, in order to assist the investigation, expecting that the information would be kept confidential.she argued that the publication of detailed information concerning her private life in the status report of 26 april 2012 constituted an unlawful and unjustified interference with her right to respect for private life and freedom of expression, arguing that the status report was an integral part of the “slander campaign” against her, which also included the release of the “sex video” and the newspaper articles.57.  by a judgment of 27 july 2012 the sabail district court dismissed the applicant’s claims, finding that the purpose of the status report had been to counter the possibility of the public forming a negative opinion about the investigating authorities as a result of the applicant’s public complaints that the investigation was ineffective.therefore, the information in [the status report] cannot be considered damaging to the plaintiff’s reputation or her private and family life.” 58.  the court also held that the applicant had been unable to demonstrate that she had suffered any non-pecuniary damage under the provisions of the civil code and the code of civil procedure as interpreted by the plenum of the supreme court.61.  on 29 march 2013 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law and upheld the lower courts’ judgments, finding that the publication of the status report had not interfered with the applicant’s private or family life and had not been in breach of the relevant domestic legal provisions.
7.  following an expert report into the applicant’s mental condition at the time of the commission of the alleged offences, on 2 january 2014 the relevant state attorney’s office amended the indictments, arguing that he had committed the offences in a state of mental derangement caused by paranoid schizophrenia which he had been suffering from for a number of years.14.  the applicant challenged the judgment of the velika gorica county court by lodging a request for extraordinary review of a final judgment with the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske) and a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske).17.  after the criminal court’s judgment became final, on 19 march 2014 the file was forwarded to the zagreb county court (hereinafter “the county court”) as the court with competence to rule on the applicant’s involuntary placement in a psychiatric hospital under the protection of individuals with mental disorders act (see paragraphs 34 and 36 below).in the decision opening the proceedings, it noted that the applicant was represented by a legal aid lawyer, r.t. 19.  on 21 march 2014 the county court found that the applicant had not appointed a lawyer to represent him in the proceedings and, as legal representation was mandatory, it appointed him a legal aid lawyer, t.ž.21.  on 28 july 2014 the hospital asked the county court to extend the applicant’s involuntary psychiatric confinement on the grounds that the treatment had started to show positive results but had been short, so further treatment was needed.22.  upon receipt of the request, the county court opened the proceedings for the applicant’s further involuntary placement in the hospital and appointed the legal aid lawyer t.ž.24.  on 7 august 2014 the county court ordered an expert report from s.h., a psychiatrist from a different psychiatric hospital to the one in which the applicant was placed, concerning the possibility of granting the applicant therapeutic leave.25.  on 20 august 2014 f.ž., the lawyer who had represented the applicant in the criminal proceedings before the municipal court, sent a request to the hospital for information concerning the applicant’s treatment.the representative of the hospital reiterated its request for the applicant’s further psychiatric confinement (see paragraph 21 above) and the judge conducting the proceedings read out the note of her visit to the applicant (see paragraph 23 above).it referred to the judge’s meeting with the applicant (see paragraph 23 above) and noted that neither the representative of the state attorney’s office nor the applicant’s legal aid lawyer opposed the hospital’s request.28.  the applicant’s father, on behalf of the applicant, challenged the decision on his son’s further involuntary hospitalisation before a three-judge panel of the county court.29.  on 19 december 2014 a three-judge panel of zagreb county court dismissed the appeal as ill-founded on the grounds that a lawyer had been duly appointed to represent the applicant in the proceedings concerning his involuntary hospitalisation.30.  the applicant’s father then lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court, arguing that the legal aid lawyer appointed for his son in the proceedings before the county court had acted as an extended arm of the institutions rather than a lawyer protecting his interests.31.  on 3 june 2015 the constitutional court dismissed the constitutional complaint, endorsing the reasoning of the three-judge panel of the county court.33.  on 24 august 2015, following a further examination of the applicant’s situation, the county court ordered the applicant’s conditional release from the hospital.
9.  according to the applicant, in 2008 he realised that there was a difference in the respective treatment of male and female inmates with regard to the execution of custodial sentences.on the same day the prison director replied that he had no authority to allow the request, as the applicant was serving his sentence at the medium-security level of a closed prison.it referred to sections 504(1) and 505(1) of the sentence enforcement code and observed that the legislature had chosen to create different legal frameworks in respect of sentence execution for men and women.the ministry of justice concluded that there was no discrimination on the grounds of sex because the rights of both male and female inmates were restricted, and both sexes were deprived of their liberty.14.  on 25 october 2010 the ombudsperson concluded the examination of the applicant’s complaint about the refusal to allow him to attend his father’s funeral.15.  on 9 july 2008 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint, arguing that section 504(1) of the sentence enforcement code was discriminatory on the grounds of sex, in breach of article 91 of the constitution.16.  on 29 july 2008 the constitutional court, relying on section 20(6) of the law on the constitutional court, declined to institute proceedings.17.  on 7 august 2008 the applicant lodged a second constitutional complaint, adding that men and women who were convicted of serious and especially serious crimes were in the same circumstances in that they were both imprisoned.the applicant also pointed out that within the context of discrimination the burden of proof was shifted – namely, after a person had demonstrated a difference in treatment, it fell for the respondent to show that this difference had not amounted to discrimination.with respect to the first sentence of article 91 of the constitution, which addressed the principle of equality, the constitutional court pointed out that the following criteria had to be examined – the existence of comparable groups, a difference in treatment between those groups, and a lack of objective and reasonable justification for that difference in treatment.as the legal reasoning advanced by the applicant was based on the assumption that men and women who had committed similarly grave crimes were in comparable situations, the constitutional court considered this reasoning evidently insufficient for the claim to be allowed.with respect to the prohibition of discrimination enshrined in the second sentence of article 91 of the constitution, the constitutional court pointed out that the applicant had failed to specify the human right in conjunction with which the discrimination complaint had been made.in support of his discrimination-related complaint the applicant referred to the right to private life, right to family life, and freedom of expression.it noted that the application contained no reasoning as to why men and women who had been convicted of serious and especially serious crimes and given prison sentences would need to be subjected to the same rules of sentence enforcement – namely, how men and women were in comparable situations.on those grounds, the legal reasoning included in the constitutional complaint was held to be evidently insufficient for the claim to be allowed.
10.  on 30 september 2008 the criminal proceedings against the applicant were discontinued by the prosecuting authorities, because the expert tests performed on the allegedly counterfeit banknote showed that it was actually genuine.however, owing to the nature of the applicant’s complaints, the domestic court decided that the applicant had to be present at hearings.28.  at the hearing of 2 february 2011, and the further hearing on 20 may 2011, the judge interviewed several witnesses: (i) p.s., who had been serving a sentence in sremska mitrovica prison at the same time when the applicant had been there; (ii) d.ž., who had represented the applicant in the criminal proceedings and was familiar with the events in prison; and (iii) m.č., the applicant’s uncle.called the prison authorities, expressed his concern about the applicant’s treatment, and underlined that the authorities should respect the laws and regulations concerning the placement and status of detainees.the claimant, if injured at all, should have gone to see the doctor in the detention unit; he ought to have visited the doctor, who would have confirmed the injuries, or he should have said something in order to be transferred to another cell and protected.the claimant has no medical certificate concerning any injuries.” 36.  on 17 october 2012 the court of appeal in belgrade upheld the court of first instance’s decision as regards the compensation for detention, but quashed the rejection of the claim for compensation in respect of the ill‑treatment.as regards the court of first instance, the court of appeal stated the following: “[it] failed to properly evaluate the evidence in accordance with article 8 of the law on civil procedure, in accordance with which a court must decide on the facts established as proven, but on the basis of a conscientious and meticulous assessment of each particular piece [of evidence] and of all the evidence together, as well as in relation to the outcome of the whole proceedings.given that such an evaluation was not carried out in this particular case, the findings of the first-instance court that it had not been proved that the claimant had been ill-treated and molested by other cellmates during his time in detention – causing him to sustain different types of non-pecuniary loss for which the [state] could be held responsible as defined in article 172 of the obligations act (zakon o obligacionim odnosima) – cannot be accepted with any certainty.” 37.  in the reopened proceedings, the court of first instance re-examined the applicant’s first lawyer, d.ž., as well as the two expert witnesses.38.  on 10 may 2013 the court of first instance awarded the applicant 200,000 serbian dinars (rsd – approximately eur 1,900) in respect of non-pecuniary damage for the 10% loss in his general vital activity associated with the events in detention.39.  on 10 december 2013 the court of appeal in belgrade upheld the decision of the court of first instance in part and reaffirmed the findings of that court that the applicant had suffered from an acute stress disorder as a result of being detained and harassed by other inmates, which, in general, had led to his experiencing post-traumatic stress and a loss in his general vital activity.however, the court of appeal awarded the applicant an additional rsd 50,000 (approximately eur 450) for the fear arising from the events during his detention, and explained its reasoning in the following manner: “taking into account the established factual situation and all the circumstances of the present case, as well as the findings of the neuropsychiatrists, according to which the claimant suffered post-traumatic stress during and after his detention, this being, in itself, a complex reaction when a person’s physical and personal integrity is threatened, which [in this case] lasted for days and involved fear, emotional distress, a feeling of sadness, distraction and despair, and being a reaction which, by its nature, is more complex than a fear of strong intensity, the court of appeal finds that, in accordance with article 200 of the obligations act, the claimant is entitled to a just award for non-pecuniary damage for the fear he experienced.” 40.  on 18 january 2014 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal.in particular, his complaint was as follows: “the domestic courts have unlawfully and unconstitutionally rejected the claimant’s clearly justified claim for compensation in respect of the non-pecuniary damage he suffered on account of the violation of his human dignity after being placed in illegal detention, where he was molested for days by a group of prisoners as a person of croatian and albanian origin, being beaten and kicked all over his body, drenched with water, beaten with wet towels, tortured, battered, raped and thereafter shaved all over his body, which was the symbol of a raped person, and being subjected to real and serious threats that he would ‘commit suicide by hanging [himself] over the door handleʼ, or be cut with a razor blade and similar items.and all this was done with the silent approval of prison officers who knew which cell they had put the claimant in, and who knew or ought to have known about everything that happened to him.” 41.  on 9 june 2015 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s constitutional appeal.42.  about the ill-treatment he had suffered during the period of detention, the applicant also complained to the president of the republic and to the minister of justice herself.the state ombudsperson replied on 26 april 2010 that he had no jurisdiction over the work of the public prosecutor’s office or the courts, and accordingly had no jurisdiction over the case.
the prosecution’s case was that on 2 october 2007 the applicant had refused to be subjected to a body search and had waved his hands to prevent the search.the relevant part of the judgment read as follows: “the jury has established in a verdict that two injuries to mr l.’s lower lip were caused by [the applicant] with a single punch to mr l.’s face.[the applicant] had refused to strip naked and to submit his clothes to a check-up, and had asked for a copy of a decision by the head or deputy head of the facility authorising a full body search.in an attempt to prevent further beatings and to protect himself, [the applicant], while falling down, had turned and taken an aimless swing in the direction of the persons who had continued hitting him.” 11.  on 18 november 2008 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the judgment on appeal.12.  after the acquittal had become final, the applicant lodged a complaint with the prosecutor’s office of the chelyabinsk region, providing his version of the events of 2 october 2007 and complaining of ill‑treatment.13.  on 28 january 2009 the investigative department of the metallurgicheskiy district of chelyabinsk opened a criminal investigation into the events of 2 october 2007 on charges of abuse of power committed with violence.16.  on 22 december 2009 the criminal proceedings against the prison warders were discontinued and the investigation was suspended for failure to identify the alleged perpetrators.the investigators had questioned the warders b. and l. mentioned in the acquittal judgment of 2 september 2008, who had testified that they had indeed administered up to six truncheon blows to the applicant’s buttocks because he had refused to go through a body search and had hit warder l. in the face.the investigator analysed the depositions of warders and other witnesses, and the findings of the medical examination of 2 october 2007, and concluded that the applicant had not obeyed the warders’ lawful orders and had been aggressive.19.  on 14 november 2013 the prosecutor’s office of the chelyabinsk region quashed the decision of 19 november 2012 and reopened the investigation.21.  the applicant’s representative challenged the decision of 28 september 2009, arguing that the jury verdict of 2 september 2008 had already identified the assailants and that there had therefore been no reason to adjourn the proceedings.22.  on 10 february 2011 the metallurgicheskiy district court of chelyabinsk dismissed the complaint, having found as follows: “as follows from the case-file materials, on 28 september 2009 a senior investigator of the investigative department, mr v., refused to open a criminal case against officers of [medical colony no.in those circumstances, the decision by which the criminal proceedings were adjourned is lawful and well-founded; there are no grounds to consider it unlawful.” 23.  on 9 april 2012 the chelyabinsk regional court quashed that decision on appeal and remitted the case for re-examination.(b)  challenging of the investigator’s decision of 22 december 2009 and other decisions 25.  on an unspecified date the applicant asked the court to declare unlawful the investigator’s decisions of 28 september 2008, 11 november 2008, 22 december 2009 and an opinion of 12 october 2009 justifying suspension of the investigation.29.  the applicant brought a civil action against the prosecutor’s office of the chelyabinsk region, the treasury and the ministry of finance, seeking compensation for non-pecuniary damage caused by the unlawful institution of criminal proceedings.
it was designed to transport a maximum of seven prisoners, but police major v., who was in charge of the transfer, took the decision to take all nine prisoners at once to save fuel.driver g. and major v. were seated in the front, and officers k. and d. were riding in the rear part of the cabin next to the prisoner cells.as the applicant was a former law-enforcement officer, the transfer regulations required that he should be separated from the other detainees.kicked out the door of the large cell and attacked the convoy officers.12.  major v. came running to the back of the van and opened the door.14.  in december 2013 the applicant complained to a prosecutor that he had been injured as a consequence of the grossly negligent actions of convoy officers who had breached the transfer regulations.he found no indications of gross negligence arising from the decision to transport two prisoners in excess of the van’s design capacity and that not putting the applicant in a cell had been motivated by “considerations of budgetary austerity and saving money allocated for the purchase of fuel”.16.  on 4 december 2014 a deputy prosecutor of the kirovskiy district in ufa rejected the applicant’s complaint against the investigator’s decision.17.  on 30 april 2015 the kirovskiy district court in ufa upheld the investigator’s decision as lawful, noting that it had been within his competence to issue such a decision, and that the decision contained no defects of form.18.  on 14 september 2015 the acting head of the regional division of the investigations committee ordered an additional “pre‑investigation inquiry” into whether an offence of negligence causing grievous bodily harm had been committed.ten days later the investigator refused to institute criminal proceedings: “... it does not appear possible to establish with certainty that the bullet which hit [the applicant] was shot from the handgun of officer v., rather than from [the handgun of] officer d., while it was in the possession of prisoner mu.besides, under article [41] of the criminal code, causing damage to interests protected by criminal law is not a criminal offence if the act causing such damage was based on a reasonable risk assessment and sought to achieve a socially useful objective, such as preventing an attempted escape in the instant case.” 19.  on 8 february 2016 the deputy head of the regional division upheld the investigator’s decision refusing to institute criminal proceedings.20.  on 5 may 2016 the supervising deputy prosecutor of the bashkortostan republic set the decision aside and ordered a forensic assessment of the applicant’s injury.on 6 june 2016 the investigator with the central investigations department in ufa again refused to institute criminal proceedings, noting that the applicant’s medical record could not be located.it had been sent to the facility where he was serving his sentence and that facility had not responded to the investigator’s request for a copy.
12.  eventually the owners became aware that the occupants were also occupying a portion of an adjacent property (a room previously used as an office), also owned by the applicants in the above‑mentioned shares, and which was not covered by the requisition order.20.  the relevant permit to make structural alterations was issued by the malta environment and planning authority (mepa) on 16 april 2007. in the applicants’ view these structural changes affected the character of the property as well as its value.1 to the convention, and requested that the requisition order be annulled, that the property be returned to them and that compensation be awarded for any damage suffered as a result of the occupation of the premises and the breach of their right to property.22.  pending proceedings, on 11 february 2010, the property was derequisitioned; however the government admitted that although the property had been abandoned by the occupants the government had not recovered the keys.on 8 april 2010 the government offered the owners eur 4,507.30 as rent for the occupation of the premises from 9 april 1986 until 11 february 2010. the owners refused the offer which they considered was too low compared to the rental value of the property and the long number of years during which it had been occupied by third parties.1 and, being unable to annul the requisition order ‑ it having come to an end pending the proceedings ‑ it ordered the defendants to return the property, free and unencumbered, to the owners.24.  the court considered that while the requisition order had been lawful and pursued a legitimate aim, it had failed to strike a fair balance for the purposes of the invoked provision.in establishing compensation, the court had regard to the rental value submitted by the owners’ expert [in a report of 2007] of mtl 250 (approximately eur 582) a month, in other words mtl 3,000 (approximately eur 6,988) yearly, which however included a room which was not subject to the requisition order and thus its rental value had to be deducted.it noted that had the property not been requisitioned, according to chapter 158 of the laws of malta, rent would have increased every fifteen years according to the index of inflation (but never amounting to double the original rent).25.  the government appealed in so far as they had been forced to return the premises (over which they no longer had control) and the owners cross‑appealed in connection with the award of compensation.indeed the award of eur 7,535 reflected the sums that the owners would have been entitled to as rent for the premises according to the provisions of chapter 158 of the laws of malta, and thus it was not an award in compensation for the violation of their property rights, nor did it reflect an award for the occupation of the premises at undervalued rents.bearing in mind the social aim pursued by the measure and the fact that the rent paid had been in accordance with the law, as well as the fact that the measure persisted for twenty-four years during which the owners received a low rent compared to its market value, it awarded non-pecuniary damage of eur 5,000 to be added to the pecuniary damage already awarded.thus, in total it awarded compensation of eur 12,535 covering both pecuniary and non‑pecuniary damage, without prejudice to any claims the owners may have for material damage caused to the property, and it ordered that the costs of the proceedings at both instances be split equally between the contending parties.they considered that the government’s lack of regard towards the situation had contributed to the degeneration of the property and that a considerable expense would have to be incurred and relevant permits obtained to reinstate the building for habitation.according to the same report the sale market value of the property with vacant possession, as it stood, was eur 145,000 and the market value upon completion of works would be eur 175,000. the estimated rental value of the property (in an unspecified state) in 2014 was eur 665 a month (eur 7,980 a year).
the property was allocated to mr and ms a. at the request of the housing authority, on 26 march 1997, the emphyteutical grant in favour of mr and ms e. was transferred to mr and ms a.9.  the contract of emphyteusis expired in 2007. however, given article 12a, of the housing (decontrol) ordinance, chapter 158 of the laws of malta (see relevant domestic law), which provided for the automatic conversion of the emphyteusis into a lease, mr and ms a. continued to occupy the property by title of lease.it confirmed that the applicants were the legitimate owners of the property, it declared the requisition order null and void, and ordered the release of the premises with vacant possession in favour of the applicants, as well as the eviction of mr and ms a. from the property within one month.a balance had not been struck between the interests of the applicants (as owners of the property) and the interests of the public especially since the property lay abandoned.14.  the court‑appointed architect estimated that it would require 25,000 maltese liri (mtl) (equivalent to eur 58,234) to make the property habitable again and he estimated the property’s sale value on the market (in 2010) to be eur 139,800 and its rental value (for the same year) to be eur 4,893 annually.furthermore, the constitutional court reduced the compensation due as non‑pecuniary damages from eur 50,000 to eur 12,000. one‑fifth of the costs of the appeal were to be borne by the applicants.17.  the constitutional court confirmed that the applicants had proved ownership of the property and noted that as a result of the requisition order the applicants’ father lost possession of the property and had no means of regaining possession as long as the requisition order remained in force.18.  in the light of these circumstances, the constitutional court considered that the requisition order was putting a disproportionate and excessive burden on the applicants, who, moreover, were precluded from taking judicial action before the ordinary courts against mr and ms a., with the aim of protecting their interests.19.  as to redress, the constitutional court observed that the first‑instance court had awarded compensation in the light of the court‑appointed architect’s valuations of the property and the expenses required to rehabilitate the property.once the requisition order was annulled (by means of a judicial review procedure), the applicants had other remedies to deal with both the eviction of mr and ms a. and the award of material damages before the ordinary courts.in relation to practical measures, the constitutional court considered that since the applicants still had a remedy under article 469a, by means of which they could attack the requisition order before the ordinary courts, it was not for it to annul the requisition order.however, up to the date of the lodging of the application, the property still had not been returned to the applicants.21.  on 31 october 2014, the applicants wrote to the housing authority requesting that a declaration be made on whether the premises were vacant and requesting the housing authority to prepare a condition report detailing the state of the premises at the end of the requisition period.the applicants refused to withdraw the keys in the absence of the drawing up of a condition report in the presence of the authorities since ‑ as had already transpired in the domestic proceedings ‑ the property had suffered huge damage while subject to the requisition order.the applicants thus wanted a condition report to be drawn up, in the presence of the authority, to enable them to obtain compensation for the damage incurred which was the responsibility of the state in line with article 5 of the housing act (see relevant domestic law below).
4.  the applicant, who was born in 1972, lives in i̇zmir.5.  on 29 november 2004 the applicant was taken into police custody on suspicion of membership of a terrorist organisation.6.  on 3 december 2004 the applicant was brought before the judge at the istanbul assize court who placed him in detention on remand taking into consideration the nature of the offence, the state of evidence and the risk of absconding.7.  on 7 december 2004 the istanbul public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul assize court, charging the applicant with membership of a terrorist organisation.8.  on 14 march 2006 the istanbul assize court convicted the applicant as charged and sentenced him to six years and three months’ imprisonment.the court ordered the continuation of his detention.9.  on 24 january 2007 the court of cassation quashed the judgment on procedural grounds.the case was accordingly remitted to the istanbul assize court.10.  on 19 july 2007 the 10th chamber of the istanbul assize court held a further hearing, in which both the applicant and his lawyer were present.at the end of that hearing, the court ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention.11.  on 25 july 2007 the applicant’s lawyer filed an objection against the decision of 19 july 2007. on 7 august 2007 the 11th chamber of the istanbul assize court dismissed this objection without holding a hearing.in delivering its decision, the court took into consideration the written opinion of the public prosecutor, which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative.12.  on 6 november 2007 the istanbul assize court once more convicted the applicant and sentenced him to six years and three months’ imprisonment and ordered his release.13.  on 30 january 2012 the court of cassation upheld this decision.
5.  at the time of the events giving rise to the present application, the applicant worked as a cashier in the main office of a bank.after having counted the money from four bags she went to the toilet and, upon her return, she heard one of her colleagues saying that one of the uncounted bags lacked its seal.the colleague who found the bag without a seal was instructed by her superior to count the money in the bag.10.  on 5 october 2015 the applicant was charged with the offence of theft in the amount of eur 47,000. it was alleged that, together with other employees of the bank, she had stolen the aforementioned amount of money from the bag in question.11.  on the same date, namely on 5 october 2015, the prosecutor in charge of the case applied to the buiucani district court for the applicant’s remand in custody for a period of thirty days.12.  on 5 october 2015 the buiucani district court found that the prosecutor in charge of the case did not specify in his application the reasons giving rise to the suspicion that the applicant might have committed an offence.nevertheless, the court noted that during the hearing the prosecutor had indicated that the other co-accused had stated that the money could have been stolen by the applicant because she had taken bags from the stack of bags in which the unsealed bag had been found and she had had a suspicious behaviour.moreover, the security camera in the room was turned away from the place where the applicant was sit.the court considered that the risk of reoffending had also not been proven by the prosecutor which would warrant placing the applicant in detention.13.  the applicant appealed against the above decision and argued that the measure of house arrest was unnecessary because even the court of first instance had found that the reasons adduced by the prosecutor had not been convincing.the court considered that there was a risk of absconding, interference with the investigation and collusion with the other co-accused persons.the court observed that unjustified manifestations of clemency would encourage anti‑social behaviour of the sort and would affect the peoples’ trust in the law enforcement organs and that the measure of pre-trial detention was called to punish and discourage anti-social behaviour.as to the reasonable suspicion that the applicant had committed the offence imputed to her, the court noted that the applicant had not contested its presence.the court found that there were no reasons to believe that the applicant would abscond, hinder the investigation or reoffend.17.  it appears that the criminal investigation into the circumstances of the alleged theft of 18 september 2015 is pending to date.
5.  the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in lipetsk.6.  on 18 september 2007 the applicant signed a private contract for the purchase of a flat in lipetsk.the seller was ms e.m.t., acting on behalf of herself and her daughter maria, a minor.the contract stipulated that the property was not “mortgaged, encumbered by any claims of third parties, disputed or charged”.7.  the flat in question had been allocated as social housing to ms e.m.t.mikhail and dmitriy were given long prison sentences in 1998 and 2004 respectively and were still serving them at the material time.in 2006, ms e.m.t and maria became the sole owners of the property by way of privatisation, while mr v.a.v., mikhail, dmitry and yelena declined in writing to exercise their right to obtain their shares of the privatised flat.delayed submitting the contract for state registration, the applicant sought a court order upholding her full title to the property.she submitted that she was unable to move out because the purchase of the new flat for herself and her daughter maria had not yet been finalised.failed to appear in court, on 2 april 2008 the oktyabrskiy district court in lipetsk struck out the counterclaim and granted the applicant relief in the form of an order compelling state registration of her full title to the property.9.  the applicant then sued the former owner ms e.m.t.and members of her family, seeking termination of their right to use the flat, annulment of the registration of their residence at that address, and their eviction.and maria, as they were no longer owners of the property, but dismissed the claim in respect of yelena, mikhail and dmitriy on the following grounds: “according to the parties, the contested property contains personal belongings and chattels of the defendants [mikhail, dmitriy and yelena]; it appears from their written statements that, in declining their shares of the contested property during its privatisation, they did not intend to stop using the flat.since there was no arrangement between the owner of the contested property and the defendants regarding the discontinuation of the right to use the property, the court considers that [mikhail, dmitriy and yelena] had a right of use over the flat which was identical [in its scope] to that of the owner; accordingly, there are no legal grounds for allowing [the applicant’s] claim to declare their right of use over the flat terminated.a change in ownership of the contested property cannot serve as an independent ground for terminating [their] right to use the flat ... the plaintiff’s argument to the effect that [mikhail, dmitriy and yelena] do not actually live in the contested property cannot serve as an independent ground for terminating [their] right of use over the flat ... since the defendants’ right of use over the flat is not terminated, there are no grounds for ordering their eviction ...” 11.  on 27 may 2009 the lipetsk regional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal, endorsing the district court’s judgment.
7.  on 29 january 2013, the professional holiday of prosecutors in moldova, the applicant conducted a one person demonstration in front of the prosecutor general’s office.according to him, the aim of the protest was to draw public attention to the corruption and the control exercised by politicians over the prosecutor general’s office.the applicant also inflated balloons in the form of male genitals and attached them to the nearby trees.8.  the demonstration was observed from the beginning by several police officers and numerous journalists approached to interview the applicant.the criminal investigation was conducted by a department of the prosecutor general’s office whose head’s picture had been attached to the sculpture of the vulva.in deciding on the sanction to be applied, the court took into consideration the fact that the applicant had previously been sanctioned with fines for similar deeds and that those sanctions had proved to be inefficient.the court based its findings on the statements of several prosecution witnesses who had stated that they had disliked the sculptures exposed by the applicant and had considered them to be indecent and obscene.the court also stated that assimilating public officials with genitals went beyond the acceptable limits of criticism in a democratic society and was therefore not an act protected under article 10 of the convention.moreover, the accusations meant to be made by the applicant by means of his protest against the officials concerned lacked a factual basis and had been contrary to the principle of presumption of innocence.11.  the applicant appealed against the above decision arguing, inter alia, that it ran contrary to his rights guaranteed by articles 10 and 11 of the convention.13.  the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law with the supreme court of justice in which he reiterated his position that his conviction had been contrary to the provisions of the convention and stated that the sculptures had represented a form of artistic expression which was to be protected under article 10 of the convention.the applicant admitted that the form of the protest chosen by him had been striking, however he considered this manner of protesting as the only way possible to make himself heard in a society which was oversaturated with subjects of discussion.the applicant finally submitted that the sanction applied to him had been disproportionately harsh and that it had had a chilling effect on him.he pointed to the fact that the first-instance court had admitted to having pursued the goal of discouraging his future involvement in protests.14.  on 20 april 2016 the supreme court of justice dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law and upheld the judgments of the lower courts.
6.  on 26 january 2004 the applicant obtained from the state a deed of title to an agricultural plot of land (an official land registry title) based on a decree issued by the varvynska local administration on 22 december 2003. this amounted to the official registration of her title to the land in accordance with the domestic procedures.7.  on 26 july 2004 the local administration concluded a lease agreement with the private company b., according to which the company would rent the applicant’s land and pay the rent to the local administration.in this connection, on 19 october 2004, the local administration ordered the termination of the lease agreement with company b. and authorised the applicant to carry out work to mark out of the boundaries of her land.10.  on 20 january 2006 the applicant lodged a civil claim with the domestic courts against the local administration and company b. claiming that the lease agreement of 26 july 2004 infringed her property rights and should have been declared invalid, she sought compensation for the use of the land by company b. she argued that the amount of compensation to be paid to her should correspond to the value of the crop that had been harvested from her land.in particular, the court found that once the applicant had received a title to the plot of land in question, the local administration should not have concluded any agreement concerning the land with other parties.as to the boundaries, the court found that the local administration had unlawfully linked their establishment with the existence of the applicant’s ownership rights.it also noted that despite the fact that the boundaries had not been marked out, the local administration should have learned about the applicant’s title to the land in question from the land registry and local land plans.the court added that after lodging her request on 4 october 2004 for the boundaries of the plot to be marked out, the applicant had tried to accelerate the process by applying to the local administration and other authorities, to no avail.the court also held that under domestic law the applicant was entitled to compensation for the use of her property equal to the value of the crops taken from her land (29,210 ukrainian hryvnas (uah); 4,493 euros (eur) at the material time).the compensation, in the court’s view, should have been paid to the applicant both by the local administration and by company b., as they were jointly and severally liable for the unauthorised use of the applicant’s land.the court noted that the use of the applicant’s land by company b. had been lawful since it had been based on the lease agreement.the court further stressed that under article 125 of the land code of ukraine, the right of the owner of a plot of land to use it arose only once its boundaries had been marked out and after receipt by the owner of the document certifying that right.the appellate court concluded that the applicant was not entitled to compensation as the boundaries of her land had been marked out only in july 2005; as she could not have used the land before that date, she could not claim an interest in the harvested crop.14.  on an unspecified date the applicant lodged another civil claim against company b., claiming the value of the land that had been used by b., as well as rental charges for the use of her land.on 7 june 2006 the varva local court of chernigiv region left this claim unexamined because of the applicant’s attitude, citing the fact that she had been absent from the court hearings in her case on numerous occasions without good reason.
5.  at the time of the events it had a valid air operator certificate (an “aoc”) issued by the moldovan civil aviation state authority (the “casa”).the european union safety committee also found that some aviation companies did not comply with the rule according to which the companies have to have their principal place of business in the state of registration.one of the conclusions set down in the visit report drawn up by the european union safety committee was that the casa failed to demonstrate the ability adequately to enforce and implement the relevant safety standards.according to the report, the casa had undertaken to remedy the situation within three months.2584 and asked it to present by 21 june 2007 a plan for remedying the irregularities found by the eu safety committee.the corresponding plan was sent by the applicant company to the casa on 21 june 2007.9.  also on 18 june 2007 the casa sent the applicant company aviation instruction no.the casa relied on the fact that the applicant company flew to destinations such as iraq, afghanistan, congo, sudan, sierra leone, kosovo, new zealand and united arab emirates.11.  on 22 june 2007 the applicant company wrote to the casa and asked it to reverse its decision on the grounds that it had not explained exactly what irregularities formed the basis for the withdrawal of the aocs and that the casa had not afforded it enough time to remedy the alleged irregularities.12.  the casa refused to reverse its decision, and on 28 june 2007 the applicant company challenged it in the chişinău court of appeal.the applicant submitted, inter alia, that according to section 23 of the law on civil aviation, the casa was entitled to suspend or withdraw the aocs only if the companies failed to remedy the irregularities found by the casa within the prescribed time-limit.it also made reference to section rac‑aoc 0170 from the regulations in the field of civil aviation according to which an aoc could be revoked only after being initially suspended.13.  on 3 december 2008 the chişinău court of appeal rejected the applicant company’s action, finding that the casa had been entitled to withdraw its aoc because serious irregularities threatening the safety of the flights had been found by european experts, and because those irregularities had not been remedied.the court also found that the applicant company had failed to comply with the casa’s order of 1 june 2007 prohibiting flights to iraq and afghanistan as of 15 july 2007. the applicant companies challenged the decision before the supreme court of justice.14.  on 29 april 2009 the supreme court of justice dismissed the appeal and upheld the judgment of the court of appeal after finding that the casa was entitled to revoke the aoc since the applicant company had failed to comply with its instructions concerning the ban on all flights of aircraft registered in moldova to iraq and afghanistan, with effect from 15 july 2007.
4.  on 4 september 2000 the president of russia appointed ms g. to the office of judge of the syktyvkar town court for a period of three years.5.  on 21 may 2004 the state council of the komi republic appointed ms g. to the office of justice of the peace of lesozavodskiy judicial district of syktyvkar for three years.7.  on 19 november 2009 the acting president of the supreme court of the komi republic appointed ms g. as acting justice of the peace for kutuzovskiy district in syktyvkar as of 23 november 2009 pending the appointment of a permanent justice.8.  on 8 april 2010 the acting president of the supreme court of the komi republic appointed ms g. to the office of justice of the peace in vylgort as of 16 april 2010 for a period of one year.10.  on 4 and 22 june and 6 july 2010 justice of the peace g. found the applicant guilty on seven counts of road traffic offences and sentenced him to administrative detention and a fine.11.  on an unspecified date the applicant appealed against the five judgments of 4 june 2010, arguing, inter alia, that the justice of the peace who had considered his cases had been appointed to the office in contravention of the applicable laws.the district court discerned no irregularities as regards the appointment of ms g. to the office of justice of the peace.13.  the applicant did not appeal against the judgments of 22 june and 6 july 2010 in view of the futility of his previous appeals.15.  the applicant appealed, arguing, inter alia, that the justice of the peace who had considered her case had been appointed to the office in contravention of the applicable laws.the town court discerned no irregularities as regards the appointment of ms g. to the office of justice of the peace.19.   on an unspecified date the applicant appealed against the two judgments, arguing, inter alia, that the justice of the peace who had considered his cases had been appointed to the office in contravention of the applicable laws.the district court discerned no irregularities as regards the appointment of ms g. to the office of justice of the peace.23.  on 26 august 2010 the president of the supreme court of the komi republic appointed ms ch.the court discerned no irregularity as regards ms ch.’s appointment to the office of justice of the peace.the court discerned no irregularity as regards ms ch.’s appointment to the office of justice of the peace.
in batumi on suspicion of possession of illegal drugs, by members of the special operations unit (სოდის სამმართველო) of the ministry of internal affairs (“the mia”).a note was made to the effect that the applicant could not remember in what circumstances he had sustained those injuries and that he had no complaints about the arresting officers.9.  on the same night the applicant’s lawyer called the hotline of the office of the prosecutor general of georgia, complaining that the applicant had been ill-treated.on the same date the investigator dealing with the case ordered a forensic examination of the applicant.having visually examined the applicant, the medical expert concluded on 10 september 2008 that the applicant had multiple scratches and bruises all over his body and face, as well as black eyes and a fracture of the right maxillary sinus.he noted that the injuries could have been sustained on 2 september 2008 by the impact of a hard blunt object, and cumulatively belonged to the category of less serious bodily injuries causing long-lasting damage to health.he maintained his allegations of ill treatment, claiming that he had been beaten during the arrest as well as after he was transferred to the special operations unit at the mia.they both confirmed that the applicant had had multiple injuries when he had arrived at the detention centre, and that in reply to their question he had claimed that he had sustained those injuries during the arrest.in the meantime, on 15 november 2008, the applicant’s lawyer lodged a complaint with the general prosecutor’s office denouncing the investigation as ineffective.he complained about the fact that no identification parade had been carried out: this would have allowed the applicant to identify the police officers who had ill-treated him during the arrest.he also noted that he had requested footage from the video surveillance cameras in the street where the arrest operation had taken place, but that his request had received no response.by a letter of 15 january 2009 the prosecutor dealing with the case informed the applicant’s lawyer that the investigation was still pending, and that in view of the conflicting evidence it was impossible to establish whether the force used against the applicant during the arrest had been proportionate or not.the applicant’s lawyer was also informed that the surveillance cameras in question had not been working on the day of the applicant’s arrest, so no video recording could have been obtained.12.  according to the government, at the time they submitted their observations the investigation of the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment was still pending.13.  according to the bill of indictment, the applicant was charged with various drug offences under article 260 § 3 (a) and article 273 of the criminal code.
in a decision of 7 june 2011 the ministry of the interior allowed that application, registering the applicant under a clearly male forename (the applicant also changed his surname).however, the sex/gender marker and numerical personal code (composed of ten digits, some of which indicate the person’s sex) remained the same, identifying the applicant as a female.in support of his application he submitted copies of a medical report by a surgeon at the specialist clinic in belgrade (see paragraph 7 above) and referred to the paper entitled “human rights and gender identity” of october 2009 issued by the commissioner for human rights of the council of europe (see paragraph 34 below) and the yogyakarta principles on the application of international human rights law in relation to sexual orientation and gender identity.10.  in a decision of the same date, the civil status registry (“the registry”) – a body within the ministry of justice (“the ministry”) ‑ dismissed the applicant’s application, stating that “no certificate [has been] issued by a competent authority [attesting to the fact] that [the applicant’s] sex [had] been changed, the application having been corroborated only with a certificate that gender reassignment surgery [was] in preparation, which cannot be regarded as proof that it [would] take place.” 11.  the applicant appealed to the ministry, alleging that there was no statutory provision that regulated the matter in hand.in a decision of 17 october 2011 the ministry dismissed the appeal, finding that the impugned decision had been based on section 23 of the civil status registration act (закон за матичната евиденција) (“the act”; under the 2016 amendment this provision became section 22(2) – see paragraph 25 below) and that the evidence produced had not been “sufficient and relevant” in respect of the alteration (промена) sought.12.  in november 2011 the applicant challenged the refusal of the lower administrative authorities to modify his sex/gender marker on the birth certificate before the administrative court.since the applicant’s request had not been in the case file, the court could not ascertain whether the applicant had sought the rectification or alteration of the sex/gender marker only or also of the personal code, the latter having not been addressed in the impugned decision.in this connection it held that section 23 of the civil status registration act did not specify any requirement to have the sex/gender marker changed; it only contained an instruction to administrative authorities regarding the evidence to be adduced and assessed in such proceedings.although there is no statutory regulation ... and the second genital surgery has not been carried out, [the experts] consider that [the applicant] should be provided with a document attesting to his new sex ...” 16.  the registry also requested that the ministry of health specify the nature of the certificate and the authority competent to attest to the change of the applicant’s sex.in reply, the ministry of health stated that the sex alteration procedure was not specified in health-related regulations and suggested that evidence regarding prior medical intervention in respect of the applicant should be taken into consideration.17.  on 29 december 2014 the registry, referring to section 23 of the act, dismissed the applicant’s request for the alteration of the sex/gender marker on the birth register, holding that despite its requests to competent authorities it had not obtained “evidence of an actual change of sex (не прибави доказ со кој ќе утврди фактичка состојба која укажува на промена на полот)”.on 16 october 2015 the ministry dismissed the appeal and upheld the decision of the registry.19.  on 11 november 2015 the applicant challenged the latter decision before the administrative court, arguing that section 23 of the act did not specify any requirement for an alteration of the sex/gender marker in civil ‑ status documents.21.  on 28 february 2018 the registry rejected (отфрла) the applicant’s application for lack of jurisdiction (ненадлежност), holding that it did not concern the rectification of an error in an entry, but the alteration of the sex/gender marker in the civil status register.22.  the applicant submitted several reports from 2012 and 2016 in which psychologists had found that the protracted procedure in respect of seeking legal recognition of the applicant’s gender identity was having negative consequences on his psychosocial and mental health and everyday life.
on the next day, the applicant was arrested on suspicion of the armed robbery of the taxi driver.7.  on 7 december 2007 the applicant’s lawyer wrote to the investigator in charge of the case requesting that he question twelve persons who could confirm the applicant’s alibi.as for the remaining potential witnesses, according to the investigator, they had not been with the applicant at the time of commission of the offence in question.8.  the trial opened on 22 april 2008. in the absence of the applicant’s lawyer, who had failed to appear for the hearing, the trial judge decided to adjourn it.9.  on 5 may 2008 the applicant’s lawyer filed a written request with the trial judge complaining that the pre-trial investigation into the circumstances of the armed robbery of the taxi driver had been incomplete and one-sided.she noted that the applicant’s alibi should have been verified and she requested, in that connection, on the basis of article 468 of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccp”), that seven witnesses be questioned.10.  the next day, at the hearing of 6 may 2008, the prosecutor asked the trial judge to dismiss the defence’s application as out of time.having heard the parties, the trial judge rejected the request of the defence on the basis that it did not comply with article 475 of the ccp.the applicant’s conviction was based on the evidence given in court by the taxi driver, the investigator in charge of the case, the results of the identity parade and the results of two forensic examinations.the second expert examination was an odour recognition examination which established that the samples of the odour trace taken from the taxi corresponded with the odour sample taken from the applicant.the court also relied on the report on the examination of the crime scene, and the reports on the arrest and the searches of the applicant’s person and his apartment.he alleged that the pre-trial investigation and the first-instance court proceedings had been unfair, in violation of article 6 §§ 1 and 3 (d) of the convention; and specifically that his defence rights had been violated as he had been prevented from showing his innocence by proving his alibi before the court, and in that connection had not been allowed to examine witnesses on his behalf.the appeal court rejected the applicant’s request for the examination of defence witnesses, concluding that it had not been submitted as required by articles 231 and 475 § 4 of the ccp (as cited in paragraph 17 below).the court concluded that the applicant’s guilt had been proven on the grounds of the statement of the taxi driver, the statement of the investigator, the report on the identification parade, the report on the applicant’s arrest and the search of his person, the report on the search of the applicant’s apartment, and the forensic conclusions, among other grounds.as for the applicant’s version of the events, the court concluded that it had been fabricated with the sole purpose of evading criminal liability.
he also submitted that the relatives of the abducted persons had followed the abductors and had found the special pass issued by the commander of the united group alignment forces.46.  later in the morning the applicants and their relatives went to the gudermes district department of the interior (“the rovd”), where many people were waiting for the release of relatives who had been detained on the same day under similar circumstances.65.  on 30 october 2009 the deputy district prosecutor again criticised the investigators, noting that their failure to carry out confrontations between witnesses, to establish the persons allegedly detained with mr askhab soltagirayev in the rovd, or to check whether former servicemen from the “vostok” battalion of the russian ministry of defence had been involved in the abduction.from a conversation he had overheard between the servicemen and from the noise of nearby helicopters mr a.d. understood that he was being detained at the khankala military base, the headquarters of the federal military forces located in the suburbs of grozny.he complained to the chechen prosecutor’s office, the president of chechnya, the russian prosecutor general, the russian ministry of the interior, and the russian president on 21 june, 15 july, 4 and 9 august 2003 and 15 january 2004 respectively.112.  on 10 march 2002 the argun department of the ministry of the interior (the argun town police) provided the investigators with a statement that between 7 and 10 october 2001 a special sweeping-up operation had been conducted in the town.121.  in november 2010 the investigators questioned several witnesses to the events, who mainly confirmed the account of the events submitted by the applicants, and examined the crime scene.127.  at about 1 a.m. on 20 april 2002 about fifteen servicemen in camouflage uniforms and balaclavas armed with machine guns broke into the applicants’ house in the village of mesker, ordered the men to go out to the courtyard and locked the women and children in the house.136.  on 19 july 2003 the department of the federal security service of the chechen republic (“the chechen fsb”) in the shali district of chechnya confirmed at the investigators’ request that the third and fourth applicants had been arrested between 10.20 p.m. and 11.05 p.m. on 20 april 2002. the arrest had been carried out by major k., who had left the chechen republic and could therefore not be questioned.142.  on 18 may 2010 the investigators replied that the criminal case had been transferred to the main investigations directorate of the investigative committee of the russian federation in the south federal circuit and that the applicants would be able to access the file once it had been returned.on 7 june 2010 the investigators asked the chechen fsb to send them a copy of the criminal case file related to the arrest of the third and fourth applicants on 20 april 2002. on 24 july 2010 the fsb replied that the case file had been sent to the chechnya prosecutor in 2003. the investigators searched for that file in the archives, but to no avail.the head of the department, mr b., informed them that their relative had been detained by officers from the regional department of the fight against organised crime of the chechnya ministry of the interior (региональное управление по борьбе с организованной преступностью министерства внутренних дел чеченской республики – “the rubop”).179.  between 2003 and 2007 the second applicant lodged a number of requests with various authorities for them to assist in the investigation and in the search for her son: on 16 july 2003 she contacted the chechnya prosecutor; on 16 february 2004 she contacted the russian president; on 24 january 2005 she contacted the chechen president; on 29 june 2005 she contacted the russian state duma; on 3 february 2006 she contacted the chechen president and the chechen government; and on 3 august 2007 she contacted the achkhoy-martan prosecutor.three days later the investigators questioned (i) mr moltayev’s neighbour, who had witnessed the abduction and who confirmed the account of the events submitted by the applicants, and (ii) the second applicant, who repeated the statements that she had previously given.according to the copies of their statements furnished by the government, the road police officers confirmed the passage of two apcs on the night of the abduction.
4.  the first applicant was born in 1973 and lives in horná kráľová.the second applicant was born in 1980 and lives in nitra.5.  on 14 march 2014 a judge of the nitra district court remanded the applicants in detention pending trial on the charge of continuous criminal offence of insurance fraud.this followed their arrest on 11 march 2014.6.  with respect to the first applicant, the district court decided that there were reasons to suspect that he would influence witnesses, reoffend and continue to make illegal financial gains.with respect to the second applicant, the district court concluded that there was a reason to suspect that he would interfere with witnesses and his co-accused to influence the evidence they would give.7.  on 21 march 2014 both applicants lodged an interlocutory appeal, arguing that no specific factual elements had been relied on in the district court’s decision to justify their pre-trial detention.8.  on 1 april 2014 the nitra regional court dismissed the applicants’ interlocutory appeals, referring to the findings of the district court.9.  on 24 april 2014 the applicants lodged a constitutional complaint alleging that the decisions on their detention lacked specific reasons justifying their pre-trial detention.10.  the constitutional court joined their complaints and on 24 september 2014 found a violation of their rights under article 5 §§ 1 and 4 of the convention.it quashed the relevant part of the decision of the regional court and awarded each of the applicants eur 1,000 as just satisfaction in addition to their legal costs and expenses in the amount of eur 284. the constitutional court noted that where the ordinary courts used only formal and standard phrases in their decisions on detention (as was the case with the applicants), suspicion arose as to whether they had looked properly at the specific circumstances at hand.it concluded that even though the ordinary courts had referred to some specific facts, which allegedly justified the applicants’ detention, they had failed to explain them in their decisions.furthermore, the regional court had not dealt with some of the applicants’ core arguments and thus had not remedied the shortcomings of the district court’s decision.in view of the above, the constitutional court concluded that the applicants’ pre-trial detention had been based on an arbitrary decision lacking proper and sufficient reasoning.11.  in the meantime, on 30 may 2014 the applicants had been released and placed under supervised probation.
5.  the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in costesti.6.  on 16 july 2008 the ialoveni district court found the applicant guilty of disrespectful conduct towards a police officer and sentenced him to five days’ administrative arrest.the applicant appealed.7.  on 12 august 2008 the chișinău court of appeal quashed the above‑mentioned judgment and returned the case for a re‑examination on the merits.8.  on 11 february 2009 the ialoveni district court discontinued the proceedings against the applicant as a result of the expiry of the time-limit for applying an administrative sanction.meanwhile, the applicant had already served his sentence.the applicant appealed.9.  on 13 march 2009 the chișinău court of appeal quashed the judgment of the district court and discontinued the administrative proceedings in respect of the applicant for lack of corpus delicti.10.  the applicant brought an action under law no.1545 seeking 300,000 moldovan lei (mdl) (the equivalent of 18,750 euros (eur)) in compensation for non-pecuniary damage.on 11 may 2011 the supreme court of justice concluded that the applicant’s administrative arrest had been unlawful and thus awarded him mdl 8,000 (equivalent to eur 500) as compensation for the damage caused.
11.  pursuant to the judgment in favour of mr medinskiy (appendix iii) the authorities decided to allocate a flat to the applicant on 6 november 2015. according to the transfer and acceptance act, the applicant accepted the flat on 20 november 2015. on 21 january 2016 he registered his title to the flat.12.  pursuant to the judgment in favour of mr vedernikov (appendix iii) the authorities decided to allocate a flat to the applicant on 27 october 2015. according to the transfer and acceptance act, the applicant accepted the flat on 13 november 2015. on 11 january 2016 he registered his title to the flat.in 2007 the housing commission of the military unit considered his housing situation, noted his title to a share in the flat and decided to put the applicant on the list of persons in need of housing.14.  on 13 january 2009 the military court of the moscow garrison ordered the housing commission of the military unit to provide him with housing in moscow, as indicated in the appended table.16.  on 25 april 2013 the hosing department of the ministry of defense found that overall size of the applicant’s living premises (see paragraphs 13 and 15 above) exceeded the housing norms for the respective region.18.  in the meantime, the defendant twice applied to the domestic courts with a request for termination of the enforcement proceedings, as the applicant’s name had been removed from the list of persons in need of housing, and there had “no longer been a possibility to enforce the judgment”.20.  on 23 december 2014 the first-instance court and on 4 september 2015 the moscow city court acting as an appeal instance rejected the defendant’s new request to terminate the enforcement, based this time, inter alia, on the judgment of 24 february 2014 (see paragraph 17 above).the courts gave the same reasons for the refusal as in the previous round of the similar proceedings.on 20 december 2016 the registry of the court informed the applicant of the date and place of the hearing by phone, as confirmed by a “telephonogram” (a telephone conversation record).with reference to the judgment of 24 february 2014 (see paragraph 17 above) it found established that as of 25 april 2013 the applicant had no longer been in need of the housing, which meant that the defendant had no longer had a possibility to enforce the judgment of 2 february 2009.25.  the applicant appealed, referring, inter alia, to the two earlier decisions on the same matter rejecting the defendant’s similar requests, and argued that he had not been duly notified of the hearing in his case.it found, inter alia, that the defendant’s prolonged failure to take actions to enforce the judgment in the applicant’s favour did not have any bearing on the lawfulness of the decision to discontinue the enforcement, as since 2013 the applicant had no longer been entitled to state housing.27.  as regards the absence from the first-instance hearing, the appeal court noted that the notifications of the hearing had been sent to the applicant by registered mail and by telegram to his known address, but had not been delivered as the flat had been closed and the applicant had failed to collect the telegram pursuant to a notification thereof.the court also noted his reply in the telephone conversation that he had no longer lived at the address he had provided to the court, as well as his refusal to provide his new address, and rejected the complaint.the judge found, in particular, that the decisions of the presnenskiy district court referred to in paragraphs 19 and 20 had not had a res judicata effect on the proceedings as the domestic law did not prohibit the debtor from lodging a repeated request for termination of the enforcement proceedings.
9.  on the evening of the same date police officers from the sunzhenskiy district department of the interior (“the sunzhenskiy rovd”) arrived at the applicant’s house in the village of ordzhonikidzevskaya, ingushetia.in the course of the questioning a representative of the prosecutor’s office, mr kh., and the head of the criminal investigation department of the sunzhenskiy rovd confirmed that mr girikhan tsechoyev had been detained by the fsb and was being held on the latter’s premises in ingushetia.20.  on 18 february 2008 the applicant complained to the court of the investigators’ inaction and their decision to suspend the investigation on 4 june 2007. on 24 march 2008 the court dismissed her complaint referring to the fact that the decision to suspend the investigation had already been overruled by a higher investigating authority.22.  the first applicant is the mother of mr shamkhan shavkhayev, who was born in 1980 (in certain documents the year of birth also indicated as 1981), and the wife of mr sharip shavkhayev, who was born in 1941. the second applicant is the wife of mr umar bekayev, who was born in 1941.55.  in the meantime, the investigators asked various authorities, including the fsb in ingushetia and the ministry of the interior to provide them with information about the special operation in nazran, the alleged detention of mr murad zakriyev and mr rustam muradov on the premises of local law-enforcement agencies and about the owners of the vehicles with the registration plates noted by mr b.g.73.  on 4 july 2002 the applicants applied to various domestic authorities, including the urus-martan district department of the ministry of the interior in the chechen republic (“the urus‑martan rovd”) asking for assistance in the search for mr akhdan akhmetkhanov.by a letter of 20 august 2004 the ministry and the president informed the first applicant in general terms that despite the suspension of the proceedings in 2002, they were continuing the search for her son.the abductors told the head of the local council, ms n.a., whose office was located across from the applicants’ house, that they were from the urus‑martan department for the fight against organised crime (управление по борьбе с организованной преступностью – “the rubop”).111.  as the first applicant later found out, the abductors had driven from duba‑yurt through the uzhniy checkpoint, which had been manned by the special police force, and had arrived at the russian military base located in the northern outskirts of the village stariye atagi.132.  at about 2 p.m. on that day (in the documents submitted the date was also stated as 29 july 2002) mr umar ozdamirov was at a bus stop at a crossroads in the centre of grozny when a group of armed military service personnel in two gazelle minivans without registration plates forced him into one of the minivans and took him to the premises of a state agency in grozny.three days later the second operative-search bureau of the main department of the ministry of the interior in the south region (orb-2) (второе оперативно-розыскное бюро при главном управлении министерства внутренних дел российской федерации по южному федеральному округу) informed the investigators that on 11 august 2002 at the outskirts of malye varandy village the federal military forces had discovered an illegal armed group consisting of five persons.162.  the first applicant is the sister of mr rizvan isayev, who was born in 1981, and the aunt of mr anzor isayev, who was born in 1983. the second and third applicants are the brothers of mr rizvan isayev and the uncles of mr anzor isayev.and ms r.s, two eyewitnesses to the abduction, who had been travelling on the same bus as mr rizvan isayev and mr anzor isayev on 16 march 2003. their submissions to the investigators were similar to those of the applicants before the court.185.  on 8 april 2004 the investigators from the urus-martan rovd questioned the first applicant and the sister of mr abdula demelkhanov, who confirmed that the latter had been missing since 28 march 2004. later that day the investigation was transferred to the oktyabrskiy rovd, which had to take the decision on the merits of the case.188.  in the meantime, on 22 april and 9 june 2004 the oktyabrskiy rovd, apparently following the applicant’s allegation that her husband had been abducted by state agents, contacted the fsb in chechnya and the commanding officer of the army in chechnya to check if mr abdula demelkhanov had been arrested in the course of a special operation.
6.  by a judicial letter of 15 february 1969 the applicants’ father (pc) was notified with a copy of a declaration by the governor general whereby it was being declared that six plots of land in kalafrana and bengħajsa, limits of birżebbuġa, malta, were required for a public purpose and thus the governor general was acquiring the said property by title of full ownership.9.  subsequently the commissioner of land (col) started the procedure before the land arbitration board (lab), in order to transfer the land and establish the amount of compensation to be paid.by a final judgment of 28 december 2001, the constitutional court found in favour of the applicants and declared the government’s declaration in respect of that land (which was outside the freeport zone) as without effect from the date of the first‑instance judgment, 9 april 1999.12.  as a result of the constitutional court’s judgment, the proceedings before the lab were ceded by the col on 8 april 2003. as a result of the col’s action, no compensation was ever determined for the taking of the applicants’ remaining land (a and b).13.  in 2006 pc and his wife instituted constitutional redress proceedings in connection with the part of the six plots of land which was actually used for the purposes of the freeport (land a), as well as land b which had remained unutilised.1 to the convention and article 6 of the convention, they asked the court to declare the declaration of the governor general null, to return the unused parts of the land, to award compensation in respect of the land which had been used, and to redress the violations found.in particular they argued that the land had not been expropriated for a public purpose, but for a commercial purpose given that the col had transferred the land to the malta freeport corporation and in 1989 with the introduction of the freeport act, the land became part of the freeport.14.  during these proceedings, on 4 november 2008, a doubt was raised by the government and the technical expert as to the exact size of land b, in so far as the site plans (attached to the applicants’ application to the domestic courts) drafted by the architect included an extra area which appeared to be owned by the government.the government thus requested the court to determine the confines of the expropriated land, and thereafter the title of the applicants to the land in question.according to the conclusions of a technical report drawn up on the matter by a court‑appointed architect in june 2009, land b as shown on the plans which were submitted by the applicants with the application to the civil court (first hall), included a piece of land which pc had already sold to a third party, the remaining parts which were expropriated were the property of the applicants.17.  by a judgment of 2 october 2013, the civil court (first hall) in its constitutional competence rejected the government’s objection as to non‑exhaustion of ordinary remedies and found in favour of the applicants in part.it further ordered the release of that land and the payment of eur 30,000 in compensation for the years during which the applicants had been denied the use of their land.20.  the constitutional court considered that there was no doubt that the freeport was established in the public interest namely the economic development of the country and therefore the taking of land a was convention compatible.21.  as to land b, the constitutional court acknowledged that the government had not made any objection in the sense that the applicants were not the owners of the property, nor that proof was required as to ownership of that land.nevertheless, the constitutional court considered that during the first‑instance proceedings, on 4 november 2008, a doubt was raised as to the matter by the government and the technical expert, which was eventually never resolved before the first‑instance court.
7.2  if it is not possible to settle such disputes amicably, these matters shall, with the exception of those falling within the jurisdiction of the ordinary courts, be referred to the arbitration tribunal of the chamber of commerce of the country of the respondent.as a result of negotiations, the applicant company agreed to provide debt relief in the amount of usd 613,824 on the condition that the llc paid off the rest of the debt, namely usd 600,000, in accordance with a debt repayment schedule which was set up in a separate agreement signed on the same day by the directors of both companies.18.  on 7 november 2007 the llc requested the commercial court to leave the applicant company’s claim unexamined on the grounds that the contracts of 8 february 1999, 10 april 2000 and 2 april 2003 contained a dispute resolution clause whereby disputes concerning their performance would be resolved by the arbitration tribunal of the chamber of commerce of the country of the respondent.the llc therefore claimed that, it being the respondent, resolution of the dispute was within the jurisdiction of the arbitration tribunal of the chamber of commerce and industry of armenia (“the arbitration tribunal”).relying on section 8(1) of the commercial arbitration act, the applicant company also argued that, contrary to its requirements, the court had decided to leave the claim unexamined, even though the llc had submitted the relevant request several months after the litigation had started and had already made its submissions on the merits of the claim.lastly, the applicant company argued that its claim in the part relating to the recovery of the amount of the loan of eur 100,000 was not connected in any way to the contracts of 8 february 1999, 10 april 2000 and 2 april 2003. however, the court had decided that the entirety of its claims were to be determined through arbitration.22.  on 23 july 2008 the applicant company’s representative sent a request for information to the president of the arbitration tribunal, asking whether the arbitration clause contained in the contracts concluded between the parties was sufficient for the tribunal to accept the claim for examination, and whether the decisions of the commercial court to leave the claim unexamined on the grounds that the determination of the dispute fell within the jurisdiction of a commercial arbitration court provided sufficient grounds for accepting the claim.23.  on 1 august 2008 the president of the arbitration tribunal replied that the question of whether the arbitration clause stipulated in the contracts concluded between the parties was sufficient for it to accept the claim for examination could only be determined once the claim had been lodged.in addition, it was stated in the claim that the decisions of the commercial court and extracts of the contracts containing the arbitration clause had already been submitted to the president of the arbitration tribunal with the letter of 23 july 2008.the relevant parts of the letter read as follows: “... the promissory note of 8 november 2002 and the agreement of 28 october 2005, on which your claim was based, do not contain an arbitration clause and, moreover, the parties have not concluded any agreement to submit the disputes arising out of the performance of the above-mentioned promissory note and the agreement to the permanent arbitration institution of the chamber of commerce and industry of armenia for determination.consequently, in the absence of an arbitration agreement between the parties, the [arbitration tribunal] cannot start arbitration proceedings.” 27.  in view of the fact that the commercial court had been abolished by that time, on 17 october 2008 the applicant company lodged a claim with the yerevan civil court, seeking to recover eur 116,600 from the llc, representing the amount of the loan and interest.35.  in its reply to the applicant company’s appeal, the llc submitted, inter alia, that the applicant company had failed to provide the arbitration tribunal with copies of the relevant extracts of the contracts that contained the arbitration clause and the relevant decisions of the commercial court.the applicant company further pointed out that the argument that it had failed to submit the relevant extracts of the contracts to the tribunal was groundless since, in its claim lodged with that institution, it had expressly mentioned that copies of the decisions of the commercial court and extracts of the contracts in question had already been submitted with the letter of 23 july 2008.in doing so, it stated the following: “... as for the letter of the president of the arbitration tribunal of the chamber of commerce of 7 october 2008 concerning non-acceptance of the claim lodged by [the applicant company], it was based on the grounds that [the applicant company] had not submitted the original arbitration agreement or a certified copy, as required by the commercial arbitration act and [the provisions contained therein], in the absence of which arbitration proceedings could not be started.the court of cassation finds that, taking into account the failure to submit to the arbitration tribunal of the chamber of commerce and industry the original arbitration agreement or a certified copy ... and non-examination of [the applicant company’s] claim, [the applicant company] is not deprived of judicial protection in accordance with the general provisions of the code of civil procedure ...”
they included, for example, the recording of his attendance at the trades union congress (“tuc”) conference in brighton in september 2006; at a demonstration at the labour party conference in bournemouth in september 2007; at a pro-gaza demonstration in brighton in january 2009 and at a demonstration against “new labour” organised by a number of trade unions in september 2009. in the great majority of cases, the information recorded about mr catt was his name, presence, date of birth and address.18.  in a witness statement dated 6 june 2011 prepared in the context of the proceedings introduced by the applicant before the high court, the then national coordinator explained the functions of the national public order intelligence unit (npoiu) and the position as regards retention of data relating to the applicant.in his witness statement, the national coordinator clarified that the material which had been disclosed to the applicant following his subject access request of march 2010 was not all the material held in respect of the applicant: a considerable amount of further information had not been disclosed on the grounds that disclosure would prejudice the investigation or detection of crime and that the material was thus exempt from disclosure under section 29 of the data protection act (see “relevant domestic law and practice”, below).it is a descriptor generally used by the police service and partners to describe the activity of individuals or groups who carry out criminal acts of direct action to further their protest campaigns, outside the democratic process.” 20.  he then provided examples of how intelligence reports had assisted in policing a smash edo protest in 2010 and confirmed that, in his view, the applicant’s data were being processed lawfully and fairly.the high court handed down its judgment on 30 may 2012. the court considered that article 8 was not engaged in the case and that, even if it were, the interference was justified under article 8 § 2. the applicant was granted permission to appeal by the court of appeal on 31 october 2012.22.  following a two day hearing during which legal representatives for the applicant, an ngo, the nhri for england and wales, acpo and the secretary of state presented their arguments, the court of appeal unanimously allowed the appeal in a judgment of 14 march 2014. it found that the inclusion of the applicant’s personal data in the database constituted an interference with his article 8 rights which was not justified.the court said that it did not doubt the importance to modern policing of detailed intelligence gathering and that it accepted the need for caution before overriding the judgment of the police about what information was likely to assist them in their task.it noted that, for present purposes, that task was to obtain a better understanding of how smash edo was organised in order to be able to forecast the place and nature of its next protest and to anticipate the number of people likely to attend and the tactics they were likely to adopt.this is very much a live issue given the relatively vague nature of some aspects of the regime contained in the mopi code and guidance and the criticisms voiced by the divisional court in c (paragraph [54]) [see “relevant domestic law and practice”, below] and by the strasbourg court in m.m.however, in the light of the conclusion to which we have come on the question of proportionality it is unnecessary for us to reach a final decision on the point.” 24.  the supreme court granted the commissioner and acpo leave to appeal.although the collation of the information in the form in which it appeared in police records was not publicly available, the primary facts recorded were and always had been in the public domain; no intrusive procedures had been used to discover and record them.referring back to the national coordinator’s statement (see paragraphs 18 to 20), he identified three reasons for the need to retain such data: (1) to enable the police to make a more informed assessment of the risks and threats to public order; (2) to investigate criminal offences where there have been any, and to identify potential witnesses and victims; (3) to study the leadership, organisation, tactics and methods of protest groups which have been persistently associated with violence.its value can only be judged in hindsight, as subsequent analysis for particular purposes discloses a relevant pattern ... the most that can be done is to assess whether the value of the material is proportionate to the gravity of the threat to the public ...” 28.  lord sumption further considered that the retention in a nominal record or information report of information about third persons such as the applicant did not carry any stigma of suspicion or guilt.the statement did not explain why it was thought necessary to maintain for many years after the event information on someone whom the police had concluded, as they had in july 2010, was not known to have acted violently and did not appear to be involved in the coordination of the relevant events.while the court should be slow to disagree with the evaluation of the potential usefulness of evidence by the police if a clear reason for it had been advanced, on the facts of this case lord toulson could not see what value they had identified by keeping indefinitely a record of the applicant’s attendances at events where he had done no more than exercise his democratic right of peaceful protest.
7.  in january 2005, the applicant and the owners of the other three properties instigated independent evidentiary proceedings before the regional court against the property developers on the basis of alleged defects in the residential property units, in particular the water drainage system.8.  on 23 june 2007 the applicant instigated proceedings against the property developer seeking compensation for alleged defects in her residential unit – namely, defects in the drainage system, together with defects in other parts of the building which had led to damp and mold on the walls.9.  over the following months, after the applicant had made an advance payment on the court fees, the regional court forwarded to the other parties to the proceedings the applicant’s statement of claim and the defendants’ statement of defence; extended the deadline for the applicant to make further submissions; forwarded the submissions of the applicant’s neighbours (in which they (i) declared their wish to join the proceedings by way of intervention and (ii) sought eur 8,000 in damages); held an oral hearing, in which it discussed the factual and legal situation and suggested a friendly settlement; waited for the applicant to propose the basis for a friendly settlement agreement; and forwarded further submissions made by the parties.on 26 may 2009 the chamber of commerce suggested two experts, one of whom was g.k. on the same day, the regional court forwarded those suggestions to the parties.on 7 july 2009 the regional court asked for further advance payments on the court fees, which the applicant paid on 3 august 2009. on 7 august 2009 the regional court made a suggestion regarding how to proceed with regard to the expert.on the same day, the regional court forwarded to the defendant the applicant’s statement that he agreed to the proposed expert.invited the parties to participate in another onsite visit, which was scheduled for 28 october 2010. however, the visit had to be rescheduled several times – once because the defendants were unable to attend and three times because the applicant was unable to attend; eventually the visit took place on 17 january 2011. on 4 may 2011, the applicant complained about the length of time it was taking for the expert to prepare his opinion.on 30 august 2011 the applicant lodged an objection to the method of calculating the fee for the expert opinion and applied for an extension of the deadline in order to be able to prepare substantial submissions in the light of the content of the expert opinion.19.  on 5 december 2011 the regional court dismissed the applicant’s objection regarding the method of calculating the fee for the expert opinion.it ruled – explicitly referring to section 198 of the courts constitution act (see § 18 below), as well as article 6 § 1 of the convention and judgments of the court – that the proceedings before the regional court had not been unreasonably long.25.  the court of appeal ruled that any assessment of the reasonableness of the length of proceedings had to start with the principle that a court must conduct proceedings expeditiously.lastly, an overall assessment of whether the length of proceedings had been reasonable had to be carried out, with regard being paid to the circumstances of the case – in particular the complexity and difficulty of the proceedings.26.  in application of these principles, the court of appeal assessed all phases of the proceedings and reasoned that the regional court had generally expedited the proceedings sufficiently and that it had caused a delay only in the summer of 2010 because it had failed to sufficiently instruct the expert at the time in question and had failed to undertake the measures necessary to ensure that the expert submitted his opinion in good time.furthermore, it had to be taken into account that the proceedings had been complex; this had in particular been due to the complexity of the relevant facts and the difficulty in gathering evidence.moreover, there had been three intervening parties on the side of the applicant, which had contributed substantially to the length of the proceedings.
5.  the first applicant is the widow and the second applicant is the son of the late john demjanjuk.it found it established that he had, in his capacity as a guard in the sobibór extermination camp, aided and abetted the systematic murder of persons who had been deported to the said camp in 16 convoys between 27 march 1943 and september 1943. it sentenced him to a total of five years’ imprisonment for these crimes.defence counsel submitted a brief containing the grounds for the appeal on points of law in november 2011 and subsequently submitted four additional briefs, the last of which was received by the regional court on 12 january 2012. on 24 february 2012, the public prosecutor’s office instructed that the file, along with the submissions by the public prosecutor’s office in response to the defence counsel’s submissions, be transferred to the federal court of justice, which was competent to examine the appeal on points of law.9.  by decision of 5 april 2012 the munich regional court ii discontinued the proceedings in accordance with article 206a § 1 of the code of criminal procedure due to the death of the accused (see paragraph 14 below).in that same decision, relying on article 467 § 3, second sentence, number 2 of the code (see paragraph 15 below), it ruled that the accused’s necessary expenses were not to be borne by the treasury.the conviction was based on a thorough examination of the evidence as to the facts and an assessment of all relevant legal aspects.even though the conviction could not become final in the absence of a decision on the appeal on points of law, article 467 § 1 of the code of criminal procedure did not apply.the duration of the trial, which had lasted for almost one and a half years, was attributable, to a significant degree, to the time-consuming strategy pursued by the defence.the defence had made excessive use of their right to make statements under article 257 § 2 of the code, often repeating arguments already made several times, and had filed around 500 applications for the taking of evidence, a large number of which had been directed at evidence that had either already been taken or that was impossible to obtain, such as the examination of deceased persons.likewise, the defence had filed more than twenty complaints alleging bias with regard to each of the professional judges sitting on the case, again often repeating arguments and considerations that had already been ruled on.against this backdrop, it is not equitable, even in the absence of a conclusive finding of guilt, in the context of the discretionary decision to be made, to order that the accused’s necessary expenses be reimbursed by the treasury....” 10.  counsel for the late accused filed an immediate appeal against the regional court’s decision of 5 april 2012. he submitted, inter alia, that the decision not to reimburse the accused’s necessary expenses, and its reasoning, breached the presumption of innocence guaranteed by article 6 § 2 of the convention.123, it considered that the decision not to reimburse the late accused’s necessary expenses did not breach that provision, as it did not contain a finding of guilt, which the decision itself explicitly stated.it was permissible, in view of the establishment of the late accused’s guilt by the trial court, to find that there continued to be, at the time the proceedings were discontinued, a state of suspicion against the late accused, and to apply article 467 § 3, second sentence, number 2, of the code of criminal procedure on that basis.2 bvr 2397/12), without providing reasons.
6.  in the course of her employment the applicant had two children, born on 27 march 2008 and 7 may 2010. the applicant spent her maternity leave in the united states and regularly sent requests to extend that leave every six months for the duration of her absence.the notice referred to the change in volume and conditions of work at the british council, as well as the need to reduce the number of staff.in addition, the notice stated the following: “... [your] employment contract shall be terminated based on [the relevant provisions] of the labour code of the republic of armenia.we also inform you that your employment contract shall be terminated ... considering the fact that you did not return to work after the completion of your unpaid maternity leave, which was to end on 1 september 2011, as indicated in your letter sent to us by fax on 17 march 2011. the employment contract shall be considered terminated as of 1 december 2011.” 9.  it appears that the applicant sent emails to the management of the british council in relation to the early termination of her employment.10.  on 30 november 2011 ar.m., a lawyer and a representative of prudence, a law firm which provided legal services to the british council, replied to the applicant on behalf of that body.in particular, the email stated that the termination of the applicant’s employment had been in full compliance with domestic law and the terms and conditions of the british council.11.  by an order of 1 december 2011, issued by the director of the british council, the applicant’s employment contract was terminated.12.  on 30 december 2011 the applicant brought a claim against the british council before the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan, contesting the order of 1 december 2011 and seeking reinstatement.13.  by a decision of 11 january 2012, judge a.m. of the district court took over the examination of the applicant’s case and scheduled the preparatory hearing.15.  on 16 january 2012 the british council was notified by the district court of its taking over of the examination of the case and the judge appointed.applied to the district court to represent the british council before the said court, also asking the court to postpone the hearings.informed the district court that he would not be representing the interests of the british council in the instant case.17.  on 14 february 2012, in its reply to the applicant’s claim signed by k.b., the british council denied that the applicant had submitted a request to extend her maternity leave for another six months as of 1 september 2011.were senior associates, had been founded by d.m., a.m.’s and ar.m.’s elder sister, and was managed by her husband, e.m. 20.  on 6 august 2012 the applicant lodged an appeal arguing, inter alia, that judge a.m. had lacked impartiality when deciding her case owing to his close family ties to the legal representatives of her opponent in the proceedings.in doing so, the court of appeal did not address the applicant’s arguments regarding the alleged lack of impartiality of judge a.m. in the proceedings before the district court.
10.  following a declaration that the death penalty was unconstitutional by a decision of the constitutional court of ukraine in december 1999 and amendments to the criminal code in february 2000, on 4 october 2000 the odessa regional court commuted his death sentence to life imprisonment.15.  according to the government, on 20 february, 27 march, 17 april, 3 june, 11 june, 9 september and 5 november 1997, and on 23 january, 5 march, 17 march, 4 june, 7 july, 19 september and 10 december 1998, the applicant underwent regular medical examinations at the sizo.21.  according to the applicant’s medical file provided by the government, in november 2008 he was examined by a doctor from the zhytomyr regional centre for aids prevention and control (“the anti-aids centre”).22.  according to the government, on 1 march 2009 the prison received the relevant medication from the penal authorities, and the applicant started the art course.26.  the parties did not inform the court about the treatment the applicant was provided with after december 2011.27.  the second applicant, mr vladimir mikhaylovich kashuba, was a ukrainian national who was born in 1958. at the time of his death (8 january 2018 – see paragraph 6 above), he was serving a life sentence in ladyzhynka colony no.during that period he was diagnosed with tuberculoma of the upper part of the left lung and later with post-tb residual changes in the upper part of the left lung (category 5.1).38.  upon arrival at the ladyzhynka colony on 22 february 2007, the applicant was examined by the colony’s medical personnel and placed under monitoring as a person with residual changes in the upper part of the left lung in the form of dense focal lung lesions (щільні вогнищеві тіні), category 5.1.he was diagnosed with tb residual changes in the upper part of the left lung in the form of dense focal lung lesions (category 5.1), and chronic bronchitis in the unstable remission stage.42.  the second applicant submitted that he was forced to remain in a bent position with his arms handcuffed behind his back during regular searches of his cell, for outside walks, and on the way to take showers.43.  before the cell doors were opened, the applicant was asked to bend down, put his arms behind his back and insert them through a small window in the cell door to have them handcuffed.the guards then opened the cell door, took the prisoners out of the cell and performed a search of the inmates and the cell.during the search, the applicant and the rest of the inmates were kept in a bent position.upon completion of the search, the applicant was taken back to the cell, the handcuffs were removed and he was allowed to stand up straight once the cell door had been closed.it was not possible to open the window and ventilate the cell in winter as the heating was too low and the cell got cold at once.
4.  the applicant was born in 1978. according to the most recently available information, at the time of the events in june 2016 the applicant was detained in kirovograd pre-trial detention facility no.according to the government, the outpatient treatment consisted of medicine, which was administered to the applicant in various combinations, notably, papaverine, co-trimixazole, azithromycin, and bromhexin.10.  following another such complaint, on 16 april 2015 the prison doctor diagnosed the applicant with acute chronic gastroduodenitis and recommended that he be further examined at a specialist institution with a view to deciding whether he required surgery.the parties did not inform the court whether the applicant had undergone the recommended examination.11.  from 2 to 29 may and from 3 to 11 june 2015 the applicant underwent inpatient treatment for acute chronic gastroduodenitis in the prison medical unit.in the meantime he had been detained in the kyiv sizo and the odessa sizo.15.  on 8 october 2015 the applicant was placed in a disciplinary cell in the prison for three months as a penalty for consumption of alcohol.16.  according to the government, on 8 october 2015 the prison governor issued a decision on the applicant’ placement in a disciplinary cell for consumption of alcohol.17.  on 12 october 2015 the applicant’s lawyer complained to the kirovograd regional prosecutor’s office that the applicant was not receiving the requisite medical care in detention.he submitted, in particular, that the surgery which the applicant required had been postponed owing to the lack of funds.19.  on 9 november 2015 the prison service of kirovograd region sent a request for the applicant’s placement in the hospital in bucha prison no.20.  on 11 december 2015 and 16 january 2016 the prison service again requested the applicant’s placement in the hospital at correctional colony no.on 27 january 2016 the prison service took a decision on the applicant’s transfer to the hospital for the required surgery.21.  on 12 february 2016 the applicant informed the prison governor that he had refused the treatment offered to him in the hospitals within the dnipropetrovsk and kharkiv sizos because of lack of trust in the doctors of those facilities.22.  on 22 april 2016 following deterioration of his health, the applicant was transferred by ambulance to kirovograd regional hospital, where he was examined by a surgeon and diagnosed with calculous cholecystitis, chronic pancreatitis and “diffusive changes” of the liver (дифузні зміни печінки).
10.  while in the car, the first applicant was hit in the spine and, once at the police station, was dragged, with his bottom against the ground, into the building while being kicked repeatedly.13.  the fourth applicant was handcuffed, led to a round table inside the police station, his handcuffs were attached to a leg of the table and his leg was then kicked so that he fell under the table, where he was repeatedly kicked or hit in the head.and m.p., passing by the petrol station in a patrol vehicle, recognised the car described by the staff of the night club, stopped and proceeded to check the applicants’ identities at about 12.45 a.m. the applicants did not co-operate and behaved aggressively towards the officers, calling them names.however, two employees of the petrol station testified that the first and second applicants had refused to prove their identities and had addressed the officers in an unacceptable manner, whereas the latter had instructed the applicants in a business-like, official manner.18.  the first applicant also stated in his testimony that he must have been hit on the jaw after he had been seated in the patrol car, for he could not remember anything afterwards until he had been pulled out of the car outside the police station.however, in the original criminal complaint filed by the applicants, no mention had been made of any such blow; and no corresponding injury had been recorded in the ensuing medical report – in which it had, on the other hand, been recorded that the first applicant had not become unconscious and had been able to remember the events clearly.similarly, the criminal complaint filed by the applicants had not contained any reference to what the first applicant stated in his subsequent testimony, namely that he had been kicked in the head – his left temple – on the flight of steps leading to the entrance of the police station.furthermore, the fourth applicant alleged that he had suffered a fracture of his left scaphoid bone after he had fallen under the table following being handcuffed to the table leg, where one of the police officers had kept kicking him every ten to fifteen minutes for four to five hours, from the beginning of his detention until his release.in the forensic expert’s opinion, the medically documented injuries of the fourth applicant – epithelial abrasions of the forehead, the left eyebrow, the area anterior to the left ear and both knees (see paragraph 24 below) – could have been caused when he had been handcuffed, a measure that he had resisted; the injuries had not been typical of a beating and had only indicated a weak impact.20.  the third applicant stated initially that he had been hit by one of the officers at the petrol station, and that his arm had then been tightly squeezed while he had been escorted to the patrol car.in relation to the first applicant, the fourth applicant mentioned assaults that the first applicant himself had not mentioned during his questioning and which were not described in the criminal report filed by the first applicant either: namely that upon arrival at the police building he had been pulled out of the car and kicked in the spine.23.  neither the police officers, nor the security guard on duty at the police station, nor the petrol station staff had provided any support for the allegation that the applicants, who had been under the influence of alcohol and talking to the officers in an extremely rude way, had been assaulted either at the petrol station or in the police building.the fourth applicant had abrasions on the forehead, above the left eye, next to his ears and on both knees, erythema on both wrists and a fracture of the left scaphoid bone; it was uncertain whether the latter was a recent or an inveterate injury.it held that the testimonies of the applicants had been exaggerated, contradictory and modified several times, and that the findings of fact could not enable it to establish, beyond reasonable doubt, that the injuries had been deliberately caused by the officers exceeding the use of force necessitated by the applicants’ own conduct.as regards the lawfulness and proportionality of the use of force, the attorney general’s office held that the information available on the case was insufficient to reconcile the opposing versions.
6.  a criminal investigation for involuntary manslaughter was initiated against the driver of the car.it was established that while driving at about ninety‑two kilometres per hour (when the speed limit was fifty kilometres per hour) she lost control of her car and mounted the pavement where the applicants’ sister was situated.7.  on 26 september 2010, during the pre-trial investigation stage, the applicants, their mother and their older brothers brought a claim for damages in the criminal proceedings.8.  on 24 october 2011 the bucharest district court severed the civil claims from the criminal proceedings.9.  on 6 december 2011 the bucharest district court awarded each civil party (including the applicants) 100,000 euros (eur) in compensation for non‑pecuniary damage.10.  the court held that between the civil parties and the nine‑year‑old girl there had been a strong emotional relationship and the girl’s violent death had caused intense pain to her family.the wording of the court judgment read as follows: “...the brothers of the deceased suffered non-pecuniary damage, consisting of the pain caused by the loss of their nine-year-old sister in violent circumstances and by their sister’s suffering in the hospital until her death; from the evidence adduced before the court (the statements of the civil parties were corroborated by the statements of three witnesses) it can be determined that between the civil parties and the nine-year-old girl there was a strong emotional relationship.therefore, having regard to the negative consequences, the importance of the infringed moral values, the way in which they were perceived by the civil parties, and the impact of their loss on the stability of their family, the court will grant to each civil party the equivalent of 100,000 euros”.13.  on 9 april 2012 the bucharest court of appeal allowed the appeal on points of law lodged by the insurance company.it ordered the driver of the car to pay the damages, holding that the insurance company’s liability was only contractual and therefore subsidiary.the court further dismissed the applicants’ claim for non-pecuniary damages on the ground that at the time of their sister’s accident they had been younger than fourteen and had therefore been unaware of the negative consequences of her death.in relation to the claims lodged by their older siblings, the court decreased the awards to eur 25,000 each.the wording of the court judgment read as follows: “the court will dismiss the civil claims lodged by cosmin mihai deaconu and alexandru bogdan deaconu on grounds other than those invoked by the insurance company.in the present case, the applicants’ situation should be assessed in a different way, having regard to the fact that at the time of their minor sister’s accident they were younger than fourteen and therefore they were not aware of the negative consequences of her death.contended in her statement before the court that the younger brothers were less aware than their older brothers, who suffered...” 14.  the court also decreased the award for their mother in respect of non‑pecuniary damage to eur 50,000.
6.  from 22 july 2016 the applicant was held in the chernigiv pre-trial detention centre (“the sizo”) as a suspect in respect of a crime.9.  on 7 february 2017, in response to a request for information lodged by the chernigiv regional prosecutor’s office, chernihiv city hospital (“the hospital”) noted that the applicant’s state of health posed a high risk to his life.10.  on 15 march 2017, the hospital informed the sizo authorities that the cost of a cardiac ventriculography test was 4,000 hryvnias (uah – approximately 140 euros (eur)).11.  following a deterioration in the applicant’s health, on 23 may 2017 the court indicated to the government under rule 39 of the rules of court that they should immediately ensure that the recommended treatment was available and provided to the applicant and that the applicant was placed in a specialised medical institution for medical treatment – including surgery, if appropriate.12.  on 23 may 2017 the applicant was transported to the hospital, where the previous diagnosis was confirmed (see paragraph 8 above).13.  on 25 may 2017 the hospital informed the sizo that in order for the applicant to be provided with qualified medical advice, he needed a cardiac ventriculography test.in view of the complexity of the applicant’s state of health, before the cardiac ventriculography test the hospital requested that the applicant have an additional consultation at the amosov cardiology institute.14.  according to the government, the sizo administration offered the applicant transportation to the kyiv sizo in a prison van with a view to his undergoing a further medical examination at the amosov cardiology institute.the case file contains a statement by the applicant dated 16 june 2017 addressed to the head of the sizo, according to which he did not refuse transportation but insisted on it being in a form that was compatible with his state of health.15.  following a further deterioration in the applicant’s health, on 22 june 2017 the ambulance took him to the hospital, where the previous diagnosis (see paragraph 8 above) was confirmed, electrocardiography and cardiac ventriculography tests were recommended, and he was prescribed some medication.16.  the case file contains an extract from the applicant’s medical file bearing no date and signed by the head of the sizo medical unit; according to the extract, the sizo had no cardiologist on its staff and high-quality medical treatment was not possible at the sizo.17.  on 10 july 2017 the court reiterated its previous decision (see paragraph 11 above) indicating that the authorities were to ensure that the applicant was transported promptly, and in conditions commensurate with his state of health, to a specialised medical institution to undergo the necessary medical examinations, such as a cardiac ventriculography test, in order that a correct diagnosis could be made and the applicant could receive medical treatment, if necessary.on 8 august 2017 the government submitted that the applicant had not been transported to a specialised medical institution, as had been indicated by the court, owing to his refusal of 16 june 2017 (see paragraph 14 above).18.  according to the available information, from august 2016 until september 2017 the applicant underwent more than fifteen examinations, both within the sizo and at civilian hospitals, and an ambulance was called twelve times to provide him with urgent treatment.according to the results of the examination, he was diagnosed with ischemic heart disease, exertional angina (class iii), postinfarction cardiosclerosis, and atherosclerosis of the aorta and of the coronary arteries.
7.  on 7 march 2005 the competition council decided to broaden the scope of the investigation and to find out whether the applicant company’s activities had affected trade between the european union member states, as defined in article 82 of the treaty establishing the european community (“the tec”) – now article 102 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (“the tfeu” – see paragraph 43 below).it argued that the competition council had committed procedural violations and that it had also made mistakes in defining the scope of the market and the scope of the geographical market, and that its ruling that the applicant company had abused its dominant position on the fuel market had thus been unjustified.it submitted that the investigation of the applicant company’s activities had covered the period between 2002 and 2004. although the initial investigation had not mentioned the end date of the actions examined, it could be presumed that the last investigated action had been undertaken on 31 december 2004. domestic law provided that economic entities could only be held liable for breaches of the law on competition up to three years after the date of the violation in question or, if the violation was continuous, three years after the date of the last action that had been contrary to the law on competition (see paragraph 27 below).the court held that final court decisions had to be executed, and that in view of the fact that the decision of the supreme administrative court of 8 december 2008 had become final (see paragraph 11 above), the competition council had an obligation to reopen the investigation into the applicant company’s activities.15.  the applicant company lodged an appeal, which was dismissed by the supreme administrative court on 13 may 2010. the court provided its reasoning in five short paragraphs, holding that by its impugned decision the competition council had merely restarted the previous investigation (rather than opening a new one) (skundžiamu nutarimu yra tik atnaujinamas anksčiau vykdytas tyrimas vykdant lietuvos vyriausiojo administracinio teismo įpareigojimą, o ne pradedamas naujas tyrimas), and that the provision of the domestic law regarding the limitation period was only applicable in respect of new investigations.the competition council also drew attention to the provisions of the code of administrative offences, wherein it was stated that if a court annulled a decision to impose a sanction on an economic entity or to terminate the procedure regarding the imposition of a sanction (or if that first‑instance decision was annulled by an appellate court), the time-limits would start to run again from the date on which the court’s or appellate court’s decision became final (see paragraph 31 below).the competition council decided that the provisions of the code of administrative offences had to be applied in the applicant company’s case and that – irrespective of the rules of the law on competition – the time-limit had to be calculated from the day on which the supreme administrative court had adopted its decision.the applicant company’s arguments were based, inter alia, on the fact that the limitation period for imposing the fine had been missed and that the applicant company could not be held responsible for violations of the law on competition and of the tfeu.the applicant company argued, inter alia, that the law on competition set the most serious economic sanctions of all those provided under the lithuanian legal system and that such high fines threatened the continuity of the activities of economic entities and that because of that it was logical that the law provided that the limitation period could not be suspended or renewed.as regards the limitation period and its calculation, the court held that the investigation into the applicant company’s activities had been started on 15 july 2004. the competition council was of the view that the limitation period had not started running before 22 december 2005 and that even if it had, it must have stopped when the competition council had adopted its decision (see paragraph 8 above).because the competition council had investigated the applicant company’s activities between 2002 and 2004, the court held that the last violation had been committed by the applicant company on 31 december 2004. the court also observed that the competition council had not proved that the violation had continued after 31 december 2004, and did not accept its arguments that the applicant company’s violation had been continuous or that the limitation period had not started running at all.the court then emphasised the importance of the principle of res judicata – that is to say the factual and legal aspects had been examined in another decision of the court and had to be accepted, and that a party to the proceedings or another person who had participated in the case (where the parties to the proceedings were the same) could rely on that court’s decision without having to prove the same circumstances again.however, the court held: “in the opinion of the extended composition of the court, the reasoning provided in the dairy products case is not applicable to the present case firstly, because of the abovementioned arguments regarding the influence of the decision of 13 may 2010 and the principle of res judicata.a520‑2136/2012 the court has examined the legality of the decision of the competition council whereby the economic entity was suspected of a breach of the provisions of the law on competition and in the instant case the applicant company is suspected of breaching both the law on competition and the tfeu.in the opinion of the extended composition of the court, this circumstance also determined the conclusion that the two cases are substantively different and the decision, taken in one of them, cannot be a precedent in determining the other one.” the court thus decided that the competition council’s ruling that (i) the limitation period had not expired and (ii) the applicant company could be held liable for the breaches of the law on competition had been lawful.
8.  at the time the application was lodged, the applicants held shares with an aggregate par value of 2,043,342,000 hungarian forints (huf), approximately 6,310,000 euros (eur), representing 98.28% of the total registered capital of kinizsi bank and shares with an aggregate par value of huf 1,833,300,000, approximately eur 5,662,000, representing 87.65% of the total registered capital of mohácsi bank, and shares with an aggregate par value of huf 8,100,000, approximately eur 25,000, representing 5.61% of the total share capital of pátria cooperative.instead, it introduced a mandatory integration headed by, inter alia, the integration organisation of cooperative credit institutions (szövetkezeti hitelintézetek integrációs szervezete  “the integration organisation”), which had been newly created as a legal successor of otiva and other voluntary institutional protection funds, and the savings bank, which continued to be the central bank of the integration, now having more extensive powers.19.  the savings bank supervises the operations of the cooperative credit institutions and is authorised to issue instructions in order to ensure compliance with the law and the regulations issued by the integration organisation and the savings bank.due to the changes in the ownership of the savings bank pursuant to the integration act (see in particular, sections 13 and 20, cited in paragraph 39 below) the shareholding of kinizsi bank and mohácsi bank in the savings bank changed.moreover, following the amendment of the integration act, the cooperative credit institutions were obliged to deposit an amount equivalent to the value of the share capital they had had at the time of the establishment of their membership in the integration organisation to a separate account at the savings bank for 730 days (sections 11(7) and (8), and 20/a(12) and (13) of the integration act; see also paragraph 43 below).following the entry into force of the integration act, the savings bank’s capital was increased by huf 654,986,000 to huf 3,389,704,000 (approximately eur 10 million) from the previous amount of huf 2,735,038,000. out of this capital increase, the state-owned hungary post (magyar posta) exercised its statutory subscription rights and acquired ordinary shares with an aggregate par value of huf 654,666,000 (approximately eur 2 million), almost 20% of the savings bank’s shares (see section 20 of the integration act, cited in paragraph 39 below).27.  for a resolution by the board of directors and supervisory board of the cooperative credit institutions to be valid, an invitation to the relevant meeting of the board of directors or supervisory board, together with all related material, must be simultaneously sent to the savings bank (section 15/a of the integration act).minutes of the general meetings and meetings of the board of directors of the cooperative credit institutions must always be submitted to the savings bank, and minutes of the supervisory board meetings must be sent to the savings bank in certain cases.28.  the shareholders of the cooperative credit institutions may take, inter alia, the following resolutions subject to consent/approval of the savings bank: - the adoption of the annual financial report of the company (section 15(11) and 17/j(2) of the integration act); - the issuing of bonds (section 17/k(1) of the integration act); - decreases or increases of capital (ibid.); - any payment to the shareholders under any legal title (e.g. dividends, reduction of capital) in connection with their status as shareholders (see section 17/q(3) and (4) of the integration act, cited in paragraph 39 below); - the conversion, merger or demerger of the company (section 17/s(3) of the integration act); and - acquisition of own shares (section 17/q(6) of the integration act).31.  the integration organisation is authorised to define the level of the cooperative credit institutions’ solvency capital on an individual case‑by‑case (not consolidated) basis (section 17/c(1); if they do not reach the level defined, the integration organisation is authorised to increase the capital of the cooperative credit institutions, or take certain other measures (see section 17/c(2), cited in paragraph 39 below).32.  as to the actual application of the measures provided for by the integration act, the government submitted the following information: (i)  there have been altogether 151 cases in which cooperative credit institutions sought the consent of the integration organisation for the appointment of board members; in ten cases the consent was refused, affecting seven cooperative credit institutions.(ii)  executive officers of cooperative credit institutions were removed in nine cases; four of these affected cooperative credit institutions where the capital adequacy ratio was largely insufficient, which led to a capital injection by the integration organisation in three cases and a merger with another cooperative credit institution in the fourth case; in the remaining five cases, executive officers were removed for breaches of the relevant legislation.(iii)  in eight cases the savings bank refused to consent to the payment of dividends; the reasons were: (a) non-compliance with the relevant legislation (two cases, including kinizsi bank (see paragraph 35 below)), (b) the risk of not fulfilling the business plan (four cases), (c) the risk of not fulfilling the business plan but allowing for the payment of a limited amount of dividends (two cases, including mohácsi bank (see paragraph 35 below)).(vi)  in two cases, not concerning kinizsi bank and mohácsi bank, the savings bank refused to consent to the payment of the shares’ value in a cooperative credit institution for members who had exited the institution, finding that the payment would have jeopardised the fulfillment of the capital adequacy ratio requirements.
4.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.5.  the applicant was born in baku, azerbaijan, in 1992 and came to russia in 2003, together with his mother and grandmother.6.  on 7 february 2014 the kirovskiy district court in st petersburg found the applicant guilty of illegally residing in russia, which was an offence article 18.8 § 3 of the code of administrative offences, imposed a fine on him and ordered his administrative removal from russia.pending his removal, the applicant was to be detained in the special facility for the detention of aliens (сувсиг уфмс по спб и ло) located in krasnoye selo in the leningrad region.7.  on 12 february 2014 the federal migration service requested the consulate general of azerbaijan in st petersburg to submit information about the applicant’s nationality.replying to that inquiry, on 14 april 2014 the consulate confirmed that the applicant was not a national of that state.8.  on 19 may 2014 a bailiff asked the district court in st petersburg to discontinue the enforcement proceedings because the applicant could not be issued with travel documents or removed from russia.9.  by a judgment of 17 july 2014, as upheld on appeal on 30 october 2014, the st petersburg courts refused to discontinue the proceedings, finding that the bailiff had not shown that she had taken sufficient measures to secure the applicant’s removal.10.  on 7 august 2014 counsel for the applicant asked the st petersburg city court to review the kirovskiy district court’s judgment by way of supervisory review, to annul the sanction of administrative removal and to release the applicant.counsel pleaded in particular that the applicant’s removal was not a realistic prospect and that his continued detention could only be justified if deportation proceedings were genuinely in progress.noting that the applicant was not an azerbaijani national, the judge found that his removal was not feasible and that his detention was likely to become indefinite.he amended the judgment, replacing the removal with the requirement to leave russia voluntarily under control.initially it had accommodated twelve persons but their number rose to seventeen in november when they started renovating the cells on the seventh and eighth floors of the facility.detainees had to remain within the floor on which their cell was located; they could not go outside or to other floors.outdoor exercise was limited to a fifteen-minute walk once a week because there was not enough staff to supervise the detainees.
10.  as transpires from the medical records and the prosecutor’s decision of 19 december 2014 (also see paragraph 44 below), at 8.08 a.m. on 15 april 2008 officers at biržai police station called an ambulance, which arrived at the scene within a couple of minutes, at 8.12 a.m. the paramedics indicated in the medical report and also later testified during the pre-trial investigation that they had examined m.p.’s body at 8.12 a.m.: the body had been found lying on the floor, had shown no signs of breathing or a pulse, the pupils had been dilated and had not reacted to light, the neck had shown signs of strangulation, post-mortem discoloration had set in, as had rigor mortis.the expert examination was performed the following day, 16 april 2008. the expert, who was from the panevėžys branch of the mykolas romeris university forensic-medicine institute (mykolo romerio universiteto teismo medicinos instituto panevėžio skyrius), concluded that the cause of m.p.’s death had been mechanical asphyxiation as a result of his neck being squeezed by a noose.23.  as to the possible criminal liability under article 229 of the criminal code (see paragraph 52 below) on the part of the police, the prosecutor took into account the conclusions of the internal investigation to the effect that the officers d.m.24.  on the basis of an appeal by the applicant, who had argued that during such a flawed pre-trial investigation her suspicions that her son had been murdered had only become stronger, by a ruling of 13 may 2010 the panevėžys regional court in a public hearing again annulled the prosecutor’s decision to discontinue the criminal proceedings.25.  having performed an additional examination of the bed sheet in the light of all available evidence, such as the witnesses’ statements, the photographs from the scene and expert reports, by a decision of 6 september 2010 the prosecutor again discontinued the pre-trial investigation into the circumstances of m.p.’s death.29.  in the meantime, the applicant lodged an application to have a pre-trial investigation on the charges of failure to perform official duties (article 229 of the criminal code, see paragraph 52 below) opened in respect of the prosecutors who had earlier discontinued the pre-trial investigation.more importantly, in this case, once the courts had annulled the prosecutors’ decisions to discontinue criminal investigation, the prosecutors had continued the pre-trial investigation and the actions which the court had ordered had been carried out.30.  on 10 february 2011 the rokiškis county district court allowed an application by the applicant’s lawyer to have a medical expert evaluate the results of the second reconstruction (see paragraph 27 above) in order to answer the question as to whether in hanging himself in the manner shown during the second reconstruction m.p.’s neck bones should have broken.having performed the examination of the second reconstruction report and the additional autopsy report (see, respectively, paragraphs 14 and 27 above), on 27 november 2011 the expert concluded that he could not answer the question posed by the applicant’s lawyer, because the question was speculative.32.  by a final ruling of 6 april 2012 the panevėžys regional court rejected an appeal by the applicant and upheld the part of the prosecutor’s decision regarding the refusal to open a criminal investigation in respect of the actions of officers d.m.43.  as instructed by the rokiškis county district court on 25 november 2013, the experts at the state forensic-medicine service (valstybinės teismo medicinos tarnyba) had been given the material of the pre-trial-investigation file, which had amounted to four volumes, to perform an expert examination of the cause of m.p.’s death.should have occurred while he was in a vertical or similar position, as proven by the location of the post-mortem discolouration, and that the bruises on m.p.’s back could have been caused when he was in the noose and his back came into contact with the frame of the bunk bed during his convulsions.as to the injuries to m.p.’s wrists, which the applicant alleged had been inflicted during handcuffing, the experts had explained that those had appeared after the first autopsy when m.p.’s hands had been bound during preparation of his body for burial, which was the usual practice.on the basis of the documentary evidence – photographs of m.p.’s corpse from the scene, the bailiff’s statements of 16 april 2008 (see paragraph 15 above) and the additional autopsy report (see paragraph 14 above) – the experts also categorically and officially stated that there had been no bruising around m.p.’s eyes, unlike what had been claimed by the applicant.48.  having examined the available material, which included both the criminal case-file regarding the theft and the material of the criminal case-file concerning the circumstances of m.p.’s death, the internal investigator concluded that there was no information which could lead to a conclusion of any kind of abuse of m.p.
4.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.5.  the applicant was born in dushanbe, tajikistan, in 1971 and came to russia in 1993. he graduated from a vocational training college in the arkhangelsk region.6.  on 14 august 2014 the directorate of the federal migration service for the arkhangelsk region declared applicant’s stay in the russia undesirable (“the exclusion order”).7.  since the applicant failed to depart voluntarily, on 2 october 2014 the plesetskiy district court in the arkhangelsk region found him guilty of failing to leave russia within the specified time-limit, which was an offence article 18.8 § 1.1 of the code of administrative offences, imposed a fine on him and ordered his administrative removal from russia.pending his removal, the applicant was to be detained in a special facility for the detention of aliens.on 7 october the applicant was transferred to the krasnoye selo facility in the leningrad region (сувсиг уфмс по спб и ло).9.  replying to an inquiry from the federal migration service, on 12 november 2014 the embassy of tajikistan confirmed that the applicant was not a national of that state.subsequently, a bailiff asked the district court in st petersburg to discontinue the enforcement proceedings because the applicant could not be issued with travel documents or removed from russia.on 4 december 2014 the oktyabrskiy district court refused her application, finding that it had not been shown that the bailiff had taken sufficient measures to secure the applicant’s removal.10.  on 8 may 2015 counsel for the applicant asked the plesetskiy district court to discontinue the enforcement of the removal and detention order.it considered that even an apatride could be removed from russia and that the length of the applicant’s detention had not been unreasonable.6-p of 17 february 1998), it held that the removal and detention order should have set the maximum period of the applicant’s detention.it found that enforcement was no longer feasible because the applicant was not a national of tajikistan and that he had already spent a long time in the detention centre.the district court discontinued the execution of the removal and detention order and ordered the applicant’s release.14.  in so far as the parties’ descriptions of the conditions of the applicant’s detention coincided or were undisputed, they may be summarised as follows.
8.  having learnt that a site division and urban development plan (plano de pormenor) encompassing the land of company f. had been drawn up by the municipality of aveiro, former employees of the company, including some of the applicants, applied to the aveiro court on 12 december 1997, requesting that it wait for the plan to be approved before ordering the sale of company f.’s assets.10.  in a decision of 7 november 2000 the aveiro court authorised the suspension of the sale (see paragraph 8 above) until the approval of the site division and urban development plan.16.  on 29 july 2009 the municipality of aveiro, the body of creditors and company g. entered into an agreement for the exchange of land between company f., company g., a neighbouring company, and the aveiro municipality.19.  on 6 december 2011 the court ordered the judicial liquidator to provide information on the state of the proceedings.20.  since the judicial liquidator had not replied to the previous request, on 6 march 2012 the court ordered him to urgently provide information on the state of the proceedings, giving him a ten-day time-limit.21.  in the absence of any reply to the two previous requests, on 17 april 2012 the court ordered the judicial liquidator to provide information on the state of the proceedings, and also ordered that he would be fined if he did not provide such a reply.25.  on 12 june 2012 the judge ordered the judicial liquidator to draw up a report indicating the detailed amounts to be allocated to each creditor in the light of the supreme court of justice’s judgment (see paragraph 13 above).26.  following the aveiro commercial court insisting that the judicial liquidator provide information on the progress regarding contact with real-estate companies by way of three notifications (sent to him on 27 september, 19 october and 19 november 2012), on 16 january 2013 he informed the court that only one real-estate company had expressed interest in mediating the sale of the property.28.  on 18 december 2013 the judicial liquidator informed the court that contact by email had been made with 119 real-estate companies, and offers to acquire the property were to be received until 15 january 2014. in the meantime, the court had sent him three notifications in that regard – on 21 may, 10 july and 11 november 2013.30.  in reply to the judicial liquidator’s information, on 11 july 2014 the judge ordered him to provide information on the amount already obtained as proceeds of the liquidation (produto da liquidação), by reference to real estate or movable property, in order to assess the practical effects of distributing those amounts among the creditors.31.  meanwhile, on 30 september and 9 october 2015 the judicial liquidator was summoned in two sets of tax enforcement proceedings against company f. 32.  on 23 november 2016 the judicial liquidator informed the court of the two sets of tax enforcement proceedings which were ongoing.34.  on 1 september 2017 the court insisted that the judicial liquidator provide information on the state of the proceedings.37.  on 11 september 1996 the applicants and other individuals (represented in the present case by their heirs) identified by numbers 1 to 131 in the annex lodged an application with the court to complain about the duration of the proceedings at issue before the aveiro court.38.  in a judgment of 8 june 2000, the court found a violation of article 6 § 1 of the convention on account of the excessive length of the proceedings, awarding each applicant the sum of 900,000 portuguese escudos (pte – about eur 4,489) in respect of non-pecuniary damage and pte 313,840 (about eur 1,565) to the first applicant for costs and expenses.40.  by resolution cm/resdh(2016)149 adopted on 8 june 2016 at the 1259th meeting of the ministers’ deputies, the committee of ministers declared that it had exercised its functions under article 46, paragraph 2 of the convention in respect of application no.
4.  the applicant was born in 1935 and lives in the town of snizhne, donetsk region.5.  on 14 january 2004 the applicant’s son, born in 1967, was found dead in the applicant’s barn.on the same day police officers inspected the scene and reported that the man had committed suicide by hanging.6.  on 24 january 2004 the investigator of the snizhne prosecutor’s office, following the pre-investigation inquiries, refused to initiate criminal proceedings on the grounds that no elements of a crime had been established in relation to the death of the applicant’s son.7.  on 11 february 2004, following a forensic medical examination, an expert concluded that the applicant’s son’s death had been caused by strangulation by a loop of rope, possibly as a result of the applicant’s son’s body weight pulling against the rope.8.  on 5 april 2005 the donetsk regional prosecutor’s office quashed the decision of 24 january 2004 (see paragraph 6 above) as premature and unfounded, finding that further pre-investigation inquiries were necessary given that the possible reasons for suicide had not been examined, and other relatives as well as acquaintances of the deceased had not been questioned either.9.  in the course of further pre-investigation inquiries, between 2005 and 2012, the investigators took measures to establish the circumstances of the applicant’s son’s death.the experts opined that all those fractures had been inflicted after the applicant’s son’s death, possibly during the exhumation of the body.the applicant’s husband informed the authorities that when he had seen his dead son in the barn, the corpse of his son had been in a sitting position and the rope loop had not been tightened.she advanced different theories, suspecting notably: police security guards who had allegedly taken the applicant’s son from a local bar, following which he had been found dead; a local police officer who had engaged in a dispute with the applicant’s son; a woman who had been employed by the applicant’s son in his textile business and her husband; the applicant’s son’s brothers-in-law; a business partner of the applicant’s son; and people from a local gambling club (the applicant’s son had been engaged in transporting money from the club to another town).10.  on 25 april 2005, 26 march 2006, 20 august 2008, 17 february and 12 december 2011, 15 february 2012 and 17 september 2012, following the pre-investigation inquiries, the investigators refused to initiate criminal proceedings on the grounds that no elements of a crime had been established.11.  on 7 december 2012 the applicant, relying on the new code of criminal procedure of 2012, requested that an investigation be opened in respect of the alleged murder of her son.in particular, on 5 december 2013 the snizhne town court quashed the decision of 30 september 2013 after finding that the investigation had not been thorough and comprehensive.the court noted the theory of the possible involvement of the local police had not been properly examined, the role of the applicant’s son’s brother-in-law had not been clarified even though he might have been the first to find the dead body, the applicant had not been questioned on all the issues which were relevant to the case, and the evidence relating to the applicant’s son’s suicidal tendencies had not been assessed.13.  on 1 april 2014 the criminal proceedings were closed one more time on the ground that no elements of a crime could be established.
9.  on 11 february 2013 the director of the public registry (also defendant in the proceedings) requested the court to order that the parties submit themselves to the genetic tests as provided by article 100a of the civil code, and for the applicant to submit his details, which would be required to make the relevant changes to x.’s birth certificate, if the court had to find in x.’s favour.she claimed that in 1978 on having knowledge that the applicant was going to be in malta she went to meet him at the airport – on that day she had seen him arrive with his family, and noted the resemblance between herself and one of the applicant’s daughters.in particular, he argued that article 100a of the civil code (which referred back to article 70a of the same code) breached his rights under article 8 of the convention, and requested the court to refer the matter to the constitutional jurisdictions.neither had it looked at the lawfulness of the measure and the legitimate aim – in this connection he contended that since the requirement to order the test was mandatory (unless it concerned a minor), it deprived the judge making such order of any possibility to balance out the interests at play and to decide according to his or her discretion.while it had focused mostly on the legal aspects of the case, it did not mean that it had not considered the factual elements pertinent to the case, and indeed its conclusions had specifically referred to the case at issue and were not general.24.  as had been noted by the first-instance court, the constitutional court referred to the fact that x. wished for a number of years to find the truth about an important aspect of her personal identity; she also wished to amend her birth certificate which read “unknown father” (and was thus, in her view, incorrect) to avoid further humiliation every time she had to present such certification.on the other hand, save for his old age, the humiliation of undergoing the test [a buccal swab], and the havoc the confirmation of such paternity would cause, the applicant had not referred to any further negative effects.on the other hand the applicant had not put forward reasons which were sufficiently valid to find that the application in his case of article 100a would breach his rights under article 8. reiterating the findings in pascaud (cited above), the constitutional court emphasized that the interest of a presumed father was not, alone, a sufficient argument to deprive the applicant [a person seeking to establish paternity] of her article 8 rights.thus, the application of the relevant law to the applicant’s case would be justified given that the aim was precisely to establish the identity of the x. and safeguard her patrimonial interest, if it were to be found that she was the applicant’s daughter.26.  in that light and bearing in mind the applicant’s submissions that article 70a(2) of the civil code excluded any exercise of discretion by the court ordering the test, the constitutional court considered that while it was not excluded that there might be cases where the necessary application (applikazzjoni tassativa) of article 70a(2) of the civil code may result in a breach of article 8, namely where a fair balance has not been reached between the interests at play, in the present case it was not so, given the factual circumstances of the present case.30.  the applicant submitted to the test and according to a report of the expert issued on 21 february 2017 (submitted to the ecthr) the probability of paternity, namely of the applicant being x.’s father, was 99.9998%.31.  from the minutes of the hearing of 6 april 2017, it appears that the expert could not attend that hearing, so the court authorised her to submit the report, and confirm it on oath, at the court’s registry; the court also solicited the applicant’s details.32.  on 21 june 2017 civil court (family section) declared that x. was the biological child of the applicant and ordered the director for public registry to make the necessary changes in the act of birth of x. so to include the details of the applicant.the court judgment referred to the sworn statements of x. and y. as well as to the dna report, and the failure of the applicant to make submissions, opting to limit himself to submitting his personal details.the court noted that x. and y.’s testimony had not been rebutted as the applicant failed to submit his testimony, and the applicant’s initial objection had been contradicted by the result of the dna test, which corroborated the witness testimony, particularly that of y.
18.  in consequence, the cds issued the following conclusions: “it is undisputed that the detainee speaks only german, and that the medical, welfare and prison staff in the institution in which he is detained are unable to provide him with any therapeutic or welfare assistance; that he has been abandoned to his fate without any treatment since his arrival in paifve (on 21 january 2004), although some individuals have, on a voluntary basis, made considerable efforts to explain to him his situation, which he experiences as an injustice; in the present case, the two-fold legal aim of the compulsory confinement, namely protection of society and of the patient’s health, can only be achieved if the deprivation of liberty is accompanied by the treatment necessitated by the detainee’s mental health; since this dual condition is not fulfilled, [mr] rooman’s detention is unlawful; ...” 19.  the cds postponed its examination of the application for conditional discharge until a hearing to be held in september 2006, pending the appointment of german-speaking employees to the paifve eds.the medical reports and [dr ro.’s] expert report [of 21 january 2009] indicate that rooman, who continues to present a danger to society, cannot be discharged without support and preparation in an institutional setting, something that cannot currently be provided in belgium, but is available abroad.” 24.  in view of those findings, the cds invited the eupen remand prison to prepare, together with the applicant, a plan for conditional discharge, and requested that the authorities rapidly take the necessary measures to improve the applicant’s situation.no satisfactory follow-up has been given to the requests by the [social protection] board for an end to be put to this unlawful situation for mr rooman, who is deprived of his freedom in order, on the one hand, to protect society from possible dangerous conduct by him, and on the other, to provide him with the treatment necessary for his reinsertion; ... in the light of the authorities’ failure, the question now before the board is whether there exists, outside the social-protection facility, a unit or persons who could provide home-based therapy for mr rooman; ...” 26.  in consequence, and pointing out that german was one of the national languages of belgium and that the applicant was thus entitled to speak, be understood and receive treatment in that language, the cds asked the eupen remand prison to search in and around verviers and eupen for either a mental health unit, or a doctor or clinic, which could provide home‑based therapy for the applicant in his mother tongue.it found as follows: “it follows from the report [from the psychosocial department] of 30 march 2010 that, except for occasional meetings with a welfare officer “who speaks german”, the detainee has no social contact in his language and that he has had no opportunity for several months to converse and to gain a fresh perspective in the outside world; the doctor and psychologist who signed this report do not seem particularly convinced of progress in the ‘ongoing measures (taken) by the department to enable a german‑psychologist to intervene occasionally to provide care for the german‑speaking patients in the eds’; mr rooman’s situation is deadlocked: an ill individual, he is detained in a prison medical institution where no one is able to provide the treatment to which he is entitled; the minister and his departments are turning a deaf ear, with no concern for the despair to which this manifestly unjust attitude may lead; in spite of the unlawfulness of mr rooman’s detention, his health condition means that discharge cannot be envisaged unless it is accompanied by therapy and practical support; the [social protection] board has no powers, firstly, to restore the detainee’s basic rights, namely, the rights to liberty, health care and respect for his humanity; and secondly, to compel the minister to put an end to this situation, which his administration has been fully aware of for more than six years.” 30.  the cds decided, while “remaining open to any proposals”, to leave the applicant’s situation unchanged; in other words, it rejected his application for discharge.it follows that execution of the compulsory confinement measure does not become unlawful solely because it is implemented in one of the institutions created by the government for that purpose, rather than in another institution specifically designated for the treatment it may provide.” 37.  the court of cassation declared inadmissible the argument alleging a violation of article 3 of the convention, on the grounds that examining it would require a factual verification of the conditions in which the applicant was detained and such an examination fell outside the scope of its jurisdiction.it noted that, since those reports were drawn up, the various attempts to resolve the language problem had not succeeded in securing a significant improvement in the applicant’s health: his rare outings accompanied by a german-speaking member of the prison staff had been abandoned, since this employee was no longer available and had not been replaced; attempts to find a german-language institution, doctor or therapist had met with failure; no follow-up seemed to have been given to the commitment that a minimum number of german-speaking staff were to be recruited, and the applicant had, of his own accord, declined the assistance of the german-speaking welfare officer with whom he had occasionally met.while, as [the applicant] points out in his submissions, it is for the relevant authorities to take all the necessary measures for his health, it is not, however, within the [social protection] board’s powers to discharge a detainee who claims to be the victim of shortcomings on the part of the authorities... nor does the board have jurisdiction to issue orders to the authorities or to third parties, [or] to reprimand them for their actions or shortcomings ...” 41.  on 3 april 2014 the csds upheld the cds’s decision.the continued compulsory confinement in an eds suited to his medical condition of an individual who would represent a danger to the public in the event of discharge, when his mental condition has not sufficiently improved and the conditions for his social rehabilitation are not met, is not unlawful and does not amount to a violation of the provisions of the [convention].” 42.  on 25 june 2014 the court of cassation quashed the decision by the csds on the grounds that it had not addressed the applicant’s argument that he was not receiving care appropriate to his situation, in view of the fact that he spoke and understood only german and that no german-speaking staff members were available in the facility where he was being held.43.  on 22 july 2014 the csds issued an interlocutory order, requesting the cds to appoint a group of german-speaking experts to update the psychiatric report of 21 january 2009. it invited the director of the paifve eds institution to take all the necessary measures to ensure that the requisite care was made available to the applicant, by at least providing the services of a german-speaking psychiatrist and psychologist.47.  the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law against that decision, which the court of cassation dismissed in a judgment of 28 october 2015. the court of cassation restated the csds’s conclusions and specified that, having regard to the reasons given by it, it was not necessary to examine the applicant’s submissions alleging a violation of articles 3 and 5 of the convention.... one can of course always hope that in [the applicant’s] case, permanent support and appropriate treatment in the german language could improve his personality disorder somewhat, but, to repeat, i am more of the opinion that with this type of paranoid personality disorder, paranoia with anti-social traits, positive progress is unlikely.” 51.  in an order of 10 october 2014, the president of the court noted that, until september 2014, the applicant had had no access to a psychiatrist who could communicate with him in german.he had had access to an external german-speaking psychologist between may and november 2010. the president noted that the consultations with that psychologist had ended, not because the applicant no longer wished to attend them, as alleged by the state in its pleadings, but because of the belgian state’s late payment of the psychologist’s fees and expenses, and that the consultations had resumed in july 2014. he noted that, until april 2010, the applicant had benefitted from the presence and care of a german-speaking nurse, who had in the meantime left the paifve eds, but that since august 2014 the same nurse had been authorised to accompany the applicant on outings.equally, at the risk of disregarding the lived experience of the person suffering from a mental disorder, [the applicant’s] stable conduct within the institution does not suffice to establish that he received appropriate treatment for his condition.” 56.  finding that this absence of treatment had caused the applicant mental suffering, the court ordered the state to pay him 75,000 euros (eur), an amount assessed ex aequo et bono, in compensation for the period from january 2010 to october 2014. it is unclear from the case file on what date this judgment was served on the parties.... there remain obstacles to [the applicant’s] discharge, namely: - the lack of prospects for social reintegration, given his mental disorder ... - the risk that offences will be committed ... - the risk that he will harass the victims, and his attitude towards the victims of the offences which resulted in his compulsory confinement ...” 65.  on those grounds, the cps dismissed the main request for final discharge and held that it was also inappropriate to grant conditional discharge.69.  with regard to psychological treatment in german, the applicant had attended nine meetings with a psychologist in 2010, and nine other meetings in 2014-2015. between 18 august 2017 and 12 march 2018, the date on which the government’s observations were submitted, the applicant had had monthly meetings with this psychologist, the most recent, according to the information provided to the court at the public hearing on 6 june 2018, being on 20 march and 27 april 2018. for his part, the applicant stated that he had had no further meetings since march, and submitted that the last meeting had taken place in february 2018.
he was brought back to the hsc by his brother-in-law at around 1.30 p.m. in the second and third week of that stay at the hsc, given an improvement in a.j.’s condition, the restrictive regime was lifted and he was allowed to circulate outside the pavilion and within the hsc grounds.the poor organisation was reflected in three aspects: a) the lack of fencing around the boundaries of the hospital, which allowed inpatients to leave the hospital easily without any supervision, b) the lack of a mechanism for checking the presence of inpatients which would allow the hospital staff to notice an absence immediately, and c) the lack of an emergency procedure capable of detecting an inpatient’s absence, which would allow the hospital staff to adopt the effective measures required to ensure that the inpatient was returned safely without endangering the lives of others or his own life.the fact that the patient had been on antidepressant treatment for more than two weeks, had wandered around the hospital without ever endangering his life, and the fact that there is nothing in the medical records on suicidal thoughts, does not mean that the probability of that event (suicide) was negligible.in a patient who wanders around the hospital and whose symptomatology is not suggestive of imminent suicide, where that probability (of suicide) is higher but is not so increased at that moment (considering the background and the characteristics of the patient), prevention is much more difficult.” 34.  the first hearing took place on 8 october 2008. the applicant and the psychiatrist who had issued the above medical opinion gave evidence at the hearing.in this regard it held that the lack of security fences or walls was: “in line with modern theories of psychiatric science according to which the treatment of patients suffering from mental disorders must take place in an atmosphere of trust and mobility of movements, in physical conditions which promote the freedom and autonomy of movements, and which favours the interaction and the conviviality between patients and the staff in order to encourage [the patient’s] reintegration; monitoring of these patients must be conducted in a discreet way”.39.  as to the applicant’s complaint regarding the lack of a mechanism capable of checking the presence of inpatients, the court found that the hsc had a surveillance procedure in place which consisted of verifying the inpatients’ presence at meal and medication times; this was in compliance with recent psychiatric science and respected the inpatients’ right to privacy and dignity.additionally, the court found that the inpatients in respect of whom a specific restrictive regime of hospitalisation was adopted were given more attention by the nursing team and the medical assistants, who verified their presence inside the building where they were hospitalised or in the areas surrounding the building’s entrance, as the case may be.according to the coimbra administrative court, the fact that he had been admitted to the emergency department of the coimbra university hospital because he had consumed a large amount of alcohol had not been the result of a suicide attempt but of reckless behaviour.therefore, in our opinion, the impugned judgment has erred in considering for the purpose of assessing the level of monitoring required from the defendant, that a.j.’s suicide was an absolutely unexpected and unforeseen fact and by holding that there were no grounds to increase the monitoring in the particular case.– a regime which could be suited to preventing any possible exit from the hospital, ... this enhanced surveillance, which aims at protecting the patient, is part of the therapeutic obligation of the hospital and it does not conflict with the open-door regime as a treatment method applied to patients in the circumstances in which it is considered suitable.” 43.  regarding the facts which the applicant had relied on concerning several hsc inpatients who had left without permission and the resulting tragic consequences, the opinion noted that those elements should not be taken into consideration.it is therefore possible to conclude that the defendant did not establish or put in place any monitoring measure which could be considered adequate to the status of a psychiatric hospital and to a.j.’s characteristics as a patient – it could and should have done so.” 44.  on 29 may 2014 the administrative supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal by two votes to one, upholding the legal and factual findings of the coimbra administrative court.45.  the administrative supreme court considered that the practice of counting of inpatients at meal and medication times was sufficient and had allowed the hospital staff to verify a.j.’s attendance during lunch and the afternoon snack on 27 april 2000. it rejected the applicant’s argument that counting the inpatients when they were given their meal trays with their meals was “deeply amateurish”.as to the foreseeability of the suicide, the administrative supreme court held that the hsc had not breached any duty of care, as there had been no indication which could have led the hospital staff to suspect that the applicant’s son would try to commit suicide that day, namely by leaving the hospital grounds.however, according to the doctors who testified in the domestic proceedings and the government’s observations, there were two types of regime for voluntary inpatients: a restrictive regime, according to which inpatients were not allowed to leave the pavilion, and a general regime, allowing inpatients to leave the building after informing the duty nurse, although they were still not allowed to leave the grounds of the hsc without permission.the first five articles below had already been submitted to the domestic authorities (see paragraph 44 above where the administrative supreme court found the information contained therein to be irrelevant to the decision in the instant case): (i)  on 9 march 2008 the body of an inpatient who had escaped two weeks earlier was found close to the hospital grounds (in diário de coimbra); (ii)  on 29 october 2008 a man escaped from the hsc and was hit by a car after jumping in front of it (in diário das beiras); (iii)  on 31 july 2008 the body of an inpatient who had escaped from the hospital the previous month was found in a river (in diário de coimbra); (iv)  on 14 august 2008 a patient who had been involuntarily hospitalised in the hsc escaped (in diário de coimbra); (v)  in early march 2010 three different inpatients escaped from the hospital; one of them was located by the police after stealing a car and another was found dead in a nearby river (in bombeirospontopt); (vi)  on 16 october 2011 an inpatient escaped from the hsc’s grounds and attacked two police officers with a hoe (in correio da manhã); (vii)  on 1 march 2015 two inpatients escaped from the hsc and stole a car (in tvi24).
6.  on 7 may 2007 the applicant company and company s. concluded a contract, under which the applicant company had to carry out construction work on the premises of company h. 7.  on 18 january 2008 the applicant company initiated compensation proceedings against company s. in the yerevan civil court (“the civil court”), arguing that it had completed the construction work as required by the contract of 7 may 2007, but company s. had failed to make full payment for the work.9.  on 20 february 2008 the civil court ordered a forensic technical examination of the construction work which the applicant company had carried out on the premises of company h., and stayed the proceedings.in particular, the court ordered the experts to measure the surface area of the construction work and assess the quality of the construction work carried out.10.  on 11 march 2008 the expert in charge of conducting the forensic examination filed a letter with the civil court, stating that it was necessary for the civil court to ensure his access to the premises of company h. for the purposes of the examination, as that company was not a party to the civil proceedings.13.  on 28 october 2008 the expert concluded that, owing to the lack of opportunity to access the premises of company h., it had not been possible to carry out the forensic examination ordered by the civil court on 15 may 2008.18.  on 23 april 2009 the civil court of appeal quashed that judgment and remitted the case, reasoning, inter alia, that in the absence of an expert opinion on the questions posed by the civil court as regards the disputed construction work, that judgment was unfounded.20.  on 26 august 2009 the district court ordered a forensic technical examination of the construction work on the premises of company h., and stayed the proceedings.21.  on 31 may 2010 the expert concluded that, owing to the lack of opportunity to access the premises of company h., it had not been possible to carry out the forensic examination ordered by the district court on 26 august 2009.23.  on 16 july 2010 the district court ordered a forensic technical examination of the construction work on the premises of company h., and stayed the proceedings.the court ordered that the forensic examination be carried out with the help of the department for the enforcement of judicial acts (“the deja”).24.  on 21 june 2012 the expert concluded that, owing to the lack of access to the premises of company h., it had not been possible to carry out the forensic examination ordered by the district court on 16 july 2010.27.  on the same date the district court ordered a forensic technical examination of the construction work on the premises of company h., and stayed the proceedings.28.  on 25 november and 24 december 2014 the applicant company submitted a letter to the bureau, enquiring about the progress of the examination ordered by the district court.30.  on 28 february 2015 the applicant company submitted another letter to the bureau, reminding it that the examination had not yet been carried out and informing it about the delay that the lack of an expert examination had caused in the civil proceedings.32.  on 20 may 2015 the minister of justice responded by stating that even though it would take one day to carry out the expert examination and approximately five days to complete the report, the examination had not been carried out for reasons such as the lack of an expert in the bureau, the expert’s inability to access the premises of company h., the excessive workload in the bureau, and so on.
the relevant part of the decision read as follows: “on 12 january 2002, at approximately 6 p.m., a number of unidentified criminals murdered, using firearms, mr alvi bugayev near [the building at the address] 5 sovetskaya street in the town of urus-martan in the chechen republic; [after the murder] they left the crime scene in a white vaz car (model 2106).” 13.  on the same date (12 january 2002) the investigators questioned mr bugayev’s wife, ms z.s., who stated that the perpetrators of her husband’s killing had been those servicemen who had threatened to kill him.24.  on 11 may 2004, in reply to the above-mentioned request, the urus‑martan prosecutor informed the applicant that she had the right to familiarise herself with those contents of the case file that referred to steps taken with her participation but that the full contents of the case file would be accessible to her only after the completion of the investigation.as a result of that gunfire, colonel yunusov, who was on the hull, was wounded in the chest and died in hospital from his wounds ...” 52.  on 1 march 2002 the investigators ordered a ballistic examination of the bullet taken from mr yunusov’s body and of the handguns and machineguns of eleven police officers and ten servicemen from the military commander’s office implicated in the shooting.53.  between january and october 2002 the investigation questioned a number of witnesses to the incident, including military officers, and confirmed that colonel yunusov had been shot by the machinegun belonging to officer a.l., who at the time in question had been deployed on a temporary military mission to the chechen republic from the vologda region of the russian federation.55.  for instance, on 21 july 2005 the applicants’ representatives complained to the staropromyslovskiy district prosecutor of the lack of information concerning the investigation and the investigators’ failure to inform the applicants of the most important steps taken, such as the results of the expert examination of evidence and the questioning of key witnesses.61.  on 3 december 2007 the deputy prosecutor of the staropromyslovskiy district of grozny allowed the complaint in part, stating that before the completion of the investigation, the applicants were entitled to access only that part of the contents of the investigation file concerning steps taken with their participation.2 (orb-2) in grozny inform them of whether mr vakha t. was one of officers of the anti-organised crime department (рубоп) as, according to the witness statements, he had been one of the persons who had been present next to the place of the shooting at the time of the incident.90.  on 18 march 2005 the investigators requested that the commander of the west battalion of the chechen ministry of the interior provide (for the purposes of their being questioned) a list of the servicemen of that unit who had been manning the checkpoint at the time of the shooting.100.  on an unspecified date between 1 and 12 may 2005 the applicants lodged a complaint with the staropromyslovskiy district prosecutor, stating that the investigators had failed to take the following steps: “ ... [they have failed] 1.  to clarify the reasons for which on 27 or 28 january 2005 the television news broadcast stated that two illegal fighters had been killed and one had managed to abscond and to find out who provided the television channel with this information; 101.  on 12 may 2005 the investigators issued a plan of steps to be taken within the criminal investigation.108.  on 20 october 2005 the deputy staropromyslovskiy district prosecutor again overruled the suspension as premature and unlawful and ordered that the investigation be resumed in order for a number of steps to be taken, including the establishment of the identities and questioning of mr adlan g. and mr vakha t. it appears that those orders, other than the sending of formal requests for information to various law-enforcement agencies regarding whether they had conducted special operations on the date of the incident, were not complied with by the investigators.109.  on 20 november 2005 the investigators again questioned the fourth applicant, who reiterated his previous statements and added that the two grenades and bullets from the tt model pistol had been planted in the car of mr abiyev, mr atabayev and the third applicant during the crime scene examination.111.  on 4 december 2005 the deputy staropromyslovskiy district prosecutor again overruled the suspension as premature and unlawful and ordered that the investigation be resumed in order for a number of steps to be taken, including the establishing of the identities and the questioning of mr adlan g. and mr vakha t. it appears that those orders were not complied with.113.  on 15 may 2006 the deputy staropromyslovskiy district prosecutor again overruled the suspension as premature and unlawful and ordered that the investigation be resumed in order for a number of steps to be taken, including the establishing of the identities and the questioning of mr adlan g. and mr vakha t. it appears that those orders were not complied with.143.  from the copies of the contents of the investigation file it can be seen that the applicants regularly gave statements to the investigators and contacted them and their superiors, asking for information on the progress of the criminal proceedings.for instance, on 16 january 2010 the fourth applicant lodged a complaint with the russian prosecutor general, stating that the local law-enforcement agencies were stalling the investigation and trying to cover up the incident and their involvement in the killing of the local law‑enforcement officers.
their personal details are set out in the appendix.7.  since 1981 the applicants have lived in a flat in an apartment block provided to them under a social tenancy agreement by the ministry of defence of the russian federation.the landlord was under obligation to perform a major overhaul of the apartment block, and the applicants had to make regular payments for the major overhaul.8.  on the dates listed in the appendix the orenburgskiy district court of the orenburg region granted their claims, having noted from expert reports that the apartment block was “64%‒dilapidated” and its state was “unsatisfactory”, and that the flat was 64%‒dilapidated.the court found that the applicants’ living premises, as well as the common property of the apartment block required a major overhaul.the court ordered the federal state institution of the privolzhsko-uralskiy military circuit to perform the major overhaul of the applicants’ flat, as well as of the common property of the apartment block and of the “devices situated in the living premises and serving for provision of communal services” in the apartment block, and to pay each applicant 3,000 russian roubles (rub) in respect of non‑pecuniary damage.9.  according to the applicants’ observations, on 9 november 2011 the orenburgskiy district court awarded the claimants rub 490,155.43 (approximately 11.681 euros) of compensation of losses.they did not enclose a copy of the judgment or further details as to either the defendant, or the exact list of claimants, the scope of the judgment or its subsequent challenge on appeal by any of the parties.10.  in 2012 federal state treasury department (управление) of the privolzhsko-uralskiy military circuit became a legal successor of the debtor institution.11.  in 2012 the applicants sued various authorities for penalties for several years of the non-enforcement.by the final judgment of 5 february 2013 the orenburg regional court rejected their claims in full, having found that they were based on an incorrect interpretation of the domestic law and that the applicants had failed to submit a calculation of the penalty.12.  according to the government, in december 2013 the applicant’s house was included in a regional housing overhaul assistance program.the authorities prepared a project and the budget documentation, which were approved by the experts.13.  on 13 april 2015 ms konstantinova privatized the flat and acquired a title to it.14.  according to the government’s latest observations of 31 may 2017, the judgments had remained unenforced at the material time.
furthermore, it ordered the confiscation of the peugeot, in accordance with the provisions of article 3 (2) (c) (i) of the motor vehicles insurance (third party risks) ordinance (hereinafter “the ordinance”) (see relevant domestic law), since this was more than the third time in which m. was being found guilty of a crime under article 3 of the ordinance.as to the confiscation of the peugeot, the court of criminal appeal noted that the confiscation was a result of the above‑mentioned provision of law which provided that both the person as well as the vehicle must be insured.the court of magistrates did not order the confiscation of the toyota (which had already been seized by the police since 9 november 2011) on the ground that m. had used it without the consent of the owner, and thus ordered its release.11.  the attorney general (hereinafter referred to as “the ag”) appealed against part of the decision of the court of magistrates, requesting the court of criminal appeal to order the confiscation of the toyota; he also appealed with respect to the punishment imposed.he argued that there was no reason for the toyota not to be returned to him, since the first‑instance court had not ordered its confiscation and, according to law, the ag’s appeal did not suspend the execution of the judgment of the first‑instance court (article 416(4) of the criminal code) (see relevant domestic law).1, that the confiscation of the peugeot in the first set of criminal proceedings and the decision of the court of criminal appeal in the second set of criminal proceedings rejecting the request to release the toyota, pending the appeal proceedings, had been ‘unlawful’.1, the court held that the confiscation of the peugeot had been ordered by a final judgment of the court of criminal appeal in the first set of criminal proceedings and therefore there could be no doubt that the confiscation was in compliance with the law (article 3 of the ordinance).the fact that the provision ordered the confiscation of a vehicle used by a person caught driving without a licence or without insurance, even if the vehicle belonged to a company the perpetrator worked for, or the vehicle belonged to a family member with whom that perpetrator lived, struck the necessary balance and was an appropriate deterrent to the commission of crime.21.  regarding the claim for damages, the court concluded that the applicants must demand them from m., since m. was the one who had violated the law leading to the institution of the criminal proceedings with the ensuing consequences.the applicants further contended that the withholding of the toyota by the court of criminal appeal in the second set of criminal proceedings lacked a legal basis, which had not been remedied by the temporary order of the first‑instance constitutional jurisdiction.1. in connection with both vehicles, the court found that article 3 of the ordinance violated the same right in so far it permitted the confiscation of a vehicle, without the owner of the vehicle being given the opportunity to effectively contest the confiscation.the cost of the appeal proceedings before the constitutional court filed by the applicants were to be borne in the proportion of one fifth by the applicants and four fifths by the ag, and the costs of the appeal proceedings before the constitutional court filed by the ag were to be borne by him.1. while the confiscation of the peugeot had been lawful, it had however placed a disproportionate and excessive burden upon the applicant [company] thereby leading to a violation of its rights (especially since the applicants had no possibility of defending themselves in order to prevent the confiscation of the vehicle which was mandatory).furthermore, as a result of the decision of the court of criminal appeal in the second set of criminal proceedings, the constitutional court concluded that the seizure of that vehicle had been unnecessary and could not be justified as having been done in the interests of justice since no third party had suffered any damage.28.  in regard to the alleged violation of article 6 of the convention, the court noted that the fact that measures resulting from an act for which a third party (in this case m.) was prosecuted, affecting in an adverse manner the property rights of the applicants, could not in themselves lead to the conclusion that, during the course of the criminal proceedings complained of, any “criminal charge”, for the purpose of article 6, was brought against the applicants.
6.  on 21 april 2015 the applicants, with three others, sent written notification to the moscow mayor’s office of their intention to hold a demonstration with some 15,000 participants from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. on 6 may 2015 in bolotnaya square.after the expiry of the statutory period for the authority’s reply, on 28 april 2015 the applicants wrote a letter to the mayor’s office stating that they considered the event of 6 may 2015 to have been approved by the mayor.10.  according to the government, on 6 may 2015 the applicants, acting in a group of fifty people, organised and held a public assembly without prior notification being given to the authorities.the applicants called upon others to shout the slogans “freedom to political prisoners”, “death to fascists” and others; the second applicant held a banner stating that all “bolotnaya participants” were innocent.the applicants did not respond to the multiple demands by the police that they cease their actions, and at 7.35 p.m. they were taken to the yakimanka district police station.11.  according to the records of transfer to the police station (протоколы доставления) and the administrative arrest records, the first applicant was brought to the police station at 7.40 p.m. on 6 may 2015 and placed under administrative arrest at the same time.the second applicant was brought to the police station at 7.25 p.m. and placed under administrative arrest at 7.40 p.m. the records of the transfer contained an indication that both applicants were taken to the police station for an administrative offence record to be drawn up.12.  according to the government, the term of the applicants’ retention in the police station was extended to forty-eight hours.the second applicant was taken to that same court on 7 may 2015 at 4.10 p.m. 13.  at the police stations both applicants were accused of organising and holding a group public event without notifying the authorities in advance, in breach of article 20.2 § 2 of the code of administrative offences (hereinafter “the cao”).the court found that the first applicant, with the second applicant, had organised and held a group public event in the form of a “meeting” with about fifty participants, without notifying the authorities in advance.the court also refused to admit in evidence a video recording of the events in bolotnaya square, because it was “undated and did not contain the entire chronology of events preceding [the applicant’s] arrest”.15.  on the same day the zamoskvoretskiy district court heard the case against the second applicant.the court reiterated the description of the administrative offence imputed to the first applicant, found the second applicant guilty under article 20.2 § 2 of the cao, and sentenced him to ten days’ detention.the court dismissed the evidence of two eyewitnesses who stated that the second applicant had been standing alone on the bridge with a banner.referring to the statutory definition of a “meeting” (the presence of people in a specific place in order to publicly express their opinions, essentially on social and political issues), the appellate court considered that some fifty people had been present in bolotnaya square, including the applicants, who had called on others to shout political slogans.
he distributed leaflets to the parents of the pupils expressing his negative opinion about the professional and personal qualities of the headmistress, ms. b. the leaflets read as follows: “dear parents, you have entrusted your children to the staff of school no.the applicant refused to familiarise officer o. with the contents of the leaflet or to leave the school premises upon her request.11.  at the police station the officer on duty drew up a record of the applicant’s administrative arrest for the purpose of bringing him to court.the record indicated that the applicant had been escorted to the police station at 9.55 a.m. and released at 12.20 p.m. on 1 september 2012. after that the on-duty officer compiled an administrative-offence record, according to which the applicant had used foul language at the premises of school no.12.  the administrative case file contained a report by police officer m., which stated that at 8.50 a.m. on 1 september 2012 he and officer t. had arrested the applicant at the premises of school no.13.  on 1 september 2012 the administrative case was transferred to the justice of the peace of the voroshilovskiy district of rostov-on-don.15.  on 3 september 2012 the applicant lodged a criminal complaint with the investigative committee of rostov-on-don alleging breaches of his rights to liberty, freedom of expression and freedom of peaceful assembly by the police.1 of rostov-on-don informed the applicant in a letter that the administrative proceedings against him had been discontinued as his actions lacked the constituent elements of the crime.17.  in november 2012 the applicant brought civil proceedings (in accordance with article 254 of the code of civil procedure) challenging the following actions on the part of the public authorities and officials: the police order to stop the demonstration and distribution of leaflets, in breach of his right to impart information; their recourse to physical force and use of handcuffs; taking him to the police station; and his prosecution under the cao.it considered that the applicant had attempted to escape during the identity check and had been arrested, and that the use of force and handcuffs had complied with the relevant regulations.the court also relied on the statements of a representative of the regional department of the ministry of the interior in that regard, who had testified that the administrative-offence file against the applicant had been lost.19.  on the basis of several testimonies, the district court concluded as follows: “in the present case the police officers intended to put an end to the breach of public order, consisting of [showing] disrespect to society accompanied by the use of foul language in a public place [by the applicant], disturbing citizens in an insulting manner and refusing to obey an order by a public official ... the police officers ... acted within their powers and did not violate the applicant’s rights.he contended that the finding of the first-instance court had been based on the pending charge against him and the wording of article 20.1 of the cao, and had thus violated his right to be presumed innocent.furthermore, in the applicant’s view, the court had failed to specify the factual details concerning his showing of “disrespect to society”, the content and the alleged victims of the foul language allegedly used by him, the details of his “disturbing others” and “the order by a public official” and the lawfulness of any such order.the court pointed out that the circumstances concerning the applicant’s guilt in the commission of an administrative offence should be discussed in the context of the administrative offence proceedings.
6.  on an unknown date the second applicant notified the kaliningrad authorities of her intention to hold a group public event on 12 december 2010 in pobeda square.7.  according to the applicants, on 12 december 2010 the first applicant staged a solo demonstration holding a banner saying “freedom for khodorkovskiy and lebedev!8.  according to the government, at 4 p.m. on 12 december 2010 the applicants participated in a group public event in the form of a “picket” (пикетирование) using visual props, namely a banner and a t-shirt.he was accused of taking part in a group public event held without authorisation, an offence under article 20.2 § 1 of the code of administrative offences (hereinafter “the cao”).on 14 december 2012 the second applicant was called to the leninskiy district police station, where she was accused of a similar offence, although it was classified under article 20.2 § 2 of the cao.9.  the cases against the applicants were submitted to a justice of the peace of court circuit no.the court ordered the police to submit a video recording showing the events of 12 december 2010. by two judgments of 3 march 2011 the justice of the peace found that the applicants had held solo demonstrations and had not breached the public events act (hereinafter “the pea”), including its prior notification requirement applicable to group events.the court relied, inter alia, on the video recording submitted by the police.the administrative cases against the applicants were discontinued for lack of the elements of the offences under article 20.2 §§ 1 and 2 of the cao.11.  the applicants sought compensation of 100,000 roubles (rub)[1] each for unlawful deprivation of liberty and violation of their right to freedom of expression by way of solo demonstration.by a judgment of 15 july 2011 the tsentralniy district court of kaliningrad found that taking the first applicant to the police station had been unlawful, and awarded him rub 10,000 (equivalent to 250 euros (eur) at the time) in respect of non-pecuniary damage.on 25 july 2011 the same court also granted the claims by the second applicant, having found that preventing her from staging a solo demonstration and consequently prosecuting her had been unlawful.12.  the first applicant appealed against the judgment of 15 july 2011, complaining, inter alia, about the amount of the compensation and the first‑instance court’s failure to make specific findings in relation to the violation of his freedom of expression on account of the police intervention in his solo demonstration.relying on article 27.1 § 2 of the cao and article 1070 § 2 of the civil code, it ruled that it followed from the discontinuation of the cao case that placing the first applicant under administrative escort and arrest had been unlawful under russian law as well as “unjustified” (необоснованные).the appellate court also considered that the interference with freedom of expression had been acknowledged by the declaration that taking the first applicant to the police station had been unlawful.
4.  the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in orhei.5.  in september 2009 the applicant initiated civil proceedings against a company which was in process of insolvency.6.  on 18 december 2009 the drochia district court found in favour of the applicant and ordered the defendant company to pay him 24,957 moldovan lei (mdl) (the equivalent of 1,413 euros (eur)) for pecuniary damage and mdl 749 (the equivalent of eur 42) for costs and expenses.the representative of the defendant company was not present at the hearing.7.  on 28 december 2009 the secretariat of the drochia district court sent a copy of the reasoned judgment to the defendant company by ordinary mail.8.  on 11 january 2010 an enforcement writ was issued to the applicant by the same court in respect of the judgment of 18 december 2009.9.  on 10 february 2010, in a different set of proceedings concerning the insolvency of the defendant company, the company’s insolvency administrator updated the list of creditors by making express reference to the judgment of 18 december 2009 and to the exact amounts awarded in that judgment.the court which treated the insolvency issued a decision concerning the updated list of creditors on the same date.10.  on 26 april 2010 the insolvency administrator of the defendant company lodged an appeal against the judgment of 18 december 2009. the applicant objected to the appeal by arguing that it had been time-barred.he indicated that the time-limit for lodging the appeal had expired twenty days after the serving of the impugned judgment and that the insolvency administrator of the defendant company had been aware of the judgment of 18 december 2009 since in february 2010 he had informed the court dealing with the insolvency proceedings about the judgment in question.11.  on 28 september 2010 the bălţi court of appeal admitted the appeal lodged by the insolvency administrator of the defendant company and quashed the judgment of 18 december 2009. the court of appeal did respond to the objection raised by the applicant and, after re-examining the merits of the case, dismissed the applicant’s action against the defendant company.the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law raising the same arguments as in his appeal.12.  on 26 january 2011 the supreme court of justice dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law and upheld the judgment of the lower court.the supreme court did not make any comment about the applicant’s objection concerning the late appeal.
6.  at the end of 2014 the russian television and radio network informed the private regional television company tv-2 that its contract for broadcast services would be cancelled as of 1 january 2015. at the same time, the federal service for the supervision of communications, information technology and mass media (роскомнадзор) did not renew the company’s broadcast licence, which was due to expire on 8 february 2015. as a result, tv-2, one of the leading channels in the tomsk region which had been reporting on everyday life in the region since 1990, stopped broadcasting at the beginning of 2015.the police officers pointed out that no breaches of the public events act (hereinafter, “the pea”) had been detected; the demonstrators had kept the minimum 30-metre distance from each other and had not breached public order.the judge’s assistant later reported that the applicant had not studied the file for the hour which she had been given; instead, she had talked on the phone and chatted with the other people present in the courtroom.the court relied on the administrative-offence record, reports and an explanatory note by police officers, screenshots of facebook pages, and written statements by different people outlining the applicant’s role in organising the public events.by a decision of 13 april 2015 the appellate court excluded the reference to the applicant being the organiser of the events, but upheld the remainder of the trial judgment.16.  according to the national authorities and according to the government’s submissions before the court, on 6 august 2014 from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. the second applicant, acting together with (seven) other persons, organised and held a public event in the form of “picket” near big city, a shopping centre in tomsk.using visual aids, the applicant and other protestors expressed their opinion about the participants in the events of 6 may 2012 in bolotnaya square in moscow, without giving prior notification to the authorities.17.  on 15 may 2015 the head of the division for the execution of administrative legislation of the tomsk police department (оиаз умвд россии по городу томску) compiled an administrative-offence record in respect of the second applicant and notified him of that record.18.  the administrative case file contained notes written by the police which described a video-recording of the “picket” and comprised screenshots of several social media webpages calling for people to participate in the event of 6 august 2014. it also contained two explanatory notes by police officers from the tomsk police department’s centre for combatting extremism.on the same day the district court convicted the second applicant under article 20.2 § 2 of the cao and sentenced him to a fine of rub 20,000 (about eur 306 at the time).the court considered that the applicant had conspired with others to hold a static demonstration on 6 august 2014; the applicant had been the event organiser, and he had failed to give the authorities prior notification of the event.the court relied on the administrative-offence record drawn up by the police and on various notes and video-recordings produced by the police.in particular, the court noted that the videos showed the applicant and other participants in the event gathering at the venue; it also showed that during the event they had been standing less than 30 metres from each other and talking.the court dismissed the applicant’s argument that he had staged a solo demonstration, an argument which was supported by the testimony of defence witnesses who had also been participants in the event.the appellate court noted that the available evidence did not confirm that the applicant had been the event organiser; however, he had still been a participant in the public assembly, an assembly of which the authorities had not been given notice.
the police station logbook indicated that the first applicant had been brought there at 4.20 p.m. and released at 6.30 p.m., and that the second applicant had been brought there at 4.45 p.m. and released at 6.45 p.m. 11.  at the police station both applicants were accused of organising and holding a public event without giving prior notification to the authorities, in breach of article 20.2 § 2 of the code of administrative offences (hereinafter “the cao”).the administrative-offence records indicated that the first applicant had held a public event at 3.45 p.m. and the second applicant at 3.10 p.m., and that both offences had been committed near the lenin monument at the entrance to gorkiy park.however, on 18 october 2012 the acting head of the duty unit of the city police department informed the judge that the street camera footage could not be released because it had not been archived owing to a failure of the archiving system and “because those city cameras had not been working”.the trial court also granted a request by the defence for the forensic bureau to provide the photographs taken on 15 september 2012. the hearing was then adjourned.19.  in the meantime, on 9 november 2012 the same justice of the peace convicted the second applicant in separate proceedings dealing with the same events (see paragraph 28 below).the court found it established that on 15 september 2012 a group of people with banners had held a public event in front of the entrance to gorkiy park, without having given prior notification to the authorities, and that the applicant had participated in that event.21.  the applicant lodged an appeal with the leninskiy district court of rostov-on-don, arguing that the public events act (hereinafter “the pea”) conferred on the regional authorities the power to determine the minimum distance between solo demonstrations.22.  it appears that the appellate court heard further evidence from the witness o., who stated that around 3 p.m. on 15 september 2012 she had approached the lenin monument with the intention of expressing her views on the situation in the country; she had seen the applicant standing alone with a banner close to the monument.with regard to the above-mentioned video-recording, the court observed as follows: “as regards the video examined at the hearing ... it shows [the applicant] holding a banner.this refutes [the applicant’s] argument about her solo demonstration.” 25.  on 4 december 2012 the applicant lodged a complaint with the rostov regional prosecutor’s office, seeking the institution of criminal proceedings against the police officers under articles 149 and 286 of the criminal code (unlawful impediment to a public assembly and abuse of powers).27.  on 6 march and 20 may 2013 the deputy president of the rostov regional court upheld the decisions of 13 november and 3 december 2012. the applicant did not apply for a further review of those court decisions before the supreme court of russia.28.  on 9 november 2012 the same justice of the peace convicted the second applicant under article 20.2 of the cao for holding a public assembly without giving prior notice to the authorities.29.  the justice of the peace found that the applicant had held a group public event together with three other participants and concluded that in the circumstances of the case it was appropriate to issue her with the minimum statutory fine of rub 20,000.32.  by a decision of 26 december 2012 the justice of the peace allowed the applicant to pay the administrative fine in three monthly instalments (two instalments of rub 7,000 and one of rub 6,000).she asked for the fine to be reduced to below the statutory minimum, in accordance with a ruling of the russian constitutional court made on 14 february 2013. on 6 march and 29 may 2013 the deputy president of the rostov regional court upheld the judgments, stating, in particular, that the amount of fine was “within the scope of the statutory requirement”.
7.  according to the decisions of the domestic courts, p., apparently a private individual recruited by the police as an undercover agent, was supplied with cash in front of attesting witnesses and, subsequently, out of their sight, made three purchases from the applicant and returned with syringes filled with opium, which he handed over to the police in the presence of the witnesses.at the opening of his subsequent trial the applicant admitted that at the time of his arrest he had had a drug-filled syringe in his sleeve and, in trying to get rid of the drug, had ejected the liquid over his sweater and had thrown it on the ground near him.14.  on the day of the arrest and on several other occasions in the course of the investigation the applicant’s rights as a criminal suspect were explained to him and the investigator attempted to question him.15.  on 20 april 2007 the police investigator, in the presence of two attesting witnesses, watched a videotape and noted in a report that the tape showed the applicant selling drugs to p. as part of the test purchase.on 27 april 2007 the investigator refused this request on the grounds that p.’s real identity was being protected and the showing of the tape would lead to the disclosure of p.’s identity and put his life and health in danger.18.  the bill of indictment against the applicant, sent to the kirovograd kirov district court as the trial court, identified p. as one of the witnesses to be summoned in the course of the trial.at the opening of the trial the applicant admitted that at the time of his arrest he had had a drug-filled syringe on him and, in trying to get rid of the drug, had ejected the liquid over his clothes.20.  it appears that during the trial the applicant asked the trial court to disclose to the defence the video recording of the first test purchase and to call and examine p. (the undercover agent), b.the court found that the applicant had sold drugs to p. on three occasions in february and march 2007. the court relied on: (i) the in-court statements by the police officer who had arranged the test purchase and one of the attesting witnesses who had certified the records of that operation (see paragraph 7 above).the witness had described the operation in detail, to the effect that, on three occasions, banknotes with certain numbers had been handed over to p. to buy drugs from the applicant; p. had then returned with filled syringes stating that he had purchased them from the applicant.the police officer gave largely similar evidence; (ii) written statements by p. and another police officer involved in the organisation of the test purchase, obtained at the pre-trial stage; (iii) the fact, documented in a police report, that a banknote used by the police for use in the test purchase had been found on the applicant at the time of arrest.it is not clear from the trial court’s judgment on which of the three dates the banknote had been used; (iv) results of a forensic expert analysis showing that the applicant’s sweater contained traces of drugs, as did the syringes the undercover agent had bought from the applicant.the court of appeal went on to note that, in addition to the evidence cited by the trial court, the applicant’s guilt was also evidenced by the investigator’s report on the examination of the video recording of the test purchase (see paragraph 15 above).in particular, the judge noted that the witnesses on whose statements the conviction had been based had been duly questioned, and that the court of appeal had lawfully rejected the applicant’s complaints of lack of access to the case file.27.  in order to substantiate his application, in particular as regards the complaints of an unfair trial, the applicant submitted a number of requests to the trial court, which had kept the case file, for copies of various procedural documents, including records of court hearings, and his cassation appeal.
5.  in the 1970s a copper-molybdenum deposit (‘teghout’) was discovered about four and six km away from the villages of teghout and shnogh respectively, in the lori region.6.  in 2001 a private company, armenian copper programme cjsc, was granted a mining licence for the exploitation of the teghout copper‑molybdenum deposit for a period of twenty-five years.1279-n approving the expropriation zones of territories situated within the administrative boundaries of the rural communities of shnogh and teghout in the lori region to be taken for state needs and changing the category of land use.according to the decree, armenian copper programme cjsc or teghout cjsc, founded by the former for the purpose of the implementation of the teghout copper-molybdenum deposit exploitation project, were to acquire the units of land listed in its annexes.8.  the plot of land belonging to the applicant was listed among the units of land falling within these expropriation zones.11.  the applicant did not reply to the offer, not being satisfied with the amount of compensation.12.  on 13 may 2008 teghout cjsc lodged a claim against the applicant seeking to oblige him to sign the agreement on taking of his property for state needs.according to the report, the market value of the applicant’s plot of land was estimated at amd 134,000 (approximately eur 290).13.  in the proceedings before the lori regional court, the applicant argued that the market value of his land had been underestimated.he further submitted that the evaluation of his property had not been carried out correctly since no account had been taken of the number of fruit trees, their profitability and the existence of a fence and a water pipeline on the territory in question.he also claimed to be unable to submit an alternative evaluation of the real market value of his land since other companies refused to perform an evaluation.14.  in the course of the proceedings, teghout cjsc submitted another evaluation report of the applicant’s property stating that, after the institution of the proceedings, oliver group llc had prepared a corrected report according to which the market value of the applicant’s plot of land was estimated at amd 137,000 (approximately eur 298).15.  on 28 november 2008 the regional court granted teghout cjsc’s claim, awarding the applicant a total of amd 157,550 in compensation.17.  on 19 march 2009 the civil court of appeal upheld the regional court’s judgment, finding that the latter had properly determined the market value of the property based on the corrected evaluation report prepared by oliver group cjsc.19.  on 17 june 2009 the court of cassation declared the applicant’s cassation appeal inadmissible for lack of merit.
5.  in the 1970s a copper-molybdenum deposit (‘teghout’) was discovered about four and six km away from the villages of teghout and shnogh respectively, in the lori region.6.  in 2001 a private company, armenian copper programme cjsc, was granted a mining licence for the exploitation of the teghout copper‑molybdenum deposit for a period of twenty-five years.1279-n approving the designation of territories situated within the administrative boundaries of the rural communities of shnogh and teghout in the lori region as expropriation zones, to be taken for state needs, thus changing the land use category.according to the decree, armenian copper programme cjsc or teghout cjsc, founded by the former for the purpose of the implementation of the teghout copper-molybdenum deposit exploitation project, were to acquire the units of land listed in its annexes.8.  the plot of land belonging to the applicants was listed among the units of land falling within these expropriation zones.10.  on an unspecified date teghout cjsc addressed a letter to the applicants containing an offer to buy their plot of land for 818,000 armenian drams (amd, approximately 1,780 euros (eur)) plus an additional 15% as required by law, making the final offer amd 940,700 (approximately eur 2,045).11.  the applicants did not reply to the letter, not being satisfied with the amount of compensation offered.according to the report, the market value of the applicants’ plot of land was estimated at amd 818,000 (approximately eur 1,780).13.  in the proceedings before the lori regional court, the fourth applicant represented the other applicants and argued that the market value of their land had been underestimated.15.  during the proceedings teghout cjsc submitted another valuation of the applicants’ property, stating that oliver group llc had prepared a corrected report according to which the market value of the property was amd 900,000 (approximately eur 1,960).17.  the applicants lodged an appeal complaining, inter alia, that the market value of their land had been seriously underestimated and that the amount of compensation offered to them was inadequate.they further argued that the fact that oliver group llc had submitted two different valuation reports during the proceedings raised doubts as to the credibility of its reports, and that the court should have initiated an independent valuation of their property.18.  on 29 january 2009 the civil court of appeal upheld the regional court’s judgment, finding, inter alia, that the market value of the property to be taken for state needs had been correctly estimated, on the basis of the valuation report contained in the case file.they argued, inter alia, that the regional court had failed to order an independent valuation of the property, despite having the power to do so under the law.they submitted that they had disagreed with the valuation report submitted by the other party to the proceedings, which was moreover not an expert opinion and therefore could not be admitted as evidence.
1279-n approving the designation of territories situated within the administrative boundaries of the rural communities of shnogh and teghout in the lori region as expropriation zones, to be taken for state needs, thus changing the category of land use.according to the decree, armenian copper programme cjsc or teghout cjsc, founded by the former for the implementation of the teghout copper-molybdenum deposit exploitation project, were to acquire the units of land listed in its annexes.12.  in proceedings before the lori regional court the applicants argued that the market value of their land had been underestimated, since the lowest market prices had been considered during the valuation, while several plots of land had been acquired for much higher prices.they also argued that no account had been taken of the presence of fruit trees and that the valuation report erroneously stated that their plot of land did not have a water supply whereas it did have such a supply, which had actually been cut off because of the plaintiff’s activities on the property.14.  in the course of the proceedings teghout cjsc submitted another valuation report on the applicants’ property, stating that oliver group llc had prepared a corrected report according to which the market value of the land was amd 262,000 (approximately eur 570).the court hearing was scheduled for 2 april 2009. the government argued that the applicants had been duly notified of the hearing and that the notification letter, as always, had been sent to their addresses.21.  on 27 april 2009 the applicants’ counsel requested the regional court to order a forensic expert examination to determine the market value of the applicants’ plot of land, and to order that this examination was to be performed by experts of the state non-profit organisation “expertise center of the republic of armenia” (“հայաստանի հանրապետության փորձագիտական կենտրոն” պետական ոչ առևտրային կազմակերպություն).in these circumstances, the lori regional court decided to adjourn the examination, taking into consideration the fact that the applicants were not duly notified about the court hearing.the applicants’ representative requested that the court ordered that a forensic expert examination be made to determine the market value of the applicants’ plot of land.furthermore, the lori regional court refused the applicants’ representative’s request, which was based on the domestic legislation, according to which each party to the proceedings must itself present evidence on the facts.he argued that the regional court had accepted the reports submitted by the applicants’ opponent as established proof of the market value of their property, and that it had refused to order a forensic examination without any grounds.he further argued that the regional court should have exercised its statutory discretion to order an expert examination, since the necessity for it had arisen in the course of the proceedings and the applicants had no opportunity to provide an alternative valuation themselves.26.  according to the case file, on 10 july 2009 the notifications of the hearing of the court of appeal scheduled for 24 july 2009 were sent to the applicants, but they did not appear at that hearing.the court of appeal further found that the amount of compensation had been correctly determined, on the basis of the corrected valuation report prepared by oliver group llc, given that that report was the only lawful and acceptable piece of evidence produced during the proceedings.additionally, he requested to have the missed time-limits for lodging an appeal on points of law restored, explaining that the reason for late submission was the failure of the court of appeal to serve on him a copy of the decision of 7 august 2009, despite the fact that he was the applicants’ authorised representative in the proceedings.
6.  in november 2002, 14 years after receiving the vaccine, the applicant’s mother instituted proceedings on his behalf against four defendants; the local health authority, the state, the attorney general (collectively described in the domestic proceedings as the state defendants) and the doctor who had administered the vaccination, h. 7.  on 5 august 2003, the high court issued a limited order of discovery addressed to the local health authority seeking all relevant records about the applicant in its possession, as well as information about the vaccine used, about any adverse effects noted at the time with this vaccine, about the manner in which the mother’s consent was obtained, and about the health of the other members of the applicant’s family.although the high court set a time-limit of 8 weeks for discovery, the local health authority only complied with the order in june 2008, that is to say with a delay of over four and a half years.8.  the applicant appealed the scope of the order of discovery of 5 august 2003, leading to the grant of a further limited order of discovery by the high court on 30 january 2004, addressed to all four defendants.the applicant brought another appeal against the order of discovery of 30 january 2004, but in july 2006 the supreme court dismissed the appeal, making only a minor amendment to the order granted by the high court.10.  in june 2008 the applicant’s lawyer wrote to the local health authority to complain that the long delays in litigating the case had caused grave prejudice to the case.11.  in may 2008 the applicant’s lawyer sought to have the defence of the state defendants set aside.no factual evidence was called on behalf of the applicant, but independent medical witnesses gave evidence, having read the applicant’s medical records, and documentary evidence provided by way of discovery was before the court.on the eleventh day of the trial, 19 july 2011, the judge accepted an application by the defendants to strike the case out for failure to establish a prima facie case against them.13.  regarding the doctor, he noted that the applicant accepted there was insufficient evidence to establish any negligence in the administration of the vaccine.in relation to the state defendants, the judge held that no evidence had been produced that could support the various grounds relied on by the applicant.14.  the proceedings in the high court terminated on 19 december 2011. the applicant filed a notice of appeal presenting 30 grounds of appeal.following the establishment of the court of appeal in october 2014, the applicant’s case was transferred to it.in its conclusions, the court of appeal stated that, by taking the case at its highest, the trial judge had adopted the correct approach on the question of striking the case out.the court of appeal concluded by remarking on the many legal hurdles the applicant would have had to overcome in order to succeed.16.  the proceedings ended on 10 may 2016 when the supreme court declined the applicant’s request for leave to appeal.
the investigator also noted that u.m.’s bed had been made by other soldiers after u.m.’s transfer to the hospital and the floor of the dormitory had been cleaned with chlorine and kerosene in the morning before the beginning of the inspection.in particular, the following injuries were mentioned in the record: a blue-violet bruise (qançır) of an elongated shape, measuring 8 x 3 cm, on the right side of his lower back; a scratch (cızıq), measuring 0.8 x 0.1 cm, on the left side of his back; a subcutaneous haemorrhage (dəridaxili qansızma), measuring 5.5 x 1 cm, on his upper right hip; and two abrasions (sıyrıq), measuring 0.3 x 0.1 cm and 0.5 x 0.2 cm on the fingers of his left hand.21 on the forensic medical examination (meyitin məhkəmə-tibbi müayinəsi) of the body, which was considered as an annex to the record of 14 july 2010. the report was based on the examination of the body on 14 july 2014, as well as on the results of the biological and histological forensic examinations of the samples taken from the body and the opinions of two other specialists.the experts concluded that, taking into consideration that there was no injury which might have caused the death, u.m.’s death had probably resulted from a severe dysfunction of the respiratory system (kəskin tənəffüs çatışmazlığı) caused by swelling of the thymus gland and the development of a brain tumour.they further found that those injuries had been caused by a hard blunt object, that the abrasions, bruise and haemorrhage were likely to have been inflicted one to three days before the death, and the scratch not more than one week before the death.15.  it appears from the documents in the case file that on various dates the investigator in charge of the case questioned a number of soldiers of the military unit in which u.m.the investigator asked the experts conducting that examination to answer various questions concerning the cause of u.m.’s death and the existence of any relationship between u.m.’s previous health problems and his death.the investigator also asked the experts to establish whether the injuries on u.m.’s body could have been sustained when he had performed physical exercises during his military service or when the soldiers had tried to resuscitate him.k/82, which mainly reiterated the findings of the report of 12 august 2010. the experts concluded that u.m.’s death had probably resulted from severe dysfunction of the respiratory system caused by swelling of the thymus gland and the development of a brain tumour, because there was no potentially lethal injury on his body.as regards the investigator’s question concerning the origin of the injuries, the experts noted that as they had not examined the body they could not give a clear answer to that question.relying on the forensic medical reports, the investigator concluded that the death had probably resulted from severe dysfunction of the respiratory system caused by swelling of the thymus gland and the development of a brain tumour.19.  on 12 november 2010 the applicant lodged a complaint with the ganja military court against the investigator’s decision of 16 october 2010, complaining of the ineffectiveness of the criminal investigation.in that connection, he submitted that, although the experts concluded that the injuries were likely to have been inflicted one to three days before the death, the investigator held that the injuries could have been sustained when the soldiers tried to resuscitate u.m.the court reiterated the investigator’s findings as regards the cause of the death and the origin of the injuries found on u.m.’s body.he complained, in particular, that the criminal investigation had failed to establish clearly the cause of his son’s death and the origin of the injuries found on u.m.’s body.
5.  in the 1970s a copper-molybdenum deposit (‘teghout’) was discovered about four and six km away from the villages of teghout and shnogh respectively, in the lori region.6.  in 2001 a private company, armenian copper programme cjsc, was granted a mining licence for the exploitation of the teghout copper‑molybdenum deposit for a period of twenty-five years.1279-n approving the designation of territories situated within the administrative boundaries of the rural communities of shnogh and teghout in the lori region as expropriation zones, to be taken for state needs, thus changing the category of land use.according to the decree, armenian copper programme cjsc or teghout cjsc, founded by the former for the purpose of the implementation of the teghout copper-molybdenum deposit exploitation project, were to acquire the units of land listed in its annexes.8.  the plots of land belonging to the applicant were listed among the units of land falling within these expropriation zones.10.  on an unspecified date teghout cjsc addressed a letter to the applicant containing an offer to buy his eight plots of land for 194,000 armenian drams (amd, approximately 422 euros (eur)), amd 422,000 (approximately eur 917), amd 417,000 (approximately eur 907), amd 555,000 (approximately eur 1,207), amd 328,000 (approximately eur 713), amd 426,000 (approximately eur 990), amd 409,000 (approximately eur 890), and amd 240,000 (approximately eur 522) respectively, plus an additional 15% on each amount offered as required by law, making the final offer amd 3,439,650 (approximately eur 7,478) in total.12.  on 13 may 2008 teghout cjsc lodged a claim against the applicant, seeking to oblige him to sign the agreement on the taking of his property for state needs.according to the reports, the market value of the applicant’s plots of land was estimated at 3,439,650 (approximately eur 7,478) in total.13.  in proceedings before the lori regional court, the applicant argued that the market value of his land had apparently been underestimated.he further submitted that the valuation of his property had not been carried out correctly, since no account had been taken of the amounts he had actually paid for the plots of land in question and of the significant investments he had made.14.  in the course of the proceedings, teghout cjsc submitted other valuation reports in respect of the applicant’s property, stating that after the institution of the proceedings oliver group llc had prepared corrected reports according to which the market value of the applicant’s eight plots of land was estimated at respectively amd 187,000 (approximately eur 407), amd 456,000 (approximately eur 991), amd 437,000 (approximately eur 950), amd 535,000 (approximately eur 1,163), amd 343,000 (approximately eur 746), amd 411,000 (approximately eur 893), amd 427,000 (approximately eur 928), and amd 268,000 (approximately eur 583).the representative of teghout cjsc asked the court to take into account the relatively higher amounts of the initial valuations in respect of those plots of land that were valued lower as a result of the new valuation.the final amounts of compensation would therefore be equal to the amounts mentioned in the corrected reports for those plots of land valued higher than previously, and would stay the same as in the initial offer for the rest, together with the additional 15% required by law.15.  on 7 november 2008 the regional court granted teghout cjsc’s claim, awarding the applicant amd 223,100 (approximately eur 485), amd 524,400 (approximately eur 1,140), amd 502,550 (approximately eur 1,093), amd 638,250 (approximately eur 1,388), amd 394,450 (approximately eur 858), amd 489,900 (approximately eur 1,065), amd 491,050 (approximately eur 1,068).17.  on 18 march 2009 the civil court of appeal upheld the regional court’s judgment, finding that the latter had properly determined the market value of the property on the basis of the corrected valuation reports prepared by oliver group cjsc.
5.  in the 1970s a copper-molybdenum deposit (‘teghout’) was discovered about four and six km away from the villages of teghout and shnogh respectively, in the lori region.6.  in 2001 a private company, armenian copper programme cjsc, was granted a mining licence for the exploitation of the teghout copper‑molybdenum deposit for a period of twenty-five years.1279-n approving the designation of territories situated within the administrative boundaries of the rural communities of shnogh and teghout in the lori region as expropriation zones, to be taken for state needs, thus changing the category of land use.according to the decree, armenian copper programme cjsc or teghout cjsc, founded by the former for the purpose of the implementation of the teghout copper-molybdenum deposit exploitation project, were to acquire the units of land listed in its annexes.8.  the plots of land belonging to the applicants were listed among the units of land falling within these expropriation zones.11.  the applicants did not reply to the offer, not being satisfied with the amount of compensation.12.  on 14 may 2008 teghout cjsc lodged a claim against the applicants, seeking to oblige them to sign an agreement on the taking of their property for state needs.according to the reports, the market value of the applicants’ plots of land was estimated at amd 163,000 (approximately eur 355) and amd 950,000 (approximately eur 2,065) respectively.13.  in the proceedings before the lori regional court the applicants argued that the market value of their land had been underestimated.they further submitted that the valuation of their property had not been carried out correctly, since no account had been taken of the number of trees and their profitability and they were unable to submit an alternative valuation of the market value of their land, since other companies had refused to carry out a valuation.14.  in the course of the proceedings, teghout cjsc submitted other valuation reports of the applicants’ property, stating that, after the institution of the proceedings, oliver group llc had prepared corrected reports according to which the market value of the applicants’ two plots of land was estimated at amd 173,000 (approximately eur 376) and amd 986,000 (approximately eur 2,143).the final amount of compensation, including the additional 15% required by law, would thus be equal to amd 198,950 (approximately eur 433) for the first plot of land and amd 1,133,900 (approximately eur 2,465) for the second.15.  on 7 november 2008 the regional court granted teghout cjsc’s claim, awarding the applicants compensation of a total of amd 198,950 for the first plot of land and amd 1,133,900 for the second plot.17.  on 25 march 2009 the civil court of appeal upheld the regional court’s judgment, finding that the latter had properly determined the market value of the property on the basis of the corrected valuation reports prepared by oliver group cjsc.19.  on 17 june 2009 the court of cassation declared the applicants’ cassation appeal inadmissible for lack of merit.
5.  in the 1970s a copper-molybdenum deposit (‘teghout’) was discovered about four and six km away from the villages of teghout and shnogh respectively, in the lori region.1279-n approving the designation of territories situated within the administrative boundaries of the rural communities of shnogh and teghout in the lori region as expropriation zones, to be taken for state needs, thus changing the land use category.according to the decree, armenian copper programme cjsc or teghout cjsc, founded by the former for the purpose of the implementation of the teghout copper-molybdenum deposit exploitation project, were to acquire the units of land listed in its annexes.10.  on an unspecified date teghout cjsc addressed a letter to the applicants containing an offer to buy their six plots of land for 19,000 armenian drams (amd, approximately 41 euros (eur)), amd 213,000 (approximately eur 463), amd 26,000 (approximately eur 57), amd 87,000 (approximately eur 190), amd 73,000 (approximately eur 160), and amd 339,000 (approximately eur 737) respectively plus an additional 15% on each amount offered as required by law, making the final offer amd 870,550 (approximately eur 1,893) in total.12.  on 12 may 2008 teghout cjsc lodged a claim against the applicants and their late mother, h., seeking to oblige them to sign the agreement on the taking of their property for state needs.according to the reports, the market value of the applicants’ six plots of land was estimated at amd 757,000 (approximately eur 1,645) in total.13.  in the proceedings before the lori regional court, the second applicant argued that the market value of their land had been underestimated.14.  in the course of the proceedings, teghout cjsc submitted other valuation reports in respect of the applicants’ property, stating that oliver group llc had prepared corrected reports according to which the market value of the entire property was amd 1,038,000 (approximately eur 2,257).18.  on 7 october 2009 the regional court granted teghout cjsc’s claim finding, inter alia, that the valuation reports prepared by oliver group llc should be considered lawful and acceptable evidence to determine the market value of the applicants’ property to be taken for state needs.the regional court stated that the first applicant, as h.’s successor, should be awarded her share in the compensation, and awarded the applicants a total of amd 1,193,700 (approximately eur 2,595) in equal shares as compensation.19.  the applicants lodged an appeal, claiming, inter alia, that the market value of their land had been seriously underestimated and that the amount of compensation offered to them was not adequate.they argued that the regional court had accepted the reports submitted by their opponent as established proof of the market value of their property.they argued in particular that, in order to provide them with a reasonable opportunity to present their case, the regional court should have exercised its statutory discretion to order an expert examination, since such a necessity had arisen in the course of the proceedings and they had had no opportunity to provide an alternative valuation themselves.20.  on 3 february 2010 the civil court of appeal upheld the regional court’s judgment, stating that the applicants had failed to raise their complaints concerning the alleged inadmissibility of evidence at the first level of jurisdiction.the court of appeal did not address the issue of whether the regional court should have exercised its statutory discretion to order an expert examination to determine the real market value of the applicants’ property, given that there was a dispute on this issue.
13.  the market court found it established that between 1996 and 2000 the applicant company had agreed with three other asphalt companies about the allocation of central government asphalt contracts, and had done the same with three more asphalt companies between 1999 and 2000. moreover, from 1996 until the end of 2000, the applicant company had agreed with another cartel company in advance the prices to be offered in competitive bidding, and had tendered accordingly.in addition, considering the relatively low turnover of the applicant company, its market position, and the regionally limited scope of the related restriction of competition, the market court held that it was not justifiable to penalise the applicant company with a penalty payment exceeding the normal scale.in its appeal, the competition authority contested the interpretation adopted by the market court as regards the scope of the cartel, arguing that there was nothing to suggest that the territorial allocation of markets did not encompass contracts in all the above mentioned categories of works and pointing out that the exclusion of supplies of asphalt mass outside the cartel companies affected competition in the entire sector.19.  in regard to matters of procedure, the supreme administrative court noted that the concept of “criminal charge” had an autonomous meaning in the established case-law of the european court of human rights on article 6 § 1 of the convention, and that therefore certain sanctions imposed in administrative-law proceedings fell within the scope of article 6. the court stated that in the light of that case-law, the procedure for imposing a penalty payment under the restriction of competition act had to be considered to fall within the scope of article 6 (see jussila v. finland [gc], no.the court further noted that the court of justice of the european communities, when applying article 6 as a part of the general principles of community law, had held that the proceedings under community competition law had to comply with the requirements of article 6. the supreme administrative court, citing the case of jussila, considered that while article 6 of the convention under its criminal limb thus applied to proceedings imposing a penalty payment, in such cases the article 6 requirements were not necessarily identical to the requirements which were applicable in the core areas of criminal procedure.this meant, inter alia, that the court was to take into account all evidence adduced before the market court, in addition to the evidence adduced in its own proceedings, while also bearing in mind the finality of the market court’s findings to the extent that it had not been challenged by a party on appeal.furthermore, the court cited case-law of the general court of the eu emphasising that while the competition authority must produce sufficiently precise and consistent evidence to support the firm conviction that the alleged infringement of competition rules took place, it is not necessary for every item of evidence produced to satisfy those criteria in relation to every aspect of the infringement.it further cited case-law of the court of justice of the european union according to which it is incumbent on the commission as competition authority to prove the infringements of competition rules and to adduce evidence capable of demonstrating to the requisite legal standard the existence of the circumstances constituting an infringement, and where such evidence had been presented the court was entitled to consider that it was for the defendant to provide another explanation for the incriminating circumstances.although the evidence provided by the competition authority had not covered all incidents in the asphalt markets during the period covered by its application, either geographically or in terms of time, it had nevertheless permitted the court to get an overall picture of the functioning of the asphalt markets during the period in question.taking into account what is generally known about the functioning of cartels on the basis of earlier experience and research, the most credible explanation for the similarity between the events which had occurred in different regions and the observations made by the witnesses was that the asphalt companies had agreed about the territorial allocation of the asphalt markets in the whole of finland, as well as about the measures for implementing the agreed allocation in practice.in its final conclusion, the court stated that the competition authority had adduced extensive evidence of the existence of a cartel, while the defendants had not been able to refute the credibility or reliability of that evidence, nor the conclusions which the competition authority had drawn from it.26.  as to the applicant company’s participation in the cartel, the supreme administrative court held that: “(1274)  [o]n the basis of [the three witness] statements adduced before the market court and the supreme administrative court and the written evidence consisting of the [chart on the geographical division of the markets], it has been shown that [the applicant company] took part in the cartel, in particular in lapland and the north karelia region.(1276)  on the above-mentioned grounds, [the applicant company] has participated in the nationwide cartel the existence of which the supreme administrative court has found established in part 9 of the present judgment.” 27.  it further held that the applicant company had taken part in this cartel for almost five years.however, in determining the penalty payment, account was taken of the relatively small market share of the applicant company and the regional and temporal dimensions of the applicant company’s infringements, which were smaller than those of the prime participants in the cartel.30.  after the supreme administrative court’s decision of 29 september 2009, and on the basis of that decision, the finnish state and several municipalities brought compensation claims in the civil courts against the participants in the cartel, including the applicant company.
in his statement, which was fifteen pages long, the applicant admitted that he had become a member of the pkk/kadek in 1996 and gave a detailed account of all the activities he had carried out for that organisation since then, including the killing of m.y., opening fire on a police armoured vehicle during a demonstration organised in the aftermath of abdullah öcalan’s arrest, and receiving training at the organisation’s camp in iraq.12.  on 17 november 2003, the applicant underwent a further medical examination at the branch of the forensic medicine institute responsible for the istanbul state security court at 10.30 a.m. the doctor who examined the applicant also observed the same abrasion, adding that the applicant had told him that it had happened when he had hit the window.15.  on 4 december 2003 the public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court filed a bill of indictment with that court against the applicant and four other persons, charging the applicant with the offence of breaking up the unity of the state and seeking to remove part of the national territory from the state’s control, under article 125 of the former criminal code.20.  at a hearing held on 6 april 2005 the applicant’s lawyer informed the trial court that the objection against the decision of the fatih public prosecutor had been dismissed by the beyoğlu assize court.23.  at a hearing held on 6 march 2006 the applicant’s lawyer submitted once again that the evidence had been collected in respect of the applicant had been in breach of the relevant provisions of the code of criminal procedure and that such evidence should not be used in the trial.at the same hearing, the applicant’s lawyer and some of the lawyers of the other co-defendants applied for time to prepare their defence submissions in reply to the public prosecutor’s observations on the merits of the case.25.  at a hearing held on 26 july 2006, the trial court noted that two different lawyers of the other co-defendants had informed the court that they would be unable to attend the hearing as one of them had another hearing outside istanbul and the other one had a hearing in another court in istanbul.referring to the absence of those lawyers and the fact that they had not been able to prepare their defence submissions, the applicant’s lawyer also asked the trial court to give them a short period of time to prepare their written observations in reply to the public prosecutor’s observations on the merits.according to the applicant’s lawyer, it would be a breach of article 6 §§ 1 and 3 (c) of the convention were the trial court to rely on the applicant’s statements to the police to convict him.34.  on 13 february 2009 the twelfth chamber of the istanbul assize court found the applicant guilty as charged, convicted him under article 125 of the former criminal code of breaking up the unity of the state and seeking to remove part of the national territory from the state’s control, and sentenced him to life imprisonment.36.  lastly, in the “conviction” part of its judgment, the trial court held that the applicant had been a member of an illegal organisation, had taken military training in its mountain camps, had participated in the demonstration on 16 february 1999 on behalf of that illegal organisation and had opened fire on a police vehicle, had been involved in the injury of five policemen on 20 february 1999, and that the three bullet casings found in the scene of that incident had been fired from the pistol that the applicant had used to kill m.y.37.  the material submitted by the parties to the court does not contain a copy of the evidence listed either in the “evidence” or in the “assessment of evidence and reasons” parts of the trial court’s judgment.furthermore, the trial court did not mention any of the defence submissions made by the applicant’s lawyer and merely stated that the applicant had denied the accusations in his defence before the court.38.  at the end of each hearing, the istanbul state security court, and subsequently the twelfth chamber of the istanbul assize court, considered the applicant’s detention either of their own motion or following an application by the applicant.each time, they ordered the applicant’s continued detention pending trial, having regard to the nature and seriousness of the offence with which he was charged, the existence of a strong suspicion that he had committed the offence and the state of the evidence.
8.  according to the government, the applicant was arrested in kyiv on 10 february 2008 on suspicion of abduction and murder, and on the same day he was placed in detention in a cell of the shevchenkivskyy district police station.14.  on 24 june 2008 the investigator dealing with the criminal case against the applicant ordered a forensic medical expert to establish the injuries the applicant had sustained between 9 and 16 february 2008. the forensic medical expert examined the applicant on 4 july 2008 and did not find any injuries on him which could have been inflicted during that period.15.  on 11 august 2008 the applicant’s lawyer submitted a petition to the prosecutor’s office in which he stated that the applicant had been beaten by officer g., the first deputy head of the kyiv shevchenkivskyy district police station.19.  on 18 november 2008 the kyiv shevchenkivskyy district court (hereinafter, “the local court”) quashed the decision of 16 september 2008. it held that, in the course of the inquiry, the investigating officer had failed to question the applicant and officer g., the police officer whom the applicant had pointed out.the local court also found that the investigator had failed to append to the case file the results of the forensic examination of the applicant’s injuries which his lawyer had referred to in the application of 11 august 2008 (see paragraph 15 above).the investigating officer came to the conclusion that it was impossible to question the people who had been at the police station with the applicant in february 2008. on an unspecified date that decision was quashed and the case file was remitted for an additional inquiry.the court held that the investigating officer had failed to interrogate and/or properly analyse the statements of: - the people who had been detained with the applicant in the cell at the kyiv shevchenkivskyy district police station in february 2008; - the itt and sizo staff, in relation to the applicant’s alleged ill‑treatment and the sizo’s alleged refusal to admit him after the court had ordered his arrest; - the medical personnel from the emergency service who had provided the applicant with medical assistance in february 2008; - the surgeon from buchanska prison hospital who had performed an operation on the applicant on 20 january 2010; - the police officers who had arrested the applicant in vinnytsya on 9 february 2008.32.  on 21 may 2013 the information about the physical injuries inflicted on the applicant was entered into the unified register of pre-trial investigations and the respective pre-trial investigation started, in accordance with the provisions of the new code of criminal procedure.37.  on 15 april 2014 the kyiv city court of appeal quashed the decision of the investigating officer of 29 august 2013 and the decision of the local court of 18 february 2014 (see paragraph 36 above) and remitted the case file for a pre-trial investigation.the court held that the investigating officer had failed to comply with the instructions given by the local court in its decision of 7 may 2013 (see paragraph 31 above), and in particular had failed to establish the origin of the injuries sustained by the applicant in february 2008.on 5 december 2008 and 30 january 2009 the surgeon from the emergency hospital recommended that the applicant have elective surgery on the fistula and continue with the care and treatment of his symptoms under the surgeon, neuropathologist and cardiologist at the sizo medical unit.55.  on 30 october 2009 the court granted the applicant’s request under rule 39 of the rules of the court and indicated to the government that he should be placed in a medical facility where he could receive appropriate medical treatment.59.  on 9 november and 16 november 2009, in reply to the requests of the applicant’s lawyers concerning his hospitalisation, the sizo administration advised that it was not competent to decide on the applicant’s placement in an outside medical facility, and suggested that the lawyers should address the requests to the court dealing with the applicant’s case.64.  on 4 december 2009, in the light of additional information from the respondent government on the applicant’s state of health and the treatment provided to him in the sizo, the court decided to lift the interim measure under rule 39 of the rules of court (see paragraph 55 above).71.  he added that the food was unsatisfactory in terms of quality and quantity, and the prisoners were given tea and bread in the morning, porridge in the afternoon and boiled water in the evening.
6.  on 25 november 2004 the donetsk regional court of appeal convicted the applicant of several crimes and sentenced him to life imprisonment and ordered confiscation of all his property.9.  upon completion of the criminal proceedings, on 16 march 2007 the applicant was transferred to the ladyzhynska colony.12.  in december 2011 a blood test revealed that the applicant had contracted hepatitis c. according to the applicant, he was denied access to copies of the test results.according to the government, the applicant was prescribed with symptomatic treatment and as a result of the treatment his health improved.15.  according to the government, the applicant was supervised by the colony doctors and was prescribed with all necessary medicine and a special diet.the government did not specify the frequency of the treatment or the nature of the diet provided to the applicant.17.  they also added that as of 26 february 2018 the applicant remained under the ongoing supervision of the colony doctors, and his state of health was satisfactory.18.  according to the applicant, during his detention he submitted numerous applications to the domestic authorities, including the donetsk regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”), seeking to obtain copies of various documents to be submitted to the court in substantiation of his application.his requests were refused on 8 august and 6 september 2006 on the grounds that he had already been provided with a copy of that document in the course of the criminal proceedings against him and that there was no legal requirement to meet his requests.20.  between april and august 2009 the applicant requested that the court of appeal send him copies of several court records from his criminal case file as well as from that of his accomplice.according to the government, on 10 september 2009 the applicant lodged another application with the court of appeal in which he requested copies of court hearing records, the cassation appeal and other documents from his criminal proceedings case file.on 2 october 2009 the court of appeal sent the requested copies to the applicant, but excluded copies of the court hearing records, on the ground that their transmission was not covered by the legislation that was applicable at that time.on 21 april 2011 the office of the government agent before the european court of human rights sent copies of the court hearing records to the applicant.21.  by letters dated 12 and 17 january 2017, the court of appeal refused the applicant’s applications for a copy of his request for an extension of the time-limit for lodging a cassation appeal against his conviction of 25 november 2004 and a copy of a court ruling of 26 october 2016 dismissing that request.the court of appeal specified that the applicant’s criminal case file had been sent to the higher specialised court of ukraine for civil and criminal matters upon the latter court’s request.
the applicant had allegedly assured p. that some of the money would be used to bribe representatives of any supervising authorities who might enquire into the use of the premises.8.  on the same day the police, in the presence of two attesting witnesses, gave p. several banknotes marked with a luminescent substance only visible in special lighting to be given to the applicant as the bribe, and an audio recorder.11.  on the same day the applicant wrote and signed a statement confessing to having accepted the money from p. he subsequently retracted the confession, claiming that it had been extracted under “physical and psychological pressure” from the police.13.  in the course of the pre-trial investigation a certain t.v.s., who was apparently an employee of the applicant’s agency, stated that, on an unspecified date, apparently prior to p.’s complaint to the police, the applicant had asked her to show the premises in question to p. 14.  the attesting witnesses made formal statements to the investigating authority describing the events of 21 february 2002 which they had observed.they stated, in particular, that they had entered the applicant’s office after the police and, when they entered, two police officers were already holding the applicant.16.  in the course of the trial the applicant pleaded not guilty and argued that the banknotes had been planted on the agency premises by the police, who had also smeared his hand and pocket with the luminescent substance to frame him.17.  according to the government, p. testified in the course of the trial on two occasions in april 2004. it appears that he repeated the substance of his statements to the police (see paragraphs 7 and 9 above).18.  the attesting witnesses were repeatedly summoned to testify at the trial but failed to appear as they could not be found at the home addresses they had given to the authorities.the court records submitted to the court show that the hearings were adjourned and rescheduled on at least thirty-three occasions due to the “witnesses’ failure to appear” (судовий розгляд відкладено у зв’язку з неявкою свідків) and that the trial court repeatedly requested the help of police and of the prosecutor’s office in locating and escorting the witnesses to the hearings.in convicting the applicant, the court relied on: the statements of p., the attesting witnesses and t.v.s.; audio and video evidence; police reports documenting the delivery of the marked banknotes to p. and their subsequent discovery, as well as the discovery of the luminescent substance on the applicant’s hand and pocket; statements of the police officers who had organised the investigative actions in question; the results of expert analysis confirming the discovery of the luminescent substance from the same source on the banknotes, on the applicant’s hand and in his pocket; and the applicant’s confession.there was no reason to distrust the statements of the victim and the witnesses which were corroborated by the other evidence in the file, including audio and video evidence.22.  in his appeal on points of law to the supreme court the applicant stated that the witnesses had ignored summons to appear at the trial and the trial court had failed to ensure their presence.the attesting witnesses had stated that, when they entered the office, the police officers already held the applicant (see paragraph 14 above).the judge noted that matters of fact were not subject to review by the supreme court, that the judicial decisions were based on properly assessed evidence and the conclusions were reasoned and gave no reason to doubt them.
5.  the second and third applicants, as well as the legal predecessors of the first and third applicant (ms róbertné hidas and ms miklósné kecskés) and other persons were co-owners of a plot of land of 4,847 sq.m for the purpose of constructing a local public road and awarded compensation of 5,511,000 hungarian forints (huf – approximately 25,000 european currency units (ecu) (the predecessor to the euro) at the material time), to be distributed among the owners in proportion to their ownership shares.8.  the decisions were served on the first applicant’s legal predecessor, the second applicant, the third applicant and the third applicant’s legal predecessor, among other persons.10.  on 25 march 1998 the local authority entered into possession of the requisitioned plots of land and paid the compensation to the applicants, who only provisionally accepted the sum, while reserving their right to bring court proceedings against the requisition orders.the legal predecessor of the first applicant and the second applicant himself were parties to the proceedings, but not the third applicant or his legal predecessor.12.  on 16 march 2005, following two remittals ordered by the budapest court of appeal, the budapest high court delivered a first-instance judgment and dismissed the claim.it held that the local authority’s decision had been tainted by a procedural irregularity, in that the local authority’s notary (who had adopted the decision of 19 january 1998) should have abstained from taking a decision in a case in which the local authority employing him had been one of the interested parties.15.  on 2 july 2008 the decision was upheld on appeal by the public administration office of budapest, with an amendment that the compensation figures should be increased by accrued interest.the second and third applicants intervened (beavatkozó) in the proceedings in support of the first applicant.17.  on 11 march 2010 the budapest high court found for the applicants, quashed the administrative decision because it had been adopted on the basis of a legal provision previously annulled by the constitutional court, and ordered new proceedings.it dismissed the applicants’ action as far as the requisition’s lawfulness was concerned but quashed the administrative decision as regards the compensation amount.it held that the compensation amount should be set at such sum as reflected by an assessment of the value of the properties as at 2015 and that the assessment should be carried out in accordance with the provisions of government decree no.21.  on 14 june 2017 the kúria quashed the final judgment and remitted the case to the budapest administrative and labour court for the recalculation of the compensation amount.it held that the method of assessing the valuations applied in the first-instance judgment could not be used in the context of the case; instead, the amount to be paid should be calculated by an expert on the basis of the properties’ market values on 10 january 2015, from which the compensation already received in 1998 (see paragraph 10 above) should be deducted.at the date of the latest information available to the court (2 october 2018), the proceedings concerning the amount of compensation due to the applicants were still pending before the domestic courts.
7.  the applicant was a citizen of the republic of serbia in the socialist federal republic of yugoslavia (“the sfry”).10.  on 16 july 1992 the military pension fund for the armed forces of the sfry (hereinafter “the ypa fund”) found the applicant to be entitled to an early retirement pension under sfry military rules as from 1 may 1992. the applicant maintained that he had never received any pension from the ypa fund.by a decision of 7 july 1992 the ministry of the interior refused his application, holding that the applicant had not lived in slovenia between 25 october 1991 and 27 april 1992. the supreme court dismissed his subsequent appeal.12.  on 29 july 1992 the applicant applied for an advance payment of his military pension under the advance payment of military pensions ordinance (hereinafter “the ordinance”; see paragraph 22 below).by a decision of 18 february 1993 the pension and disability insurance institute of slovenia (hereinafter “the institute”) refused the applicant’s application, finding that he had not fulfilled the conditions for pension entitlement under sfry military rules, namely the age requirement, by 18 october 1991 (section 2(1)(2) of the ordinance).the institute also noted that the ministry of defence had opined that there had been no indication of the applicant having participated in aggression against slovenia (section 2(2) of the ordinance; see paragraph 22 below).13.  on 4 february 1994 the court of associated labour of the republic of slovenia dismissed his claim, holding that the applicant had not fulfilled the conditions under section 2(1)(2) of the ordinance (see paragraph 22 below) because he had not reached the required retirement age by 18 october 1991. the court emphasised that there had been nothing to suggest that the applicant had participated in aggression against slovenia as a member of the ypa (section 2(2) of the ordinance).14.  on 4 november 1998 the applicant applied for an old-age pension under the act on the rights stemming from the pension and disability insurance of former military personnel (hereinafter “the 1998 act”, see paragraph 22 below).15.  on 12 august 1999 the institute dismissed the appeal, holding that the applicant had not fulfilled the statutory requirements under the 1998 act because he had not continuously had permanent resident status in slovenia for the relevant period and had failed to claim his pension rights by 25 june 1991 (section 2(1)(2) of the 1998 act).on 15 may 2002 the ministry of interior issued an assurance to the applicant that he would be granted citizenship if he could prove that he had been released from his current citizenship.on 2 december 2002 the applicant asked the ministry to grant him citizenship on the basis of the amended citizenship act without prior release from his current citizenship.18.  on 19 may 2003, after lodging a new request with the institute, the applicant was granted an old-age pension as from 4 february 2003 under the pension and disability insurance act (hereinafter “the general rules”).19.  the applicant appealed, arguing that he should have been granted the pension as from 1 may 1992. on 3 november 2003 the institute dismissed his appeal, holding that the applicant had been entitled to an old-age pension under the general rules and section 2(4) of the 1998 act as from 4 february 2003 – when he had acquired slovenian citizenship.an application that he lodged for judicial review and a subsequent appeal were also dismissed by the ljubljana labour and social court and the higher labour and social court respectively, reiterating the institute’s arguments.the court reiterated that under new section 15 of the 1998 act (see paragraph 23 below), the applicant would be entitled to a pension retroactively only if he had acquired citizenship under section 40 of the citizenship act.
8.  the government admitted that the applicants had been injured on the day of the incident, but submitted that they had sustained all the injuries either as a result of falling from a prison wall that was under construction at the time or as a result of the necessary physical force to which the prison officers had had to have recourse in order to effect their arrest.9.  on the day of the incident the investigation department of the then ministry of corrections and legal aid (“the ministry of prisons”) opened a criminal investigation into the circumstances of the applicants’ attempted escape.on the same date, the investigator commissioned an expert from the national forensic bureau who visually examined all those injured and issued reports in respect of the first, second and third applicants as well as the prison officers on 7 april 2009 and in respect of the fourth applicant on 16 april 2009. the examinations of the applicants were conducted in the presence of the investigator.the extent and nature of the injuries sustained by each of the applicants, as recorded by the expert, were as follows: 11.  it was observed that the first applicant had multiple abrasions on his chest, nose, forehead, cheeks, right ear, upper left arm, right shoulder and on both knees.12.  it was observed that the second applicant had multiple haematomas from his shoulders to his back and on his right cheek; abrasions on the right shoulder and on the back of his right hand; multiple scratches on the right side of his neck; and a deep scratch on the left thigh, covered with scabbing.13.  it was observed that the third applicant had multiple abrasions on the right forearm; an abrasion on the back of the fifth finger of his left hand; and cuts which were slightly bleeding on his head, on the left temple and crown.14.  it was observed that the fourth applicant had multiple haematomas on the chest, right elbow, and below the left eye; abrasions on the forehead and knee; a scratch on the right thigh; and a laceration which was slightly bleeding on the crown of the head.18.  on 10 november 2009 all the applicants, except for the fourth one, complained to the chief prosecutor of georgia of ill-treatment on 30 march 2009 and requested the initiation of criminal proceedings in line with the requirements of article 3 of the convention.on 11 november 2009, the prosecutor forwarded the applicants’ complaint to the judge examining the case against the applicants, considering it relevant for the on-going trial proceedings.27.  the second and third applicants further claimed that on the day of the incident pre-typed texts of statements had been given to them by the investigator and that they had been forced to sign these statements without reading them.the second and third applicants also claimed that d.ch., head of the prison service of the ministry of prisons and other senior officials of the agency had promised them leniency in respect of their escape attempt in return for remaining silent about their ill‑treatment.he essentially confirmed the applicants’ account of the events and further claimed that the prison governor, d.s., while physically and verbally abusing the applicants, had called a guard to shoot them, but the latter had not complied with the order.29.  the forensic medical examination reports of april 2009 obtained as part of the investigation conducted against the applicants in the prison escape case were included in the investigation file concerning the applicants’ alleged ill‑treatment.30.  on 17 september 2011 in response to a complaint lodged by the applicants about the ineffectiveness of the investigation, the prosecutor informed them that they were just witnesses in the matter and had no standing to lodge a complaint.31.  on 13 march 2012, the pdo, acting on behalf of the applicants, requested the office of the chief prosecutor information about the status of the investigation.
5.  the list of applicants and the relevant details of the applications are set out in the appended table.6.  on 25 september 2000 the neamț county court ordered a state‑owned company to pay the applicant due salary rights.7.  on 9 october 2001 the roman district court ordered a private person to reimburse a loan to the applicant.8.  on 14 november 2008 the brașov county court ordered the municipality of brașov to leave a plot of land in the applicant’s full property and possession.9.  on 3 april 2009 the applicant signed a report, drafted on the occasion of the compulsory enforcement of the above judgment, which attested to the restoration of his possession over the land in dispute by placement of metal bars on the free area and by tracing a line with white paint over the area occupied by roads and bridge pillars belonging to the municipality.10.  on 18 july 2008 the applicant contracted a loan of 250,000 euros (eur) from a bank, with the plot of land used as guarantee.11.  on 22 august 2011 the bank sold the land at a public auction for eur 325,000, since the applicant had failed to repay the loan within the set deadline.in accordance with domestic law, the remaining amount after the recovery of the debt must be returned to the debtor.
his lawyer further noted that the first applicant had been ill-treated on the premises of the mns, where he had been unlawfully detained from 4 p.m. on 2 february 2007 to 4 p.m. on 3 february 2007. in that connection, the lawyer submitted that there were bruises on his hand and asked the court to order his forensic examination.21.  as the first applicant’s family had no information about his place of detention following his administrative conviction, his lawyer sent numerous letters and telegrams to the mns, the prosecutor general’s office, the ministry of internal affairs and the court of appeal asking for information about the first applicant’s place of detention.32/tm, during his examination by the expert on 12 april 2007, the first applicant complained of having been ill‑treated on the premises of the mns on 2 february 2007. in particular, he stated that the index finger of his right hand had been squashed with a chair and that he had been struck on his left rib cage.despite the court’s explicit request to the government to submit copies of all the documents relating to the domestic proceedings, the government failed to provide the court with a copy of the above-mentioned forensic report.he alleged, inter alia, that he had been ill-treated by agents of the mns between 2 and 17 february 2007, that his arrest and detention on the premises of the mns from 2 to 3 february 2007 had been unlawful, and that he had been discriminated against on the grounds of his ethnicity.the part of the complaint concerning the first applicant’s ill-treatment reads as follows: “it appeared from the submissions that he [the first applicant] made to his representative in the presence of the investigator on 17 february 2007 that, although he had not officially asked for medical aid, he suffered from hypertension, prostatitis and poor eyesight.during the period when he had been administratively detained on the premises of the mns, he had been subjected to unrecorded interviews with 200/220 mm hg blood pressure, he had not been provided with the relevant medication, and on several occasions, he had not been allowed to go to the toilet with the intention of breaking his will.... n. mammadov had been threatened on several occasions and had been given false information according to which his two sons had also been arrested and detained in the next cells and his wife had been hospitalised on account of a serious heart disease ... although the application and request of his wife and representative concerning the violence against n. mammadov had been addressed to the prosecutor general’s office, those complaints had been sent first to the yasamal district prosecutor’s office and the baku city prosecutor’s office, and then again to the prosecutor general’s office.they were dealt with with delay on purpose so that the visible trace of injuries to the index finger of his right hand would disappear and recover; and the forensic examination had been ordered only in april 2007.” 27.  on 18 october 2007 the sabail district court, which examined the action under the procedure established by articles 449-51 of the code of criminal procedure concerning appeals against the prosecuting authorities’ actions and decisions, dismissed it without addressing any of the first applicant’s particular complaints.31.  on the same day the sabail district court, relying on the official charges brought against the first applicant and the prosecutor’s request for the preventive measure of remand in custody to be applied, ordered the first applicant’s detention for a period of three months.34.  on 12 may 2007 the sabail district court extended the first applicant’s pre-trial detention until 3 august 2007. the court substantiated the need for the extension by the seriousness of the charges and by the necessity of additional time to carry out further investigative steps.the first applicant complained at the hearing that he had been ill-treated and had been unlawfully detained on the premises of the mns and asked the court to return the case to the investigators for a new examination.43.  on 5 march 2008, following a request from the first applicant’s lawyer, a judge at the assize court asked the mns to inform the court, inter alia, whether the first applicant had been on the premises of the mns on 2, 3 and 9 february 2007, whether he had been questioned on the premises of the mns on 9 february 2007, and whether he had been subjected to a medical examination and what his diagnosis had been.44.  in reply to the judge’s letter of 5 march 2008, by a letter dated 16 april 2008 the mns informed the judge that the first applicant, who was at that time detained in the mns pre-trial detention facility, had been diagnosed with hypertension and was being provided with the relevant treatment.67.  on 24 august 2009 the second applicant lodged a request with the prosecutor general, claiming that the first applicant had died in detention because he had not been provided with the adequate medical treatment after january 2009. in that connection, she submitted that the first applicant’s state of health had worsened following his placement in a punishment cell between 14 and 21 january 2009 in prison no.
prior to being taken to the investigator, the applicant was transferred back to sambir police station in the late evening on 7 february 2008. there he was taken to the sambir temporary detention centre (“the sambir itt”) where he drafted a statement that he had not been beaten by the police and that his foot pain had been caused by accidently twisting his foot on the stairs.19.  on 18 february 2008, when the term of the applicant’s administrative detention expired, criminal proceedings were instituted against him in connection with the burglary of the b. family’s home and, without leaving the police premises, he was re-arrested as a suspect in the case.in addition, the expert noted that the applicant’s right foot was in a plaster cast during the examination and that on 4 march 2008 a radiologist from the lviv regional diagnostic centre had examined an x-ray image of 12 february 2008 and found “no signs of traumatic injuries” on the bones of the right foot.the court thus concluded that “the applicant had made his confessions to the police on 7 february 2008 at sambir police station before the physical injuries had been inflicted on him.” the allegations of the applicant’s co-defendants as to their ill‑treatment by the police were also dismissed by the trial court.as regards the applicant’s allegation of ill‑treatment and his objection to the use of his self-incriminating statements obtained under duress, the court found that the first-instance court had established that the applicant had made his confession at sambir police station before being taken to drogobych police station where the alleged ill‑treatment had taken place.it further relied on the sambir prosecutor’s findings set out in his decision of 7 march 2008, which had not been appealed against by the applicant, according to which on 7 and 12 february 2008 the applicant himself submitted that he had had twisted his foot on the stairs and that he had had no complaints against the officers of sambir police station (see paragraph 37 below).he emphasised in this connection that the lviv regional court had relied on the results of the investigation of his ill‑treatment allegations conducted by the sambir prosecutor’s office as the final and conclusive ones, whereas the criminal proceedings in respect of his ill-treatment complaint had been still pending.36.  on 27 february and 20 march 2008 the applicant’s mother and father respectively complained to the sambir district prosecutor’s office and the prosecutor general of the applicant’s ill-treatment in police custody and the police’s failure to provide the applicant with timely medical assistance for his foot injury.37.  on 7 march 2008, in response to the complaints of lawyer i. and the applicant’s mother, the deputy prosecutor of sambir refused to institute criminal proceedings against the heads of sambir police station and of the sambir itt and a police officer, k., on the grounds that there was no evidence that they had committed any crime.by the same decision, the prosecutor rejected as unsubstantiated the complaints concerning the lack of medical assistance in respect of the applicant’s foot injury and the allegations that his relatives and lawyer had not been allowed to see him.the prosecutors then relied on the testimony of the officers and on the statements the applicant had made on 7 and 12 february 2008. they also noted the fact that the applicant had remained silent during a court hearing on the application of a preventive measure in respect of him.did the applicant sustain traumatic injuries to his right foot and, if so, how serious were the injuries and could they have been inflicted in the circumstances indicated by the applicant during his questioning as a witness and during the reconstruction of the crime scene with his participation?46.  on 28 october 2008 the experts’ report answered those questions as follows: the applicant did sustain a fracture of the fifth metatarsus bone of his right foot; the injury could have been caused at the beginning of february 2008, as suggested by the applicant, but it was not possible to state with precision the particular date of infliction; the injury originated from a blunt object and could be classified as “light” in terms of severity; such a fracture would normally be caused by a direct impact on the bone either by inflicting a blow with a blunt object or by falling on the foot from a height, but in the applicant’s case it most likely originated from a blow to his foot with a blunt object such as a wooden stool leg or a wooden bar; the particularities of the applicant’s injury which could be observed on the x‑ray images were not typical of an accidental twisting of the foot; and the last question could not be answered.according to the report, the applicant had a fracture of the fifth metatarsus bone of his right foot which, given the absence of external injuries in the area of the fracture, could have been sustained without the application of external force to the applicant, for example by twisting the foot while walking or running.he relied on the police officers’ denial of any ill-treatment, supported by statements by their colleagues, the applicant’s statement made on 7 february 2008 that he had accidently twisted his foot on the stairs and the results of the forensic medical examination of 23 january 2012, which the prosecutor regarded as the only reliable one.
that plea followed a ruling by the district judge that he had no power to stay the proceedings as an abuse of process on the grounds advanced by the applicant; namely, that the powers given to the police under schedule 7 had infringed her rights under articles 5, 6 and 8 of the convention and her right to freedom of movement between member states of the european union under articles 20 and 21 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.18.  with respect to her convention rights, she argued that the powers under schedule 7 were in breach of articles 5 and 8 of the convention because they were neither sufficiently circumscribed nor subject to adequate safeguards to be “in accordance with the law”; or, in the alternative, that the interference with her article 8 rights was not proportionate.unlike the code of practice relating to the powers exercised under section 44 of tact (the provisions under consideration in gillan and quinton), in the present case the relevant home office code of practice and accompanying practical advice (see paragraphs 42 and 43 below) afforded a measure of legal protection against arbitrary interferences by the executive.equally, we are not persuaded that these are unfettered powers, falling foul of the test applied in gillan (strasbourg), at [76] – [77], also set out above; for our part, the ‘level of precision’ of these powers (ibid) falls and falls comfortably on the right side of the line.” 22.  the court also found that the exercise of schedule 7 powers was proportionate.as the respondent accepted that there had been an interference with the applicant’s rights, and the applicant accepted that the interference was “in order to secure the fulfilment of any obligation prescribed by law”, the only issue to be determined was whether the interference was “lawful”, and the conclusions in respect of article 8 had determined that it was.furthermore, the examination was not carried out for the purpose of obtaining admissions or evidence for use in such proceedings, and the fact that the applicant’s answers might have yielded information potentially of evidential value did not of itself suffice to engage article 6. even if the applicant’s rights had been engaged, the court found that there would have been no violation since it was fanciful to suppose that permission would be granted in criminal proceedings for any admissions obtained pursuant to a schedule 7 examination to be adduced in evidence.26.  prior to the judgment, schedule 7 was amended by the anti-social behaviour, crime and policing act 2014, which required examining officers to take a person into detention if they wished to examine him or her for longer than one hour; reduced the maximum period of detention from nine hours to six hours; required the periodic review of detention by a review officer; provided that the questioning of an examinee should not commence until after the arrival of a requested solicitor; and stipulated that examining officers should be designated and trained for this purpose (see paragraphs 52-53 below).in particular, they had regard to the restriction of the power to those passing in and out of the country; the restriction to the statutory purpose; the restriction to specially trained and accredited police officers; the restrictions on the duration of questioning; the restrictions on the type of search; the requirement to give explanatory notice to those questioned, including a procedure for complaint; the requirement to permit consultation with a solicitor and the notification of a third party; the requirement for records to be kept; the availability of judicial review; and the continuous supervision of the independent reviewer.29.  lords hughes and hodge further accepted that the interference with the applicant’s private life had been proportionate: the intrusion itself had been comparatively light, as it was not beyond the reasonable expectations of those who travel across the united kingdom’s international borders, and, in view of the relevant safeguards, a fair balance could be said to have been struck between the rights of the individual and the rights of the public at large.the former alternative would be unfortunate in terms of deterring and hindering terrorism, whereas the latter alternative would seem to put proportionality and legality in irreconcilable tension.” (b)  article 5 31.  although lords hughes, hodge, neuberger and dyson agreed with the divisional court that the comments made in relation to safeguards in the context of article 8 also applied in respect of article 5, in their view it did not follow that the power of detention was automatically justified.(c)  article 6 § 1 32.  in respect of the applicant’s complaint under article 6, lords hughes, hodge, neuberger and dyson accepted that the privilege against self‑incrimination did not apply where a person was being questioned pursuant to schedule 7. however, their lordships considered port questioning and search under schedule 7 to be separate from a criminal investigation and, since the applicant had been at no time a defendant to a criminal charge, no question of a breach of her right to a fair trial could arise.in particular, he observed that no authorisation was required for an examining officer to have resort to the schedule 7 powers; the examining officer did not have to consider the use of those powers expedient for the prevention of acts of terrorism; there was no geographical or temporal limitation on the use of those powers, other than that they were to be used at a port of entry into or exit from the united kingdom; and there was no provision for their automatic lapse, nor was there any question of their renewed authorisation being subject to confirmation.furthermore, lord kerr noted that certain features were common to both sets of powers: the width of the powers was similar (in both instances there was no requirement of either reasonable or even subjective suspicion) and challenges to their use on conventional judicial review grounds faced the same difficulties identified in gillan and quinton (namely, if an examining officer was not required to have a reasonable suspicion, how was the proportionality of the exercise of his powers to be reviewed?).secondly, and more importantly, the fact that people were accustomed to intrusion moving through ports of entry or exit did not bear on the question of whether the circumstances in which the schedule 7 powers could be exercised were too widely drawn to satisfy the test of “in accordance with the law”.in lord kerr’s opinion, it was inescapable that there was a real and appreciable risk of prosecution if the answers to the questions asked proved to be self‑incriminating, and the fact that the applicant in the present case was not suspected of being a terrorist was nothing to the point.
all the applicants offered their services on the territory of a private marketplace (l.) situated in the centre of leova and which had received its licence in 1996. the local authorities authorised the offering of services on the territory of l. from monday to saturday.5.  the applicants and l.’s owners asked the local authorities for a change in work schedule, allowing them to work on sundays and to have their free day on monday, as was the case of many similar marketplaces in other towns.according to the applicants, the real reason for the refusal was the protection of u.’s interests, since sunday was the most lucrative day of the week.6.  on 31 january 2005 the general meeting of entrepreneurs (which included the applicants) decided to ask the local authorities to allow them to work on sundays and to rest on mondays.they submitted their request to l.’s owners, who on 8 february 2005 complained to the mayor of leova, referring to the decision of 31 january 2005 and requesting an authorisation of a change in the work schedule of the marketplace.8.  on 4 april 2005 the general meeting of entrepreneurs (including the applicants) expressed its disagreement with the decision of 2 march 2005. on the same day the 191 entrepreneurs working on the territory of l., including the applicants, declared a strike and decided to submit an official request for a change in their work schedule.they asked, inter alia, for the annulment of the decision 2.2 adopted by the city council on 2 march 2005 and explained that they had not been offered proper working conditions on the territory of u.11.  on 6 april 2005 the leova city council discussed at its meeting the demands of the entrepreneurs and of l.’s administration, made in their request of 4 april 2005. according to the applicants, l.’s director was allowed to address the councillors and spoke about the applicants’ demands.3.1 in which it took note of the applicants’ demands and decided that l. was to work in accordance with the decision of the leova city council no.12.  on 12 may 2005 the mayor of leova replied to the complaint of 4 april 2005. the mayor informed the entrepreneurs that an answer to their demands had already been given by the leova city council in its decision no.13.  on 28 may 2005 the 191 entrepreneurs, including the applicants, lodged administrative court proceedings, asking for the annulment of the decision of 2 march 2005. they argued that their rights had been affected by that decision and that its aim was the protection of u.’s interests.they annexed copies of the preliminary request addressed to the mayoralty, of their complaint made on 4 april 2005 to the leova city council, and of the reply of the mayor’s office of 12 may 2005 (see the preceding paragraph).15.  by its final decision of 20 october 2005 the cahul court of appeal quashed the lower court’s judgment and decided to strike out the court action lodged by the entrepreneurs.it explained that the entrepreneurs had submitted their preliminary complaint to the mayor, while the decision which they sought to annul had been adopted by the city council of the leova mayoralty.therefore, article 14 of the law on administrative proceedings (see paragraph 17 below) had not been observed since the complaint had to be submitted first to the authority which had adopted the impugned decision.
8.  on 18 july 2013 the organised crime prosecution in serbia opened an investigation in respect of the applicant and several other persons in relation to the murder of x. the investigation order implied that the applicant had arranged the murder of x as he had considered x’s brother responsible for the murder of his own brother.it also took into account the manner in which the offence had been committed, that the motive for it had been revenge and that the applicant’s release could provoke an outcry among the people and could threaten public peace and order.the reasoning was the same as before: there was reasonable suspicion that the applicant had committed the said criminal offence; if released he could influence the witnesses, given that the investigation was ongoing and several witnesses were yet to be heard; the statutory penalty for the said criminal offence was ten years’ imprisonment or more, which offence was particularly grave in view of its motive – revenge – and its consequence – x’s death; and there were exceptional circumstances indicating that his release would seriously threaten public peace and order given that the media had extensively reported on the murder of x.16.  by a decision of 20 june 2014 the court of appeals upheld the decisions of 7 may and 6 june 2014. the court also examined the applicant’s health-related and family circumstances and considered them to be “of no impact” (nijesu od uticaja).18.  on 17 october 2014 the high court extended the applicant’s detention “until a further decision of the court”, on the basis of article 175 § 1(4) of the cpc.it considered that detention was proportionate to the gravity of the criminal offence at issue, taking into account “all the circumstances of the case”, and that the purpose of detention from article 175 § 1(4) could not be achieved by any other, less restrictive measure.it considered that the high court’s reasoning was clear and detailed, the only exception being the finding that the applicant could abscond, which was an obvious error (omaška), but it considered it of no importance for the lawfulness of his detention.it also held that what was relevant for the lawfulness of the applicant’s further detention was that the indictment should be issued within six months, which had been complied with given that the investigation had begun on 9 april 2014 and the indictment had been issued on 7 october 2014. it was of no relevance that the indictment had been returned, or that it had been issued for two criminal offences whereas the applicant’s detention had been extended relying on only one of the two.the decision specified that the investigation had not been terminated yet, and given that the applicant was in detention the court of its own motion, pursuant to article 179 § 2 of the cpc, reviewed his further detention.he submitted, in particular, that the court had failed to review within 30 days whether the reasons for his detention persisted, and when it had done so, it had merely copied the earlier reasoning without really examining what exactly would disturb public peace and order, as nothing had happened when he had been released after the seven-month extradition detention.it held that pursuant to article 179 § 2 of the cpc the court had a duty to review whether the reasons for detention persisted and to issue a new decision extending or revoking it every 30 days before the indictment entered into force, and every two months after the indictment had come into force.he submitted, inter alia, that: (a) the courts had failed to review his detention and issue a relevant decision within 30 days; (b) his detention had already lasted for more than eight months without the indictment having entered into force even though it was statutorily limited to six months; (c) the decisions extending his detention had been insufficiently reasoned, the reasoning having been identical, merely copied from one decision to another, and the reasons set out in the first detention order could no longer suffice.27.  on 29 may 2015 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional appeal, which decision was served on 9 january 2016. the court considered unfounded (neutemeljeni) the applicant’s allegations relating to his detention not having been reviewed within the statutory time‑limits and the indictment not having entered into force.it held, however, that the high court and the court of appeals had examined the existence of reasonable suspicion, assessed the existing evidence and other circumstances justifying the extension of detention, indicated which evidence had been taken into account and given clear and precise explanations in accepting them.the court took into account the length of detention thus far, the fact that the indictment had been returned for the third time, and that it was uncertain when and if at all it would come into force, and held that the applicant should not bear the consequences of that.
12.  according to the government, during o.’s illness the applicants’ relatives mr and ms z. started to help the applicants with the upbringing of m.: they took the girl to their place of residence on weekends and holidays, and attended events in her kindergarten.25.  on 26 september 2013 a meeting was held between the parties on the subject of the first applicant’s and n.b.’s communication with the child with the participation of the krasnenkaya rechka municipal entity, the childcare authorities, the children’s rights commissioner in st petersburg, the prosecutor’s assistant of the district prosecutor’s office, an expert specialising in conflict resolution and a psychologist of the district centre for social assistance to the family and children.an oral agreement was reached between ms z. and the first applicant to the effect that the latter’s meetings with the child were to take place on 5 october and 12 october 2013 for two hours in the presence of ms z. on 1 november 2013 ms z. and the first applicant were to come to the office of the children’s rights commissioner for a debriefing on the meetings.27.  while the first applicant did not have any contact with the child after that, the second applicant continued communicating with m. until november 2014. subsequently mr and ms z. prevented the second applicant from staying in touch with m. 28.  meanwhile, on 13 november 2013 mr and ms z. lodged an adoption application with the primorskiy district court of st petersburg (“the district court”).as regards the second applicant’s argument to the effect that the child’s adoption had led to the termination of all contact between her and the grandparents, the city court stated, relying on article 67 §§ 1 and 2 of the family code, that the grandfather, grandmother, brothers, sisters and other relatives have a right to contact with the child and that in the event of a refusal by the child’s parents to afford them such contact, they are entitled to apply to a court to have the obstacles to their contact with the child eliminated.35.  on 21 august 2015 the city court and on 22 december 2015 the supreme court of russia (“the supreme court”), following a prior application for review of the final judgment, decided not to refer the case for review in the cassation procedure.relying of article 67 of the family code, the district court considered that it was open to the first applicant to apply to a court for the determination of her contact with the child.41.  on 18 april 2014 the administration of the municipal entity krasnenkaya rechka submitted that the girl needed a calm psychological atmosphere; that she perceived the situation around her as tense and anxious; and that she did not understand the conflict between the applicants themselves and between the first applicant and the girl’s adoptive parents.the expert considered, however, that communication between the child and the grandmother could have a negative impact on the psychological state of the child, as there was an unsettled conflict between the applicants and the z.s: the grandmother disapproved of the child’s adoption and was challenging its lawfulness.the expert further considered that the child’s residence with the grandparents would not be ideal, because, given the instability of interfamilial relations and the protracted conflict in the applicants’ family, there existed a risk of the child’s being involved in the adults’ conflict.the pushkinskiy district court therefore ordered mr and ms z. not to place obstacles in the way of the first applicant’s communication with m. and held that contact between the first applicant and m. should take place as follows: during the first six months after the finalisation of the judgment – each second and fourth sunday of the month from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. outside the parents’ and the grandparents’ places of residence in the presence of the parents, and thereafter on the same conditions without the parents present.a year after the finalisation of the judgment the first applicant was able, in addition to the above arrangements, to spend two weeks with m. during the summer holidays with sixty days’ prior notice to the parents of the place of the planned holiday.8 of 20 april 2006 (see paragraphs 54, 55 and 68 below), the city court held that the first applicant had not applied for continued post-adoption contact with her granddaughter within the adoption proceedings, for which reason this issue had remained unexamined by [the district court examining the adoption case] and no reference had been made in the adoption judgment regarding continuation of family ties between the first applicant and her granddaughter after her adoption.in such circumstances, the city court considered that civil and family law did not enable the first applicant to claim the elimination of obstacles to her contact with the child and determination of the terms of such contact with the latter.48.  on 1 december 2015 the district court held that since the adoption judgment of 26 november 2013 did not contain an indication as to the continuation of family ties between the second applicant and his granddaughter after the adoption, the former did not have a right to claim the elimination of obstacles to contact with the child and determination of the terms of his contact with his granddaughter.
the article read, in so far as relevant, as follows: “in the midst of the corruption scandals rocking the region, ‘the red house’ is trying to save face at all costs.the first episode of the series, ‘there is no corruption in the regional administration’ was released in 2002, when a criminal investigation was initiated against d.s., the deputy governor of the region.he was able to part with such a ‘promising’ employee only after the prosecutor of the region had made an official request to this end...” 7.  on 28 july 2006 the administration of the kostroma region and v.sh., governor of the kostroma region, lodged defamation claims with the leninskiy district court of kostroma (“the district court”) against the publisher of the kostroma chronometer and the applicant, seeking retraction of certain statements and claiming compensation in respect of non‑pecuniary damage.the claimants challenged, in particular, the following statements: “in the midst of the corruption scandals rocking the region, ‘the red house’ is trying to save face at all costs” and “[i]n spite of the serious nature of the criminal charges brought against his deputy, the governor tried to shield his subordinate at all costs, attempting to uphold the honour of the regiment”.8.  on 5 october 2006 the district court partially allowed the defamation claims, finding that one of the impugned statements was untruthful and ordering that a retraction be published and that the applicant and the newspaper pay 500 russian roubles (rub) (approximately 15 euros (eur) at the exchange rate applicable at the time) and rub 1,000 (approximately eur 30), respectively, in compensation for non‑pecuniary damage.the judgment read, in so far as relevant, as follows: “analysing the article’s contents as a whole and the information therein disputed by the claimants, the court concludes that ... the expression ‘to save face’ referring to the corruption scandals in the region and endeavours of the administration of the kostroma region is not defamatory for the reason that the criminal prosecution of the heads of the region’s executive bodies and unitary enterprises was a known fact.the claim of the article’s author that the administration of the kostroma region was trying to ‘save face’ in the midst of corruption scandals does not imply a statement that this state agency is trying to justify, especially by any unlawful means, any of its actions or those of its employees.in view of the foregoing, the court finds no grounds to allow the claims brought by the administration of the kostroma region.the statements published in the newspaper concerning governor v.sh.’s attempts to shield, at all costs, the actions of his subordinate d.s., who was facing criminal charges, have not been confirmed [as truthful] in the course of the court hearing.the governor’s request meant that, taking into account the legal norms in force, that is to say in accordance with the law, the court [be invited to] examine the possibility of terminating the criminal case, taking into account the time that had elapsed since the commission of the offences by d.s.in the court’s opinion, the statements disseminated concerning the governor are of a damaging nature because they lead a reader to the opinion that he has broken moral and ethical norms, behaved improperly towards society, [and] ignored the requirements of the criminal procedure laws.the defendants failed to provide evidence that would objectively demonstrate that, when sending the petition concerning the termination of the criminal case against d.s., the governor was pursuing his private interests or those of the administration of the kostroma region.accordingly, the [defamation] claims of the governor of the kostroma region regarding the protection of his honour, dignity and business reputation are well‑founded in law and should be granted.” 9.  the applicant and the editor-in-chief of the newspaper appealed against the judgment to the kostroma regional court (“the regional court”) referring, inter alia, to the fact that the impugned statements represented value judgments which had a strong factual basis in the form of the governor’s petition to judge m. the administration of the kostroma region also appealed.its reasoning included the following: “when deciding on the claims brought by the governor of the kostroma region, the [district] court reasonably concluded that the defendants had not proven in the course of the hearing that the governor had tried to shield his subordinate by all means and in every manner, that is, at all costs, in order to uphold ‘the honour of the regiment’.tried to shield his subordinate at all costs, attempting to uphold ‘the honour of the regiment’, and proof of that [statement] is given later’.” 11.  according to the applicant, the bailiffs’ service received rub 500 from her in v.sh.’s favour on 17 january 2007.
during the night of 16 june 2007 the applicant was insulted and beaten up by police officers a.a. and m., who requested that he confess to the robbery.the police officers coerced k. to confess to the robbery, physically assaulting him and making him see the applicant’s beatings.drew up a record of the applicant’s arrest for robbery, which was signed by the applicant in the absence of a lawyer.12.  according to records from the ivs and iz-77/2, of 17 and 21 june 2007, respectively, the applicant had multiple contusions and abrasions on his head, chest and upper limbs.13.  on 13 august 2007 the applicant lodged a complaint with the internal security department of the ministry of internal affairs in moscow, allegedly as soon as he had stopped fearing for his life.14.  during the two years which followed, investigators of the zyuzinskiy district investigation unit of the investigative committee for moscow carried out a pre-investigation inquiry and issued refusals to open a criminal case (dated 14 september 2007, 24 february 2008 and 2 may 2009) pursuant to article 24 § 1 (1) or (2) of the ccrp, either because there was no evidence that a crime had been committed or because none of the elements of a crime under article 286 § 3 of the criminal code (abuse of powers with use of violence) were present in respect of the actions of police officers a.a. and m. in doing so they relied on the police officers’ and investigator a.i.’s explanations denying any wrongdoing.15.  according to explanations by the police officers received during the pre‑investigation inquiry, on 16 june 2007 they took the applicant – who according to operative information had committed a robbery – to the police station, where an “explanation” was received from him concerning the crime, without any physical or psychological pressure being exerted on him.on 15 january 2008 the investigator’s refusal of 14 september 2007 was overruled on the grounds that it had been premature and based on an incomplete inquiry, as it did not contain an explanation of the applicant’s injuries.it also stated that the applicant had been convicted of several crimes and had been sentenced to eight years’ imprisonment, and that the police officers had acted in accordance with their duties.18.  the applicant appealed against the investigator’s decisions of 24 february 2008 and 2 may 2009. his appeal against the former decision was not examined by domestic courts, which terminated the proceedings in view of the annulment of the decision by the investigating authority (decision of 24 april 2009 of the gagarinskiy district court of moscow, as upheld on 28 october 2009 by the moscow city court).on 24 november 2010 the gagarinskiy district court of moscow dismissed the applicant’s second appeal, holding that the decision of 2 may 2009 was lawful and well‑grounded.on 6 june 2011 the moscow city court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and fully endorsed the first‑instance court’s decision.it relied mainly on the investigator’s refusal to open a criminal case against the police officers of 14 september 2007 (subsequently overruled), noting there was no objective information showing that physical violence had been used against the applicant.21.  the applicant’s co-accused, k., did not confirm his confession statements at the preliminary investigation, explaining that he had given them because police officers had physically assaulted him and had made him see the applicant’s beatings.23.  the government submitted statements collected by lieutenant colonel s. from the internal security department of the ministry of internal affairs in moscow on 17 november 2016 from police officer m. and investigator a.i., in which both m., presently a senior operational police officer of the criminal search department for the south-west administrative circuit of moscow, and a.i., presently an investigator of the department for the fight against organised crime for the south-west administrative circuit of moscow, denied any unlawful conduct and ill‑treatment in respect of the applicant after the applicant’s arrest in 2007.
according to the applicant, during his time in police custody police officers from the severnyy district police department in orel and the operational search division of the orel regional police department (овд по северному району г. орла и орч увд по орловской области) subjected him to ill-treatment to force him to confess to the crimes.2378/5a), the applicant had the following injuries: (i) three scratches on his right cheek; (ii) two bruises on his neck; (iii) two bruises on his chest; (iv) two bruises on his back; (v) eleven bruises and an abrasion on his right upper limb; (vi) nine bruises and an abrasion on his left upper limb; (vii) an abrasion on his right lower leg; (viii) an abrasion on his left hip; and (ix) an abrasion on his left buttock.8.  the expert did not exclude the possibility that the applicant’s bruises on his wrists could have been caused by handcuffs, and also concluded that the applicant had had thirty-four points on his body where force had been used, and had sustained no less than twenty-three blows.9.  in reply to an investigator’s question whether the injuries could have been self-inflicted, the expert stated that the injuries were within the reach of the applicant’s hands, except for the injuries on the back, which could have been received as a result of the applicant being struck by or striking himself against a blunt object with a limited striking surface (the expert’s “explanations” of 26 june 2009).10.  according to the ivs (temporary detention centre) medical records, the applicant complained about headache and pain in the back when he was placed in the ivs on 16 august 2008, after being examined at the traumatology centre of the orel town hospital and diagnosed with contusion to the soft tissues of the head and closed craniocerebral injury (with a question mark).when he was brought back at 9 p.m. that day (after being examined at the orel regional hospital where he was diagnosed with contusions to the soft tissues of the head and abrasions to the face) he complained about headache and had abrasions on the forehead and on the back, explaining that he had received them at the severnyy district police station.11.  according to pre-trial detention facility iz-57/1, on 20 august 2008 the applicant had abrasions above the left eyebrow, on the left cheek, the wrists and the right elbow.14.  on the dates specified below, and in accordance with article 24 § 1 (1) or (2) of the code of criminal procedure, officials at the investigative committee issued refusals to initiate criminal proceedings against the police officers under article 286 § 3 of the criminal code (abuse of powers) for no case to answer.they stated that they had arrested the applicant in the night time on suspicion of having committed the crimes, that in the course of the arrest they had tripped the applicant up, twisted his hand behind his back and handcuffed him since he had tried to escape, and that they had interviewed him at the severnyy district police department before the arrival of an investigator next morning to draw up an official record of his arrest.they also interviewed the applicant on 18 august 2008 about his complaint of ill-treatment at the severnyy district police, which had been communicated to the police on 16 august 2008 by the traumatology centre of the town hospital.according to the police officers, the applicant had fallen before his arrest (being drunk) and at the ivs detention centre, and had inflicted injuries on himself at the police station.according to the applicant’s explanations, he had not resisted his arrest, he had been beaten up at the time of his arrest and also during the night at the severnyy district police station and when brought there for investigative activities thereafter.the applicant denied the police officers’ allegations of self-inflicted injuries and stated that he had signed the explanation about allegedly falling before the arrest under the threats of continued ill‑treatment from police officers s.d.according to statements by the applicant’s girlfriend, she heard the applicant screaming from being allegedly beaten up during his arrest and at the police station; several days later at the police station he had complained to her that police officers had beaten him up; he had had abrasions on the face; and he had lost consciousness during a confrontation between them and the ambulance had been called.16.  the most recent refusal to institute criminal proceedings against the police officers of 29 october 2010 maintained the findings made in the previous refusals (for example, the refusal of 26 june 2009) that the police had lawfully applied force during the applicant’s arrest, that the applicant had attempted to inflict injuries on himself, which was coherent with the forensic medical expert’s conclusion that the injuries, except for the injuries on the back, had been within the reach of his hands.
14.  meanwhile, on 25 april 2006 the applicant brought a complaint against the investigator under article 125 of the code of criminal procedure of the russian federation (which provides for judicial review of decisions of investigators that might infringe the constitutional rights of participants in the proceedings or prevent a person’s access to court) challenging the lawfulness of his arrest, which had not been based on a judicial decision, and the investigator’s failure to bring charges against him within the required time-limit.16.  on 7 july 2006 the sverdlovsk regional court (“the regional court”) discontinued the appeal proceedings in respect of the decision of 23 may 2006. the regional court held that article 125 of the code of criminal procedure of the russian federation did not allow for judicial review of issues related to arrest or detention.17.  in the meantime, on 18 may 2006 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 18 july 2006. the district court found that the grounds for the applicant’s detention persisted and that there existed a risk that the applicant might abscond during the investigation or trial, as he had been on the wanted list for several years prior to his arrest.20.  on 16 august 2006 the regional court upheld the above extension order, noting that it was of no importance that the initial detention order had been issued by the investigator in 2000. it referred to the fact that before the entry into force of the code of criminal procedure of the russian federation in july 2002, it had been lawful for a prosecutor to issue detention orders in a criminal case.28.  on the same day officers of the special police force of the chief directorate of the ministry of the interior of russia for perm region (“the omon”) and investigators from the department of the interior of the sverdlovskiy district of perm planned the applicant’s arrest.the first-aid station report sent to the police on the same date read that the applicant had sustained the injuries at the hands of the police during his arrest.the text of this decision contained the applicant’s submission to the effect that after his arrest he had been taken to the police station on 19 march 2006, where he had been informed that he was on the wanted list on suspicion of a murder committed in nizhniy tagil.38.  following the communication of the complaint of ill-treatment to the government (see paragraph 4 above), on 5 december 2012 the acting prosecutor of the perm region quashed the decision of 17 april 2006, finding that the pre-investigation inquiry had been incomplete.43.  witness t. (one of the police officers) further submitted that during the arrest the applicant did not obey the lawful demands of the police and tried instead to get hold of the razor blade in his bag.the applicant’s ribs could have been fractured either as a result of the impact of a hard blunt object or objects or in the circumstances indicated by t. 45.  on 12 june 2013 the investigator discontinued the criminal proceedings for lack of constituent elements of a crime in the actions of police officers.he noted, in particular, that at the regional hospital the applicant had explained that he had received his injuries when he had fallen in the street on 18 march 2006. the investigator relied on the findings of the medical experts that the time of the injuries could not be established.the investigator further found that the use of force and special means against the applicant had been lawful and justified: the applicant was known to have a knife and a razor blade on him and, when told to surrender, had tried to reach for the bag containing them.however, as the applicant had shown resistance to the officers and they had had information that he had a knife and a razor blade on him, the use of force (a foot-sweep wrestling move) and handcuffs by the police had been lawful, and there were no constituent elements of a crime in the acts of the officers.58.  on 18 april 2009 an investigator from the dzerzhinskiy district investigative division of nizhniy tagil of the investigation department of the investigation committee at the russian federation’s prosecutor’s office for the sverdlovsk region (“the dzerzhinskiy district investigation division”) refused to institute criminal proceedings in respect of investigator b. in charge of the applicant’s criminal case.59.  on 29 november 2012, following the communication of the complaint to the government, the head of the investigation department of the investigation committee at the russian federation’s prosecutor’s office for the sverdlovsk region quashed the decision of 18 april 2009 as premature.
the article suggested that the girl had been forced to undergo the abortion by her parents and g.c., the guardianship judge (giudice tutelare) who had authorised the procedure.this clarification was widely disseminated by different sources: in particular, the national press agency (ansa) issued a number of press releases on 17 february 2007 clarifying the events; the television news bulletins broadcast by rai2 and rai3 (italy’s public national television channels) reported that the news concerning the alleged pressure on the teenager was false; the newspapers corriere della sera and la repubblica reported the facts of the case in the same vein.she struggled ... [n]ow the young mother (you are still considered as a mother even if your son died) is hospitalised as mentally ill. she had screamed in vain ‘if you kill my son, i will commit suicide’ ... if there were the death penalty, and if [it were ever] applicable, this would have been the case, [f]or the parents, the gynaecologist and [g.c.]the relevant parts read as follows: “pregnant [girl] at the early age of thirteen undergoes abortion and is hospitalised in a psychiatric centre ...) after the abortion [the thirteen-year old girl] accused her family of forcing her to [have an abortion]...” 13.  on 27 april 2007 g.c.the applicant was charged with defamation, aggravated by the fact that the offence consisted of imputing a specific fact (article 595 §§ 1 and 2 of the criminal code), and failure of newspaper’s editor-in-chief to control what had been published – omesso controllo (article 57 of the criminal code).14.  in a judgment of 26 january 2009, filed in the relevant registry on 20 march 2009, the district court found the applicant guilty of omesso controllo, as far as the article drafted by a. m. was concerned, and of aggravated defamation since, as head of the newspaper, he was responsible for the article published under the pseudonym “dreyfus”.the applicant was ordered to pay a fine of 5,000 euros (eur), damages in the sum of eur 10.000 and costs in the sum of eur 2,500 (to be paid jointly with a.m.), with publication of the judgment in libero.15.  it concluded: (i) that both articles contained false information, and (ii) that the content of both articles had severely damaged the reputation of the victim, clearly overstepping the boundaries of the applicant’s right to freely impart information.accordingly, the court of appeal found that the penalty imposed was too lenient, particularly in the light of the seriousness of the offence committed, and a finding that the applicant was a recidivist.the court of appeal thus increased the penalty to one year and two months’ imprisonment, and upheld the fine of eur 5,000. the court of appeal did not suspend the enforcement of the penalty and decided to record the conviction on the applicant’s criminal record.19.  in a judgment of 26 september 2012, deposited in the relevant registry on 23 october 2012, the court of cassation upheld the court of appeal’s findings, assessing, inter alia, the compatibility of the conviction and the sentence imposed in the light of the case-law of the court.in particular, the imposition of the detention measure had been justified by a set of concurrent factors, such as the existence of the aggravating circumstance of “imputing a specific fact”; the applicant’s personality, his criminal record (the applicant being a recidivist) and the fact that the publication of false information had undermined the reputation of g.c., a member of the judiciary.20.  by a decision of 30 november 2012, filed in the relevant registry on the same date, the milan court responsible for the execution of sentences (tribunale di sorveglianza di milano) ordered the applicant to serve his sentence under house arrest (pericolo di fuga), on the grounds that there was no risk that he might abscond.21.  on an unspecified date, relying on article 87 § 11 of the constitution, the applicant filed a request with the president of the italian republic to convert the remainder of the detention period into a fine.23.  in his decision to commute the applicant’s penalty, the president relied on the criticism expressed by the european court of human rights with respect to the imposition of custodial sentences on journalists.
7.  following a number of deaths of soldiers in the azerbaijani army in non-combat situations, from january until march 2013 a number of demonstrations were held in baku in protest against the deaths of soldiers in the army.the narrated section of the broadcast referred to the people dancing in the video as drug addicts and anarchist members of nida, criticising the demonstrations organised in protest against the deaths of soldiers in the army.on the same day the nasimi district court found the applicant guilty under article 298.2 (violation of the rule regulating the organisation and holding of gatherings) of the code of administrative offences and sentenced him to fifteen days’ administrative arrest.the domestic proceedings concerning the applicant’s arrest on 30 april 2013 and subsequent administrative conviction have already been the subject of the judgment in the case of mirzayev and others v. azerbaijan (nos.and others, with whom he had close ties, at around 3 p.m. in the seaside park, [he] blatantly breached public order by making a video recording of continued and repetitive immoral actions ... in respect of a bronze statue of an old man ... and of intentionally chaotic hand and foot movements (qərəzli xaotik əl-qol hərəkətləri) carried out after having stripped to the waist, and [he] manifestly failed to comply with lawful requests [made by] public officials, ... [namely] the security officers of the seaside park department and police officers [and others] that he desist from the above‑mentioned actions, [which breached public order; [he] resisted by [insolently refusing] to cease his actions (müstəsna həyasızlıqla öz hərəkətlərini dayandırmaması ilə müqavimət göstərərək); [he] prepared video footage amounting to 6.16 megabytes from a video recording depicting actions against the ethical principles of the society in which he lives and on 1 march 2013 widely disseminated it by uploading it to the youtube website under the title of “harlem shake – park bulvar” ... through these actions, ilkin bakir oglu rustamzade committed criminal offences under articles 221.2.1 and 221.2.2 of the criminal code of the republic of azerbaijan.the prosecutor justified his request by citing the gravity of the charges against the applicant and the fact that there was a risk of his absconding and obstructing the investigation’s functioning by influencing other participants in the criminal proceedings.14.  on 17 may 2013 the nasimi district court, relying on the official charges brought against the applicant and the prosecutor’s request, ordered the applicant’s detention pending trial for a period of two months.the court cited the risk of his absconding and reoffending, together with the nature of the criminal act, and justified its decision as follows: “having examined the request with the [aid of the] material in the case file and having heard the submissions of those who have been present at this court hearing, and taking into account the fact that there is a likelihood that the accused, ilkin bakir oglu rustamzade, will abscond from the investigation and reoffend, as well as the nature of the criminal act attributed to him, the court considers that he should be remanded in custody.” 15.  on 20 may 2013 the applicant appealed against that decision, submitting that there had been no justification for the application of the preventive measure of detention pending trial.20.  on 12 july 2013 the prosecutor in charge of the criminal case lodged a request with the court asking for an extension of the applicant’s pre-trial detention for a period of two months, submitting that more time was needed to complete the investigation.21.  on 15 july 2013 the nasimi district court extended the applicant’s detention pending trial until 17 september 2013. the court substantiated the need for the extension by citing the likelihood that, if released, the applicant might abscond or obstruct the investigation by influencing those participating in the criminal proceedings.23.  on 22 july 2013 the baku court of appeal dismissed the appeal and upheld the nasimi district court’s decision of 15 july 2013. the appellate court’s reasoning reiterated that provided by the first-instance court.24.  following a request dated 10 september 2013 by the prosecutor in charge of the case for an extension of the period of the applicant’s pre-trial detention, on 11 september 2013 the nasimi district court extended the applicant’s detention pending trial by two months, until 17 november 2013. the court justified its decision by citing the need for additional time in which to carry out further investigative measures and the fact that the grounds for the applicant’s pre-trial detention had not changed.26.  on 19 september 2013 the baku court of appeal dismissed the appeal, upholding the nasimi district court’s decision of 16 september 2013. the appellate court reiterated the reasoning provided by the first‑instance court.28.  it appears from the documents before the court that on an unspecified date in september 2013 the applicant was additionally charged with new criminal offences under articles 28 (preparation of a crime), 220.1 (mass disorder) and 228.3 (illegal acquisition, transfer, sale, storage, transportation and carrying of arm, its accessories, supplies, explosive substances and devices by an organised group) of the criminal code.22323/16) concerning the fairness of the criminal proceedings against the applicant, in which various complaints under articles 6, 7, 10 and 18 of the convention were raised, is pending before the court.
lodged a criminal complaint against the applicant with the prosecutor general’s office and the latter instituted criminal proceedings under articles 132 (battery) and 221.2.2 (hooliganism accompanied by resistance to a state official or other person carrying out duties in protection of public order or prevention of breaches of public order) of the criminal code.according to the expert, the injuries had been caused by several punches to the head and the time of the infliction of injuries corresponded to 16 march 2007 as claimed by f.a.20.  on 3 may 2007 the charges against the applicant were reclassified under articles 127.2.1 ((deliberate infliction of less serious harm (az ağır zərər) to health, in connection with the victim’s performance of his professional or public duties)), 127.2.3 (deliberate infliction of less serious harm to health, in a publicly dangerous way and with hooligan intent) and 221.2.2 (hooliganism accompanied by resistance to a state official or other person carrying out duties in protection of public order or prevention of breaches of public order) of the criminal code.21.  after the completion of the pre-trial investigation, on 8 may 2007 the prosecutor general’s office issued an indictment in respect of the applicant under articles 127.2.1, 127.2.3 and 221.2.2 of the criminal code and the case went to trial.the applicant was released, but was forbidden to change his place of residence during the period that the suspended sentence was in force, without notifying in advance the relevant authority for the execution of court judgments.the description of the acts for which the applicant was found guilty read as follows: “at 12.30 p.m. on 16 march 2007 at [the national assembly’s address] [the applicant], while making a speech during a plenary session [of the national assembly], in breach of parliamentary ethics used rude and insulting expressions violating human dignity and honour despite a warning and a call to order [by the speaker of the national assembly] in accordance with articles 45 and 46 [of the national assembly’s internal regulations.[the applicant], by committing deliberate actions aimed at manifestly displaying, without any reason, disrespect towards the members of parliament, parliamentary officials and members of the public watching the parliamentary session, insulted and offended [the latter] with indecent expressions.]’s health and disrupted the conduct of the plenary session [of the national assembly] for twenty minutes.” 24.  it is evident from the judgment that, in finding the applicant guilty, the court relied on the following evidence: the testimony of f.a.; the testimonies of a number of members of parliament and parliamentary officials who had witnessed the incident; and the medical forensic report of 17 april 2007. the court’s judgment was silent as regards the video evidence.the applicant also complained that, having regard to the decision of the plenum of the supreme court on the judicial practice concerning cases related to hooliganism, f.a.in addition, the applicant argued that the trial court had relied on the prosecution’s distorted version of the events rather than examining the video footage of the incident which showed that he had not been the instigator of the fight.it appears from the transcript of the hearing that the applicant applied to have the court ensure f.a.’s presence at the appeal hearing and examine the videotape of the incident.the court dismissed the applicant’s application with regard to the latter as follows: “the court’s panel, after having briefly deliberated on the bench, decides to ensure the participation of [f.a.]at the court hearing and to reject the remaining part of the application as being unfounded ...” 27.  on 6 august 2007 the appellate court upheld the sabail district court’s judgment.the court’s judgment was silent in relation to the applicant’s complaints concerning incorrect classification of the crime and the failure to examine the video evidence.
the government did not dispute the principal facts of the cases as presented by the applicants, but questioned the involvement of servicemen in the events.17.  in early 2005 the first applicant sent similar requests to the federal security service (“the fsb”) in chechnya, the chechnya prosecutor and the chechen ministry of the interior.21.  on 16 november 2005 the first applicant asked the gudermes district prosecutor to inform her about the progress of the case and to investigate the abduction more thoroughly, alleging that it had been perpetrated by state agents.then she had spoken with the head of novyye atagi’s local authorities, who had stated that mr ismail dashtayev had been detained on the premises of the shali district department of the interior (“the shali rovd”).40.  on 5 march 2004 and 22 february 2008 the first applicant asked the head of the federal service for the execution of sentences and the chechnya ombudsman to assist her in her search for her son.48.  on 27 december 2010 the applicants complained to the shali town court of the decision of 19 april 2008 to suspend the proceedings and of the investigators’ failure to take all necessary investigative steps.67.  on 2 july 2008 and 13 april 2009 the applicants contacted the chechen president and the head of the chechen parliament’s committee for the search for missing persons respectively, asking for their assistance in the search for their missing relative.kham., the uncle of mr alikhan satuyev, who was working as a judge at the time, found out that alikhan satuyev had been taken to the oktyabrskiy temporary district department of the interior (“the oktyabrskiy vovd”) by the head of its criminal search department.110.  on 14 june 2003 the wife of mr alikhan satuyev, ms l.u., complained of the abduction to the zavodskoy district department of the interior in grozny (“the rovd”).by 20 february 2004 the investigators had obtained the names or nicknames of five officers from the oktyabrskiy vovd who had allegedly been involved in the events of 14 june 2003. they asked the oktyabrskiy vovd to inform them about the officers’ whereabouts.129.  on 2 july 2003 the chechen supreme court quashed the above judgment on appeal and dismissed the second applicant’s claim in full, on the grounds of lack of evidence of state agents’ involvement in the abduction.148.  on 10 june 2010 the applicants complained to the shali district court of the investigators’ failure to investigate the case thoroughly and about their decision to suspend the proceedings on 4 october 2004.the neighbours learnt from officers who had been manning the checkpoint on the night of the abduction that an apc had indeed parked at the checkpoint during the night, and at some point a group of military servicemen had arrived with a young man, barefoot and undressed, had put him into the apc and had driven off.161.  on 16 and 25 june 2005, 15 september 2008 and 20 april 2009 the applicant contacted the grozny town prosecutor, the chechen parliament, the russian investigative committee and the head of the chechen parliament, seeking their assistance in the search for her son.177.  on 22 february 2012 the ngo materi chechni contacted the head of the chechen parliament’s committee for the search for missing persons on the applicant’s behalf, seeking assistance in the search for mr zelimkhan dutayev.
6.  on 1 april 2006 the applicant’s husband, mr vakhid magamedov (in the documents submitted also spelt as magomadov), went fishing with his fellow villagers, mr z., mr d. and mr yu., near the village of sary-su in the shelkovskiy district of chechnya.the four men arrived at the fishing spot in the vaz-2107 car of mr z. three of them then went to the other side of the pond (in the documents submitted also referred to as a “lake”), while the applicant’s husband fished near the car.on the way they got lost in the dark and only arrived at the village at about 4 a.m. on 2 april 2006. they knocked at the door of the house of a local resident, mr kh.v., and told him about the incident.9.  in response to the court’s request for a copy of the entire contents of the file of the criminal investigation into the killing of mr vakhid magomedov, the government furnished a copy of its contents, amounting to 378 pages, which could be summarised as follows.on 25 may 2006 the experts concluded that it was impossible to establish the exact cause of death owing to the forensic examination’s shortcomings in the description of the state of the corpse.20.  from the documents submitted it transpires that following the applicant’s complaint, on 22 january 2007 a prosecutor from the chechnya prosecutor’s office requested that the investigators inform him of the reasons for the suspension of the criminal proceedings and the theories they had examined in order to identify the perpetrators; he also requested the entire contents of the relevant criminal case file.inter alia, the list stipulated that: amongst other things, for the followings steps: “... it is necessary to: 7.  send requests to the law-enforcement agencies asking for their assistance in identifying the perpetrators of or witnesses to the crime; 24.  on 5 october 2009 the investigators informed the applicant that the investigation in the criminal case had been suspended on 2 june 2006 for failure to identify the perpetrators.30.  on 10 and 13 december 2009 the applicant again wrote to the investigators and the chechen prosecutor’s office asking for information about the progress in the investigation and the outcome of the examination of her previous request, and complaining that she had not been kept informed about progress in the proceedings.33.  on 1 and 6 march 2010 the applicant complained to the investigators and the russian prosecutor general that the investigation had been ineffective and that she had not been kept informed of progress in the proceedings.36.  on 30 june 2010 following the applicant’s above-mentioned complaint, the investigators’ supervisor (the deputy prosecutor of the shelkovskiy district) criticised the investigators and ordered that a number of shortcomings in the criminal proceedings be remedied.sent to the investigators written affidavits describing the events of 1 april 2006. copies of those documents were not furnished to the court with the copy of the criminal case file.42.  on 7 august 2010 (in the documents submitted the date was also referred to as 7 august 2013) the investigators again suspended the investigation for failure to identify the perpetrators.44.  on 27 november 2013, following a complaint lodged by the applicant, the deputy prosecutor of the shelkovskiy district again criticised the investigators and ordered that a number of shortcomings in the proceedings be remedied.52.  on 23 november 2014 the investigators questioned the head of the shelkovskiy district police, who stated that he had participated in the crime‑scene examination in 2006 but could not recall the details, owing to the passage of time.55.  on 17 april 2015 the investigators’ supervisor ordered that a number of steps be taken, including the questioning again of the witness who had seen the apcs in the vicinity of the crime scene on the day of the incident.
12.  to substantiate the above submissions, the applicant referred to a letter sent to him from the parliamentary commissioner for human rights on 16 october 2013. as stated therein, a representative of that authority had visited the prison following the applicant’s complaints of poor conditions of detention.the letter read: “... in order to rectify the deficiencies identified, it has been recommended that the management of the kherson regional office of the state department for the enforcement of sentences ensure that there is adequate natural light and artificial ventilation in the premises in which you are detained, and ensure that the outdoor walks, medical care and nutrition arrangements, as well as the choice of foodstuffs and articles of daily necessity [available] in the prison shop, comply with the legal requirements.” 13.  in 2010-14 major repairs were carried out in the prison, causing inmates inconvenience such as noise, dust and the smell of paint.in may and july 2014 the kherson regional office (“the regional office”) of the state department for the enforcement of sentences (“the prison department”) replied to her that it was a statutory security measure, of which life prisoners were aware, and that the applicant’s intimacy had not been violated given that the video camera, which was indeed placed above the toilet area, did not cover the toilet itself.for example, on 30 april 2014 the applicant had complained to the prison administration that it was too cold in his cell (the central heating had been switched off on 31 march 2014) and that his requests for permission to buy a portable heater at his own expense had been arbitrarily rejected.specifically, prisoners were served daily: 450 g of bread, 85 g of cereals, 540 g of potatoes, 550 g of vegetables, 300 g of fruit, 21 g of oil, 200 g of fruit juice, 50 g of butter, 500 g of milk, 100 g of cottage cheese, 15 g of cheese, 1 egg, 30 g of sour cream, 310 g of chicken meat, 110 g of fish, 60 g of sugar, 5 g of honey, 40 g of sweets, 4 g of chicory, 3 g of coffee, and 1 g of tea.34.  the applicant has been suffering from the residual effects of a multiple fracture of his left thigh as a result of a gunshot wound in 1999. he also has a medical history of pulmonary tb since 2002. the facts pertaining to his state of health and his medical treatment prior to his transfer to kherson prison no.40.  on 1 december 2010 the regional office of the prison department wrote to the applicant’s lawyer stating that the supply of second-line anti‑tb drugs in kherson prison no.the standard practice was that the prison ordered the required first and second-line drugs from the central procurement service of the prison department at the end of each year for the entire year to follow.44.  on 2 november 2011 the regional office of the prison department wrote to the applicant’s lawyer stating that the supply of anti-tb drugs in kherson prison no.46.  on 20 january 2012 the regional office of the prison department wrote to the applicant’s lawyer stating that the applicant was receiving treatment in accordance with the prescribed regimen in its entirety, but that he was demonstrating a negative attitude to his treatment and often refused to follow it.it had been observed that the applicant’s medical treatment had not been able to stop the emission of tubercle bacilli for about two years, that the applicant had developed a resistance to most anti-tb drugs, and that there remained no room for any further adjustment of his treatment.it was stated in the letter that the palliative care consisted of the administration of medication enhancing the functioning of the heart (depending on the symptoms manifested), vitamins, pyretic and analgesic therapy, as well as wholesome nutrition.60.  on 23 february 2016 the applicant underwent another x-ray examination, which revealed significant post-tb residual changes in the form of multiple calcifications in the right lung with calcified costal pleura in the right side, and reduced volume of the right lung.62.  on 15 march 2016 the applicant was examined by a senior doctor from the kyiv city medical association for tb studies (територіальне медичне об’єднання «фтизіатрія» в м. києві) at the request of the government agent, following notification of the application to the government.the court considered that the applicant’s health had improved since 2010. in particular, the development of his tb had been stabilised and the emission of tubercle bacilli had stopped.
9.  by email of 12 may 2017, the secretary-general of the parliament sent a memorandum on the appointment of judges to the court of appeal and the role of parliament in the process, to the minister of justice and the speaker.10.  by email of 16 may 2017, the permanent secretary of the prime minister’s office informed lawyers in the prime minister’s office, and the ministry of justice working on the matter, that the minister of justice had approved the proposed procedure set out in the memorandum of the secretary-general of the parliament.14.  by letter of 27 may 2017 to the chairman of the committee, the minister of justice requested further information and documents on the committee’s evaluation and the fact that the committee only made reference to the fifteen most qualified candidates and not others who had applied for the positions in the court of appeal, inter alia, with regard to the equality act no.the csc invited the minister to its meeting, as well as the permanent secretary of the ministry of justice, a number of experts, a representative of the icelandic bar association and the icelandic judges’ association, the parliamentary ombudsman, and the chairman of the committee.29.  the plaintiffs both appealed the decisions of the district court to the supreme court on 10 july 2017. by two judgments of 31 july 2017, the supreme court upheld the district court decisions in dismissing their claims for annulment of the minister’s decision not to include them in her proposal to parliament and in her list of judges to be appointed by the president after the vote in parliament.the supreme court then emphasised that this was even more important when the law stipulates that the assessment report of the committee limits the powers of the minister and prohibits him or her from appointing a candidate to the post of judge that the committee has considered not to be the most qualified, unless the minister receives the consent of parliament.33.  on this basis, the supreme court held that in the light of her obligation to independently investigate the facts under section 10 of the administrative procedures act, the minister should, at a minimum, have compared the competences of the four candidates she decided to include in her proposal to parliament and the fifteen candidates considered most qualified by the committee.34.  the supreme court thus found, on the basis of the file and the facts before it, that the minister of justice had violated section 10 of the administrative procedures act for failing to substantiate her proposal to parliament with an independent investigation shedding light on elements necessary to assess the merits of the four candidates she had proposed, in comparison to the fifteen candidates considered by the committee as the most qualified.the panel of judges included a.e., who was one of the four judges appointed by the president of iceland on the basis of the proposal of the minister of justice, departing from the assessment report of the committee, and the vote in parliament (see paragraphs 5-26 above).to withdraw was in fact based on a.e.’s judicial position not being established in accordance with the law, such a motion could not be appealed to the supreme court on the basis of a procedural decision by the court of appeal, but had to be examined on the basis of an appeal on the merits of a judgment rendered by the court of appeal in the applicant’s criminal case.in his observations before the supreme court, the applicant alleged, inter alia, that a.e.’s husband, b.n., a member of parliament and of the same political party as the minister of justice, had given up the first place on the party’s constituency list in reykjavík in the parliamentary elections held in october 2017 in favour of the minister after her decision to include his wife in her proposal to parliament.50/2016, as well as temporary provision iv of the same act, however with the exception that during the parliamentary procedure on the minister of justice’s proposals on the appointment of the judges, the requirements of the second paragraph of the temporary provision were not followed in that the parliament should have voted on each and every judge separately, but not all the judges at the same time, as was in fact done.article 6 of the european convention on human rights, it must be recalled that in the aforementioned judgments of the supreme court [of 19 december 2017] it was concluded that such flaws were in the procedure of the minister of justice preceding the appointment of the fifteen court of appeal judges that the state was liable in damages.in this regard, it must also, in particular, be emphasised that it cannot be accepted, as was argued in the aforementioned memorandum of the minister of justice of 30 may 2017, that by only increasing the weight ascribed to judicial experience from that which such experience was ascribed by the evaluation committee in its internal table, relied upon in its assessment report of the 19th of the same month, but relying in other respects on the ‘sufficient investigation’ of the committee as to each assessment factor, the finding could be made that four named candidates for the post of judge in the court of appeal, but not others, would be removed from the group of the fifteen most qualified, and four specific named candidates would be moved up into that group rather than others.when assessing the consequences of the said flaws in the minister of justice’s procedure, account must be taken of the fact that the appointment of all the fifteen judges of the court of appeal for an indefinite term, which in no way has been annulled by a court, became a reality upon the signing of their letters of appointment, dated 8 june 2017. as stated above, all of them fulfilled the requirements of section 21 (2) of act no.
6.  on 20 november 2008 the police drew up an administrative offence report (administratīvā pārkāpuma protokols) stating that the applicant had violated article 14915(4) of the code of administrative offences (latvijas administratīvo pārkāpumu kodekss) by driving a vehicle under the influence of alcohol with a blood alcohol concentration exceeding 1.5 permilles (0.15%).9.  by a judgment of 27 february 2009 the riga regional court quashed the decision of 1 december 2008. it found that the applicant had committed an offence under article 14915(4) of the code of administrative offences and imposed the following penalties: fifteen days’ administrative detention; a fine of 500 lats (lvl – approximately 685 euros (eur)); a two-year driving ban; and a ban on obtaining a licence to operate recreational crafts for two years.on 26 march 2009 the ministry responded that under the code of administrative offences the prosecutor had the right to appeal against decisions taken in administrative offence proceedings and that there were no time-limits for doing so.12.  on 31 july 2009 the police drew up an administrative offence report stating, inter alia, that the applicant had driven a car while disqualified, in violation of article 1494(6) of the code of administrative offences (hereinafter “the initial offence”).14.  on 20 december 2010 the administrative district court (administratīvā rajona tiesa) dismissed the appeal, noting that the decision of 1 december 2008 had been set aside by the riga regional court, whereas the judgment of 27 february 2009 revoking his right to drive vehicles had taken effect and was binding.15.  the applicant appealed before the administrative regional court (administratīvā apgabaltiesa), which by a final judgment of 24 april 2012 upheld the judgment of the first-instance court.16.  on 23 september 2009 the police drew up an administrative offence report stating that the applicant had driven a car while disqualified and that the offence had been committed repeatedly within a year, in violation of article 1494(7) of the code of administrative offences (hereinafter “the repeat offence”).in establishing the facts the court referred to the judgment of 27 february 2009 (see paragraph 9 above) and the administrative offence report of 31 july 2009 (see paragraph 12 above).18.  the applicant appealed against this judgment arguing (i) that the judgment of 27 february 2009 was unlawful and (ii) that the repeated nature of the offence could not be established, as his appeal concerning the administrative offence report of 31 july 2009 (relating to the initial offence) was still pending.the applicant requested that the court either terminate the proceedings or suspend them until the conclusion of the administrative offence proceedings concerning the initial offence.the only criterion for determining the repeated nature of the offence was whether or not the decision on the initial offence had been set aside or its legal effect suspended at the time the decision on the repeat offence was being taken.in the absence of such circumstances, the findings of the decision on the initial offence were legally binding and had to be taken into account when classifying the second offence as a repeat offence.referring to article 283 of the code of administrative offences, the court noted that an appeal against a decision revoking a person’s driving licence did not suspend enforcement of that decision.accordingly, the appeal lodged against the decision concerning the offence of 31 july 2009 (the initial offence) did not preclude the offence under consideration being classified as a repeat offence and the proceedings being concluded while that appeal was still pending.20.  on 2 june 2010, when the applicant lodged his application with the court, he submitted that he had already served the sentence of five day’s administrative detention and had already paid the fine imposed in the third set of administrative offence proceedings.
the relevant decision stated that having examined the inquiry file (მოკვლევის მასალები) in respect of the applicant, who was suspected of possession and use of narcotic substances, the police officer had decided, under, inter alia, articles 290, 321, and 325 of the code of criminal procedure of georgia (“the ccp”) (as cited in paragraph 37 below), that a personal search of the applicant should be conducted for the purpose of seizing any unlawful substances.the police report on the personal search, which was drawn up subsequently at the police department, stated: “... given that there were sufficient grounds to suspect that the arrested person would try to destroy evidence (narcotic substance heroin) showing that he or she had committed a crime, a personal search of [archil jugheli kobiashvili born in 1973 and living at ...] was conducted.” the report further noted that before being searched the applicant had been asked to “indicate where he was keeping the heroin”.11.  on what appears to be the same date (the document is not dated) the head of the relevant district police department wrote a report to the tbilisi gldani-nadzaladevi district prosecutor, informing him of the personal search of the applicant that had taken place at 5.45 p.m. on 4 july 2004. according to that note, the relevant investigative measure had been conducted in urgent circumstances in the absence of a judicial warrant and before the initiation of criminal proceedings.12.  according to the investigation file, on the same date, that is on 4 july 2004, on the basis of the above-mentioned request, the tbilisi gldani-nadzaladevi district prosecutor lodged an application with the gldani-nadzaladevi district court in tbilisi to have the search of 4 july 2004, which it claimed had been urgent, legalised.the request simply provided the place the applicant had been arrested, the substance that had been revealed as a result of the search, and the offence the applicant had been suspected of.the first was a handwritten note by officer sh.sh., according to which the search had been conducted, on the basis of “operational information” (ოპერატიული ინფორმაცია), by him, by another police officer n.o., and by the driver, police officer m.ts., and that as a result of the search attended by witnesses, heroin had been found on the applicant.the above note, in contrast to the police report on personal search of the applicant (see paragraph 9 above) stated that at the time of the arrest, the applicant had been under the influence of drugs.the third document submitted to the court was a handwritten note from the other attesting witness to the search, u.k., who provided a short description of the circumstances of the applicant’s personal search in terms identical to those used by l.ts.14.  according to the case-file, the prosecutor’s request to have the personal search of the applicant legalised, as submitted to the court, included neither a copy of the decision ordering the search in urgent circumstances nor the inquiry file in respect of the applicant (see paragraph 8 above).it concluded: “having reviewed the reasoning of the request, [the court] consider[s] that the personal search of archil kobiashvili was conducted because of an exigent need, in compliance with the rules of criminal procedural legislation and that there is a legal basis for granting [the request].” the procedure was conducted in writing and the applicant was not allowed to submit his observations regarding the circumstances of the search.arguing that u.k.’s testimony before the trial court was untrue, he confirmed the official version of the search of the applicant and maintained that the latter’s personal search had been conducted immediately at the scene of his arrest.29.  the appeal court further examined l.ts., the second attesting witness to the search, who confirmed that he had been present during the search in question at the request of the police, and had seen that a yellowish substance had been discovered in the applicant’s trouser pocket.in support of his argument he referred to the fact that the decision to conduct a personal search had not been duly signed by a senior investigator, had not indicated the exact time at which it had been issued, and had included detailed information about the identity of the applicant, including his name and address, and the type of narcotic substance, heroin, that he allegedly had on his person, facts which had become known to the police only after the arrest and search of the applicant.had been working for the ministry in 1996. thirdly, the defence emphasised that the friends of the applicant had consistently maintained that the latter had not been searched at the place of his arrest.the court considered that the applicant’s guilt was confirmed by the reports of his arrest and the personal search, the statements of the arresting officers, and other evidence in the case file.
m. 7.  in 2004 the applicant carried out some renovation and construction works at the flat, as a result of which the total area of the flat became 84 sq.m. 8.  on 7 march 2005 the head of yasamal district executive authority issued an order recognising the fact that by building additional rooms (living rooms, hall, kitchen, mansard, and so on), the applicant had increased the total area of her flat to 84 sq.m. 9.  on 3 june 2005 the baku city department of technical inventory and registration of property rights issued a certificate of title to the applicant certifying that her flat comprised a total area of 84 sq.10.  in july 2006 the tezepir mosque lodged a claim against the applicant with the yasamal district court, asking that the applicant be dispossessed of her title to the flat in exchange for monetary compensation, and be evicted from the flat.the tezepir mosque argued that the area where the applicant’s flat was located was within the area of works required for the renovation and development of the mosque complex, and that the applicant and her family were the only residents who had refused to relinquish their flat in exchange for the compensation offered to them.11.  during the court hearing, the representative of the tezepir mosque argued that the market price of comparable flats was usd 500 per sq.m, and that the applicant was only entitled to be paid for the living space of her flat (33.6 sq.12.  the yasamal district court noted that, under article 157.9 of the civil code, private owners could be dispossessed of their title to property for state and public needs, in exchange for compensation.it also referred to an order by the soviet of ministers of the azerbaijan soviet socialist republic (“the azerbaijan ssr”) dated 22 may 1986 (hereinafter “the order of 22 may 1986”), concerning renovation work on the land of the tezepir mosque and the relocation of people residing in that area to other accommodation.it also noted, without referring to any specific decisions, that subsequently the baku city executive committee and its successor, the baku city executive authority, had issued several other decisions on the continuation of the renovation work on that land and the “gradual relocation” of the area’s residents.13.  in deciding the amount of compensation payable, the court found that the area of the applicant’s flat was 33.6 sq.m. it also took note of the tezepir mosque’s submissions that, despite the fact that the applicant had purchased a flat which was located on land already allocated to the mosque and that she had subsequently carried out renovation and construction work in the flat “without obtaining rights to the land” and “without authorisation”, the mosque had offered to pay her usd 100,000, an amount which exceeded the flat’s market value.14.  by a judgment of 2 august 2006, the yasamal district court revoked the applicant’s title to the flat, ordered the tezepir mosque to pay her the equivalent of usd 100,000 in azerbaijani manats, and ordered the eviction of the applicant and her family from the flat.by a separate decision delivered on the same day, the yasamal district court also ordered the immediate execution of the judgment.15.  on 27 september and 27 december 2006 the judgment was upheld by the court of appeal and the supreme court respectively.
5.  in the 1970s a copper-molybdenum deposit (‘teghout’) was discovered about four and six km away from the villages of teghout and shnogh respectively, in the lori region.6.  in 2001 a private company, armenian copper programme cjsc, was granted a mining licence for the exploitation of the teghout copper‑molybdenum deposit for a period of twenty-five years.1279-n approving the designation of territories situated within the administrative boundaries of the rural communities of shnogh and teghout in the lori region as expropriation zones, to be taken for state needs, thus changing the category of land use.according to the decree, armenian copper programme cjsc or teghout cjsc, founded by the former for the purpose of the implementation of the teghout copper-molybdenum deposit exploitation project, were to acquire the units of land listed in its annexes.8.  the plots of land belonging to the applicants were listed among the units of land falling within these expropriation zones.according to the reports, the market value of the applicants’ plots of land was estimated at amd 183,000 (approximately eur 398) and amd 304,000 (approximately eur 661) respectively.13.  in the proceedings before the lori regional court the applicants argued that the market value of their land had been underestimated.they further submitted that the valuation of their property had not been carried out correctly, since no account had been taken of the number of trees, the beekeeper’s house situated on the second plot of land, and a number of other factors that should have affected the calculation of the amount of compensation.14.  in the course of the proceedings, teghout cjsc submitted new valuations of the applicants’ property, also prepared by oliver group llc.the representative of teghout cjsc stated that a new valuation of the applicant’s second plot of land had been conducted in order to include the building situated on it.according to the new valuations, the market value of the applicants’ second plot of land including the building was estimated to be amd 1,728,000 (approximately eur 3,760).as to the first plot of land, it was stated that oliver group llc had prepared a corrected report according to which the market value of the property was amd 189,000 (approximately eur 410).the final amounts of compensation for the two plots of land, including the additional 15% required by law, would thus be equal to amd 217,350 (approximately eur 473) and amd 1,987,200 (approximately eur 4,320) respectively.15.  on 28 november 2008 the regional court granted teghout cjsc’s claim, awarding the applicants compensation of amd 217,350 for the first plot of land and amd 1,987,200 for the second plot of land.17.  on 18 june 2009 the civil court of appeal upheld the regional court’s judgment finding, inter alia, that the latter had struck a fair balance between the applicants’ interests and the legitimate aim pursued, and that the market value of the property had been properly determined, on the basis of the corrected valuation reports prepared by oliver group cjsc.
in 2007 a dna test was performed proving that the applicant was in fact the father of the child.the applicant was not prevented from having access to the child by her mother, who accepted financial support from him on a monthly basis.7.  the applicant had regular contact with the child until 2015 when the mother informed the applicant that she had divorced her husband and that she had decided to marry a german national and move with the child to germany.as the applicant opposed the decision to emigrate to germany, the mother denied him access to the child and prevented him from communicating with the child.8.  in june 2015 the applicant initiated proceedings before the darnytskyy district court of kyiv (“the district court”) seeking recognition of his paternity and to have the child’s birth certificate amended accordingly.9.  during the hearing the mother of the child admitted that the applicant had provided regular financial support and had taken part in the upbringing and education of the child.the applicant contended that he had delayed his lawsuit because he had not wished to disturb the child’s family situation and he had not been prevented from communicating with the child on a regular basis until 2015. only when the child’s mother had decided to emigrate to another country with the child had he decided to seek formal recognition of his paternity.10.  on 17 november 2015 the district court allowed the applicant’s claims, declaring him the father of the child and ordering the amendment of the child’s birth certificate.the district court considered that the applicant had missed the time-limit for valid reasons.it took into account the applicant’s argument that he had not wished to disturb the family and cause any harm to the child with a lawsuit during the long period when the mother had in fact assisted him in having regular access to the child.11.  on 3 february 2016 the kyiv court of appeal overturned the district court’s decision and dismissed the applicant’s claim as time-barred.the appellate court stated that article 129 § 2 of the family code provided a one-year time-limit, which had started to run from the moment the applicant had found out or should have found out about his paternity.the applicant had become aware of his paternity in 2007 when the dna test had been performed (see paragraph 6 above); however he had applied to the court in 2015 (see paragraph 8 above), which had been too late.12.  the applicant appealed on points of law, arguing that the court of appeal had applied the statute of limitations without duly taking into account the reasons for which he had delayed his action and without examining the child’s interests.13.  on 13 july 2016 the higher specialised civil and criminal court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law, without examining whether the applicant had provided valid reasons which could justify his non-compliance with the time-limit set out in article 129 § 2 of the family code.
6.  on 10 december 2013 the beiuş district court granted the couple’s divorce and joint custody of the child, and decided that the child should remain with her father.in a final decision of 17 june 2014 the bihor county court quashed the above decision in part and decided that the child should live with the applicant.the bailiff noted as follows: “after [the mother] talked with the minor, i asked the minor if she wanted to leave with her mother, and she gave me a non-committal answer.the social worker reached the same conclusion.” 11.  the social worker who was also present at the meeting noted as follows: “the father refused to bring out the child, became uncooperative but eventually agreed that [the child] sit near her mother.when the mother tried to hold the child in her arms, the child started crying and held the hand of her father’s current wife tightly.after the child sat for a while with the mother, [the bailiff] asked the child if she wished to leave with her mother.although the child did not show an aversion towards her mother, she refused to leave with her.” 12.  on 13 november 2014 the applicant complained to the child protection authority that the social worker who had accompanied her and the bailiff on 4 november 2014 had been unfamiliar with the case, had questioned her motives in front of the child and had not known how to facilitate their reunion.13.  on 8 december 2014, at the bailiff’s request and based on the report of the visit of 4 november 2014, the child protection authority applied for mandatory counselling under article 912 of the code of civil procedure, with a view to re-establishing a relationship between the applicant and the child.she noted that the child was well‑integrated into her father’s family, was emotionally attached to her father, stepmother and stepbrother, and was afraid that the applicant would come and take her away during the counselling meetings.the psychologist observed that the counselling had failed to diminish the child’s high levels of separation anxiety and ambivalent attitude towards her biological mother and had failed to reach the objectives set at the beginning.the court considered that there were no serious reasons to prompt a change in the child’s legal residence and that it was in the child’s interests to remain with her mother.the relevant parts read as follows: “the minor must have a normal relationship with both parents, which presupposes that the current situation, where she is distanced from her mother, is overcome, because otherwise it will be almost impossible for her to re-establish a normal relationship with her mother, and this does not serve the child’s best interests.the court does not deny the importance of a stable environment for the minor, including her home and the people who are part of her daily life; it considers, however, that at the present time preserving continuity does not serve the child’s interests to develop a normal relationship with both parents.the parties must understand ... that the minor must be supported in order to adapt to her new environment... the court is not bound by the wish expressed by the minor to remain with her father, because she is of a young age and because the father has persuaded the minor not to go to her mother’s home.... to hold that the child’s opinion is binding without exception would mean that the proceedings, including the hearing of evidence, are useless and that the court’s sole role is to take note of the child’s preference and decide accordingly.” 23.  according to the applicant, on 21 march 2018, the date of her latest communication to the court, she had still not been reunited with her daughter.
continued following her and, as the applicant was telling him that he was wasting his time because she would not accept the proposal, he grabbed her by the right arm and the neck and dragged her close to a nearby cemetery.she concluded that ever since the attack she had been in a constant state of distress and was afraid to leave the house, fearing that the attacker would come and find her because she had dared to complain to the police.18.  on 9 july 2008 the police interrogated i.s., who confirmed that she had seen the applicant arriving at the police station on 20 may 2008 to lodge a complaint of rape and that she had seen the applicant leaving, as the police station was closed.must have passed in front of a petrol station on their way to the village; the forensic medical examination had revealed no injury in the genital area; as regards the bruises on the applicant’s right arm, the forensic report provided no indication as to when they had been caused; no other injuries had been found on the applicant’s body.21.  on 22 february 2009 the applicant made a complaint against the prosecutor’s decision to the chief prosecutor of the prosecutor’s office attached to the târnăveni district court.she also mentioned that when her husband went to the prosecutor’s office in order to submit the results of her medical exams, the case prosecutor had told him that the complaint had been withdrawn.she further complained about the attitude of the authorities who had investigated her complaint, mentioning that she had been advised by the police to withdraw her complaint because there were no witnesses and because “she was asking for it” and in any event “it did her good”.it further found that the lack of reference in the forensic certificate to the date of the applicant’s injuries should have led the prosecutor to investigate further in order to redress this omission.finally, the court criticised the prosecutor’s failure to consider the fact that the injuries to the applicant’s arm were consistent with being grabbed forcefully.25.  the court ordered the prosecutor to proceed to the following acts: a psychiatric examination in order to determine whether, having regard to the applicant’s diagnosis of oligophrenia, she was able to react or to fight back or whether she may have not been able to express her will; the re‑interrogation of i.s.with a view to clarifying the contradictions in their statements with reference to the psychological and physical coercion; and a socio-moral assessment of the applicant to ascertain her behaviour in society and her level of credibility in the community.26.  on 15 october 2009 the prosecutor attached to the târnăveni district court appealed on points of law (recurs) against the decision of 6 may 2009, on the grounds that the evidence the district court had requested was irrelevant.more specifically, in the absence of a connection between the injuries to the applicant’s arm and the alleged physical coercion, and in the absence of any injuries specific to the crime of rape in the genital area, the alleged physical coercion had not been proved.the lawyer stressed that the evidence ordered by the târnăveni district court in the decision of 6 may 2009 was extremely important to the case, and that failure to collect this evidence at the relevant time was the prosecution’s fault.the court further found that the forensic report did not support the applicant’s allegations, since, on the one hand, it did not reveal injuries specific to rape in the genital area, and, on the other, the injuries to the applicant’s arm were undated.
9.  on 5 november 2010 a forum thread was started in the subforum “theme of the day” under the heading “mona høiness – the case is growing, according to kapital” (“mona høiness – saken vokser, sier kapital”), where the original poster wrote only “what is the status?” (“hva er status?”).striden gjelder en leilighet på frogner + velstående eldre dame som høiness har utviklet et mor/datter-forhold til over mange år.”) the next comment read: “is it kapital’s case [(“saken til kapital”)] which is growing?”, to which another commenter responded with the wordplay: “it is hegnar’s thing [(“saken til hegnar”)] which is growing.” this was followed by the comment “if you are looking for pretty ladies, look at the thread ‘pride of the nation’”, to which another poster added: “and that about the marilyn-revelation”.10.  the same day, 8 november 2010, the applicant’s counsel wrote a letter to the press complaints commission, in the course of the proceedings concerning one of the above-mentioned complaints in respect of the coverage of the inheritance case (see paragraph 7 above).the commission wrote an email to both parties the following day stating that it – having spoken with the applicant’s counsel – noted that the letter of 8 november 2010 did not amount to a new complaint, but was an appendix to the documents in the pending case against kapital and did not relate to hegnar online.on 22 february 2011 it concluded in general terms that neither comments with sexual content nor comments that accused the applicant of unethical or unlawful behaviour in the inheritance case were in compliance with the code of conduct for journalists, and that the editors should accordingly have removed them immediately, pursuant to a provision in that code (case no.20.  on 7 april 2011 the applicant’s counsel sent a letter to hegnar online stating the applicant’s intention to instigate civil proceedings against hegnar online and the editor, mr h., because comments 1 to 3 had been defamatory and contrary to article 246 of the penal code (see paragraph 43 below).it remarked that several of the other comments in the forum threads in question, that the applicant had not complained about, could possibly be defamatory, as had also been indicated by the defendants briefly during the hearing, but since the applicant had not complained about any other comments, the city court could not decide on their lawfulness.the city court stated that it was in no doubt as to the result of the case and noted that the applicant had turned down the defendant’s offer of settlement (see paragraph 21 above).it did however form a background to the case and explained why the applicant had come into the spotlight and subsequently been the topic of anonymous statements on the debate forum related to hegnar online.33.  the high court went on to state that it was of the view that the applicant had had good reason to react to the statements on the hegnar online forum.accordingly, she had by way of a complaint to the press complaints commission achieved a declaration that hegnar online had breached the code of conduct for journalists because the content of the forum threads had exceeded what she had had to accept and that hegnar online should on its own initiative have discovered and removed the comments more quickly than had happened.having regard to the fact that the letter was formally made in a different context, namely the pending complaint against kapital (see paragraph 6 above), and did not contain any request that the comments be removed, the high court found it appropriate that mr hegnar had only considered the letter as a document in the kapital case.39.  with respect to comment 3, this had been posted on 30 november 2010. on 3 december 2010 staff at radio norge had informed the applicant’s counsel, who had contacted hegnar online on 6 december 2010. hegnar online had by then already looked into the matter, as it had received a similar notification from radio norge on 3 december 2010, and had on that date noticed that the comment had already been deleted, presumably by a moderator at hegnar online.she contested the high court’s assessment that the defendants had acted with sufficient care and alleged that the high court had erred in law as its reasoning had not been clear with respect to the standard of care required, notably whether it had proceeded on the basis that negligence would suffice for liability, or whether the establishment of gross negligence had been necessary.furthermore, the applicant argued that the high court had wrongfully proceeded on the basis that the standards for the moderation of websites with user-generated content had been more lenient in 2010 than at the time of the high court’s judgment.
7.  on 12 march 2014, the chairman of the supervisory board of company a resigned: following this the supervisory board had only three members (of the required statutory six members).one of the members, t. h., proposed to extend the agenda with a point on the dismissal of the chair of the management board.allegedly, physical violence occurred between the members of the supervisory board, as some of them did not allow one member to leave the premises, to maintain the required quorum.10.  on 15 may 2014, a claim was brought before the ljubljana district court seeking to establish nullity of the supervisory board’s resolution of 13 may 2014. company a agreed to the claim and the court consequently issued a decision annulling the impugned resolution.company p relied on, inter alia, section 276 (2) of the companies act (see paragraph 24 below) and grounded the motion on the allegedly unacceptable personal qualities of the applicant and t.h., referring in particular to the incident that had occurred during a supervisory board meeting on 13 may 2014 (see paragraph 9 above).in particular, company p argued as follows: the applicant’s and t.h.’s conduct was unacceptable and therefore they should have not continued with their four-year mandate; there were well-founded reasons for depriving them of their membership; their membership should be terminated immediately and they should be replaced by provisional members so as to ensure lawful functioning of the supervisory board and company a; though company p had enough shares to request the management board to convene a general meeting of shareholders this was impossible due to the uncertainty as to who was the company manager; company a was undergoing reconstruction and there were deadlines to be met in this connection; calling a general meeting would thus not ensure a sufficiently prompt response to the situation; and so the court’s intervention was necessary.referring to company p’s submissions and the case file in the proceedings concerning nullity of the resolution of 13 may 2014 (see paragraph 10 above) the court established that one member of the supervisory board had not been voluntarily present at the session of the supervisory board on 13 may 2014 (see paragraph 9 above) because of the conduct of the two remaining members of the supervisory board.the court explained that the law required that the supervisory board’s members act diligently and responsibly, and that this was particularly important in the present case, where company a was undergoing a process of “preventive restructuring”.it found that the conduct of two of the supervisory board members was harmful to company a’s functioning and that they should therefore not continue in their function until the end of their four-year term.as members was not in a position to perform its function until the first general meeting of company a. the decision also contained notice that an appeal was allowed against it within eight days of the notice of the decision.17.  the applicant replied to the above pleadings on 25 august 2014. he argued that the supervisory board’s member’s dismissal at a general meeting of the shareholders could not be equated with the judicial termination of his term of office, because for the latter there had to be well-founded reasons, which had not been established in his case.18.  on 3 november 2014 the applicant submitted examples of the domestic jurisprudence, with a view to demonstrating that the domestic law had required that he be given an opportunity to participate in the proceedings.19.  on 21 january 2015 the ljubljana higher court rejected the applicant’s appeal, finding that he could not have had any legal interest in the outcome of the proceedings because in the meantime company a had at its general meeting appointed new members to replace him and t.h.it noted that the appointment and dismissal of the members of the supervisory board, whose role it was to represent the interests of the shareholders, fell within the discretion of the assembly.22.  a major slovenian financial newspaper, finance, reported the court’s dismissal of the applicant from its membership in company a’s supervisory board and the issues on which it had been based.
8.  on 1 december 2008 the prosecutor of the vilnius region (hereinafter “the prosecutor”) lodged a claim with the vilnius regional court, seeking to have the applicant’s property rights to 0.38 hectares of the land given to her annulled.the court stated that it had no way of determining the exact location of the forest and it therefore annulled the applicant’s property rights to the entire plot.in the court’s view, it was evident that company v. did not plan to use the land for agricultural activity but intended to change the purpose of the land and to develop a construction project, and that company s. had purchased the land not seeking to become its owner but with the aim of gaining profit from financing company v.’s acquisition of it.11.  in accordance with the civil code, company s. was ordered to return the plot of land to the state, and the applicant was ordered to return ltl 2,500,000 (approximately eur 724,000) to company s. (see beinarovič and others, cited above, § 94).12.  following the vilnius regional court’s decision, company s. asked it to order interim measures and to seize property belonging to the applicant to the value of ltl 2,500,000. the court allowed the request for interim measures.it stated that, in accordance with the law, any transaction which was contrary to mandatory statutory provisions had to be annulled and the parties had to return to each other everything which they had received, and that in the present case there were no exceptional circumstances which would justify applying a different rule.14.  the court stated that, having found that the vca’s decision had to be annulled, it was not necessary to examine the agreements concluded between the applicant, company s. and company v. however, since the first-instance court had examined them (see paragraph 10 above), the court of appeal did so as well and upheld the findings made by the lower court.on 28 december 2011 the authorities informed her that it might be possible to return to her some of the land which had previously been given to her and that there were two other vacant plots in galgiai, measuring 0.18 hectares in total, which could be given to her as well.18.  on 23 february 2012 the applicant received a letter from the national land service (the institution which took over the relevant functions of the vca after an administrative reform – hereinafter “the nls”) confirming that, after the courts had annulled her property rights to 2.44 hectares of land, she had retained the right to have those property rights restored.as for the remaining land, the applicant was informed of the forms of restitution provided for by domestic law (see beinarovič and others, cited above, § 92) and was asked to inform the authorities of her preferred form of restitution.20.  on 24 july 2012 the applicant received another letter from the nls which stated that there was a possibility for her to receive a plot of land for the construction of an individual home in the vilnius city area but as there were 4,806 other candidates waiting to receive plots in the area, the restitution process would take a long time.as for the remaining land, the applicant asked to be allocated a plot of land for the construction of an individual home in vilnius as a matter of priority, taking into account the fact that she had applied for the restoration of her property rights in 1991 (see paragraph 5 above) and that they had already been restored to her in 2002 (see paragraph 6 above).26.  in october 2011 the applicant signed an agreement with company s. by which she undertook, in lieu of the monetary payment of ltl 2,500,000 (see paragraph 11 above), to transfer to the company any land which would be given to her during the subsequent restitution process.27.  after the applicant’s property rights were restored in december 2013 and may and june 2017 (see paragraphs 22, 24 and 25 above), she transferred those plots to company s. on 23 july 2018 company s. confirmed to the applicant that it did not have any outstanding claims against her and that it had asked domestic courts to lift the seizure previously imposed on her property (see paragraph 12 above).28.  in her last letter to the court (8 november 2018), the applicant stated that the seizure of her property had not yet been lifted and that the relevant court proceedings were ongoing.
99/13765), the council of ministers decided to transfer the management and control of yaşarbank as well as all of its shareholder rights (except for dividends) to the savings deposit insurance fund (tasarruf mevduat sigorta fonu – hereinafter “the fund”), pursuant to section 14(3) and (5) of the banking activities act (law no.4491. with the same decision, the council of ministers also decided to transfer the ownership of yaşarbank’s shares to the fund under section 14(5) of the same act.8.  at the time of the transfer, 48.48% of yaşarbank’s shares were owned by yaşar holding a.ş., 32.85% by companies belonging to the yaşar group, 2.08% by foundations belonging to the yaşar group, and 0.12% by the yaşar family.12.  on 4 february 2000 the main shareholders of yaşarbank, including yaşar holding a.ş., brought an administrative case against the agency, seeking the annulment of the decision of 21 december 1999 regarding the bank’s transfer to the fund.4389 the administration had discretion to choose the measures to be adopted according to the severity of the financial problems involved and that the measures provided for by the different paragraphs of section 14 need not be implemented in order.the supreme administrative court concluded that the continuation of yaşarbank’s activities would have jeopardised the rights of its creditors and undermined the reliability and stability of the banking system.17.  a detailed description of the facts surrounding the state’s takeover of yaşarbank and the proceedings initiated by the main shareholders may be found in the case of yaşar holding a.ş.19.  following the transfer of yaşarbank to the fund, the first applicant initiated proceedings, requesting the annulment of the transfer and claiming compensation of trl 2 trillion, the approximate value of his shares at the time, together with interest.4389, was unclear in that it referred to the transfer of the shares of the main shareholders and the transfer of all shares of the bank in the same sentence, making it difficult to understand the scope of the transfer covered by that provision.referring to its judgment of 27 february 2002 regarding the main shareholders’ action for the annulment of the impugned transfer, the court found that the council of ministers’ decision to transfer the bank to the fund had been lawful.in that connection, it reiterated that taking account of reports drawn up following inspections of yaşarbank over a five-year period, instructions given to the bank by the state authorities, and the failure of the bank to improve its financial situation following these instructions, it had become clear that further activity of the bank, whose assets had been insufficient to cover its liabilities, would disrupt the stability of the financial system and make it impossible for the authorities to protect its creditors’ rights.4491 did not cover the shares of minority shareholders and its application in yaşarbank’s case had been unlawful as it had resulted in the transfer of all of the bank’s shares, including those of minority shareholders such as himself, who had bought their shares on the stock market, relying on information provided by the authorities.in that connection, he maintained that the deprivation of his property had resulted from the authorities’ failure to comply with their duty of supervision, and in particular the failure of the capital markets board to inform the public of yaşarbank’s deteriorating financial situation, as required by the capital markets act (law no.the court also dismissed the action for the annulment of yaşarbank’s takeover by the state, finding that the council of ministers’ decision to transfer the bank to the fund had been lawful.26.  the applicant appealed, arguing that the supreme administrative court’s judgment had merely pointed out that the transfer of the bank had been lawful, without addressing his main argument, namely the unlawfulness of the application of section 14(5) and the resulting transfer of the shares obtained on the stock market together with those of the main shareholders.
10.  on 19 february 2006 the investigating judge of the high court (viši sud) in podgorica issued a detention order against the applicant and several other persons for fear that they might abscond, taking into account the gravity of the offences and the severity of the prison sentence prescribed.13.  the defendants’ detention, including the applicant’s, was further extended by the high court on 15 august 2006, 21 october 2008 and 11 march 2009, in substance for fear that they might abscond taking into account the gravity and number of criminal offences that they had been accused of and the sentences prescribed for them.the court took into account the gravity and the number of offences at issue, the sentence provided for the offences, the circumstances in which they had been committed, as well as the fact that the defendants were relatively young and that one of the accused had absconded.relying on article 5 of the convention and the relevant case-law, he complained, inter alia, about the length of his detention, alleging insufficient reasoning of the relevant decisions, the lack of regular review of his detention pursuant to article 179 § 2 of the ccp, a lack of medical care and poor conditions in detention.29.  on 20 february 2015 the court of appeal upheld the high court’s judgment on the merits of 9 october 2012. the same day, relying on article 175 § 4 of the ccp, the court extended the four defendants’ detention, including the applicant’s, finding that the reasons for it persisted.30.  on 12 march 2015 the supreme court, acting upon an appeal lodged by the applicant, quashed the order of 20 february 2015 extending the applicant’s detention, finding that article 175 § 4 of the ccp, on which the court of appeal had relied, did not exist, as the relevant provision contained only two paragraphs.it considered that the applicant had been found guilty of aggravated murder by a judgment which was not yet final, and that the criminal offence at issue was particularly grave owing both to the manner in which it had been committed, and to its consequences – the death of a high-ranking police officer, who had been murdered for profit.44.  the government also submitted that the conditions in the prison, for both remand prisoners and convicted prisoners, had been significantly improved after a visit of the european committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman and degrading treatment (“the cpt”) in 2013 (see paragraph 139 below).those doses were administered in december 2014, january, february and march 2015. after the dose in march 2015 the doctors noted “evident improvement” and considered it of utmost importance that the applicant be given the next dose, as “every delay thereof increased the risk of the illness worsening”.62.  it transpires from the case file that the applicant had been suffering pain in the knee, spine and feet since 2000. he had undergone surgery to his left leg in 2001, had broken a thighbone in 2003, and both legs were “extremely deformed” (izrazito deformisana) owing to shotgun injuries (prostrelne rane) and a car accident, which would appear to have taken place in 2005. after gangrene had appeared, the applicant had undergone surgery to his right leg and skin grafts.69.  between 4 september 2015 and 9 february 2016 the high court informed the iecs on several occasions that the costs of the applicant’s medical treatment, including for vdz, and the costs of security guards at the igalo institute, would be covered by the high court upon presentation of the relevant reimbursement requests (po podnošenju zahtjeva za naknadu troškova), pursuant to article 226 §§ 2(5) and 4 of the ccp.78.  the doctors further observed that the applicant suffered from myopia, that he could not see in the left eye and he had an artificial lens implanted in the right eye, that he had a dislocation of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae and ossification of the lumbar part of his spine, ossification of his left knee, an injury to a nerve in his left calf, he walked with crutches, and had two skin infections following the administration of injections as a result of the lack of disinfectant alcohol in the prison.80.  on 3 july 2015 the iecs informed the high court, the court of appeal, the supreme court and the applicant that three types of medication (not vdz), also unavailable in montenegro, had been provided for the applicant.the court requested an expert opinion in this regard, which was produced in october 2017. the expert submitted that stressful conditions in the iecs and the limited possibility of an adequate diet were such that the applicant would never achieve remission as long as he was in the iecs.recommendations were made to the ministry of justice and the iecs to urgently consider the need to establish a prison psychiatric unit and to undertake steps to help patients suffering from depression, as well as to ensure that that kind of examination was conducted without the presence of prison guards (unless the psychiatrist explicitly requested their presence).
4.  the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in novi sad.5.  on 1 june 2004 the applicant instituted civil proceedings seeking reimbursement for income she had lost because of a car accident.6.  on 25 february 2008 the novi sad court of first instance delivered a judgment partly in favour of the applicant and ordered the defendant to pay her a certain amount in that respect.7.  on 30 october 2008 the novi sad district court partly quashed the judgment of 25 february 2008 and remitted the case, upholding the remainder of the judgment.8.  on 2 july 2010 the novi sad court of first instance rejected the applicant’s claim in the remitted part.9.  on 30 january 2012 the novi sad court of appeal partly upheld the judgment of 2 july 2010 and partly reversed it granting certain applicant’s claims.10.  on 5 february 2015 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s complaint about the length of those proceedings, taking into consideration that the civil courts had rendered four judgments at two instances and that the proceedings had been complex.
8.  in his initial submissions before the court, the applicant complained of a poor diet (which usually consisted of water with cabbage, boiled maize, or porridge); a lack of cleaning products and utilities in the cells; and delays in the supply of goods to the prison store and in his being provided with cigarettes.39 following inspections of the above-mentioned cells (which the government submitted to the court) – suggested that: both cells had been equipped with the necessary furniture and the applicant had been provided with his own sleeping place; the lavatory had been separated from the living area; the walls and floor in cell no.we were then returned to the cell ...” the applicant’s attestation furthermore alleged that he and his cellmates had had to keep watch all night long in order to avoid injury and that the general conditions in the facility were inappropriate: cells were dirty, damp and cold, and the heating system was not operating.according to the statements, some of the cells lacked access to fresh air and natural lights as the windows were always closed; ventilation and heating system did not work properly, so it was too cold in winter and too hot in summer; the artificial light was too weak; some cells were located in the basement and were humid and damp; the nutrition was inappropriate and did not comply with the relevant domestic norms; the facility was infested with rats; the prisoners were often subjected to ill-treatment by the prison staff and regularly transferred from one cell to another.the applicant furthermore contested the objectiveness of the information provided by the prison governor and stated that the government’s submissions did not exclude the possibility that, before the repair works had been completed at the end of 2010, there had been smaller rooms in the facility in which he could have been held (and which following the reconstruction had been merged to create a bigger room).39. according to the synopsis of the applicant’s treatment history provided to the court by the government, the applicant was seen by a tb-specialist (only once, according to the applicant) and prescribed standard treatment in the form of a combination of “first-line” anti-tb antibiotics (streptomycin, isoniazid, rifampicin and ethambutol), vitamins, hepatoprotectors, and an appropriate diet.according to the above-mentioned synopsis, an improvement (позитивна динаміка) was noted following the administration of the treatment in that there had been no destruction of the lung tissue and the infiltration and induration in the primary sites (ущільнення первинних вогнищ) had dispersed.the relevant record in the applicant’s medical file suggests that the doctors found that the applicant’s state of health was satisfactory following the treatment provided and that they recommended that he stop smoking and undergo an x-ray examination of his chest once a year by way of preventive measures.he submitted in particular that (i) on 15 may 2008 a prison officer had requested him to submit a letter written by him to the public prosecution office in an unsealed envelope, as it had been necessary to insert a cover letter from the prison authorities, and (ii) on 8 december 2011 a prison officer had opened a letter from the court in the applicant’s presence and handed it to him.he also stated that letters from him to the court dated 29 may 2008, 14 december 2009 and 14 june 2011 had likewise not been dispatched by the prison authorities and that on several occasions the prison staff had warned him that his letters would not leave the prison if he continued to complain about the conditions of his detention and had threatened him for having lodged an application with the court.26.  the government denied the applicant’s allegations and submitted that no monitoring had been conducted as regards letters addressed to the public prosecution office, the parliamentary commissioner for human rights (“the ombudsperson”) and the court, as such monitoring was prohibited by law.they provided evidence that the letter to the public prosecution office of 26 march 2010 had reached the addressee and stated that other letters referred to by the applicant had not been registered in the register of outgoing correspondence (and had therefore not been sent by the applicant via the prison’s mail office).39 registers of incoming and outgoing mail submitted by the government show that in the period from june 2007 until march 2013 the applicant sent and received more than three hundred letters, including to and from various public entities – most notably the public prosecution office, the ombudsperson and the court.the one exception pertained to one instance of interference in august 2008 (of which the applicant did not complain to the court), when it was established that the applicant’s letter to the prosecutor general had not been sent out by a prison officer.30.  the application form dated 29 may 2008 sent by the applicant to the court, together with letters of 14 december 2009 and 14 june 2011 that the applicant allegedly sent to the court via the prison no.
7.  on 16 february 2001 the first applicant was found guilty of a number of criminal offences and was sentenced to life imprisonment.8.  the applicants requested that the prison administration allow them a long-term family visit on many occasions, in particular, in 2006. their requests were rejected on the grounds that article 151 of the code of execution of sentences did not provide for long-term visits to life prisoners.9.  in april 2007 the applicants lodged an administrative claim against the state department for enforcement of sentences seeking an entitlement to a long-term conjugal visit every three months.they submitted that they were willing to have a common child and that a denial of that right to them was unlawful and arbitrary.the final decision of the higher administrative court was delivered on 8 december 2009.10.  according to the information provided by the government, the first applicant was disciplined on three occasions during the period of his detention from 2001 to 2016: once in 2001 following the discovery of an unreported written message on him; once in 2003 on account of his attempt to get in touch with an inmate in an adjacent cell; and once in 2013 on account of unauthorised possession of a mobile telephone.according to the government, it happened “shortly after the introduction of the application”.according to the applicants, the divorce took place on an unspecified date in 2014.12.  as indicated in the information note issued on 24 june 2016 by the administration of dnipropetrovsk prison no.89, during his detention in that prison starting from 2003, the first applicant had had forty short-term visits and nine long-term family visits.more specifically, on 10 december 2003 and 10 june 2004 he had short-term visits from the second applicant, as well as his mother and sister.during the period from 2004 to 2012 the first applicant had regular short-term visits from his mother, sister and some other persons.on 13 september 2012 he had a visit from his sister and a certain ms l. who was registered in the prison’s logbook as his fiancée.since then he had regular short-term visits from ms l. on 11 july 2014 the first applicant was allowed for the first time a long-term family visit, which was from his sister.on 5 december 2014 the first applicant got married with ms l. and they were allowed a long-term family visit on that occasion.
4.  the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in nizhniy novgorod.5.  on 25 july 2002 the applicant’s 51-year-old brother aleksandr alekseyvich anoshin was murdered by a policeman in the alcohol recovery centre of the sovietsky district police department of nizhniy novgorod (медицинский вытрезвитель при советском рувд г. нижнего новгорода).6.  earlier that day, at about 7 p.m., he was stopped in the street by a police patrol as he was staggering home after having drinks with workmates.he was driven to the centre and left alone on a bed in a recovery room, as centre staff sat down to a game of cards nearby.officer m., who together with his partner k. had just returned from patrol duty, got annoyed at the disruption, pushed mr anoshin away from the door and demanded that he calm down.mr anoshin fell on the bed and his head slammed against the wall.officer m. punched the applicant’s brother in the head and chest five times, and strangled him until he was unconscious using a squared piece of a broken wooden chair.8.  on 3 august 2002 the prosecutor’s office of the sovietsky district opened a criminal investigation into the death.the investigation lasted four years and was handled in turn by at least six different investigators.9.  the centre staff initially testified that they had found the applicant’s brother unwell in his bed, but then changed their story, saying that they had seen him hang himself using a bed sheet tied to the bars of his cell window.the forensic reports (on the cause of death, the nature of the injuries, the origin of blood on the wall and the presence of metallic traces on the sheet) refuted the hanging hypothesis, pointed to a violent death and incriminated the centre staff.12.  on 1 august 2008 the sovietsky district court of nizhniy novgorod convicted m. of murder and violent abuse of official power and sentenced him to fourteen years’ imprisonment and a three-year ban from police service.13.  at the trial, m. was directly incriminated by an., ag., and k. officers an.14.  on 14 november 2008 the nizhniy novgorod regional court upheld the sentence.15.  the applicant and three of her brother’s four children each claimed from the state 3,000,000 russian roubles (rub – approximately 69,000 euros (eur)) for emotional distress caused by the crime.
5.  at around 5 a.m. on 13 may 2006 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of robberies by officers of the police unit for combating organised crime in the ryazan region (убоп при увд по рязанской области – “the organised crime unit”), assisted by officers of the special rapid response unit of the ryazan region (собр (омсн) увд рязанской области – “the rapid response unit”).he had the following injuries: (i) multiple abrasions covered in brown scabs on his forehead and the back and top of his head; (ii) swelling on the inner surface of the lips; (iii) multiple large purple and blue bruises on his chest, abdomen, left side, forearms and shoulders; (iv) purple and yellow bruises on his knee joints; and (v) abrasions covered in brown scabs on the back of the toes of his left foot.16.  on 5 june 2006, 20 december 2006 and 10 june 2008 officials at the prosecutor’s office, and later the zheleznodorozhnyy inter-district investigation unit of the investigative committee for ryazan (“the investigative committee”) issued refusals to initiate criminal proceedings against the police officers.the most recent refusal of 10 june 2008 was issued in accordance with article 24 § 1 (2) of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccrp”) on the grounds that none of the elements of crimes under articles 285 and 286 of the criminal code (abuse of powers) were present in respect of the police officers’ actions.24.  in its most recent refusal to open a criminal case against the police officers dated 10 june 2008, the investigative committee briefly concluded that the applicant’s injuries had resulted from the use of force and special devices (handcuffs) by police officers of the rapid response unit during the applicant’s arrest, as the applicant had resisted arrest.(b)  judicial review of the investigators’ decisions 25.  relying on article 125 of the ccrp, the applicant appealed against two of the refusals to open a criminal case against the police officers to the courts, namely those of 20 december 2006 and 10 june 2008.26.  on 10 june 2008 the zheleznodorozhnyy district court of ryazan ruled that the applicant’s appeal against the refusal of 20 december 2006 should not be examined, and terminated the proceedings on the grounds that on 9 june 2008 the investigative committee had already revoked the refusal.28.  on 26 may 2006 a copy of the applicant’s complaint of ill-treatment was forwarded to the sovetskiy district prosecutor’s office of ryazan for a separate inquiry in relation to the police officers of the organised crime unit.29.  on 2 june 2006 and 24 february 2009 respectively, in accordance with article 24 § 1 (1) of the ccrp, officials at the sovetskiy prosecutor’s office and moskovskiy inter-district investigation unit of the investigative committee for ryazan issued refusals to initiate criminal proceedings against the police officers as none of the elements of crimes under articles 285 and 286 of the criminal code (abuse of powers) were present in respect of their actions.30.  in its most recent refusal to open a criminal case against the police officers dated 24 february 2009, the investigative committee briefly noted the outcome of the applicant’s criminal case and concluded that there was no objective information showing that any crimes had been committed against the applicant by the police officers.31.  in december 2006 and may 2008 respectively the applicant lodged two more complaints with the prosecutor general’s office and the investigative committee against the police officers, investigators and other state officials, requesting that they be prosecuted for unlawful arrest, detention and abuse of power in connection with the events of 13 to 16 may 2006 and his criminal case.the most recent refusal of 26 may 2008 was issued in accordance with article 24 § 1 (2) of the ccrp, because none of the elements of crimes under articles 285, 286 and 301 of the criminal code (abuse of powers and unlawful arrest and detention respectively) were present in respect of the police officers’ actions, as the applicant’s allegations had not been confirmed in the course of the inquiry.35.  on 2 april 2007 the zheleznodorozhnyy district court of ryazan examined the applicant’s appeal against the refusal of 16 january 2007 and concluded that it had been unlawful and unsubstantiated because not all of the applicant’s arguments had been examined concerning, in particular, his allegedly unlawful arrest and detention.36.  on 14 may 2008 the same court ruled that the applicant’s appeal against the investigator’s refusal of 12 april 2007 should not be examined, and terminated the proceedings on the grounds that on 14 may 2008 the investigative committee had already overruled it.it referred mainly to the results of the pre-investigation inquiry into the applicant’s allegations of ill‑treatment, which had resulted in the (subsequently overruled) refusal of 20 december 2006 to open a criminal case against the police officers.
5.  the applicant was born in 1985 and is currently detained in st petersburg.6.  he was suspected of involvement in large-scale drug dealing.7.  on 2 february 2011 he was arrested.he remained in custody pending the investigation and trial.8.  on 6 october 2011 the sovetskiy district court of kazan (“the district court”) received the case file and set the trial date for 19 october 2011.9.  on 19 march 2012 the district court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to nine and a half years’ imprisonment.10.  during the trial, which consisted of sixteen hearings, the applicant was confined in a metal cage in the courtroom.there was no desk inside the cage, only a wooden bench, which made it impossible for him to take notes during the hearings.armed security guards remained beside the cage dock.the applicant’s lawyer could only approach him with the court’s permission.any conversations between them had to take place in the presence of the guards.11.  on 10 august 2012 the supreme court of the tatarstan republic upheld the applicant’s conviction on appeal.the applicant participated in the hearing by videoconference.he was placed behind a floor-to-ceiling metal partition on the premises of the remand prison sizo-3 of the tatarstan republic where he was detained and communicated with the judges via a video link.
the court noted that it could only impose arrest if it was impossible to achieve the objectives of article 119 of the code of criminal procedure, namely to ensure that the suspect, the accused or the convicted person participated in the proceedings, to prevent interference with the pre-trial investigation or with the examination of the case before the court, or with the execution of the sentence, and to prevent the commission of further criminal acts by other, less restrictive measures.on 17 july 2013 the vilnius regional court held that the factual information, including the testimony of witnesses in the case, identification reports, restrictive measures, expert conclusions, items necessary for the investigation, and information received from the authorities of poland, belarus, ukraine, the united kingdom and russia, were sufficient to hold that the applicant might have committed the criminal offences of which he was suspected.(b)  the applicant’s detention during his trial 12.  on 2 july 2014 the bill of indictment and the case were referred to the vilnius regional court for examination on the merits, but on 11 july 2014 the court of appeal transferred the case for examination on the merits to the klaipėda regional court, because judges of the vilnius regional court had participated in the investigative actions.on 19 january 2016 the results of the psychiatric examination were received but it had been decided that the court’s questions could not be answered, and a new psychiatric examination was ordered by a decision of the klaipėda regional court of 29 february 2016. the results were received on 8 and 15 june 2016. the criminal case had not been examined in the hearings that took place on 16 june and 25 october 2016 because some of the accused and their lawyers had failed to appear.the examination of the accused had been protracted for reasons unconnected with the work of the court: the necessity to carry out certain investigative actions; failure of the parties to the proceedings to appear, for both justified and unjustified reasons; and prior commitments on the part of the parties to the proceedings and the court.the court observed that the argument of the applicant’s lawyer, that the applicant was never the cause of cancellation or adjournment of the hearings, was not justified, because on 16 october 2015 the hearing did not take place because the applicant refused to attend because of the conditions of detention in custody.(b)  the applicant’s detention during his trial 41.  on 2 july 2014 the bill of indictment and the case were referred to the vilnius regional court for examination on the merits, but on 11 july 2014 the court of appeal transferred the case for examination on the merits to the klaipėda regional court, because the judges of the vilnius regional court had taken part in the investigative actions.the other arguments were very similar to those pronounced in the cases of the first and second applicants, and the restrictive measures were the same (see paragraphs 14 and 27 above) 44.  on 5 august 2016 the court of appeal, following an appeal by the prosecutor, quashed the lower court’s decision to release the applicant.the courts relied on the complexity of the case and the international element, and noted that the court examining the criminal case on the merits had put maximum efforts into ensuring that the examination of the case was speedy; despite this the process had been protracted for unconnected reasons.on 30 august 2017 the court of appeal held that the length of the applicant’s detention was justified by the applicant’s character, the seriousness of the offences, the extreme complexity of the case (thirteen accused, many witnesses, many episodes of criminal activity, 150 volumes of evidence) as well as by the public interest, which was justified under the court’s case-law.(b)  the applicant’s detention during his trial 60.  on 2 july 2014 the bill of indictment and the case were referred to the vilnius regional court for examination on the merits, but on 11 july 2014 the court of appeal transferred the case for examination on the merits to the klaipėda regional court, because the judges of the vilnius regional court had taken part in the investigative actions.61.  on 10 july 2014 the vilnius regional court extended the applicant’s detention for a further three months; from then on the applicant’s detention was extended every three months until 22 july 2016. the courts relied on the complexity of the case, the applicant’s character, the nature of the offences, and the international element of the case.although no hearings had taken place from 2 december 2015 to 29 november 2016 there had been objective reasons for this: it had been announced during the hearing on 20 october 2015 that no hearing would take place on 19 january 2016 because one of the judges had a hearing in another case; on 2 december 2015 the court had announced that there would be a break until 29 february 2016 because there was to be a psychiatric examination of two of the accused on 19 january 2016; an additional expert report was commissioned for the same two accused on 29 february 2016; and there was a further adjournment (the results of the expert report were received on 8 and 17 june 2016); the hearing on 16 june 2016 did not take place because one of the accused was sick and another had been arrested in sweden; and there was no hearing on 25 november 2016 because three of the accused had failed to appear (one of them had been arrested in sweden and his transfer to lithuania was to take place on 18 january 2017).71.  from the applicants’ arrest on 22 january 2013 until the completion of the pre-trial investigation on 30 june 2014 (see paragraphs 6, 11, 25, 40 and 59 above) the authorities carried out a number of investigative actions, such as: personal searches of all the applicants and other suspects as well as various home searches; questioning all the applicants, other suspects and witnesses; sending legal cooperation requests to spain, russia, the netherlands, ukraine, and belarus; crime scenes were visited several times; items taken during the searches examined; a number of chemical, biological, dactyloscopic and ballistic investigations set up; items necessary for the investigation taken; a number of recognitions from pictures were achieved; a detailed description of the characteristics of the accused were received; numerous decisions on limitations of property taken; a criminal conduct simulation model and secret surveillance were set up and carried out; one search was announced, and several eyewitness identifications conducted.72.  according to the information in the court’s possession, between the transfer of the case to the court for examination on the merits on 2 july 2014 (on 11 july 2014 the court appeal solved a jurisdictional issue and decided that the case had to be examined by the klaipėda regional court, so the case was transferred to that court on 21 july 2014) and the first-instance judgment on 20 december 2017, a total of fifty-one hearings were coordinated in advance and scheduled; ten of those hearings were either cancelled or adjourned: (a) in 2014 four hearings were scheduled and held: on 11, 12 and 25 november and on 9 december; (b) in 2015 twenty-five hearings were scheduled, two of them were adjourned (on 14 april the hearing was adjourned because of the health state of one of the accused, r.v., and on 16 october the hearing was adjourned because the second applicant refused to be taken to the hearing from custody) and one was cancelled (on 15 april because of the health of r.v.).
12.  in a letter dated 4 april 2011 sent by the district aliens and immigration branch of the larnaca police to the aliens and immigration service, the issuance of deportation and detention orders against the applicant was recommended in order to ensure that the applicant would not abscond following the expiration of the detention order issued by the larnaca district court.24.  on 13 october 2011 the director of the aliens and immigration service re-examined the applicant’s case and recommended that the authorities proceed with the applicant’s deportation following the dismissal of his asylum application by the reviewing authority (see paragraph 21 above).according to an internal note subsequently sent by the civil registry and migration department to the attorney general, the applicant’s deportation had not been possible as the applicant had not had a valid passport and had not co-operated with the authorities in order to secure one.with regard to the preliminary issues raised, the supreme court firstly held that it had the authority to examine the application, as it had been called upon to examine the lawfulness of the applicant’s protracted detention and its extension, and not the lawfulness of the deportation and detention orders.30.  the supreme court then examined the substance of the application and held that the applicant’s detention after 4 october 2011 – that is to say following a period of six months – had been unlawful under the eu returns directive, which at the time had had direct effect in domestic law.in this connection it held that the six-month period provided in article 15 § 5 of the above-mentioned directive had started to run on 4 april 2011 and had ended on 4 october 2011. although article 15 § 6 of the directive provided for the possibility of extending detention for a period not exceeding a further twelve months if there was a lack of cooperation on the part of a third-country national, it provided that this should be applied in accordance with the provisions of the national law; however, there had been no such national law in force when the six-month period had expired in this case.he was also served with a letter dated 22 december 2011 from the first chief administrative officer of the ministry of the interior informing him that he was an illegal immigrant under sections 6(1)(k) and (l) of the aliens and immigration law on the grounds (i) of his having illegally entered and stayed in the republic of cyprus and (ii) the decision to detain and deport him.36.  on the same date the applicant’s lawyer sent a fax to the minister of the interior and the chief of police, stating that the new detention and deportation orders were in conflict with the supreme court’s judgment of 22 december 2011 and infringed the provisions of the eu returns directive.39.  by a letter dated 22 may 2012 the applicant’s lawyer complained again to the minister of justice and public order and to the chief of police about the applicant’s continuing detention, as well as the conditions of his detention at paphos police station and the psychological and psychosomatic effects that those conditions had had on him.40.  on 25 may 2012 the minister of the interior reviewed the applicant’s detention and decided on its continuation for another six months as the applicant did not have travel documents and continued to refuse to visit the iranian embassy in order to secure the issuance of a passport to him, thus hampering the deportation process.43.  on 14 june 2012 the permanent secretary of the ministry of the interior sent a letter to the applicant informing him of the above-mentioned decision taken by the minister under section 18 πστ(8)(α) of the aliens and immigration law because of his refusal to cooperate with the authorities regarding his return to iran (see paragraph 101 below).it found that the applicant’s main claims – namely that (i) the aliens and immigration law, where it concerned the issuance of the deportation and detention orders, was unconstitutional, (ii) the deportation and detention orders had not been issued under the correct provision of that law, and (iii) he had the right under the refugee law to remain in the country pending the determination of his appeal by the supreme court (no.49.  in the meantime, on 12 september 2012 the applicant’s lawyer sent a fax to the minister of the interior complaining about the period of the applicant’s detention and about the failure of the minister of the interior to review the applicant’s detention order every two months, as provided by section 18 πστ(4) of the aliens and immigration law (see paragraph 101 below).as a result, the government did not have any records concerning the dimensions of the cells in which the applicant had been kept or the number of inmates kept with the applicant in the same cell.88.  according to the entries in the station’s record ledger in respect of the period of the applicant’s detention at paphos police station (which the government submitted), the applicant had had a psychiatric condition for which he had been provided with prescribed medication and had received psychiatric care at paphos general hospital.
9.  according to a record of the applicant’s arrest for murder signed by the applicant in the absence of a lawyer, it was drawn up at 12.30 a.m. on 10 april 2007 by investigator a.m. from the sverdlovskiy district prosecutor’s office of irkutsk.10.  next morning, from 10.30 a.m. to 2.20 p.m., investigator p. from the sverdlovskiy district prosecutor’s office questioned the applicant as a suspect in the presence of a lawyer appointed by investigator p. according to the record of the questioning, the applicant gave statements voluntarily, he had injuries from handcuffs because “he had put up resistance”, and he was not subjected to any violence.the applicant gave self-incriminating statements in relation to the crimes against a.s. later, during his trial, the applicant claimed that the state-appointed lawyer had not been present during his questioning and had only signed the record of his questioning at the end.13.  according to a certificate signed by the ivs doctor, the applicant was examined on 11 april 2007 and had bruises in the area of the left collarbone, left shoulder and left lumbar region, and abrasions in the area of the elbow joints, both hands and wrists.the applicant had the following injuries: (i) ten irregularly shaped bruises measuring between 9 x 7 cm and 3 x 2 cm on his chest, left shoulder, left iliac bone, both forearms, elbows, right of the lower spine and outside of the left ear, which had been caused by hard, blunt objects with a limited surface area; and (ii) eleven abrasions in stripe-like shapes measuring between 3 x 0.2 cm and 1 x 0.2 cm on his right wrist and wrist joints, which had been caused by hard objects with an explicitly limited surface area.in reply to the investigator’s question whether the injuries could have been self-inflicted by the applicant’s own hand, the expert stated that the injuries were not of the kind which could be inflicted by one’s own hand.according to a letter of 10 june 2009 from the ussuriysk town police department, the applicant’s complaint was examined and a refusal to institute criminal proceedings was issued pursuant to article 24 § 1 (2) of the code of criminal procedure (“ccrp”) for lack of the elements of a crime.the investigator concluded that the injuries on his wrists had been caused as a result of the justified use of handcuffs because under the domestic law the police had a right to use handcuffs to suppress resistance and escort arrested individuals to a police station safely.19.  on 28 april 2010 the irkutsk regional court received the applicant’s appeal dated 16 april 2010 against the refusal to institute criminal proceedings of 12 march 2008. in his appeal the applicant stated that his complaint about the police ill-treatment dated 5 may 2007 had been dispatched by the pre-trial detention facility on 7 may 2007.the court held that the decision of 12 march 2008 was lawful and well‑founded and that there had been no inactivity on the part of the investigating authority in dealing with the applicant’s complaint.21.  it appears that on 12 march, 23 april and 17 august 2009 refusals to open a criminal case were issued in relation to the applicant’s complaint of ill-treatment by the investigative committee for the sverdlovsk district of irkutsk pursuant to article 24 § 1 (2) of the ccrp, as none of the elements of the crime under article 116 § 1 of the criminal code were present.she pointed out the need to interview the applicant, identify the police officers he had resisted during his arrest, interview those police officers, assess police officers’ alleged misconduct under articles 286 § 3 (a) and 302 of the criminal code (abuse of powers with the use of violence and forced extraction of confession respectively), and carry out other activities in order to ensure a full inquiry.23.  in a letter of 12 october 2011 the irkutsk regional prosecutor’s office informed the applicant that on 22 april 2011 the investigative committee for the sverdlovskiy district of irkutsk had refused to open a criminal case in relation to the applicant’s complaint of ill-treatment by the police officers from the sverdlovskiy district police department of irkutsk pursuant to article 24 § 1 (2) of the ccrp, as none of the elements of the crime under article 286 § 3 (a) of the criminal code were present.the appellate court relied on the refusal to open a criminal case of 12 march 2008, noting the applicant’s statements that the injuries on the wrists had been caused as a result of the use of handcuffs to suppress the applicant’s resistance.28.  on 24 november 2009 a judge of the supreme court of russia rejected the applicant’s request for supervisory review of his case, stating that the decisions of the courts of both instances to dismiss the applicant’s complaint that he had been coerced by violence to give his self‑incriminating statements were well-founded.
6.  on 14 december 2012 the state duma, the lower house of the federal assembly of russia, adopted at first reading a draft law which, in particular, prohibited the adoption of children of russian nationality by citizens of the united states of america.8.  according to the first applicant, she had read on various online social networks that many people intended to stage solo demonstrations (одиночные пикеты) on 19 december 2012 in front of the state duma to express their opposition to the draft law.9.  all of the applicants decided to hold solo demonstrations on 19 december 2012. according to them, at around 9 a.m. they positioned themselves, holding banners, in the vicinity of the state duma at some distance from other protesters (see also lashmankin and others v. russia, nos.11.  according to the government, at 10 a.m. on 19 december 2012 all of the applicants took part in a group “picket” (пикет) held without prior notification of the authorities.the first applicant had a poster reading “i am looking for an american who will adopt me”, the second and the third applicants had posters reading “orphans are guilty for the death of mr magnitskiy?the applicants did not react to the lawful demands of the police to stop participating in the event and continued “picketing”, attracting the attention of passers-by.12.  at the police station the applicants were charged with participating in a group public event held without prior notification, in breach of article 20.2 § 2 of the code of administrative offences (hereinafter, “the cao”).the administrative-offence record in respect of the first applicant and the police officers’ reports in respect of all the applicants indicated that the offence had been committed at 10 a.m. it was also stated that they had taken part in a non-notified group public event and had refused to end it when requested to do so by the police.369 of the tverskoy district of moscow found the first applicant guilty under article 20.2 § 2 of the cao and sentenced her to a fine of 20,000 russian roubles (rub; about 495 euros (eur) at the time).the court found it established, on the basis of the administrative-offence record, the police officers’ reports and oral testimony by a police officer who had arrested the applicant that the latter had taken part in a public event (“picket”) which had involved fifty people and had been held without prior notification of the authorities.14.  on 31 january 2013 in two separate proceedings the same justice of the peace convicted the second and the third applicants under article 20.2 § 2 of the cao and sentenced each of them to fines of rub 20,000. the court relied on the administrative offence records, the police officers’ reports and oral testimony by a police officer who had arrested the applicants.on 21 february and 21 march 2013 the tverskoy district court of moscow upheld the judgments in respect of the third and second applicants respectively.in the third applicant’s case the appellate court examined some documents and interviewed a police officer in a detailed manner before affording the defence counsel an opportunity to cross-examine him; the appeal judge then asked a number of follow-up questions.in its appeal decision the appellate court considered that the third applicant’s guilt had been proved by the adverse evidence, such as the administrative-offence record, the escort procedure record and testimonies.the court reclassified the charges against the applicants as falling under article 20.2 § 5 of the cao, namely breach of the established procedure for the conduct of public events committed by a participant.
on 11 march 2011 the płock district court informed the applicant that he would not be transported to the hearing, and instructed him about the formal requirements in respect of requests for evidence, among other things that such requests should be lodged with the court in two copies.12.  the applicant was not present at the court hearing on 23 march 2011. on 24 march 2011 the płock district court served the applicant with a copy of płock prison’s response to the applicant’s action (odpowiedź na pozew) and ordered the applicant to clarify his pleading (sprecyzowanie powództwa), in particular as regards the period of his detention.the applicant was instructed to send the clarification of the pleading to the court in two copies.13.  on 12 april 2011 the płock district court rejected part of the applicant’s action on the basis of res judicata, and asked the applicant to inform the court if he wished to maintain the remainder thereof.on 14 february 2012 the płock district court refused the request, finding that the applicant was able to represent himself.it held that the cells in question had indeed been overcrowded for approximately five months, but that the applicant had failed to demonstrate that the actions of the respondent (the relevant prison authorities) had constituted unlawful conduct for which the latter were liable.lastly, the remainder of the applicant’s allegations about the material conditions in his cells were considered unsubstantiated in the light of the material gathered in the case.17.  on 29 may 2012 the applicant was served with the judgment and information about the time and manner of the right to appeal, which read as follows: “you may request the written reasoning of the judgment within seven days of the day on which the judgment was served on you.any appeal should be submitted to the court which issued the judgment within two weeks, calculated from the date of service of the judgment with reasoning.sending the appeal by post is equivalent to submitting it to the court.” 18.  on 22 june 2012 the applicant lodged an appeal against the first‑instance judgment.on 9 july 2012 the applicant submitted to the court a handwritten letter entitled “appeal” (in two copies), the content of which was similar but not identical to the original appeal.it held that as the applicant had extended his arguments by relying on the supreme court’s jurisprudence, it followed that he had changed his original submissions, and the copies provided by him could not be regarded as copies of the original appeal.on 20 september 2012 the applicant submitted an interlocutory appeal against the decision of 13 september 2012, arguing as follows: “i should have been informed in advance that the court would require me to provide copies of pleadings.the court asked me to provide the copies only after i had sent the original pleading, and i do not have a computer memory to reproduce exactly the same copy of what i had written one month before.for the above reasons i ask the court to accept my appeal and interlocutory appeals.” 21.  on 15 november 2012 the court instructed the applicant that in order to comply with the formal requirement of his interlocutory appeal he should submit an additional copy of it, which the applicant failed to do.
8.  on 12 april 2006 after a series of decisions and the remittal of the case to the investigating authorities, the tbilisi city court convicted the applicant of attempted escape and the illicit procurement of an official document.10.  on 20 april 2007, in a different set of proceedings, instituted by the applicant to have legislative amendments reducing the maximum length of a sentence for aggravated murder applied to his first conviction, the supreme court reduced the applicant’s sentence for the first conviction to fifteen years’ imprisonment.11.  on 20 february 2008 the supreme court rectified its decision of 20 april 2007 based on the applicant’s request to that end, stating that the outstanding sentence for the applicant’s first conviction and the sentence for the second conviction were to be cumulative, and that the cumulative sentence of eight years and six months had to start running from 29 march 2002, namely the date of commission of the second offence rather than the date of the imposition of the later sentence, which was 12 april 2006. appellate proceedings concerning the second conviction were still pending when the supreme court adopted the two decisions.12.  on 3 december 2008, without taking note of the supreme court decisions of 20 april 2007 and 20 february 2008 (see paragraphs 10-11 above), the tbilisi court of appeal upheld the applicant’s second conviction and ruled that he had to serve a cumulative sentence of thirteen years and six months which had started to run on 29 march 2002 which was again, the date of the commission of the second offence.13.  on an unspecified date the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law against the appellate court’s judgment of 3 december 2008. he requested a reduction in the sentence imposed for his second conviction and the reduction of the cumulative sentence by five years in view of the supreme court’s decisions of 20 april 2007 and 20 february 2008 to that end (see paragraphs 10-11 above).14.  on 3 april 2009, while the applicant’s appeal on points of law was pending before the supreme court, the tbilisi court of appeal adopted, by means of a written procedure and without the parties’ involvement, a decision rectifying an error in its judgment of 3 december 2008 (“the rectified appellate decision”).relying on article 615 of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccp” – see paragraph 24 below), the decision corrected the starting date of the cumulative sentence to 12 april 2006 – the date on which the first-instance court’s decision concerning the second conviction had been adopted.based on that new starting date, the applicant’s sentence was due to expire on 12 october 2019. as shown by the case files, the decision of 3 april 2009 was served on the applicant on 16 april 2009.it took note of the rectified appellate decision of 3 april 2009 (see paragraph 14 above) and stated that the re-calculated cumulative sentence of seven years’ imprisonment had started to run on 12 april 2006, namely the date of the imposition of the sentence for the second offence.16.  on 22 april 2009 the applicant requested the rectification of the decision of the supreme court of 7 april 2009 in respect of the starting date of his cumulative sentence.he noted that it was only by means of the supreme court’s final decision that he had learned about the rectified appellate decision of 3 april 2009. he submitted that the rectified appellate decision had been contrary to the final decision of the supreme court dated 20 february 2008 which had set a different starting date for his cumulative sentence, and would have resulted in a release date of 29 september 2010. he further submitted that the rectification had lacked any legal basis and had gone beyond the scope of article 615 of the ccp, as it had substantially affected the duration of his sentence.maintaining that his appeal had been the sole basis for the appellate court’s judgment of 3 december 2008, the applicant submitted that the rectified appellate decision, made by that very court, had been in violation of article 540 § 1 of the ccp which had provided a guarantee for an appellant against a worsening of his or her position in the proceedings in the absence of an appeal from the prosecuting authorities.17.  on 24 april 2009 the head of the registry of the chamber of criminal cases of the supreme court replied to the applicant, stating that the rectified appellate decision of 3 april 2009 had constituted an integral part of the appellate judgment of 3 december 2008. therefore, the supreme court was not in a position to address the applicant’s complaint.19.  on 15 june 2009 an assistant to the chairman of the tbilisi court of appeal replied to the applicant’s appeal of 11 may 2009 (see paragraph 18 above), noting that the tbilisi court of appeal had adopted a judgment on 3 december 2008 and subsequently rectified on 3 april 2009 an error regarding the starting date of the sentence.it was further noted that, in its decision of 7 april 2009, the supreme court had accepted the rectification of the inaccuracy by the appellate court regarding the starting date of the sentence and that the rectified appellate decision had therefore been left unchanged.
5.  the applicant was born in 1978 and was at the time of the introduction of the application detained at the safi detention centre.8.  the applicant was found carrying false italian identification documents and, according to the government, when questioned, he informed the police that he had obtained the documents from a friend in italy and that his intention was to travel to italy by transiting via malta.10.  on the same day, the police (immigration branch) issued a detention order in terms of the immigration act (chapter 217 of the laws of malta) and subsidiary legislation 420.06 “reception of asylum seekers regulations” (hereinafter “the reception regulations” – see relevant domestic law below) on the grounds that the elements on which the applicant’s application for international protection had been based could not be determined in the absence of detention, in particular due to the risk of absconding.13.  according to documentation submitted by the government, on 30 september 2016, the applicant appeared before the board accompanied by one of his lawyers (of choice), but the case was put off to the next board meeting to be held on 5 october 2016, since one of the applicant’s representatives (of choice) was abroad.14.  on 5 october 2016 the board convened in order to review the legality of the applicant’s detention, in accordance with regulation 6(3) of the reception regulations.15.  according to the applicant, during the hearing before the board, in the presence of a representative of the malta police force who explained the circumstances of the applicant’s detention, the board informed the applicant that it had not been able to comply with the deadline provided by the law for the review of his detention since on the date required by the reception regulations (namely seven working days from the issuing of the detention order) a board member was attending a conference overseas and therefore he could not take part in the hearing.16.  during the hearing the applicant’s representative repeatedly requested the malta police force’s representative and the chairperson of the board to specify the grounds on which he was being detained.it followed that he had already presented to the authorities all the elements on which his application for international protection had been based, thus the legal basis on which the authorities had relied in order to justify his detention could not be held applicable to his case and the interference with the applicant’s liberty had not been provided by law.the board specified that: (i) the elements in question referred to the application for refugee status, which had not yet been determined; (ii) if the applicant left malta he would be unable to provide the information (elements) required by the commissioner for refugees (refcom); (iii) the fact that the applicant had been found in possession of a ticket to go to italy showed that his intention was not to remain in malta; (iv) “with the fact that he was inadmissible in the first place because he had forged a document, there is no reason to believe that appellant will not abscond”.19.  the board requested the principal immigration office (pio) to enquire as to whether all elements had been clarified and given to refcom, and whether the applicant would have been given refugee status, in order to ensure that detention did not subsist for longer than was needed.if the period of detention continued because of the asylum proceedings, including an appeal, the pio were to consider alternatives to detention particularly those listed in regulation 6(8) of the reception regulations s.l.20.  on 21 october 2016 the applicant applied to the court of magistrates relying on article 409(a) of the criminal code to contest the lawfulness of his detention.21.  it appears that the immigration police argued that the one fundamental element they expected the applicant to provide was a document confirming the statement that he was recognised as a refugee in armenia.420.06, allowed the detention of persons like the applicant ‑ pending a decision on asylum ‑ in order to establish the elements on which such application was based, when it would be difficult to do so in the absence of detention.although he was liable to imprisonment for a period of six months to two years, the court, in application of section 22 of the probation act (chapter 446 of the laws of malta) conditionally discharged the applicant for three years.
7.  the applicant submitted that during his detention in wrocław remand centre he had been held in overcrowded cells in which the space per person had been below the polish statutory minimum standard of 3 sq.9.  on 5 april 2011 the applicant brought a civil claim before the wrocław regional court against the state treasury for infringement of his personal rights and for compensation on account of his detention in overcrowded cells in wrocław remand centre.11.  in the course of the judicial proceedings the applicant lodged several applications and requests with the court, including a letter of 8 august 2012. the court, by an order of 28 august 2012, instructed the applicant that to comply with formal requirements he should submit an additional copy of that letter.the order further stated: “at the same time the court informs [you] that all pleadings (pisma) should be submitted in two copies.” 12.  on 5 october 2012 the wrocław‑śródmieście district court dismissed the applicant’s civil claim.the court found that the applicant’s cells had indeed been overcrowded for approximately one month, but that he had failed to demonstrate that the actions of the defendant had been unlawful.13.  on 10 october 2012 the applicant lodged with the court a letter entitled “application: refers to an appeal against the judgment of the wrocław‑śródmieście district court of 5 october 2012” which the court treated as an appeal.15.  on 29 october 2012 the applicant was served with the judgment and information about the time and manner of the right to appeal, in the following terms: “a party who disagrees with the judgment has a right to request the written reasoning of the judgment within seven days of the service of that judgment and later to appeal to the second-instance court via the court that issued the judgment, within two weeks, calculated from the service of the reasoned judgment.if the party does not ask for the reasoned judgment, the appeal is to be submitted directly within 21 days of the service of the judgment.article 369 § 1: the appeal shall be submitted to the court that issued the judgment within two weeks, calculated from the service of the reasoned judgment.” 16.  on 12 november 2012 the applicant received the reasoning of the court’s judgment of 5 october 2012.17.  on 21 december 2012 the applicant lodged with the court a request for leave to appeal out of time against the judgment of 5 october 2012, as well as two copies of a letter entitled “appeal”.on 1 february 2013 the court dismissed the applicant’s request for leave to appeal, and explained that he had already lodged his appeal on 10 october 2012, which was within the relevant time-limit.the court underlined that the applicant’s appeal of 10 october 2012 did not comply with the formal requirements.18.  therefore, on 6 february 2013 the court issued an order and instructed the applicant to comply with the formal requirements of his appeal by submitting a copy thereof within seven days of the service of the court order.19.  on 15 february 2013 the applicant submitted a letter in which he informed the court that he was unable to comply with the order because he did not have the text of his appeal that he could copy or rewrite and he did not remember the exact wording of his pleadings.on 21 june 2013 the wrocław regional court dismissed the applicant’s interlocutory appeal, holding that the applicant, who had started a civil action and knew that he was deprived of his liberty, could justifiably be expected to keep copies of all letters he sent to the court, especially since he had been informed on 28 august 2012 that all letters to the court should be submitted in two copies.
8.  in the course of the investigation, the zagreb municipal state attorney’s office (općinsko državni odvjetništvo u zagrebu) commissioned a psychiatric expert report on the applicant’s mental health at the time of the offence, including, if appropriate, the existence of a need for his psychiatric internment.the expert noted that she had not inspected any medical documents concerning the applicant’s previous psychiatric treatment, but she had interviewed him, examined the criminal case file and a medical report from the prison administration.10.  on 10 july 2012 the zagreb municipal state attorney’s office indicted the applicant in the zagreb municipal criminal court (općinski kazneni sud u zagrebu) on charges of making serious threats.11.  on 27 july 2012 a three-judge panel of the zagreb municipal criminal court found that the indictment was flawed as it had been based on an incomplete expert report, which had not taken into account all the medical documentation concerning the applicant’s previous psychiatric treatment.the expert also stated that, in her view, the applicant’s diagnosis had already been clear after the first examination and that she did not need further documents to provide a diagnosis.13.  on 28 august 2012 the zagreb municipal state attorney’s office submitted a new indictment against the applicant in the zagreb municipal criminal court.she also argued that the evidence concerning the applicant’s mental state at the moment of the commission of the offence could not be given by his general practitioner or his psychiatrist.the applicant argued that e.s.’s expert opinion was flawed and incomplete as it had not taken into account the existing medical documentation related to his treatment but only the medical record held by his general practitioner.20.  on the same day the zagreb municipal criminal court found that the applicant had committed the offence of making serious threats while lacking mental capacity.22.  on 9 july 2013 the zagreb county court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on the grounds that all the relevant facts had been correctly established.25.  after the zagreb municipal criminal court’s judgment became final (see paragraph 22 above) it was sent for implementation to a single judge of the zagreb county court, as provided for under the protection of individuals with mental disorders act (see paragraph 32 below).27.  on 21 october 2013 a judge of the zagreb county court ordered that the applicant be sent to the psychiatric hospital.28.  the applicant appealed against that decision to a three-judge panel of the zagreb county court, referring, inter alia, to the expert report drafted on 10 august 2013 (see paragraph 26 above).29.  on 7 november 2013 a three-judge panel of the zagreb county court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on the grounds that there had been nothing in his arguments to raise any doubts about the necessity for his committal to the hospital as established by the zagreb municipal criminal court.30.  according to the available information, the applicant is still at large as he could not be located by the relevant authorities in order to execute the psychiatric internment order.
9.  the notice went on to say that the offence in connection with which the applicant was being sought was one under article 656 of the iranian penal code (see paragraphs 38-40 below), and that the maximum penalty in respect of it was three years’ imprisonment.10.  the next day, 18 december 2016, the national central bureau of interpol for iran confirmed that the applicant was still being sought and sent to the bulgarian authorities a copy, in persian, of the warrant for his arrest.can you give the sheep to the wolves?” 13.  having deliberated immediately after the hearing, the sofia city court allowed the prosecuting authorities’ request.however, when the appeal was heard by the sofia court of appeal on 27 december 2016, the applicant said that he had not instructed the court-appointed counsel to lodge it and wished to be represented by counsel of his own choice.the request stated that the act allegedly committed by him constituted an offence under article 656 § 4 of the iranian penal code (see paragraphs 38-40 below), and specified that according to the text of that provision the punishment envisaged under it was six months’ to three years’ imprisonment.18.  the same day the prosecuting authorities presented to the applicant and his counsel the extradition request and the documents enclosed with it (see paragraphs 15 and 16 above).19.  the prosecution also asked the court to keep the applicant in detention until the conclusion of the extradition proceedings.21.  the line of argument taken by counsel for the applicant from the outset was that the evidence enclosed with the extradition request left some doubt about the actual date and time of the offence the applicant had allegedly committed, and that he could not have committed it on the date and at the time initially specified because he had by then already left tehran.the prosecution urged the court to invite the iranian authorities to clarify the date and time of the commission of the alleged offence.22.  the court did so, in the exercise of its powers under section 17(3) of the extradition and european arrest warrant act 2005 (see paragraph 34 below), and in a diplomatic note of 5 april 2017 the iranian authorities said that the applicant had committed the offence at 1.40 p.m. on 23 june 2016.he said that doubts about the date and time of the commission of the alleged offence – 23 or 24 june 2016 – persisted, and that the available evidence gave rise to misgivings about whether the applicant had really committed the offence.24.  the same day the sofia city court allowed the request for the applicant’s extradition to iran.it found, inter alia, that the extradition request met all formal requirements, and that it was permissible to proceed on the basis of the de facto reciprocity between bulgaria and iran.27.  in a final decision of the same date, the sofia court of appeal upheld the sofia city court’s decision to allow the extradition request, for essentially the same reasons.it likewise noted that according to the information from the iranian authorities, the punishment possibly awaiting the applicant was a term of imprisonment.
counsel for the fsin explained in the proceedings before the supreme court (see paragraph 69 below) the manner in which sixteen people were accommodated in a large compartment: five prisoners seated on each of the two lower bunks, one prisoner lying on each of the two upper bunks, and four people seated on the middle bunks joined together with the bridge bunk.accordingly, the authorities decided to transfer him to the kp-52 settlement located in the village of vetyu in the knyazhpogostskiy district of the komi republic.24.  after a four-hour stop at usinsk and until their arrival at the destination in yemva, mr tomov shared a small compartment with three people during the second leg of the journey, which lasted from 4.10 p.m. on 20 september until 12.45 p.m. on 21 september, for a total of twenty-one hours with another six-hour stop at pechora.27.  on 25 and 27 january and 1 and 18 february 2010, in the framework of a pre-trial investigation, she was taken by prison van to the town court, a forensic facility, a remand centre and a hospital.29.  after the opening of the trial before the supreme court of the komi republic, she was shuttled between the remand prison and the trial court on ten or twelve occasions between 15 december 2010 and 24 february 2011. the distance was sixteen kilometres and the travel time thirty-five minutes.in the winter months she suffered greatly from the cold because the heating unit was located in the central aisle, while the solid metal door of her cell prevented warm air from circulating.35.  in his letter of 6 june 2011 to a member of the public monitoring commission, the deputy head of the yaroslavl prison service explained that ms kostromina and ms n. had been placed together in the single-prisoner cubicle in order to isolate them from male offenders.40.  on 12 april 2011 the primorskiy regional prosecutor’s office replied that they had questioned the guards who had been on duty on 21 and 22 february and established that the number of prisoners in the compartment had not exceeded the norm.the fsin determined that the guards had acted in compliance with the regulations and that the conditions of mr rakov’s transportation had not amounted to torture or inhuman treatment.the judgment restated the findings of the above-mentioned inquiry by the fsin and endorsed its conclusion to the effect that there had been no breach of mr rakov’s rights.the detainees were in the van for one hour, first in transit to the railway station and later while they waited for the train to arrive.during the eight-hour journey to yekaterinburg, a two-hour wait in a siding at yekaterinburg station and a two-hour wait for a police escort, mr vasilyev was kept together with between nine and thirteen other people in a large compartment.50.  mr tomov (for his personal details see paragraph 19 above), mr nikolay konstantinovich roshka, born in 1965 in moldova, and mr nikita valeryevich barinov, born in 1990 in syktyvkar, were in transit between the iz-11/1 remand prison in syktyvkar and the ik‑23 high‑security penal facility in the murmansk region.62.  on 16 november 2015 the supreme court rejected the challenge, finding as follows: “the plaintiffs’ argument that the measurements of cells in prisoner vans and railway carriages, as established in the guidance, are incompatible with the requirements of international law are unfounded because no other normative act of a higher legal order provides for different cell measurements in those conveyances.the plaintiffs’ claim that the technical specifications of the guidance are in breach of the case-law of the european court in the cases of khudoyorov v. russia, guliyev v. russia, and idalov v. russia in the part concerning the conditions of transfer by road and by rail, is erroneous because it does not correspond to the contents [of those judgments].” 63.  on 25 february 2016 the appeals panel of the supreme court rejected their appeal in a summary fashion.
the first applicant thus insisted that r.’s parents had evaded their parental duties and thus should be divested of their parental authority over r. 15.  in the proceedings before the first-instance court, the ministry of education and science of astrakhan region (hereinafter “the childcare authority”) provided an expert report on the issue, in which they considered that r.’s parents “[did] not show any interest in his life or health condition, they [did] not participate in his upbringing, they [did] not provide any financial maintenance and [had] chosen not to fulfil their parental duties”.in particular, it rejected as unfounded the first applicant’s argument that r.’s parents had abandoned him in the children’s hospital; it observed in this connection that no evidence had been submitted to it – in the form of a written statement by r.’s parents or certificates from any health institutions – to show that r.’s parents had ever formally renounced their parental authority over the boy.the court further observed that the decision to transfer their son under the first applicant’s guardianship had been taken by the child’s parents at a very difficult time of their lives, when they had faced a very stressful situation of being unable, on their own, to attend to their son’s needs.18.  the court also referred to statements of a number of witnesses which confirmed that r.’s parents had helped the first applicant with his maintenance, both financially and by providing various services requested by the first applicant; in particular, they had had maintenance and repair work in the first applicant’s housing done; they had ensured private transport for r.’s visits to medical appointments; they had supplied medicine and food for r.’s special diet; they had taken his clothes for cleaning and brought him clean clothes.the report concluded that it was necessary to continue the process of the child’s adaptation to his parents and to that end the duration of the contact sessions between r. and his parents should be extended.it follows from the material in the case file that [r.] was given into the care of the guardian after his parents’ futile attempts to provide him with due medical care and in the child’s [best] interests ... [r.’s parents] did not intend to abandon their child ... even though he was under the [first applicant’s] guardianship, [his] family took an interest in his life and health, they provided ... financial support.” 40.  the district court further referred to statements of various witnesses.46.  the district court thus considered that “no convincing evidence [had been] submitted to show that [r.’s] parents [had been] unable to bring up their child with due care and attention”, and concluded as follows: “regard being had to the above, the court holds that the plaintiffs’ claim should be granted and they should be reunited with their child in order for them to continue exercising their parental rights in respect of the child’s education and development.it considered that the district court had thoroughly examined the case and accurately established the relevant circumstances; that on the basis of various pieces of written evidence, the report of 4 may 2010 regarding the effects of r.’s parents’ contact with him and a report on their living conditions being amongst their number, as well as on the basis of numerous witness statements, the first-instance court had taken a justified and well-reasoned decision that r.’s transfer to his biological family had been in his best interests.51.  on an unspecified date the first applicant brought an action against r.’s parents on behalf of herself and on behalf of the other applicants in an attempt to gain access to r. she averred, in particular, that for the nine years during which r. had remained in her care, she and her foster children – the other applicants – had formed a family with a special bond existing between them; she further complained that, after r.’s transfer to his parents, there had been no contact between r. and the applicants, as r.’s parents had obstructed their attempts to maintain contact.55.  the district court went on to observe that the first applicant was not a member of r.’s family or a relative, within the meaning of article 67 of the russian family code (see paragraph 66 below), nor did she have any legal ties with him after her guardianship over the boy had been terminated by a court decision, with the result that she did not pertain to the category of individuals entitled to seek access to the child under the russian family code.in the court’s view, statements of a number of witnesses confirming r.’s attachment to the first applicant and her taking good care of him “were not grounds for including the first applicant in the category of individuals entitled under the relevant legal provision to claim access to the child”.56.  the first applicant appealed arguing, in particular, that the first‑instance court had erred, in the absence of a forensic expert examination of the matter, in its finding that the second applicant had been incapable of having and forming attachments to her and the other applicants; she complained that her request to have such an expert examination ordered had been rejected by the district court.it noted, in particular: “when dismissing the [first applicant’s] claims, the [first-instance] court considered that, as set forth in article 67 of the family code of the russian federation, the right of access to a child is granted to grandfathers, grandmothers, brothers, sisters and other relatives, while [the first applicant] is, as a matter of law, not regarded as a member of the family or a relative of a minor or any other person whose relationship with him is governed by family law (appointed guardians, custodians, de facto guardians) given that her guardianship has been terminated.the right of access to a child is not guaranteed to other individuals.” 58.  as regards the first applicant’s argument that the first-instance court should have applied article 67 of the russian family code by analogy and should have considered her as r.’s family member given the nature of ties between them, the appellate court noted as follows: “when resolving the dispute, the court did not apply the law by analogy.the resolution of a dispute by analogy would otherwise contradict the essence of the family relationship.” 59.  the court also rejected the applicant’s argument that the first‑instance court had failed to determine the degree of r.’s attachment to the applicants; it stated in this connection that the argument in question “lacked a legal basis”.
10.  the government provided a copy of a certificate issued by the nasyr-kort administration on 6 july 2010 to the effect that mr ali t. had at the material time been registered as resident at 35, yuzhnaya street, nasyr‑kort, together with the applicants and other members of the extended family.the reasoning and operative part of the decision read as follows: “it follows from the documents submitted [number and dates] that ... [t.] ali m., who stands accused of committing crimes under articles 208 § 1, 279, and 222 § 3 of the criminal code [leadership of an armed gang, organisation of an armed revolt and unlawful handling of arms and ammunition], is one of the leaders of illegal armed group “imarat kavkaz” ... at his address of registration there may be objects and documents relevant for the ongoing investigation (including firearms, ammunition, explosives and explosive devices), as well as other objects and substances which are banned from free circulation ... the investigation of this criminal case is particularly complex.... the court, having examined the submitted documents and heard the opinions of the senior prosecutor and the senior investigator, authorises the search of the registered address of a.m.[t.], being satisfied that for the purposes of the investigation there is enough information to believe that there may be objects and documents relevant to the ongoing investigation (including firearms, ammunition, explosives and explosive devices), as well as other objects and substances which are banned from free circulation on the territory of the russian federation.it stated that during the search, in the basement of the dwelling situated to the right of the entrance, an improvised explosive device (“ied”) had been discovered consisting of a 125 mm artillery shell and a detonator wrapped in black cellophane tape, connected with wires.23.  during the interrogation of the second and third applicants, the armed men had ordered the inhabitants of the neighbouring houses to move as far away as possible because the servicemen had been planning to blow up the house.together with him, they had first entered the house to the left of the entrance to the courtyard, then the two technical buildings, and finally the dwelling that was located to the right.27.  the applicants’ neighbours confirmed that the armed men who had carried out the search at the applicants’ house had asked them to leave their houses sometime after 2 p.m. the men had explained that a bomb had been found and there was a risk of explosion.a five-page summary of the decision, forwarded to the third applicant on the same day, indicated that the following procedural measures had been taken: on 14 november 2011 a military investigator had questioned the bomb-disposal expert and the fsb investigator who had conducted the search of the premises.36.  the fsb officers confirmed their presence at the site on the day in question, the fact they had been informed about the discovery of the ied and the need to evacuate everyone to a safe distance.38.  the decision concluded as follows: “drawing on the above, the [third applicant’s] allegations about the unlawful search, use of violence, explosions, damage, destruction and theft of property have not been confirmed by the results of the inquiry.it has been established that the search at the third applicant’s house was carried out by investigator f. on the basis of the decision of 22 february 2011 issued by the lefortovskiy district court of moscow ... on lawful grounds, with attesting witnesses, and without any breaches of the law.... noting well-established facts pointing at the commission by mr ali [t.] (“magas”) of a number of terrorist acts with the use of explosive devices, the investigator took a well-grounded decision to carry out the search with the participation of an explosives expert, who had been instructed to examine the dwellings in order to find potential explosive devices and deactivate them, in order to ensure the safety of all those present.... under such circumstances, the consequences of the detonation of the explosive device that had occurred while it was being deactivated, and the destruction of the dwellings and other possible damage to property, do not attest to unlawful actions on the part of the law-enforcement personnel, contrary to the applicant’s assertion....the applicant’s request to open a criminal investigation for abuse of official functions by the investigator and the explosives experts should be dismissed.” 39.  the decision of 22 november 2011 was communicated to the third applicant on the same day.68799 to send her copies of the decisions of the military investigator of 8 april, 27 october, 2 november and 11 november 2011. on 21 march 2012 the military investigator again forwarded the copies of the requested decisions to the third applicant.
the prison administration believed the contents of the package to be suspect and therefore lodged a request on 12 august 2005 with the public prosecutor for a decision to be taken by an enforcement court to determine whether the material sent to the applicant concerned defence-related documents or whether they concerned any objectionable content so as to prevent them from being handed over to the applicant.8.  on 25 august 2005 the edirne enforcement court allowed an application by the prosecutor and examined the contents of the package, which contained a book entitled globalisation and imperialism (küreselleşme ve emperyalizm), a magazine with the title rootless anational publication (köxüz anasyonal neşriyat), and a newspaper with the title express international sha la la (express enternasyonal şalala).the court held that the material in question did not relate to the rights of the defence and that therefore they should not be handed over to the applicant pursuant to section 5 of law no.9.  on 16 september 2005 the applicant objected to the decision of the edirne enforcement court before the edirne assize court.10.  on 30 september 2005, the edirne assize court dismissed the applicant’s objections on the basis of the case file, holding that the decision of the edirne enforcement court had been in accordance with law and procedure.11.  in the meantime, that is to say on 16 september 2005, the prison administration lodged another request with the public prosecutor in relation to the package sent by the applicant’s lawyer.12.  on 23 september 2005, referring to its earlier decision of 25 august 2005, the edirne enforcement court in an examination carried out on the basis of the case file, without holding a hearing and without seeking submissions from the applicant or his lawyer, granted an application on the part of the prison administration and therefore held that an official was to be present during the applicant’s consultations with his lawyer.the edirne enforcement court further held that, if requested, a separate decision would be taken as to whether the exchange of documents between the applicant and his lawyer would also be subject to a restriction.15.  on 29 may 2008 the applicant lodged an application with the edirne enforcement court for the restriction on the conversations between him and his lawyer to be lifted.on 6 december 2010 the edirne enforcement court dismissed the applicant’s application for a hearing, holding that the new amendments to the procedure concerned only the examination of objections against disciplinary sanctions, so that in so far as the restriction of 23 september 2005 had not been a disciplinary sanction, no hearing could be held in respect of that complaint.the court dismissed that application on 11 april 2013, holding that there had not been any change in the circumstances of the applicant and the decision relating to the restriction on the consultations with the applicant’s lawyer.in that connection, the court held that there was still a risk in view of the previous decisions taken in respect of the applicant by the enforcement courts as well as the lawyer’s conduct.21.  on 8 december 2015 the court delivered an inadmissibility decision on account of non-exhaustion of domestic remedies and held that the applicant had to make use of the new domestic remedy established by law no.22.  on 1 november 2016 the compensation commission held that the edirne enforcement court’s decision not to hand over the book and the periodicals sent to the applicant by his lawyer had infringed the applicant’s right to receive information within the meaning of article 10 of the convention.they held in that connection that the impugned decision had constituted an interference which had not been based on relevant and sufficient reasons, notably because the domestic court had not explained in its decision in what respect the books and magazines in question had jeopardised the security of the institution.
7.  at the beginning of 2012 the applicant investigated the off-duty activities of the chief of the investigation committee of the russian federation (“the investigation committee”), mr bastrykin.8.  on 4 december 2012 the investigation committee decided to open a criminal file on suspicion that the applicant and his brother had committed fraud against the limited liability companies multidisciplinary processing (“mpk) and yves rocher vostok and laundered the proceeds of illegal transactions.9.  on 17 december 2012 the investigation committee ordered the applicant not to leave the city of moscow pending the completion of the investigation to secure his appearance before the investigator.on the same date the investigator granted a request from the applicant to be allowed to travel to moscow region (outside the city of moscow), subject to an obligation to inform the investigator.the investigator’s ruling read, in so far as relevant, as follows: “the request by [the applicant’s lawyer] to allow his client a.a. navalnyy to travel to moscow region should be granted; the investigator must be informed about making [such] journeys.” 10.  on 18 july 2013 the leninskiy district court of kirov found the applicant guilty of organising large-scale embezzlement in the kirovles case and gave him a suspended prison sentence of five years.13.  on 31 january 2014 the applicant complained to the basmannyy district court of moscow under article 125 of the code of criminal procedure about the travel ban.the examination of the complaint was postponed several times because of the absence of parties and the failure of the investigation body to present documents from the criminal case file.14.  on 24 february 2014 the applicant went to zamoskvoretskiy district court in moscow to attend the public pronouncement of a verdict in a criminal case concerning the political rally on bolotnaya square on 6 may 2012, but he was arrested in front of the court building.he was accused of a breach of regulations for holding a demonstration and of an alleged failure to obey the lawful orders of the police and was found liable for those administrative offences under articles 20.2 and 19.3 of the code of administrative offences.15.  on 26 february 2014 the investigation committee asked the basmannyy district court to place the applicant under house arrest pending the completion of the criminal investigation.16.  on 28 february 2014 the basmannyy district court ordered that the applicant be placed under house arrest until 28 april 2014 because of a risk that he might abscond, continue his criminal activity, threaten witnesses and other participants in the criminal proceedings, destroy evidence or otherwise obstruct the course of justice.it imposed a number of conditions on the applicant for the period of his house arrest, in particular: “-  [it is forbidden] to leave or change the [registered address] without authorisation by the investigator ...; -  to communicate with anyone, except for immediate family, as defined by law, legal counsel representing him in the criminal case and [investigating officials]; -  to receive or send any correspondence, including letters, telegrams, parcels and emails; -  to use any means of communication or the internet telecommunications network; -  to make statements, declarations, addresses or to give comments in connection with this criminal case in the media.” 17.  on 3 march 2014 the applicant was placed under the supervision of the department for the execution of sentences.26.  on 21 august 2014 the zamoskvoretskiy district court changed the conditions of the applicant’s house arrest as follows: “the [applicant’s] application should be granted and the ban on communication imposed when the order for his house arrest was issued [should] be lifted, [and] it should be made clear that [the applicant] is prohibited from communicating in any form with persons [given the status of] witnesses in this criminal case.” 27.  on 10 october 2014 the zamoskvoretskiy district court extended the applicant’s house arrest after lifting the prohibition on “making statements, declarations, addresses or giving comments in connection with this criminal case in the media” on the basis that it was not in compliance with article 107 of the code of criminal procedure.30.  on 5 january 2015 the applicant issued a public statement that he refused to comply with the terms of his house arrest, citing in particular the fact that he had not been served with a written extension order, even though five days had elapsed since the court’s decision.31.  on 14 january 2015 the zamoskvoretskiy district court refused to examine the applicant’s complaint about the extension of his house arrest on 30 december 2014 on the grounds that the measure had been ordered in the judgment on the merits of the criminal case and had not been a procedural decision concerning pre-trial issues.
on 14 july 2006 the applicant applied to amend the interim order, proposing that the mother be required to pay a monetary fine and that police assistance at the time of contact be given in the event that the bailiff did not succeed in taking the children to contact.relying on the opinion of dr t. (see paragraph 16 above), the court held that the children had refused contact with the applicant and that this was not the result of the manipulation of m. but originated in their negative experiences with the contact sessions in the past.nonetheless, in view of the fact that the father and the children had had no contact since june 2006 and that the contact sessions had never before been carried out with the assistance of experts, the court concluded that the negative attitude of the children was not enough to discontinue contact.when fixing the new contact arrangements, the higher court emphasised that the presence of an expert from the centre at the contact sessions was mainly to provide expert assistance in establishing mutual trust between the applicant and the children.the centre records show that in the course of preparing the children for contact, the caseworkers talked to the children, who firmly rejected the idea of any contact with the applicant and asked the caseworkers for permission not to attend the contact sessions.he also expressed the opinion that the centre’s officials had been biased, as they knew the mother personally and had worked with her in business matters, and asked the centre to appoint an independent expert who would not know either of the parents personally and could work with both of them in establishing mutual trust between the applicant and the children.28.  on 30 january 2009 the centre lodged an application with the kranj district court asking the court to order that contact be organised within the framework of family therapy, initially with the parents attending the therapy alone or, if that was not possible, to suspend contact between the applicant and the children.it also noted that the four centre officials (caseworkers) who had been present during the contact sessions saw no prospect of the relationship between the applicant and the children improving in the framework of the supervised contact sessions and that the children were not willing participants in them.moreover, the centre had been biased in its submissions and the only impartial opinion − on which the court should base its decision − was that of the expert psychiatrist, dr t. in the course of the proceedings the applicant also requested that the court issue an interim decision ordering m. to attend family therapy with him with a view to establishing communication between them.it held that the 2008 contact order had taken into account the applicant’s characteristics and attitude, as well as the fact that the children had not had any contact with him since 2006. in order to overcome the existing alienation and initial difficulties in re-establishing contact, the order specified a third party who would help and offer advice in this regard.36.  the applicant appealed, maintaining, inter alia, that the solution for re-establishing contact between him and the children, as advised by dr t., was family therapy, initially with the parents alone and later with the children, which had been refused by m. he disagreed with the court’s opinion that the reasons resulting in the discontinuation of contact were no longer relevant and pointed out that the children’s alienation from him was the result of wrong decisions taken by the administrative authorities and wrong assessment of the evidence by the court.in the court’s view, the main reason for the children’s negative attitude towards contact with the applicant were his personal characteristics, as indicated by the court expert, combined with the inadequate participation of m. it found that the opinion of expert dr t. based on a paedopsychiatric examination of the children and psychiatric diagnostics had provided sufficient grounds for the decision to discontinue contact and that the court-appointed expert had concluded that further tests were unnecessary given the age of the children.other evidence, namely the expert’s opinion, the centre’s report and the hearing of m. and the applicant, confirmed that contact was not beneficial to the children, who continued to refuse any contact with the applicant.as a preliminary matter the report noted that, the decision to conduct an extraordinary inspection of the work of the centre in the present case had not been taken until 11 august 2010 because the inspector had found it inappropriate to influence the ongoing court proceedings.the report found, in particular, that the centre: (i) had not identified the problem that the parents had not been acting in the children’s best interests as regards contact, particularly m., who had refused to cooperate with the applicant; (ii) had, consequently, not tried to resolve the problems between the parents, which was one of the reasons that supervised contact could not be established; (iii) had not offered the parents the social service of home or personal help even though the applicant had been willing to accept it; (iv) had not assessed the attitude of m.’s parents, who had been living with the children, despite this issue being raised by the applicant; (v) had not realised that, by not providing these services, it had been following m.’s wishes but failing to safeguard the children’s best interests; (vi) despite having been entrusted by the court with the task of re-establishing contact between the applicant and his children it had concluded, on the basis of an incorrect assessment of the facts regarding the alleged harmful behaviour of the applicant during the contact visits in the past, that the children’s contact with the applicant should be discontinued; (vii) had not provided proper reasoning for the request to discontinue contact, even though the discontinuation ordered by the court had been ultimately justified because the contact visits under the centre’s supervision had not been in the children’s interests; (viii) had not treated both parents equally and its officials’ methods of approach and communication, especially with the applicant, had been often inappropriate; (ix) had not drawn up a proper assessment of the situation or an action plan; (x) together with m., had burdened the then still young children with the need to make a decision concerning the desired contact even when different contact from that determined by the court could have been arranged only by the parents’ agreement; and (xi) had not assessed how well the children had been prepared for contact.
15.  the government submitted to the court a copy of the record of the applicant’s questioning as an accused conducted later on 18 january 2005 in the presence of his lawyer, z. the applicant maintained his confession statements.18.  the applicant kept confessing to the robberies of which he was accused, in particular, during a reconstruction of the events conducted on 27 january 2005. before the beginning of that investigative measure, he had stated that he did not need legal assistance given that he maintained his confession and wanted to show his remorse.21.  according to the applicant, the above-mentioned “statement of surrender” was a result of his continued ill-treatment on that day by the police on the premises of the criminal investigation department of dnipropetrovsk region (see paragraph 38 below).22.  later the same day k., too, wrote “a statement of surrender to the police” in respect of the robbery and murder of mr and ms s., in which he confirmed to the same investigator the account of the events given in the applicant’s related confession (see paragraph 20 above).23.  the case file contains a copy of the investigator’s decision on the admission of lawyer g. on 28 january 2005, “at the request of the accused”, to represent the applicant in the proceedings.at the same time, given the fact that the defendants had retracted them during the trial, the court refused to consider them as a mitigating circumstance in setting the sentence.he also insisted that the applicant had had nothing to do with the aggravated murder of the mr and ms s. the lawyer found it suspicious that on 28 january 2005 the applicant had made his “statement of surrender to the police” in respect of that murder in the criminal investigation department of dnipropetrovsk region, whereas the ongoing criminal investigation at that time had been under the responsibility of the kirovskyy police.36.  on 3 october 2006 the supreme court upheld the applicant’s conviction, as well as that of the other defendants (six persons in total were convicted of the robberies), having found that the first-instance court had duly examined his arguments and complaints.38.  the applicant also alleged that on 28 january 2005 he had been taken to the dnipropetrovsk region criminal investigation department, where the police had ill-treated him with a view to extracting his confession to the aggravated murder of mr and ms s. the applicant provided the following account.however, as noted by the head of the dnipropetrovsk region criminal investigation department in his letter of 14 may 2007 sent in reply to an enquiry from the applicant, on 28 january 2005 the applicant had indeed been on the premises of that department, but no investigative measures had been carried out on that date.the first letter from the applicant to have reached the court was dated 11 december 2006; it had been sent to the court by his mother on 14 march 2007 (the date on the postage stamp).53.  as indicated in a letter sent to the applicant by an official of the prison department on 11 october 2007, the administration of the dnipropetrovsk sizo had duly registered and sent his letters to the court.54.  in november 2007 the applicant’s mother requested the governor of yanakiyeve prison (in which the applicant was serving his sentence at the time) to provide her with documentary evidence proving that her son’s letter of 11 december 2006 had indeed been sent to the court.the prison official replied that it could be proved by the fact that a copy of the cover letter from the sizo administration accompanying the applicant’s letter in question was available in the file.55.  in march 2017 the dnipro (renamed “dnipropetrovsk”) prison authorities informed the government’s agent, in reply to an enquiry from the latter, that the correspondence records of the dnipropetrovsk sizo related to the period in question had been destroyed owing to the expiry of the time-limit for the storage of such documents.
in submissions after the hearing he repeated his request and suggested the following wording for a possible preliminary question: “does article 86 tec in the version of the maastricht treaty (article 102 tfeu) preclude the interpretation and application of domestic legislation enacted by a member state which categorically excludes, for legal reasons, the liability of a dominant undertaking that damages a competing joint-stock company through its abusive prices in violation of article 86 tec (article 102 tfeu), thus putting it at risk of bankruptcy, also for damage sustained by the founding shareholders of the damaged joint-stock company resulting from the fact that they take on new shareholders in order to avert bankruptcy, thereby reducing their own shares in the company?” 9.  on 2 july 2014 the court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal.in his complaint he repeated his request for a referral to the cjeu and suggested the wording for two questions, one of them being a slightly modified version of the previously suggested question: “does article 86 tec in the version of the maastricht treaty (article 102 tfeu) preclude the interpretation and application of domestic legislation enacted by a member state which categorically excludes, for legal reasons, the liability of a dominant undertaking that damages a competing joint-stock company in violation of article 86 tec (article 102 tfeu), thus putting it at risk of bankruptcy, also for damage sustained by the shareholders of the competing joint-stock company resulting from the fact that they take on new shareholders in order to avert bankruptcy, thereby reducing their own share of the company?... does article 86 tec (article 102 tfeu) preclude the interpretation and application of domestic legislation enacted by a member state as laid out in the first question for referral if the damaged shareholders are founding shareholders (investors) who, at the time of the damaging event, have a significant shareholding and, as members of the company’s executive board, decisively shape the company’s competitive conduct?” 11.  on 14 april 2015 the federal court of justice rejected the applicant’s complaint: “... because the legal matter [had] not [been] of fundamental significance, because the complaints based on violations of procedural rights [had] failed to convince and because neither the further development of the law nor the interests in ensuring uniform adjudication [had required] a decision to be issued by the court hearing the appeal on points of law (article 543 § 1 of the code of civil procedure).more detailed reasoning can be dispensed with pursuant to the second clause of the second sentence of article 544 § 4 of the code of civil procedure.” 12.  the applicant filed a complaint concerning a violation of his right to be heard (anhörungsrüge) and argued that the federal court of justice had not provided adequate reasoning for the refusal of a referral to the cjeu.the court hearing the appeal on points of law shall be bound by the admission of the appeal by the appellate court.” 15. the relevant parts of article 544 of the code of civil procedure read as follows: “(1) any refusal by the appellate court to grant leave to appeal on points of law may be subject to a complaint (complaint against the refusal of leave to appeal).even though the lower court had provided brief reasoning, there were no indications that the federal court of justice had embraced it, particularly since the applicant in the proceedings had made extensive submissions in its complaint against the refusal of leave to appeal on points of law, disputing the reasoning of the lower court.17.  article 267 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (“tfeu”) provides as follows: “the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to give preliminary rulings concerning: (a) the interpretation of the treaties; (b) the validity and interpretation of acts of the institutions, bodies, offices or agencies of the union ...; where such a question is raised before any court or tribunal of a member state, that court or tribunal may, if it considers that a decision on the question is necessary to enable it to give judgment, request the court to give a ruling thereon.cilfit and lanificio di gavardo s.p.a. v. ministry of health (c‑283/81, judgment of 6 october 1982, ecli:eu:c:1982:335, § 21) that: “... a court or tribunal against whose decisions there is no judicial remedy under national law is required, where a question of community law is raised before it, to comply with its obligation to bring the matter before the court [of justice], unless it has established that the question raised is irrelevant or that the community provision in question has already been interpreted by the court or that the correct application of community law is so obvious as to leave no scope for any reasonable doubt.the existence of such a possibility must be assessed in the light of the specific characteristics of community law, the particular difficulties to which its interpretation gives rise and the risk of divergences in judicial decisions within the community.” 19.  in the case of kenny roland lyckeskog (c-99/00, 4 june 2002, ecli:eu:c:2002:329) the cjeu decided, among other things, the question of whether a national court which in practice was the court of last resort in a case, because a declaration of admissibility was needed in order for the case to be reviewed by the country’s supreme court, was a court within the meaning of the third paragraph of article 234 ec (current article 267 of the tfeu).18. if a question arises as to the interpretation or validity of a rule of community law, the supreme court will be under an obligation, pursuant to the third paragraph of article [267], to refer a question to the court of justice for a preliminary ruling either at the stage of the examination of admissibility or at a later stage.” 20.  this judgment was referred to in a later judgment of the cjeu (cartesio oktató és szolgáltató bt, c-210/06, 16 december 2008, ecli:eu:c:2008:723), in which it held: “76.the court has already held that decisions of a national appellate court which can be challenged by the parties before a supreme court are not decisions of ‘a court or tribunal of a member state against whose decisions there is no judicial remedy under national law’ within the meaning of the third paragraph of article 267. the fact that the examination of the merits of such challenges is conditional upon a preliminary declaration of admissibility by the supreme court does not have the effect of depriving the parties of a judicial remedy (lyckeskog, paragraph 16).77. that is true a fortiori in the case of a procedural system such as that under which the case before the referring court must be decided, since that system makes no provision for a preliminary declaration by the supreme court that the appeal is admissible and, instead, merely imposes restrictions with regard, in particular, to the nature of the pleas which may be raised before such a court, which must allege a breach of law.” 21.  as regards the initiation of preliminary ruling proceedings, the cjeu stated in the case of györgy katz v. istván roland sós (c-404/07, 9 october 2008, ecli:eu:c:2008:553): “37.... the system established by article 267 tfeu with a view to ensuring that european union law is interpreted uniformly throughout the member states instituted direct cooperation between the court of justice and the national courts by means of a procedure which is completely independent of any initiative by the parties ...” 23.  on 25 november 2016 the cjeu published its (updated) recommendations to national courts and tribunals in relation to the initiation of preliminary ruling proceedings (2016/c 439/01).the jurisdiction of the court to give a preliminary ruling on the interpretation or validity of eu law is exercised exclusively on the initiative of the national courts and tribunals, whether or not the parties to the main proceedings have expressed the wish that a question be referred to the court.in so far as it is called upon to assume responsibility for the subsequent judicial decision, it is for the national court or tribunal before which a dispute has been brought – and for that court or tribunal alone – to determine, in the light of the particular circumstances of each case, both the need for a request for a preliminary ruling in order to enable it to deliver judgment and the relevance of the questions which it submits to the court.”
5.  the applicant was detained in lukiškės remand prison periodically between 7 june 2011 and 25 may 2012. he was held in other facilities between 21 june and 5 july 2011; 30 august and 6 september 2011; 27 september and 11 october 2011; 25 october and 8 november 2011; 15 and 17 november 2011; and 6 and 18 january 2012. between those breaks, the periods he had to spend in overcrowded cells were fourteen, fifty‑five, twenty and a half, thirteen, six and a half, forty‑eight and ninety‑five and a half days respectively.8.  on 9 january 2012 a commission was set up to establish the circumstances surrounding the fire and the actions of the officers of lukiškės remand prison during the fire.he remembered only that a firefighter had opened the doors of the cell and taken him by his hand, but then the applicant had fainted and later woken up in the hospital (see paragraph 13 below).the following investigative actions had been performed: the scene of the accident had been examined; the electrics had been inspected; various reports had been received; several witnesses had been questioned; and medical examinations of the victims had been carried out.the fire brigade was called at 7.37 a.m., the officers were instructed how to carry out the evacuation at 7.40 a.m. and the fire brigade arrived at around 7.44 a.m. the first ambulance arrived at 8.06 a.m. the evacuation of the inmates was finished at 8.08 a.m. the ambulances started taking the victims to the hospital at 8.30 a.m., the applicant was taken to the hospital at 8.40 a.m. and the last ambulance left the prison at 8.58 a.m. it appears that the medical staff of lukiškės remand prison were present during the fire and that the head of the health care service was instructed to organise the provision of first aid for those in need.13.  in november 2012 the applicant lodged a complaint with the vilnius regional administrative court, requesting compensation in respect of non‑pecuniary damage for overcrowding, lack of proper separation between sanitary facilities and the cell, insufficient ventilation in lukiškės remand prison from 7 june 2011 until 25 may 2012 and in respect of the alleged inadequate actions of the prison authorities during the fire in that institution on 5 january 2012. the applicant claimed that he had screamed for help during the fire but owing to the untimely actions of the prison authorities he had fallen into a coma that had lasted for several hours (see paragraphs 6 and 10 above).during the hearing, the applicant submitted that the inmates had been told to open the windows before the evacuation.the medical staff distributed the inmates according to their condition and the ones who had been severely injured had been transferred to the hospital.15.  on 30 january 2013 the vilnius regional administrative court held that the applicant had not had enough personal space for 268 days, ten evenings and three mornings, and that this had constituted a violation of both the domestic norms and article 3 of the convention.as for the fire, the court held that the applicant had been hospitalised between 7 and 18 january 2012 for irritation of the respiratory system due to acute poisoning caused by smoke inhalation.the court further held that the prison authorities had merely provided a general description of the actions of the relevant representatives of the prison during the fire and had not provided any information about the specific actions they had taken in order to immediately remove the applicant from his cell or about the first aid he had received.although the authorities had stated that the inmates had been instructed how to act in case of fire, the applicant had indicated that he had received no such instructions.the court held that the fact that the applicant had been taken to hospital in a coma had proven that the authorities had failed to evacuate him on time.as a result, the vilnius regional administrative court awarded the applicant 10,000 lithuanian litai (ltl – approximately 2,896 euros (eur)) in compensation in total: ltl 2,000 (approximately eur 579) for the conditions of detention and ltl 8,000 (approximately eur 2,317) for the consequences suffered because of the fire.it agreed with the first-instance decision as regards the overcrowding and the violation of both the domestic norms and article 3 of the convention, but held that there was no information that the prison authorities had breached the requirements for fire prevention or for evacuation of people.
we give you this in lieu of a prologue: ‘... in his eight years and counting at the head of the regional court i. has found himself dozens of loyal people – lawyers, judges, and important businessmen – for whose personal and business interests he has successfully lobbied through favourable judicial decisions [a3] (обзавелся десятками преданных людей... чей бизнес и личные интересы успешно лоббировал с помощью нужных решений в судах)... here is the conclusion: i. is considered the person in charge and untouchable [a4] in the kherson region where 14 governors succeeded each other in 10 years... if one removes him successfully, even if peacefully, the people will believe in changes for the better in the pervasively corrupt judicial system...’ this document arrived in our offices last autumn.[a5] and here is the response of the supreme court’s president to the above-quoted episode: [there followed a quote from a letter of the president of the supreme court stating that in april 1998 i. had been reprimanded for a breach of professional ethics by the qualifications commission of judges].that article contained quotes from a letter of the chairman of the council of judges dated 8 april 2005. the letter contained an acknowledgement that judge d., president of the civil division of the supreme court, was the father-in-law of i.’s son.under the photograph the following caption appeared: “i will recompense them according to their deeds (old testament)[1] mr i. is shown in the photo” 16.  in the same issue of the newspaper another photograph of i. was published with the caption “parliament so far has not given a ‘life sentence’ to the president of the kherson court of appeal”.20.  according to the applicant company, in the course of the trial it produced, by way of proof of the factual grounds for the impugned statements, twenty‑five articles published in the local newspapers from 1997 to 2006.25.  on 23 may 2006 the supreme court, apparently unaware that the examination of the case at first instance had already been completed, reassigned the case to a district court in the mykolaiv region on the grounds that “a judge was a party to the proceedings”.27.  as to statement a6, the applicant company alleged that i.’s daughter-in-law (the wife of his son) was the daughter of d., who at the time was the president of the civil division of the supreme court.29.  on 18 august 2006 the zaporizhzhya regional court of appeal varied the judgment of the first-instance court and reaffirmed the essential part of its reasoning: (i) the court of appeal reduced the amounts awarded to uah 20,000 for non-pecuniary damage and uah 1,000 for court fees (about eur 2,970 and 148 respectively at the time), having regard to the applicant company’s financial situation, and upheld the remainder of the first-instance court’s judgment.(ii) by way of reasoning, the court of appeal stated that, according to the case-law of the european court of human rights, the fact that the subjects of published information had public status made such persons more open to criticism but did not deprive them of the right to sue to defend their reputation.the court held that the aim of the impugned phrases had been solely to humiliate and disparage a representative of the judiciary and the phrases had made no contribution to the resolution of the problems in the administration of justice.[b2] ... remarkably, this publication in the vik newspaper was not the end of contacts between s. and i. literally days after the publication of that issue, the letter writer and the judge had a conversation, at the request of the latter.as regards, in particular, statement b3, the plaintiff submitted that it was based entirely on s.’s account of the events and that the author of the article had made no attempt to obtain the version of the kherson regional court’s staff.37.  on 19 august 2006 the zaporizhzhya shevchenkivsky district court allowed the claim in part, ordering the author of the article to apologise by retracting statements b1-b5 and the applicant company to publish the retraction in the newspaper.at the same time the district court stressed the following quote from the same paragraph of lingens: “the court notes in this connection that the facts on which mr. lingens founded his value-judgment were undisputed, as was also his good faith.” (vi) the district court went on to note that the defendants had failed to provide proof that the facts which the journalist evaluated in the impugned article were undisputed/incontrovertible (доказів незаперечності оцінених журналістом фактів у даній справі відповідачі суду не надали)[2] and, therefore, the court did not consider that they had acted in good faith in accordance with article 5 of the information act.38.  on 14 november 2006 the zaporizhzhya regional court of appeal upheld the judgment but modified it to the effect that damages were to be paid to i. and not the orphanage, since domestic law did not allow for the possibility of directing the funds awarded to a plaintiff to a third party charitable institution.
(hereinafter “kamoy araştırma”), a company affiliated with the applicant company, applied to the turkish patent institute (türk patent enstitüsü) for registration of the trademark “özlenen gazete vatan, günlük siyasi gazete” (homeland: the newspaper we longed for).it argued, inter alia, that the other party was using the same name for the same product, namely a newspaper, without having obtained any prior permission, despite the fact that it had the rights to the registered trademark which needed to be protected pursuant to legislative decree no.10.  during the course of the proceedings the trademark was transferred to the applicant company, which subsequently became a party to the proceedings.it noted that while the applicant company had indeed registered the name “vatan”, which was common to both newspapers, bağımsız gazetecilik had the “declaration of intention to publish a periodical” (mevkute beyannamesi – hereinafter “declaration of a periodical”) dated 1974, which allowed it to publish with that name.the court noted that the newspaper vatan, the rights to which had been transferred to bağımsız gazetecilik in 2002, had been published since 1975. in line with the findings of the expert report, it held that the name “vatan” had become well-known as a newspaper prior to the applicant company’s application for its registration as a trademark and that the applicant company, whose application should actually have been rejected by the patent institute, could not be considered to have brought the case in good faith.the court furthermore stated that in any event the use of the name by the defendant party was protected by section 31(2) of the turkish patent institute act (law no.5000 on the establishment and duties of the turkish patent institute), which had come into force on 6 november 2003 during the course of the proceedings and set forth that those who publish periodicals could not be prevented from doing so on the basis of legislative decree no.the applicant company also challenged the application of section 31(2) of the turkish patent institute act to its case, stating that the said regulation had entered into force after it had lodged its case.14.  on 6 may 2005 the court of cassation upheld the judgment on the basis of the second reasoning relied on by the intellectual property court.15.  the applicant company applied for rectification of that judgment, arguing that the retrospective application of section 31(2) of the turkish patent institute act put the other party in a privileged position.17.  on 31 january 2008, in examining the matter in relation to a separate case, the turkish constitutional court annulled section 31(2) of the turkish patent institute act, finding that it did not comply with article 35 of the constitution, which guaranteed the right to property.the patent institute rejected the application on account of the already existing registration in the applicant company’s name.22.  in the meantime, on 2 april 2004 bağımsız gazetecilik had initiated proceedings against the applicant company for the annulment of the latter’s registered trademark.23.  on 17 february 2005 the ankara intellectual property court ruled that the registration in the name of the applicant company be declared void, finding that vatan had become well-known as a newspaper before the applicant company’s registration.the court also held that the applicant company had not used the trademark for a period of five years, which was a reason for annulment of a trademark under article 14 of legislative decree no.
5.  in summer 2014 ms f., the head of the ust-labinskiy district and of the non-governmental organisation “human rights defender”, spoke at a television talk show on the situation in the eastern region of ukraine and relations between russia and ukraine.6.  on 28 july 2015 the applicant published on youtube a video with the title “kolkhoz tv on ukrainian crisis” (колхозное телевидение об украинском кризисе) where he made comments on ms f.’s speech as follows: “ms f.: nobody in the whole world has ever thought that russia would become such a strong country and ... that russia would reach new horizons... the applicant (mr r.): nodding ironically, showing the brochure “life of a galley slave”.ms f.: ...and would host the eurovision competition and, at the same time, would become a leading leader among gases (станет лидирующим лидером среди газа).mr r.: yet today, according to the latest reports of the mendeleyev international rating agency, russia has reached the top of the list, drawing ahead of such gases as carbon, hydrogen and oxygen.ms f.: ...there is a war against russia, which has become a first-rate power and everybody is annoyed by this fact...they want us to die of drug and alcohol abuse and poverty etc.how can we not get involved in the war if we have been drawn into the war, as everybody knows, by bulgarians?mr r.: i would recommend that this woman go to mothers of russian soldiers, in particular those who had been dismissed from the service or who were on leave and who returned from ukraine in coffins, so she could tell them that we did not interfere and that we do not have troops there.ms f.: and if now the economic situation in the country worsens and russian people seek to rebel?ms f.: we all, including all human rights defenders, need to work together as a team... mr r.: a person who claims to be a human rights defender must know what human rights are... now you have an idea of what is happening inside the heads of those who watch television!the court held as follows: “... [the applicant] disseminated untrue statements about ms f. which damaged her honour, dignity and reputation, because these statements referred to unethical behaviour on her part... the court has established that the defendant used abusive and obscene language in his video ..., therefore [the applicant] intended to humiliate ms f. and damage her reputation.... ms f., the head of the ust-labinsk district, has sustained damage of a non‑pecuniary nature due to emotional distress caused by the defendant’s defamatory and discrediting statements and allusions to her unethical conduct.in accordance with the principle of reasonableness, taking into account the seriousness of the wrongful acts, the nature of the offence and the contents of the publication, the degree of suffering involved, and that the information concerned a public activist and was available for the general public, the court allows the plaintiff’s claim for non‑pecuniary damage in part and awards 50,000 roubles (‘rub’)”.9.  on 24 february 2016 the applicant lodged an appeal against the decision of 28 january 2016. he submitted that he had not offended ms f., but had rather commented on her statements regarding the situation in ukraine; nor had he disseminated any untruths relating to ms f. as to obscene words, the applicant had used only one word meaning “prostitute”.the applicant emphasised that the first-instance court had established that ms f. was a public person who should tolerate critics, but had still issued a decision violating freedom of political speech.10.  on 5 may 2016 the krasnodar regional court upheld this decision on appeal, stating that the applicant had failed to provide any proof in respect of statements about ms f. used in his video, and that he had used vulgar and obscene words humiliating ms f. 11.  on 1 august and 1 november 2016 the krasnodar regional court and the supreme court of russia dismissed the applicant’s cassation appeals.
at 2.15 p.m. the applicant was taken home (in order to change his shoes because the police wanted to seize the ones he had been wearing) and then to the scene of the theft, where he explained to the officers precisely how the offence had been carried out.6.  on leaving the police station, the applicant met his aunt and a man from his village, who were waiting for him and his accomplice (his cousin), who had been questioned at the same time by other officers.another officer had then ordered him to stand up and when he had done so, the officer had kicked him in the chest so that he had fallen back onto the chair.the third officer had slapped him in the face once or twice, and had punched him in the stomach once.the applicant could name two of the officers whom he knew from previous police visits to his village: one of them – who had been in charge of his questioning on 4 february 2013 – had not hit him, while the other one had only “dropped by” but had allegedly taken part in his beating.10.  on 16 october 2013 the prosecutor questioned the police officer who had been in charge of questioning the applicant on 4 february 2013. the police officer firmly denied any kind of ill-treatment and said that, after his release, the applicant had met someone who he had alleged had participated in the crime.the applicant’s aunt said that when she had met the applicant at 4 p.m. in front of the police station, she had seen his mouth bleeding.on the basis of the documents previously drawn up by the general practitioner and the doctor at pécs hospital, the expert concluded that the applicant’s visible injuries, namely the hyperaemia on his face and a minor wound in his mouth, might have resulted from a single slap inflicted with medium force – the wound being caused by the canine tooth colliding with the mucous membrane.the expert indicated that the sensitiveness of the chest, without any perceivable external symptoms, was a subjective complaint and it could not therefore be considered as an injury for the purposes of criminal law.having particular regard to the medical expert opinion allegedly contradicting the applicant’s statements (given that it only corroborated one blow, rather than several as described by the applicant), he held that the ill-treatment of the applicant while in police custody could not be proven “beyond reasonable doubt”.14.  the applicant lodged a complaint against the prosecutor’s decision, arguing, among other things, that the authorities had failed to organise a confrontation between him and the police officer in charge in order to resolve the discrepancies in their statements, or an identification parade in order for the applicant to identify the police officers involved.moreover, the prosecutor’s decision had not given any reasons for disregarding the statements of the two witnesses (the applicant’s aunt and her son) who had seen the applicant with a bleeding mouth immediately after his release (see paragraph 11 above).since the fact of ill-treatment by the police as such was not sufficiently proven, there was no need for further investigation into the identity of the alleged perpetrators.16.  this final decision was allegedly served on the applicant on 17 december 2013. the applicant was informed that he had the possibility of bringing a private prosecution, by acting as substitute private prosecutor, under articles 229-230 of the code of criminal procedure.the decision took account of the fact that the applicant had withdrawn his confession and that his brother had provided him with an alibi.
the goods were bought from a company registered in the united states of america (hereinafter “the seller company”) but the applicant company claimed that it had not concluded purchase agreements with that company and that the goods had been bought on the basis of an order.it held that in the absence of any evidence that could prove that employees of the applicant company were not related to the american company, it had to conclude that the buyer and seller were related.the applicant company claimed that the refusal of the customs office to approve the value of the goods provided by it in accordance with the transaction value method was unfounded, as was the conclusion that the applicant company and seller company were related.the applicant company submitted that an interpretation of certain provisions of european union law was necessary because the case-law of the cjeu regarding the application of articles 29‑31 of the community customs code was inconsistent.according to the applicant company, it was necessary to refer the following questions to the cjeu: - (1) whether the conditions specified in article 29 § 1 (b) of the community customs code, which influence the sale and price of the goods and whose effect cannot be assessed, include cases such as the one at hand, where at the time of presentation of the goods to customs and the assessment of those goods a debt of buyer to seller exists?- (2) can the difference between the price of imported goods and the list of comparative prices collected by customs be independent grounds not to apply the transaction value method, and is this difference considered a circumstance whose effect on the sale or price of goods cannot be assessed, within the meaning of article 29 § 1 (b) of the community customs code?- (3) if the seller authorises the buyer’s employees to perform certain actions related to the transportation and the customs procedures of the goods, can this be considered a relationship between buyer and seller, within the meaning of article 29 § 1 (d) of the community customs code, and can it be grounds not to apply the transaction value method?does the use of the only case of export as a comparative correspond to the criterion of “at the same time or almost at the same time” when applying it to establish the value of goods declared within a period of three years?- (5) is the provision of domestic law that the customs office use data existing in the customs department database when applying the transaction value method of similar and identical goods in accordance with article 31 § 1 of the community customs code, which provides that where the customs value of imported goods cannot be determined under articles 29 or 30, it must be determined on the basis of data available in the community?- (6) can the transaction value of similar goods be compared by comparing not the transaction value of similar goods but the price of one kilogram, which is determined by dividing the transaction value existing in the national customs database by the amount of kilograms?moreover, it was necessary to take into account, inter alia, the diversity of the submissions that a litigant could bring before the courts and the differences existing in the contracting states with regard to statutory provisions, customary rules, legal opinion and the presentation and drafting of judgments.this was why the question of whether a court had failed to fulfil the obligation to state reasons, deriving from article 6 of the convention, could only be determined in the light of the circumstances of the case.however, the supreme administrative court stated that the request of a party to the proceedings to refer a certain question to the judicial institution of the european union was not obligatory if the application of european union law was so obvious that no doubts could arise (bylos šalies prašymas teismui nėra privalomas ir jei europos sąjungos teisės taikymas yra toks akivaizdus, kad dėl pateikto klausimo sprendimo negali kilti jokių pagrįstų abejonių, galutinės instancijos nacionalinis teismas neprivalo kreiptis į europos sąjungos teisingumo teismą su prejudiciniu klausimu).also, the mere fact that a party to the proceedings did not agree with the interpretation of the law provided by the first‑instance court did not mean that the substance of the european union law was not clear and that there was a necessity to refer the question to the cjeu (pastebėtina, kad vien faktinė aplinkybė, jog ginčo šalis nesutinka su pirmosios instancijos teismo pateiktu teisės aiškinimu, savaime nereiškia, jog nėra aiškus europos sąjungos teisės turinys, ir, atitinkamai, kad yra pagrindas kreiptis į estt prejudicinio sprendimo).it quoted another of its cases regarding the interpretation of certain provisions of a directive regulating markets in financial instruments, where it held that the applicant company in that case had failed to indicate specific uncertainties as to the interpretation of that directive and had not indicated why the referral to the cjeu was necessary (case no.
on 27 march 2010 he was appointed by the president of turkey as a judge of the constitutional court for a term of office due to expire when he reached the age of 65. on 26 october 2011 he was elected vice-president of the constitutional court (anayasa mahkemesi başkanvekili) by the court’s judges for a four-year term, which ended on 26 october 2015. at the time of the events to which the application relates, he was a judge at the court.the relevant parts of the instructions were worded as follows: “the offence of overthrowing the government and the constitutional order through force and violence is currently being committed across the country; there is a risk that members of the [fetö/pdy] terrorist organisation committing the offence in question might flee the country ...” on the same day, the police conducted a search of the applicant’s home and seized computers and other it equipment belonging to him.so all the steps taken in connection with that offence have been ultra vires and unlawful ... in this case, the criminal investigation and trial should be conducted from the start by the plenary constitutional court ... there is no concrete evidence that could justify pre-trial detention, and the accusations were based on abstract allegations ... [furthermore], in this particular case, the cumulative conditions for pre-trial detention were not met, and in any event, we are asking for alternative measures to be ordered ...” 20.  on the same day, the magistrate ordered the pre-trial detention of the applicant and the thirteen other suspects, holding as follows: “... in view of the fact that some suspects and their representatives contended that the ankara public prosecutor’s office and our court did not have jurisdiction [to deal with the case], it should be noted that in accordance with section 16(1) of law no.following an examination of the investigation file, the suspects’ pre-trial detention is ordered, regard being had to the nature of the alleged offence, the state of the evidence, [all the] records included in the file, the decisions of 17 july 2016 by the presidents’ offices at the court of cassation and the supreme administrative court, the reports on searches and seizures and the entire contents of the case file, and also the fact that there is concrete evidence giving rise to a strong suspicion that the offence in question has been committed.[it is also noted that] the alleged offence was among the so-called ‘catalogue’ offences listed in article 100 of the code of criminal procedure, that pre-trial detention is a proportionate measure in view of the length of the sentence provided for by law, and that alternative measures to detention are insufficient on account of the risks of absconding and of damage to evidence.” 21.  also on 20 july 2016 the government declared a state of emergency for a period of three months as from 21 july 2016; the state of emergency was subsequently extended for further periods of three months by the council of ministers, chaired by the president.2016/15586) in which it decided, unanimously, to reject the following complaints as manifestly ill-founded: the complaint concerning the lawfulness of the detention order and the lack of reasonable suspicion justifying it; the complaint concerning the alleged lack of independence and impartiality of the magistrates who had ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention; and the complaints concerning the right to a fair trial, the right to respect for private life and the home and the prohibition of discrimination.i recall that alparslan altan would write a dissenting opinion whenever a decision was not adopted [along the lines] that he wanted.” in her statement of 6 october 2016 the same witness said the following: “on the basis of my own observations, the contacts i had while working at the constitutional court as a rapporteur, and the comments and behaviour of rapporteurs whom i know to be members of this structure, i can say that the former member and rapporteur of the constitutional court alparslan altan was a member of this cemaat [the term ‘cemaat’ literally means ‘community’; however, at the time of the events, the term was commonly used to denote followers of fetullah gülen, the presumed head of the fetö/pdy organisation – hereinafter ‘the cemaat’].the relevant parts of his statement recorded on 9 september 2016 read as follows: “... previously, i did not know that the former member of the constitutional court alparslan altan was a member of the cemaat ... however, when i noticed that this member was always in the minority in [decisions on] individual applications in which members of the cemaat were involved, i became firmly convinced that he could be a member of the cemaat ... i had already imagined, from conversations between members of the cemaat, that some members of the constitutional court might belong to [this structure].according to the investigating authorities, ö.i̇., a teacher, was the “lay imam” responsible for members of the judiciary belonging to the fetö/pdy organisation (according to the public prosecutor’s office, each of the structure’s cells that had infiltrated the administrative and judicial authorities was led by a “lay imam”); s.e., a former rapporteur of the constitutional court, was in charge of the cell at that court; and b.y., another former rapporteur of the constitutional court, was a member of the structure.various measures had been taken against these three individuals in the course of the criminal investigations carried out in the aftermath of the attempted coup: in the case of ö.i̇., who had left the country, a warrant had been issued for his arrest; the same applied to s.e., who had been dismissed from his post and had fled; as for b.y., he had been dismissed from his position as a judge by the council of judges and prosecutors and had been placed in pre-trial detention on suspicion of being a member of the fetö/pdy organisation.2.  the constitutional court’s assessment of the complaints concerning the lawfulness of the order for the applicant’s pre-trial detention and the alleged lack of reasonable suspicion justifying it 41.  addressing the complaint about the lawfulness of the applicant’s initial detention, the constitutional court held at the outset that this issue should be examined under article 15 of the constitution, by which, in an emergency, the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms could be partially or fully suspended, or measures derogating from the guarantees enshrined in the constitution for those rights and freedoms could be taken.... the plenary criminal divisions of the court of cassation have also held in a case concerning the conviction of two judges ... that ‘as the current and consistent position of the court of cassation makes clear, regarding the offence of membership of an armed terrorist organisation, which is a continuing offence, except in cases where [its continuing nature ends with] the dissolution of the organisation or termination of membership, the continuing nature [of the offence] may be interrupted by the offender’s arrest.for this reason, there is a situation of discovery in flagrante delicto at the time of the arrest of judges suspected of the offence of membership of an armed organisation.’ 128. having regard to the court of cassation judgments cited above, and to the fact that [the applicant] was arrested on suspicion of membership of the fetö/pdy organisation – deemed by the judicial authorities to constitute an armed terrorist organisation that premeditated the attempted coup – on 16 july 2016, at a time when [the authorities were taking steps to] defeat the coup attempt, it cannot be concluded that there was no factual and legal basis for the finding by the investigating bodies that the offence of membership of an armed terrorist organisation, of which [the applicant] was accused, involved a situation of discovery in flagrante delicto.it then went on to conclude:] 138. it can therefore be observed that there is evidence in the file forming a basis for the suspicions against [the applicant].” the constitutional court also observed that, in view of the very specific circumstances surrounding the attempted coup, the extent to which the fetö/pdy organisation had infiltrated the administrative and judicial authorities and the fact that the alleged offence was among the so-called “catalogue” offences, the order for the applicant’s pre-trial detention could be said to have been based on justifiable grounds and proportionate.after describing the characteristics of that organisation and its covert structure within the judiciary, it set out the following items of evidence against the applicant: the statements by two anonymous witnesses (see paragraphs 33-34 above); the statements by a former rapporteur of the constitutional court accused of belonging to the fetö/pdy organisation (see paragraphs 35-36 above); the messages exchanged via bylock and other facts (relating to information about telephone lines and records of journeys abroad).
the forest ranger explained that the first applicant had exhibited a hostile attitude towards the forest rangers ever since his son, the third applicant, had been fined by the police, in spring 2011. he submitted that the first applicant had set a bad example for his community: “we consider that mr lingurar aron, who sees himself as being the leader of the roma in vâlcele, by his attitude, instead of helping us solve the problems connected with the roma community in vâlcele – which in fact is more peaceful and hard-working than the community in araci – creates more problems with the example he sets for the others.” 12.  in this context, and in order to reduce and prevent the criminal activity, to strengthen citizens’ safety, to identify individuals without identity documents, to summon those suspected of having committed several crimes and to recover stolen goods, the police organised the raid of 15 december 2011.... as a result of the preventive activity carried out by the [ipj] in araci village, six criminal groups have been identified, made up of members of roma families r., b., c., g., l., and n. [nb: the applicants’ family is not mentioned among them]” 14.  given the range of issues to be tackled and the goals of the raid, the intervention involved: fifty-three police officers (eleven from the department for public order, four from the department for criminal investigations, eighteen from the sfântu gheorghe police department, six from vâlcele police station, ten from the rapid intervention squad (serviciul de intervenție rapidă; “sir”), and two from the department for criminal forensics) and thirty gendarmes from the covasna gendarmerie inspectorate (inspectoratul județean de jandarmi covasna; hereinafter “the ijj”).15.  according to the police report of 15 december 2011, the police officers performed the following acts during the raid: they searched 140 cars and performed 190 identity checks; they issued eight administrative fines (sancţiuni contravenţionale); they confiscated fifteen cubic metres of timber; they took sixty-four individuals to the police headquarters for further criminal enquiries; they solved six criminal complaints and enforced two orders to appear (mandat de aducere); they identified ten individuals from police operational information; and they took fingerprints from and photographs of fourteen individuals.24.  the prosecutor established that the operation had been organised in accordance with the intervention plan drawn up by the ipj and the ijj.25.  relying on the statements given by the forest ranger and the police, the prosecutor established that the forest ranger had not participated in the events, and that the raid had started at 7 a.m. and not at 5 a.m. as indicated by the applicants and their neighbours.they noted that some of its window panels had been broken, the wood had been splintered, and the paint was missing from the bottom of the door; they were unable to establish when the door had been damaged.they argued mainly that the prosecutor, without justification, had given preference to the statements made by the police to the detriment of those made by the applicants.30.  on 17 april 2013 the prosecutor-in-chief from the prosecutor’s office attached to the braşov court of appeal dismissed the objection on the following grounds: - the intervention had been lawful; - the applicants’ immobilisation and the use of handcuffs had been lawful and made necessary by their aggressive behaviour; they had therefore been taken to the police station, interviewed and fined; - the investigation had been completed; - the prosecutor had clarified all aspects of the case and examined the evidence gathered; - the decision had represented the prosecutor’s own conviction based on the evidence in the file, and the reasons given had been adequate; - the other assertions made by the applicants had not been substantiated by evidence.33.  the court further noted that the prosecutor had not identified the person who had given the order to immobilise the first and third applicants and take them to the police station.it therefore ordered the prosecutor: - to hear evidence from witnesses, in particular from other persons who had been targeted by that police intervention and neighbours who could clarify whether the police officers had entered the applicants’ home; - to hear the police officers involved in the operation and those responsible for mounting the operation, in order to find out who had given the order to immobilise the first and third applicants and who had carried out that order; - to establish how the immobilisation of the first and third applicants had happened; - to establish how the second and fourth applicants, who had not been immobilised by the police, had been injured; - to establish who had participated in the operation on behalf of the authorities, whether police officers, gendarmes or other individuals.the injuries sustained by the second and fourth applicants were explained in the report as follows: “[the two women] had exhibited behaviour specific to roma in such circumstances: they had started pulling their own hair, slapping themselves on their faces, hitting the gate with their fists and shouting in order to intimidate the police officers.” 38.  on 5 august 2013 the prosecutor’s office decided not to prosecute.it considered that all the indications given by the court had been observed during the new investigation and that further clarifications concerning the case and the general situation in vâlcele had been provided.40.  the prosecutor held that the injuries sustained by the first and third applicants could be explained by the use of force during the immobilisation, which had been made necessary by the applicants’ violent behaviour.42.  on 20 september 2013 the prosecutor-in-chief from the same prosecutor’s office upheld the decision on similar grounds to those given in the decision of 17 april 2013 (see paragraph 30 above) and, in addition, on the ground that the prosecutor had complied with the orders made by the court (see paragraph 35 above).according to the court of appeal, the explanations offered by the prosecutor as to the cause of injuries were plausible and the police officers had not used excessive force.
in his statement, the applicant submitted that he and g. had murdered d. and s. after being incited to do so by dor., who had wished to take revenge on the women because she believed that one of them had been having an affair with her partner and that the other one had facilitated the start of the affair.11.  from 4.30 p.m. until 6.04 p.m. on the same day, in order to clarify and verify information that the applicant had provided in his confession, the investigator conducted a reconstruction of the crime scene in the presence of attesting witnesses and a specialist on criminal procedure.as can be seen from the video recording of the reconstruction and the relevant verbatim record of this investigative step (which have been provided by the government to the court), the investigator invited the applicant – referring to him as “a suspect” – to tell him about the circumstances of the crime that he had allegedly committed.12.  on the same day, at 7.30 p.m., the investigator drew up an arrest report ordering the applicant’s detention as a suspect in the premeditated murder of d. and s. according to the report, the applicant was arrested on the grounds of his statement of surrender and confession, and his right to a lawyer was explained to him.18.  on 21 april 2005 two sets of criminal proceedings against the applicant were also instituted in respect of (a) the contract murder of d. and s., committed for profit and with extreme brutality, and (b) the applicant having inflicted bodily injuries on n. those proceedings were joined with those instituted on 20 december 2004. on the same date the applicant’s charges were amended accordingly.22.  during the trial the applicant denied any involvement in the murder of d. and s. and submitted that his confession had been obtained by means of ill-treatment inflicted by the investigating officers, on the orders of d.’s husband.25.  on 21 march 2006 the supreme court, sitting as a second-instance court, allowed an appeal lodged by the prosecution (having found that the gravity of the crime imputed to the defendants called for the imposition of more severe penalties) and remitted the case for fresh consideration, having also instructed the regional court to verify the allegations made by the defendants.in doing so, the court referred to various pieces of evidence, which included the identification of the applicant by n. and the fact that she had heard d. addressing the applicant by name when he had been stabbing her; the testimony of the applicant’s and g’s mothers; the results of forensic examinations, which had revealed, inter alia, that blood discovered on the applicant’s sweater had not belonged to him, contrary to his statements, but could have belonged to one of the victims; the statements of witnesses that they had seen the applicant and g. at dor.’s home during the evening of 10 december 2004; and the confessions made by the applicant “during the reconstruction of the crime scene carried out in the presence of his lawyer” and during other investigative actions conducted in the lawyer’s presence.it went on to note that the applicant had made self-incriminating statements of his own free will and in the presence of a lawyer and that neither the applicant nor the lawyer had raised any complaint when signing the records of the relevant procedural actions.it furthermore observed that at a different stage of the pre-trial investigation the applicant had given a similar detailed account of events that had tallied with the evidence given by n. the list of items of evidence referred to by the court in this context included the applicant’s voluntary surrender to the police and the “records of reconstructions of the crime scene”.it also observed that in the course of the investigation the applicant had never complained of any ill-treatment but that, in the presence of dym., he had consistently repeated his confession (including to a forensic psychiatrist), which contained information that had not been known to the police and could only have been known to the perpetrator.30.  in a cassation appeal to the supreme court the applicant stated, inter alia, that his initial confessions made on 12 december 2004 had been at the heart of his conviction and that this evidence had been obtained under duress and in the absence of a lawyer.it noted, inter alia, that the applicant’s guilt had been proved by the statements of n., who had witnessed the crime, and that the accuracy of her statements had been confirmed by other evidence, including by the fact that the applicant had given a similar account of events in his statement of surrender and confession to the police, together with the following statements that he had made.it noted that as soon as the applicant had been detained as a suspect on the basis of his statement of surrender and confession to the police, he was immediately provided with a lawyer, in accordance with the requirements of the domestic law.35.  on numerous occasions after the criminal proceedings had been completed the applicant lodged requests with the regional court, where the case file was kept, to be provided with copies of his cassation appeals and bills of indictments, as he needed them in connection with his intention to lodge an application with the court.
12.  on 1 and 8 august 2003 a witness, mr i., was questioned by the police and stated that on the night of the murder he had seen the applicant in the victim’s backyard and that he had then, with blood on his hands, come to his house and told him that he had hit the victim.21.  on 5 february 2004 ms g., ms k. and mr n. made videotaped statements to the investigator to the effect that, in october 2003, the applicant had confessed to them all (on the same occasion) that he had committed the murder.23.  on 1 february 2007 a certain ms o., who was in prison, informed the prison authorities that in july 2004, when she had lived in the same village as the applicant, he had confessed to her that he had murdered z. and had described the circumstances of the murder to her.she reaffirmed her incriminating statements as having been made of her own free will and stated that she had written to the trial court because one of the applicant’s lawyers had said, in the course of the cross-examination, that she might be criminally liable for any false statements.i. had not only made those statements in the course of the pre-trial investigation and in court but had also reiterated them in the course of face-to-face confrontations with the applicant and another witness in the course of the pre-trial investigation.34.  as to o.’s evidence, the trial court stated that she had reiterated her pre-trial statement in the course of the trial in the applicant’s presence and that there had been no reason to distrust that testimony.he also argued, among other things, that the court had unjustifiably refused to recall o. as a witness despite the retraction of her testimony and that a search conducted in his home in 2003  which had apparently not returned any incriminating items  had been unlawful for various reasons, including the fact that at the time it had been conducted he had been in detention being tortured.37.  following a request by the applicant for the proceedings to be reopened, on 21 may 2009 five judges of the supreme court asked the plenary formation of the supreme court (consisting of all the judges of the court’s criminal and military divisions) to reopen the proceedings in the applicant’s case in view of the exceptional circumstances (see paragraph 42 below), to quash his sentence and to order a retrial.the judges argued, in particular: (i) that there was medical evidence in the file which indicated that the applicant had been seriously ill-treated in 2003, in particular by being hung by his elbows, (ii) that the investigation into his allegations in this regard had been superficial, and (iii) that the trial court had failed to comment on this.38.  on 5 june 2009 the plenary formation of the court held that the arguments cited by the five judges could only serve as a basis for reopening the proceedings if they had been first investigated by the prosecutor’s office and found to be “newly established circumstances” justifying a reopening (see paragraph 42 below).39.  the parties did not inform the court whether the applicant attempted to initiate, before the prosecutor’s office, an investigation of the type mentioned by the plenary formation of the supreme court.40.  in the application, lodged by his initial representative on his behalf on 9 january 2009, the applicant described, in the “statement of the facts” section of the form, the ill-treatment he had allegedly suffered in august 2003 (see paragraph 11 above).in the “statement of alleged violation(s) of the convention and/or protocols and relevant arguments” part of the form he complained under article 6 § 2 that his right to be presumed innocent had been breached in that the domestic authorities had relied on evidence obtained unlawfully and under article 6 § 3 (d) that the domestic courts had failed to re-examine o. after she had retracted her initial testimony.41.  on 1 april 2013 mr levytskyy wrote to the court on behalf of the applicant’s mother concerning the applicant’s death and expressed the mother’s wish to pursue the application in his stead.however, this is not why she described in the application the acts of torture but limited the application to a violation of article 6 of the convention only, leaving the acts of torture outside of the scope of the application... at the time the application was lodged in 2008-2009 the court was declaring applications under article 3 inadmissible where applicants failed to appeal to court against the prosecutor’s office’s decision not to institute criminal proceedings.” mr levytskyy went on to describe the court’s approach to the admissibility of such complaints adopted in kaverzin v. ukraine (no.
he has in addition been a member of the managing bodies of the international confederation of free trade unions and the european trade union confederation.69-70 the book contained a paragraph comparing communists and nazis to freemasons, stating that, in a freemason manner, the nazis had “dreamt to perfect the man”, and also that communists had been “doing that in practice”, including in bulgaria.brought a tort action against the applicant, stating that the allegations contained in the book, namely that he was a freemason, a communist connected with the former secret services and a “pseudo trade unionist”, were untrue and defamatory.he stated that he was a fervent christian, which meant that he could not be a freemason, as the church had condemned freemasonry, that he had never been a member of the bulgarian communist party or the youth communist organisation, and that he had not been connected with the communist secret services, but had, on the contrary, all his life fought for human rights and democracy.11.  in a judgment of 10 july 2008 the sofia city court (hereinafter “the city court”) allowed the action and ordered the applicant to pay k.t.12.  the city court referred to the applicant’s right to freedom of expression under article 10 of the convention, but considered that in the case he had overstepped the limits of acceptable criticism.as to k.t.’s affiliation with the communist secret services, this allegation had been disproved by the official attestations of the specialised body dealing with those services’ archives, and the witnesses brought by the applicant to prove this point had been unconvincing.14.  lastly, justifying the amount of damage to be awarded, the city court noted that the applicant’s publication had “seriously impinged” upon k.t.’s honour and dignity and had defamed him, both “within the whole trade union community in bulgaria” and internationally.had said that he was a member of the maltese order, the applicant had not shown that this was equivalent to freemasonry; it was irrelevant that the allegations made by the applicant had already been made in earlier publications, as this did not make them “less defamatory or truer”; the fact that k.t.in particular, it confirmed that whether or not an allegation was to be considered offensive depended on the manner in which it was perceived by the addressee and his social circle, even if this did not conform “to the common understanding of the facts”.in october 2011 a bailiff calculated the total amount due by the applicant, including the principal award of bgn 15,000 (see paragraph 11 above), the default interest accrued by that time and the costs and expenses, at bgn 31,549 (eur 16,100).18.  after the communication of the present application, on 23 may 2018 the government submitted their observations, which were forwarded to the applicant.as to the government and the position defended by them, he wrote in particular the following paragraphs: “to be able to understand human rights, including freedom and in particular freedom of expression but also of education, every person has to study, to gather knowledge.alas, the observations prepared by the governmental agent ... cannot convince the erudite reader that this has been the case.” “instead of [commenting on the case], the governmental agent discusses many other things.let the shame be for their bosses in brussels.” 20.  the applicant also commented on the court, calling the former bulgarian judge s. botoucharova “communist” and “muscovite”, the next judge z. kalaydjieva an agent of the former security services, and the current bulgarian judge – a “communist infant”.
5.  the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.6.  on 9 july 2010 the applicant was indicted before the pula-pola municipal court (općinski sud u puli-pola) on charges of indecent behaviour.during the proceedings before the first- and the second-instance courts he was represented by a lawyer, m.k.8.  on 11 october 2011 the pula-pola municipal court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to one year’s imprisonment.9.  on 7 november 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal with the pula‑pola county court (županijski sud u puli-pola), challenging the factual and legal grounds for his conviction and sentence.10.  on an unspecified date in 2011, the pula-pola county court, acting as the court of appeal, forwarded the applicant’s appeal and the pula-pola municipal court’s case file to the pula‑pola county state attorney’s office (županijsko državno odvjetništvo u puli-pola) for their examination and opinion.11.  on 7 december 2011 the pula-pola county state attorney’s office returned the case file to pula-pola county court accompanied by a submission which read as follows: “in the criminal case against slobodan kliba, accused of the criminal offence referred to in article 193 § 2 in conjunction with article 192 § 1 of the criminal code, the defence lodged an appeal against the judgment of the pula municipal court no.k-344/10 of 11 october 2011 complaining about errors of facts, alleging that the criminal code had been violated and challenging the sanction as well as the decision concerning costs and expenses.i consider the appeal unfounded, therefore i propose that it be dismissed as in my opinion the facts in the criminal proceedings in question were duly established.the criminal code was not violated and the sanction inflicted is appropriate, considering the type and seriousness of the criminal offence of which the accused was found guilty.the costs of proceedings were properly estimated and can be borne by the accused, regard being had to his financial status.” the submission in question was not forwarded to the defence.on the same day it dismissed the appeal as unfounded and upheld the first-instance judgment.13.  on 13 march 2012 the applicant, represented by lawyer v.d.l., lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) complaining, inter alia, that his right to a fair trial had been violated because the submission of the pula-pola county state attorney’s office had not been communicated to the defence.it held that the fact that the pula-pola county state attorney’s office submission of 12 july 2013 had not been forwarded to the applicant had not breached his constitutional rights, having regard to the content of the submission, the fact that he had been tried in summary proceedings and that he had not asked that he or his lawyer be invited to the session of the appeal panel.15.  the decision of the constitutional court was served on the applicant’s representative on 2 february 2016.
6.  at the time of the facts of the present case, the applicants were working as judicial officers at the mureş county court (hereinafter “the county court”).12 to the convention, the applicants brought an action in the mureş county court seeking compensation equivalent to the “loyalty bonus” (spor de fidelitate) to which they felt they had been entitled in respect of their salary since december 2004. they complained that, although they had met the same requirements as all the other categories of judicial and non-judicial court staff (including judges and ancillary personnel) who had received the loyalty bonus in accordance with article 4 of ordinance no.the court ordered that the applicants be paid compensation for the discrimination suffered, representing 5% of their monthly salary for the period running from december 2004 until 31 march 2006 and 15% for the period running from 1 april 2006 until the day the discrimination ended.9.  on 16 and 25 april 2008 the ministry of justice and the ministry of finance appealed, arguing in the main that the court had overstepped the limits of its judicial authority and had acted as a “lawmaker” when it had awarded the applicants a right which had not been provided to them by law.10.  in a final decision of 30 may 2008 the târgu mureş court of appeal (hereinafter “the court of appeal”) dismissed the appeal as unfounded in so far as it concerned the ministry of justice and as out of time in so far as it concerned the ministry of finance.it considered firstly that the anti‑discrimination ordinance applied to the applicants’ situation and on this point it dismissed the defendant party’s allegations of a breach of the principles of the separation of powers by the courts.it further considered that, in the light of article 2 of the anti-discrimination ordinance and of the court’s case-law on article 14, the applicants had proved their allegations of discrimination, particularly that they had been treated differently from individuals in similar situations, without justification.on the merits of the case, the court relied on the laws regulating “confidentiality bonus[es]” (spor de confidenţialitate), noting that the applicants had to respect the confidentiality of the information to which they had access and for this reason concluded that they should be entitled to a “confidentiality bonus”, like other members of the judiciary and ancillary staff.11.  the use of the term “confidentiality bonus” in the court’s decision was brought to the court’s attention on 20 november 2008 by the defendants by means of an extraordinary appeal (subsection c below) and on 27 november by the applicants by means of an application for correction of material errors (subsection b below).15.  on 20 november 2008 the ministry of justice lodged an extraordinary appeal against the final decision of 30 may 2008, claiming that the court of appeal had failed to examine the grounds of appeal as stated by the defendants.they also raised an objection of unconstitutionality of articles 318 and 319 of the ccp, which in their view, by allowing for an open-ended possibility of lodging the extraordinary appeal, contradicted the right of access to court guaranteed by article 21 of the constitution and by article 6 § 1 of the convention, the latter having been incorporated into domestic law by article 20 of the constitution.their objection was dismissed by the constitutional court on 12 may 2009, on the grounds that the said provisions did set the time-limits for the extraordinary appeal and that in any case, the enforcement proceedings were subject to the general statutes of limitation.in its view, the matter could not be considered as a simple material error: “it cannot be considered that this is a simple material [or] typographical error, which arose because of the striking similarity between the words ‘confidentiality’ and ‘loyalty’, as it had been adjudged in the interlocutory judgment of 4 december 2008 whereby this court ordered the correction of this material error by replacing the word ‘confidentiality’ with the word ‘loyalty’.the court of appeal referred to a completely different legal matter, which had not been brought before it by the parties, and thus dismissed as unfounded the appeal lodged by the ministry of justice without examining the arguments put before it by [the ministry of justice] by mistakenly copying the reasoning from a different decision, in which it had examined the issue of awarding a confidentiality bonus.” 18.  consequently, in the same hearing, the court of appeal allowed the extraordinary appeal and quashed the final decision.for this reason the court will not examine the remaining grounds of unlawfulness, will ... allow the appeal, and will ... reject the action lodged by the [applicants].” 19.  the applicants unsuccessfully lodged several extraordinary appeals against that decision, all of which were rejected by final decisions of the court of appeal (19 january 2010, 20 january 2010, and 4 february 2010).
7.  in her first application the applicant complained about her detention from 8 august 2008 to 28 april 2010. this court found that during this period, there was a lack of due diligence on the part of the authorities from 19 june 2009 to 14 december 2009 (a period of five months and 26 days).accordingly, it found a violation of article 5 § 1 in light of the authorities’ delay in considering the applicant’s further representations in the context of her claim for asylum (see v.m.she concluded that the applicant had given a plausible history of suffering physical and sexual abuse at the hands of her uncle; that she suffered from particularly severe post-traumatic stress disorder; that she was not receiving appropriate treatment for her mental health problems in detention; that release would benefit her mental health; and that her deportation was likely to precipitate further suicide attempts.13.  six reviews of the applicant’s detention were written by the applicant’s ‘caseworker’ between 4 march 2011 and 4 july 2011. brief reference was made to the report of dr a-d. inserted into the recital in each review of the applicant’s protracted immigration history was reference to "yet another psychiatric report", which had been "treated as a further request to revoke" the deportation order.in each case the senior officers endorsed the conclusion that the risk of the applicant’s reoffending and absconding outweighed the presumption in favour of release.14.  the applicant initiated judicial review proceedings of the period of her detention from 22 july 2010 to 6 july 2011. the high court refused her permission to bring judicial review proceedings on 3 april 2012. however, permission was granted by the court of appeal to appeal that decision.15.  in its judgment of 17 july 2014, the court of appeal found that there had been procedural errors in the reviews of the applicant’s detention but it upheld the decision of the high court that the challenge should fail.while these would have diminished with the passage of time, there still needed to be safeguards if [the applicant] was released into the community and these were not put in place to the satisfaction of the court until 6 july 2011 when she was in fact released on bail.” 16.  the court of appeal refused the applicant permission to appeal its decision but permission was subsequently granted by the supreme court.the supreme court, in its judgment of 27 april 2016 (r (o) v secretary of state for the home department [2016] uksc 19), also concluded that some of the applicant’s detention reviews did not refer to available medical evidence where they should have done so.... the reviews (a)  failed to refer to dr [a-d]’s diagnosis of [the applicant] as suffering from [post-traumatic stress disorder] ptsd: (b)  indeed wrongly stated that the most recent diagnosis of [the applicant]’s mental condition was that of dr [r]; (c)  failed therefore to consider whether [the applicant] could be “satisfactorily managed” at yarl’s wood [detention centre] and, even if not, whether there were very exceptional circumstances which nevertheless justified her continued detention.26.  in the above circumstances the court of appeal concluded that the home secretary had unlawfully failed to apply the policy set out in para 55.10 of the manual when deciding to continue to detain [the applicant] between march and july 2011. this conclusion the home secretary now accepts.the defects in the reviews already filed speak for themselves.” 17.  he went on to comment: “34... realistically [the applicant] accepts that the proper application of the home secretary’s policy to her case in the light of the report of dr [a-d] would not have led to her immediate release in march 2011. she correctly contends that the report should have led the home secretary to make inquiries, most of which, judging by the contents of the reviews, seem never to have been made ... at least however, the limited period between march and her release on bail on 6 july 2011 makes one thing clear: even on the dubious assumption that proper application of her policy should in due course have led the home secretary to direct [the applicant]’s release, it is unrealistic to consider that the conditions necessary for her release would have been in place prior to 6 july 2011.35.  for the above reasons, in agreement with the court of appeal, i regard it as already clear that, although the home secretary unlawfully failed to apply her policy under para 55.10 of the manual to [the applicant]’s continued detention between march and july 2011, a lawful application of her policy would not have secured [the applicant]’s release from detention any earlier than the date of her actual release on bail.” 18.  lord wilson concluded: “37.... the overall refusal to release [the applicant] ... was procedurally flawed.... were [the applicant]’s claim for judicial review permitted to proceed, the result in all likelihood would be a declaration that her detention from 4 march 2011 to 6 july 2011 was unlawful and an award to her of damages in the sum of £1.the court of appeal decided that, since such was – “at most”, so it added – the likely result of the claim, it was appropriate to uphold the refusal of [the high court] to grant permission for it to proceed.
9.  immediately after the announcement of the preliminary results of the election, the applicant called on his supporters to gather at freedom square in central yerevan in order to protest against the irregularities which had allegedly occurred in the election process, announcing that the election had not been free and fair.11.  on 23 february 2008 the outgoing president held individual meetings with the chief of police, chief of the army and chief of national security, announcing that he would not allow anybody to destabilise the situation in the country and giving instructions to that effect.some of them managed to switch on the microphones and the lights on the square, whereupon the applicant addressed the demonstrators from a platform: “we see that police forces have arrived on the square.16.  in the meantime, the applicant, who was on the platform, was approached by the head of the state protection department (spd) of the national security service, who was also the chief of the armenian president’s bodyguard team, and other spd officers.17.  it appears that, after freedom square was cleared of demonstrators, some of them relocated to the area near the french embassy, where they were later joined by thousands of others who apparently poured into the streets of yerevan in response to the events of the early morning in order to voice their discontent.firstly, the reason for the police operation of 1 march 2008 at freedom square had been the information obtained the day before by the law enforcement authorities, according to which a large number of weapons were to be distributed to the protesters to incite provocative actions and mass disorder in yerevan.secondly, once violence had erupted on freedom square, because his security was in danger the applicant had been surrounded on the platform by the head of the spd and other spd officers and taken to the edge of the square, about 20 to 30 metres away, where he sat on a bench surrounded by spd officers.he was told by the head of the spd that he was free to leave and go wherever he wanted, but the spd would not be able to ensure his security in the area near the french embassy and they would not accompany him there.in a democracy you cannot arbitrarily detain political opponents.” 20.  on the same day the spd issued a statement that was broadcast on the public television channel, to the effect that spd officers had decided to remove the applicant from freedom square, pursuant to section 6 § 3 of the act on ensuring the security of persons subject to special state protection, in order to ensure his safety – as a former president of armenia subject to state protection – from any danger posed by the situation created during the police operation in the morning of 1 march 2008. the applicant had been removed from the square and taken to his house, which was similarly to be protected by the spd, pursuant to section 12 (2) of the same act.bearing in mind the necessity of ensuring the applicant’s security, as well as taking into account the fact that the applicant’s leaving his home might lead to unpredictable developments and pose a danger to his security, the spd – in the situation which had arisen – had warned the applicant that he must categorically refrain from attempting to leave his house, indicating that otherwise the spd could not bear responsibility for his safety, since they could not accompany him to an unlawful demonstration.21.  on 4 march 2008 the applicant’s representative filed a request at the hearing before the constitutional court, submitting that the applicant was under de facto house arrest and unable to attend, and requesting that the constitutional court take measures to ensure his attendance.22.  on the same date the constitutional court took a decision, ordering the general prosecutor’s office to clarify the fact of the applicant’s alleged de facto deprivation of liberty, as claimed by his representatives, and to ensure his attendance at the hearing before the constitutional court if he so wished.23.  on the same date the general prosecutor’s office replied that the applicant was not deprived of his liberty, there were no restrictions on his freedom of movement, there was no such concept as “house arrest” under the law and he was free to attend the hearing before the constitutional court if he so wished.25.  the government contested the applicant’s allegations and claimed that the applicant had attended the hearing before the constitutional court after he had expressed the wish to do so and had been accompanied by spd officers.after the hearing was over, he himself had asked to return home and thereafter he did not express any wish to leave his house until the state of emergency was lifted on 20 march 2008. the special spd reinforcements were removed from the applicant’s house on 16 march 2008. throughout that period the applicant had numerous visitors at his house, including journalists, diplomats and other persons, none of whom was prohibited from entering.
11.  the applicants maintained, in their petition to the court, that the defendants had failed to construct their apartments in conformity with the applicable laws and regulations and therefore they must be held liable for the losses they had caused in accordance with section 41 of the code of obligations (law no.it held that the ten-year limitation period for introducing an action for damages, provided in sections 125 and 126 § 4 of the former code of obligations, had started running from the date on which the building use permit had been issued, that is 23 march 1987, and that the lawsuit had been filed after the expiry of the limitation period.13.  the relevant parts of the court’s decision read as follows: “(...) as a result of the earthquake of 17 august 1999 the apartment that the claimant bought from the defendants was damaged and collapsed.e (2001/7015) and 2001/4778, dated 21 march 2001, shows the most correct and clear path by holding: “(...) whereas, for a building, it is necessary to prepare the plan and the project, especially to make healthy static calculations, to build the building in accordance with such plan and project by using appropriate material in terms of both quality and quantity, and to inspect the compliance of all these features with the legislation in force; (...) that for example in a building considered as having a hidden defect, section 125 of the code of obligations, by the reference to the fourth paragraph of section 126 of the same law, prescribes a ten-year limitation period which starts from the date of the end of the construction works, that is the date of obtaining the building use permit or the date it is supposed to have been obtained; and that if the building collapses during this period, criminal liability may be invoked; but if the building collapses after the expiry of this period due to a defect because the criminal liability of the (authors) can no longer be invoked in so far as legally they no longer have the faculty to solve the problem, it is considered that there is no longer a causal link; that these considerations are also valid in case of grave fault (...).” our court also endorses this approach.in conclusion, while the claimant’s representatives claimed compensation for the damaged apartment, their claim must be rejected because of the expiry of the ten-year limitation period (...).” 14.  on 9 december 2003 the applicants lodged an appeal against the yalova civil court’s decision with the court of cassation.in their petition of appeal, they firstly argued that even if the dates of the building use permit were to be taken as the starting period of the ten-year limitation period, because the permit issued for their apartments had been renewed in the 1990s, they had introduced their actions within time.they further maintained that, in any event, the date of the earthquake should have been taken as the starting point of the limitation period since the damage caused by the hidden defects in their buildings had become known to them upon the occurrence of the earthquake.15.  on different dates in 2004 and 2005 (see appended table) the 13th civil chamber of the court of cassation upheld the yalova civil court’s decisions of 19 july 2001. the 13th civil chamber ruled that, having regard to the documents and evidence in the case file, which were relied on by the first-instance court, and in particular to the expiry of the limitation period prescribed by section 125 of the former code of obligations, which started running from the date of the transfer of ownership of the properties in question, the applicants’ grounds for appeal had been unfounded.16.  meanwhile, on 1 july 2004, the 4th civil chamber of the court of cassation, in a similar case lodged by the applicants’ representative on behalf of other claimants, held that the limitation periods for claiming damages started running from the date of the earthquake, since at the time the unlawful act was committed by the defendants, that is, when the construction of the defective buildings was completed, the claimants had not suffered any actual loss.the 4th civil chamber, by applying section 60 of the former code of obligations, ruled that the claimants’ action had been introduced less than one year following the occurrence of the earthquake and therefore it had been introduced within the one-year limitation period.on that basis, it quashed the first-instance court’s judgment which had found, applying section 125 of the former code of obligations, that the lawsuit had been introduced following the expiry of a period of ten years from the issuance of the building use permit (see hayati çelebi and others, cited above, § 37, for the relevant parts of a similar decision by the 4th civil chamber of the court of cassation dated 11 december 2001).17.  on 5 september 2004 the applicants, except mr süleyman öner erdoğan, mr can erdoğan and ms nevzer zorlu, referring to, inter alia, the 4th civil chamber of the court of cassation’s decision of 1 july 2004 (see paragraph 16 above), made an application to the first presidency of the court of cassation requesting the harmonisation of the case-law of the 4th and 13th civil chambers of the court of cassation on the application of the limitation period to claims for damages arising from the earthquake of 17 august 1999.18.  on the same date, all applicants, except ms nevzer zorlu, requested rectification of the 13th civil chamber of the court of cassation’s decisions, drawing its attention to the discrepancy between its approach and that of the 4th civil chamber in respect of the starting date of the limitation periods.they also asked the 13th civil chamber to wait for the outcome of their application to the first presidency of the court of cassation for harmonisation of the case-law.19.  on 23 june 2005 the first presidency of the court of cassation dismissed the applicants’ application, holding that there was no need for harmonisation of the case-law having regard to the content and nature of the judgments in question.
6.  on 19 september 2015 the federal security service (‘the fsb”) and the investigations committee of the russian federation announced that criminal proceedings on suspicion of membership of a criminal gang and fraud had been opened against the governor of the komi republic, mr gaizer, one of his deputies, several high-ranking officials in the komi republic government, the speaker of the komi republic parliament and a representative of the komi republic in the upper chamber of the russian parliament.14.  on the same day the administrator of the internet site that hosted the applicant’s blog informed him by email that access to the three blog entries described in paragraphs 8, 10 and 13 above had been restricted on the order of the prosecutor general’s office because they had been found to contain calls to participate in public events held in breach of the established procedure.after citing article 11 of the convention, the applicable domestic provisions and the constitutional court’s decision of 2 april 2009 (see a summary of the domestic law provisions in lashmankin and others, cited above, §§ 255-59), the court held: “the complainant’s argument that the event would lose its purpose if held at the locations proposed by [the town administration] is unsubstantiated.598 of 25 december 2012 by the komi republic government designated [special locations for holding public events in syktyvkar], having ensured that they were in keeping with the aims of public events and accessible by public transport, permitted the organisers of, and participants in, public events to use public utility facilities, respected sanitary norms and rules, and guaranteed the safety of the organisers of, and participants in, public events.in such circumstances the municipal authority’s proposal to change the location of mr kablis’s public event was well reasoned and lawful ... the court considers that the refusal to approve the location for the reasons advanced in the [town administration’s] decision was lawful and acceptable ... the [town administration’s] decision of 21 september 2015 in mr kablis’s case was made within the time-limit established by law and contained reasons justifying the impossibility of holding the public event at the chosen location, a well-reasoned proposal to change the location and an explanation of the procedure for notifying public events.it held: “the [district] court rejected the complaint on the merits because the contested refusal to approve the chosen location of the picket had been made by the competent authority in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law.the [district] court correctly applied [the public events act] providing for the conditions for enjoying the right to peaceful assembly guaranteed by article 31 of the constitution ... having assessed the evidence in the case file, the [district] court made a correct finding that [the town administration’s] proposal to change the location of the public event chosen by the organisers had been substantiated, well reasoned and justified by the necessity to respect the balance of interests of the parties and to ensure public safety.the [district] court correctly held in the judgment that in accordance with article 17 § 3 of the constitution of the russian federation, the enjoyment of one’s rights and freedoms must not breach the rights and freedoms of others.there were therefore objective and sufficient reasons – explaining why it was impossible to approve the location of the public event chosen by the organisers – for the proposal to change the location with the aim of ensuring a balance between the rights of the organisers and those of third persons.the arguments set out in the appeal submissions are limited to a statement that the contested decision of [the town administration] refusing to approve the location chosen for the public event in stefanovskaya square had breached the complainant’s rights to freedom of assembly, expression, conscience and religion.they do not therefore warrant the quashing of the [district] court’s judgment ... the contested decision of [the town administration] was in accordance with [the public events act], was made within the municipal authorities’ powers and was in the interests of ensuring public order, with the aim of preventing disorder, protecting health and morality, and safeguarding the rights and freedoms of others.21.  on 19 july 2016 a judge of the supreme court of the komi republic refused to refer the applicant’s cassation appeal to the presidium of that court for examination, having found no significant violations of substantive or procedural law which had influenced the outcome of the proceedings.after citing article 10 of the convention and section 15.3 of the information act (see paragraph 36 below), and noting that the town administration had refused to approve “the picket” at the location chosen by the applicant, the court held: “despite the lack of approval for the public event, [the applicant] described the preparations for holding it on his page on a social networking site, vkontakte, and on his blog ..., calling on an unrestricted audience to participate in an unauthorised public event ... in the present case, access to the information published by the claimant was restricted because he had breached information distribution rules, in particular by distributing information containing calls for participation in a public event to be held in breach of the established procedure.contrary to the claimant’s allegations, his freedom of expression was not restricted, because access was blocked to information distributed in breach of the law, rather than in connection with the contents of the claimant’s statements about the aims of the notified public event (to discuss the arrest of the komi republic government).26.  on 31 january 2017 a judge of the supreme court of the russian federation refused to refer the applicant’s cassation appeal for consideration by the civil chamber of the supreme court, finding that no significant violations of substantive or procedural law had influenced the outcome of the proceedings.
the meeting point is near the main entrance to krylya sovetov park in kopylova street, underground station aviastroitelnaya.” 15.  on 24 march 2017 the vakhitovskiy district court allowed the applicant’s claim against the decision of 16 march 2017 in part.it found that the regional branch of the “united russia” party had earlier notified the town administration of its intention to hold public events from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. on 26 march 2017 at all three locations chosen by the applicant and at two other sites.they repeated verbatim the report on the administrative offence under article 20.2 § 2 of the cao and added that the applicant had been warned by the kazan department of internal affairs that she would be held liable if she went ahead with a public event at a location which had not been approved by the town administration.the police had ordered her to stop the meeting but she had not taken any actions to comply with that order; the meeting had lasted until about 3 p.m. the applicant had therefore disobeyed a lawful order of the police and had thereby committed an offence under article 19.3 of the cao.the court noted that the applicant had notified the town administration of her intention to hold a meeting in krylya sovetov park but that the town administration had refused to allow the meeting; it had proposed that she hold a “picket” at another location.the court did not reply to the applicant’s argument that the town administration’s decision of 16 march 2017 refusing to approve the meeting had been annulled on judicial review and that the meeting had therefore to be considered as authorised and lawful, and the police’s order to stop it unlawful.she referred to the decision of 24 march 2017 by the vakhitovskiy district court declaring unlawful the town administration’s decision of 16 march 2017 refusing to approve the meeting and submitted that under article 227 § 8 of the code of administrative procedure (“the cap”), that decision was subject to immediate enforcement (see a summary of the domestic law provisions in lashmankin and others v. russia, nos.she further referred to a constitutional court ruling of 14 february 2013 that a public event was considered to be approved not only after receipt by the organiser of the local authorities’ express approval, but also if the local authorities had not provided the organiser with a well‑reasoned proposal for a change of location or time of the event within the statutory time-limit.in reply to the applicant’s arguments that the meeting had been lawful and that the police’s order to stop it had been unlawful, the court held as follows: “counsel’s and [the applicant’s] arguments that she was innocent and had been unlawfully charged under [articles 19.3 and 20.2 § 2 of the cao] because there had been no corpus delicti [of the above offences] in her actions – as she had not breached applicable statutory requirements, her guilt had not been proven by the material in the case file and the police officer’s order to stop the public event had been unlawful – are unsubstantiated.the arguments advanced by [the applicant] contradict the facts established during the examination of the case and are disproved by the evidence, which cumulatively shows that [the applicant] disobeyed a lawful order by a police officer who was fulfilling his duty to safeguard public order and ensure public safety.” the court then extensively cited the applicable provisions of the domestic law (see a summary of the domestic law provisions in lashmankin and others, cited above, §§ 226-32) and continued: “a comprehensive analysis of the applicable legal provisions and the facts of the present case leads [the court] to conclude that in the present case the organiser of the public event did not fully comply with the procedure for organising and holding public events, which rendered the public event unlawful.furthermore, the judicial decision finding [the town administration’s] failure to act unlawful did not amount to an unconditional approval of the location and time of the public event and did not exempt the organiser from fulfilling the obligations imposed by [the public events act].the argument that the public event was to be considered as approved not only after receipt by the organiser of [the local authorities’] approval, but also if [the local authorities] have not provided the organiser with a well-reasoned proposal for a change of location or time of the event within the statutory time-limit is invalid.the aim of the public event indicated in the notification (against corruption and for prime minister medvedev’s resignation) differed from the real aim of the public event and the aim declared during preliminary campaigning [for that event].it then found that on 23 march 2017 she had published a message on vkontakte calling for participation in a meeting to be held on 26 march 2017 in krylya sovetov park, despite the fact that the town administration had refused to approve that meeting and had suggested that the applicant should hold a “picket” at another location.28.  on 12 september 2017 the vakhitovskiy district court of kazan dismissed the applicant’s claim in respect of non-pecuniary damage caused by the town administration’s unlawful failure to propose alternative locations for the meeting of 26 march 2017 as established by the judgment of 24 march 2017 (see paragraph 15 above).
the supreme court, in review proceedings, upheld that judgment on 26 november 2009. in response to the applicant’s argument to the effect that the contribution fee paid by members should be taken into account as a “consideration” for the lending of machines, rendering the applicant’s activity an “economic” one, the supreme court referred to the aardappelenbewaarplaats judgment of the cjeu (c-154/80, eu:c:1981:38), in which that court had held that “a provision of services for which no definite subjective consideration is received does not constitute a provision of services ‘against payment’ ”.14.  without requesting a preliminary ruling, the budapest regional court held that the köbler judgment was not relevant in the case because the applicant had sought to sue the supreme court on the basis of the hungarian civil code, rather than seeking to sue the hungarian state itself under european union law.17.  arguing that european union law was to be applied proprio motu, even without an explicit reference from the plaintiff, the applicant requested a review of the final judgment by the kúria (the historical appellation by which the supreme court was renamed in 2012, see the first sentence of point 36 of the constitutional court’s decision cited in baka v. hungary [gc], no.it also reiterated its request that the case be referred for a preliminary ruling and proposed that the kúria also ask whether the liability of a state under the köbler principles may be subjected to the precondition that an explicit reference to the relevant provisions of european union law must be made by the plaintiff in the main – in the present case first – proceedings.does the reparation claim fall within the scope of european law in civil proceedings, such as actions in damages based on section 349 of the hungarian civil code, brought by an individual against the supreme court of the member state concerned, in which the plaintiff claims that the supreme court has violated a right conferred on him by a directly applicable provision of european law in previous administrative proceedings.2.  in the common system of value-added tax, with regard to the specificities thereof, may council directive 77/388/eec, especially its article 17(2)(a), be interpreted as meaning that a national measure (e.g. a judgment) is incompatible with it if it denies the right of a cooperative, otherwise subject to value-added tax in the member state concerned, to deduct input vat paid on machines purchased, for the sole reason that the cooperative handed over those machines to its members, a ‘grouping of growers’, without consideration?3.  is the liability of a member state’s supreme court excluded, under the rules of european law, by the sole fact that an individual did not allege explicitly the infringement of a specific provision of european law in the judicial proceedings for the review of an administrative decision denying him the right to tax deduction?4.  is the infringement sufficiently serious if the supreme court of a member state denies, in administrative proceedings, an individual’s right to tax deduction without analysing the underlying provision of european law directly or referring the case for a preliminary ruling, in circumstances where the reasoning of the refusal to refer the case [to the cjeu] is based on the supreme court’s reliance on a judgment of the [cjeu] adopted on a different subject and where this latter court has not yet adopted a ruling on the issue at hand?” 19.  on 2 october 2013 the kúria dismissed in a procedural order (végzés) the applicant’s request for a preliminary ruling.it further held that in the framework of the action in damages, assessment of the consequences of the applicant’s failure, in the first set of proceedings, to make explicit allegations of an infringement of european union law (see question 3 quoted in paragraph 18 above) was the task of the national courts, and that it did not raise any question of interpretation that would fall under the jurisdiction of the cjeu.contending that the constitutional court should be considered as a “court or tribunal” for the purposes of article 267 of the tfeu, the applicant also requested the constitutional court to turn to the cjeu in order to enquire whether an “arbitrary” refusal of a last-instance jurisdiction to refer a case for a preliminary ruling may violate the party’s right to a fair trial guaranteed by article 47 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (see paragraph 29 below) and, if so, under what conditions such a refusal might be considered arbitrary.23.  the applicant’s constitutional complaint contained the following passages: “the complainant ... does not want to call into question the merits of the kúria’s impugned judgment in the present procedure [but rather complains that] the kúria acted unfairly in the review proceedings ... the kúria’s procedure was in breach of the claimant’s constitutional right to a fair trial, guaranteed by article xxviii (1) of the fundamental law, in so far as the kúria acted arbitrarily in omitting to refer the case for a preliminary ruling.25.  the constitutional court’s decision contained the following passage: “[the applicant] was of the view that the rejection by the kúria of his request to have the case referred to the [cjeu] had been arbitrary in that the kúria should have provided professionally appropriate, objective and duly detailed reasons in that respect but, in the applicant’s opinion, it had failed to do so.iii of 1952) pertaining to the reference for a preliminary ruling, as in force at the material time, were set out in somorjai, cited above, §§ 28 and 36. article 361 of the old code of civil procedure provided as follows: “in order to provide redress following a constitutional complaint, the kúria shall decide as follows: ... (c)  if the constitutional court has quashed a judicial decision, [the kúria] shall ... remit the case to the first or second-instance court for new proceedings and a new decision; or order the adoption of a new decision in respect of an application for review.” 28.  the relevant european union law and the case-law of the cjeu pertaining to the preliminary ruling procedure was outlined in, among other authorities, somorjai (cited above, §§ 38-41) and baydar v. the netherlands (no....” 30.  article 17(2)(a) of the sixth directive (council directive 77/388/eec of 17 may 1977 on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to turnover taxes), as amended by article 28f thereof, provides: “in so far as the goods and services are used for the purposes of his taxable transactions, the taxable person shall be entitled to deduct from the tax which he is liable to pay: (a) [vat] due or paid within the territory of the country in respect of goods or services supplied or to be supplied to him by another taxable person; ...” 31.  in its köbler judgment (c-224/01, eu:c:2003:513, point 1 of the operative part), the cjeu ruled as follows: “the principle that member states are obliged to make good damage caused to individuals by infringements of community law for which they are responsible is also applicable where the alleged infringement stems from a decision of a court adjudicating at last instance where the rule of community law infringed is intended to confer rights on individuals, the breach is sufficiently serious and there is a direct causal link between that breach and the loss or damage sustained by the injured parties.it is for the legal system of each member state to designate the court competent to determine disputes relating to that reparation.” 32.  in connection with the role of the national courts in application of european union law, the cjeu held, among other things, as follows (see, respectively, joined cases c-430/93 and c-431/93 van schijndel, eu:c:1995:441, point 2 of the operative part; and c-2/06 kempter, eu:c:2008:78, paragraph 45): “community law does not require national courts to raise of their own motion an issue concerning the breach of provisions of community law where examination of that issue would oblige them to abandon the passive role assigned to them by going beyond the ambit of the dispute defined by the parties themselves and relying on facts and circumstances other than those on which the party with an interest in application of those provisions bases his claim.” “[w]hile community law does not require national courts to raise of their own motion a plea alleging infringement of community provisions where examination of that plea would oblige them to go beyond the ambit of the dispute as defined by the parties, they are obliged to raise of their own motion points of law based on binding community rules where, under national law, they must or may do so in relation to a binding rule of national law ...”
14.  given the unreliability of the statement, the judge, applying the domestic practice concerning the assessment of documentary evidence, took into consideration only the parts of the statement which constituted evidence against the party which had drafted the document, that is to say, only the credit entries (the sums of money company s.m.i.the judge considered that since the expert’s report showed that it was not possible to conclude who had made the payment to bank s., there was no evidence to show the non‑existence of the debt to b. and consequently the falsity of the statements which he had made under oath.in the opinion of the judge it was implausible that a reopening of the investigation could lead to the discovery of new documents able to demonstrate the origin of the funds used to pay off the debt to bank s. the expert had already analysed all the documents available, which had been found not only in the headquarters of company s.m.i., but also in the archives of the court in milan (where other proceedings were ongoing).he considered that the claim had an “undetermined value”, however, the applicant had requested to establish the non‑existence of a debt of eur 4,662,778.93. therefore, on the basis of the latter value and the applicable rules, the president calculated the amount of court fees as being eur 6,000 and the variable part of the judge’s remuneration (la parte variabile del compenso spettante al giudice) as being eur 23,000 (eur 20,000 – in accordance with the relevant table – increased by 15%, given that the case had been referred to two judges) as well as eur 500 in reimbursement of judicial expenses.addressing the applicant’s claim (that he had brought to the court’s attention new evidence which had come into his possession after the taking of the “supplementary oath”, or written evidence which he could not submit before, on the basis of which he had initiated the “jactitation suit”), the court found that the applicant had not submitted any such new evidence.43.  as to the merits, the court declared false only the first part of the “supplementary oath” (in which b. had declared that he had authorised only the operations he had explicitly acknowledged in the list submitted by his lawyer on 24 april 2003 and not the further money withdrawals which had been recorded in bank statement no.it followed that the first part of the “supplementary oath” (in which b. had stated that the only operations which had been authorised were those listed by b.’s legal representative) had not been exact and the applicant was thus right on that point and the first part of the “supplementary oath” had to be considered false.46.  in any case, having examined all the evidence, in the court’s view, the declaration of falsity of the first part of the statement made by b. under oath did not necessarily impact upon the quantification of the debt since (i) all the parties to the contract of 20 march 1990 had acted under the instructions of the same mastermind (b.49.  the applicant claimed, inter alia, that the splitting of the wording of the “supplementary oath” into two parts, and the finding of falsity of the first part and not the second, had been illogical and erroneous.according to the applicant, his “jactitation suit” had aimed at ascertaining the existence of actual damage arising from the falsity of the “supplementary oath” and such damage had arisen from the second part of the “supplementary oath” (the one in which b. had claimed the return of a quantified sum) and not the first part.in addition, the decision to split the “supplementary oath” into two parts had not been reasoned and, in the applicant’s view, he needed not bring any proof of the non‑existence of the debt, it being an automatic result of the falsity of the statement given on oath.50.  on 19 october 2015 the president dismissed the application for leave to appeal on the grounds that: (i) most of the applicant’s grounds of appeal concerned the merits of the case (which, under the relevant law, cannot constitute a ground of appeal against judgments of the court for trusts, see paragraph 57 below), (ii) in the first-instance proceedings before the court for trusts, the applicant had not given evidence of any payments made by company s.m.i.able to reduce the amount which it owed b. in this connection, the judge stated that the applicant did not seem to realise that the court for trusts had given fully detailed reasoning as to its decision to consider the second part of the “supplementary oath” as true, far more than had ever been done in the various phases of the proceedings before the [ordinary] courts.in particular, whether it had been legitimate for the court for trusts to split the “supplementary oath” into two parts was not a point of law (that is to say concerning the interpretation or application of a law or legal principle) and actually concerned the interpretation of the wording of the “supplementary oath” by the court for trusts, which had to be considered a complaint on the merits.55.  the judge observed that, on the one hand, the court had considered that the first part of the “supplementary oath” had been false on the basis of the rules governing contracts of mandate and in the light of the evidence of the operations carried out by company s.m.i.
in that letter the applicant complained of construction works undertaken by his nephew, a.k., which had significantly altered the house which had been owned by his parents and where he had been born.the applicant had become aware of that during his stay in sofia in may 2009. he expressed his indignation about the works undertaken, as well as doubts as to their legality, and requested to be sent copies of all documents concerning them, stating that he intended to bring the matter to court.in his complaint he stated that he had become aware of the applicant’s letter “by chance”, and claimed that the applicant had defamed him, in particular by stating that he had an “illegal notarial deed ... acquired on the basis of a forged notarial deed”.9.  the applicant objected to the complaint against him, contending that what he had stated was true and that he had never claimed that a.k.10.  in a decision of the sofia district court of 18 october 2012, the criminal prosecution of the applicant was discontinued as time-barred, and the examination of the case continued only as regards a.k.’s tort action.11.  that action was allowed in a judgment of the sofia district court of 30 january 2014. the domestic court stated expressly in that judgment that it did not have to establish the elements of the criminal offence of defamation.it had to establish, in accordance with section 45(1) of the obligations and contracts act (see paragraph 20 below), whether the applicant’s behaviour amounted to a tortious act and whether a.k.had become the owner of part of the property at issue after his mother had donated to him a share in 1983 and he had purchased another share from a co-owner in 1995. both transactions had been attested in notarial deeds.the construction works had been carried out in 2006 and 2007. a representative of the building control authorities had visited the site on 2 july 2009 and had established breaches of the relevant rules, but no administrative sanction had been ordered against a.k.an additional check had been carried out on 26 november 2009, after one of the co-owners of the property (not the applicant) had complained.14.  the sofia district court found that it had never been shown that the notarial deeds in a.k.’s favour had been flawed, meaning that they had to be considered valid.this was so even bearing in mind that the municipal authorities had taken no particular action against a.k., and that checks on the construction site had been incited by other co‑owners of the property.the above considerations were valid regardless of whether the applicant had committed the criminal offence of defamation, since this was not the subject of the proceedings.the applicant had had resort to his constitutional right to petition the authorities, but the exercise of that right did not have to involve causing damage to others.had enjoyed a good name in society, that the applicant’s allegations had also affected a.k.’s professional reputation, and that the allegations had been made before a municipal body and not in private correspondence.
6.  the case concerns “non-contentious” proceedings for the return of the child instituted on 13 october 2011 in which the domestic courts refused to order the return of the applicant’s son to the united states after the child’s mother (a croatian national and the applicant’s former wife) had in august 2011 “wrongfully retained” him in croatia within the meaning of the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction (“the hague convention”).7.  specifically, on 15 march 2012 the zagreb municipal civil court (općinski građanski sud u zagrebu), without holding a single hearing, dismissed the applicant’s request for the return of the child.following an appeal by the applicant, on 2 july 2012 the zagreb county court (županijski sud u zagrebu) quashed the municipal court’s decision and remitted the case.the relevant part of the county court’s decision reads as follows: “... the first-instance court based [its] decision in part on undisputed facts, and in the relevant part on the arguments and evidence submitted by the counterparty ... even though it failed to give an opportunity to the petitioner to comment on them ... [t]herefore, the petitioner’s appeal has to be allowed, the first-instance decision quashed and the case remitted ... in the fresh proceedings, the first-instance court shall correct the above error by scheduling a hearing (section 309(5) of the family act) at which it shall, together with the parties (sections 297-298 of the civil procedure act), examine the circumstances of the case.” 8.  in the fresh proceedings the municipal court obtained an opinion from a forensic expert in psychiatry on whether returning the child to the united states would expose him to psychological harm – that is, to a risk envisaged in article 13 paragraph 1 (b) of the hague convention (see paragraph 27 below with further references).on 21 may 2014 that court, without holding a hearing, again dismissed the applicant’s request for his son to be returned to the united states.this decision was upheld on appeal by the zagreb county court on 22 october 2014. the municipal court justified its decision not to hold a hearing in the following way: “... the court did not take evidence by hearing the parties because that would significantly protract the proceedings, bearing in mind that in their testimonies – precisely because they have a personal stake in the outcome of the proceedings and their objectivity is very questionable – the parties mostly want to praise and present themselves in the best light while discrediting the opposing party ... [s]uch testimonies are [therefore] generally not at all suitable [in terms of assisting a court in establishing the facts of a case] and reaching a decision.” 9.  those return proceedings (see paragraphs 6-8 above) were already subject to the examination by the court.in the first adžić case the court in the judgment of 12 march 2015 held that the domestic authorities had failed to act expeditiously in the proceedings in question.the court had accordingly found a violation of the state’s positive obligations under article 8 of the convention (see adžić v. croatia, no.at the time the court adopted its judgment, i.e. 17 february 2015, the proceedings were still pending before the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) upon a constitutional complaint lodged by the applicant.10.  in his constitutional complaint the applicant complained of a violation of his right to fair procedure, in particular of a breach of his right to an oral hearing and a breach of the principle of equality of arms and the adversarial principle.more specifically, the applicant submitted that the ordinary courts had not held a single hearing in the case and that the first‑instance court had not informed him of its decision to obtain an opinion from a forensic expert in psychiatry, thus preventing him from objecting to the choice of expert.the applicant also complained that the domestic court’s refusal to order the return of his son constituted a violation of his right to respect for family life.11.  by a decision of 28 october 2015 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint.it served its decision on his representative on 4 december 2015. the constitutional court examined only the alleged violation of the applicant’s right to fair procedure, because it considered that the alleged violation of his right to family life had been addressed by the court in the first adžić case (see paragraph 9 above).12.  the other relevant facts of the case are set out in detail in the court’s judgment in the first adžić case (see adžić, cited above, §§ 6-57).
12.  in the meantime, it appears that the district judge returned the case to the prosecutor, which entailed, apparently, modifying the legal basis for the applicant’s detention pending trial (article 255 of the ccrp) or pending investigation (article 109 of the ccrp); this in turn necessitated the re‑calculation of the respective periods of detention.by a judgment of 4 october 2012 the town court ruled that (i) during the relevant period the case against the applicant had been pending before the trial court and that his continued detention had thus been lawful; and (ii) in the absence of any element of illegality there was no legal basis for awarding compensation.the staff of the detention centre had no legal reasons for releasing [the applicant] after 19 february 2004, including in view of the absence of any information from the prosecutor that the case had been submitted for trial to the town court.those circumstances cannot be contested during the examination of another case between the same parties ... thus, it was correctly taken into account that the regional court of the komi republic had stated in its decision of 25 may 2012 (in reply to an application for release) that the detention from 19 february to 27 april 2004 had been lawful.” 23.  on 12 january 2008 the authorities in syktyvkar opened criminal proceedings against the applicants and others under article 210 of the criminal code in respect of the creation and functioning of a “criminal community” (преступное сообщество).unofficially, the law-enforcement authorities believe, they are members of the so-called loginovskaya gang, which was created in the second half of the 1990s ... according to information [issued by] the press office of the fsb [the federal security service], the gang members devised an efficient mechanism of securing regular income by way of extortion from businessmen.[the first applicant’s last name] was sentenced to eight years’ imprisonment ... the arrest of the suspects received wide coverage in the ezhvinskiy district of syktyvkar ...” 27.  the article was accompanied by photographs of the arrested people, including the applicant.according to the applicant, it was stated in the article that he had been an active member of the so-called “loginovskaya gang”, which had lived off income from the extortion and “protection” of businesses, with recourse to violence against, and the destruction of the property of, business people who refused to cooperate.the court considered that the applicant had not proved that the information in the article had been untrue, and that that information had corresponded to the fact that there was an ongoing criminal investigation in respect of, inter alia, the applicant.the judgment also reads as follows: “having obtained the investigator’s approval, the press officer of the regional department of the federal security service provided the respondent with information about the criminal investigation opened in respect of the claimant and [the] implication [of his involvement] in the criminal community ... the investigating authority was interested in receiving further information, in particular as regards possible eyewitnesses to the crimes.the appeal court pointed out that the information had been true and non-defamatory, since it had “corresponded to the information [adduced by] the preliminary investigation”; it was important to apprise the public of the appearance of the person in relation to a case receiving media coverage.31.  in the meantime, in a separate defamation case the applicant challenged another article (apparently with similar content) published by another newspaper in april 2011. by a default judgment (заочное решение – that is to say without hearing either of the parties) of 7 september 2011, the town court considered that the respondent had failed to prove the veracity of the impugned statements; the court awarded mr mityanin 5,000 russian roubles (rub) in respect of non-pecuniary damage and ordered the newspaper to publish a refutation.the court refused to allow a copy of the judgment to be placed in the case file, considering, inter alia, that the findings of the civil court were irrelevant for the determination of the criminal charge.as to the merits of the complaint, the court indicated that the applicant’s complaint had been dealt with the appropriate official, in compliance with the applicable procedure and that the official had provided reasons for dismissing the complaint.having listed the relevant provisions of article 5 of the convention, the ccrp and the code of civil procedure as well as the procedural history of the criminal case (see paragraphs 33-34 above), the court concluded that the applicant’s detention during the impugned period had been in compliance with the legislation in force at the time in question; that the head of the remand centre had had no legal basis for releasing the applicant, having information that the criminal case had been pending before a trial court.thus, [the applicant’s] detention from 19 february to 29 april 2004 had been lawful ... the court was correct to dismiss the argument that, receiving no extension decision, the head of the remand centre should have released [the applicant] after 19 february 2004 ... article 255 § 2 of the ccrp provides that the detention pending trial should not exceed six months, except for situations listed in paragraph 3 ... thereafter, the relevant court can extend detention in cases relating to serious and particularly serious offences ... thus, given that the criminal case was submitted for trial before the syktyvkar town court and taking note of the decision of 21 april 2004 (in the part relating to the dismissal of the application for release), this decision should be de facto considered as a decision to extend [the applicant’s] detention within the time-limits mentioned in article 255 of the ccrp ...”
5.  in 1991, following the adoption of the agricultural land act which provided, inter alia, for the restitution of formerly collectivised land, the applicant applied for the restitution of land previously owned by her father.6.  in a decision of 20 may 1996 the competent body, the oryahovo land commission, held that the heirs of the applicant’s father (the applicant and her sister) were entitled to the restitution of, inter alia, a plot of land of 11,800 square metres enlisted as “forest”.7.  that provision (section 4 of the transitional provisions of the agricultural land act, hereinafter “section 4”) concerns plots of land which were offered by the communist authorities for use of private persons, and stipulates that those persons’ right of use is to be discontinued.8.  during the years after 1996 the applicant kept sending letters to different bodies, seeking the completion of the restitution procedure.10.  in 2012, responding to a letter from the applicant, the ministry of agriculture and forests informed her that the completion of the restitution procedure as concerns plots under section 4 was within the competence of the municipality.11.  the applicant contacted the municipality, which informed her in a letter of 23 april 2013 that her plot was not situated within the boundaries of the area concerned by section 4 and not covered by the plan of the newly‑created plots.it informed the applicant that the plot claimed by her was considered state property and was held and managed by the ministry of agriculture and forests.13.  the applicant wrote to the oryahovo agriculture department, requesting it to finalise the restitution procedure and transfer to her possession of her father’s plot.in a letter dated 21 august 2013 the department, while confirming that the municipality had no competence as concerns this plot, explained that the applicant had had to do one of the following: either have the exact borders of her plot identified in a different procedure, which had already been completed, concerning land which is not covered by section 4; or apply for the restitution of the land under the forests restitution act, for which the relevant time-limits had already expired (see paragraph 22 below).14.  in another letter dated 11 april 2017, replying to a further request by the applicant to finalise the restitution procedure, the oryahovo agriculture department stated that its decision of 20 may 1996, indicating that the applicant’s plot was covered by section 4 and was to be restituted under the procedure concerning such plots, was final, and that the time-limit for seeking its revocation or rectification had expired.15.  in a further undated letter, replying to a fresh complaint by the applicant, the ministry of agriculture and forests instructed her to submit a written request under section 45d of the regulations on the application of the agricultural land act (hereinafter “section 45d”, see paragraph 21 below).16.  on 5 june 2017 the vratsa regional directorate of agriculture (superior body of the oryahovo agriculture department) instructed the applicant to submit to the agriculture department the relevant documents concerning the plot of land.17.  on 8 september 2017 the oryahovo agriculture department sent a letter to the applicant, listing the documents she needed to submit to enable the completion of the restitution procedure.these were: a written request under section 45d; an inheritance certificate; notarial deeds, court decisions and any other documents establishing the title to property; documents sent to the applicant by the oryahovo municipality concerning the procedure under section 4; a plan prepared by a certified geodesist, indicating the exact borders of the plot of land.19.  the necessity to submit those documents was reiterated in three additional letters sent to the applicant by the oryahovo agriculture department, dated 23 october and 15 and 23 november 2017. in the meantime, the department requested ex officio from the municipality any relevant documents concerning the procedure conducted by the latter under section 4. it appears that there were no other relevant developments after that.
5.  on 1 february 1999 the applicant instituted civil proceedings before the jastrzębie zdrój district court for the purposes of establishing an easement.7.  on 15 november 2000 the katowice regional court quashed the first-instance decision and remitted the case (file no.two experts declined the invitation to prepare an opinion, and the third expert approached by the court eventually prepared it on 17 october 2001.10.  it appears that the next hearing was held on 23 april 2002. the court questioned the expert and appointed another one to assess the value of the plot of land.12.  at a hearing on 13 january 2003 the court decided to appoint yet another expert to establish whether the easement would have any impact on the fishponds.the opinion was submitted to the court on 11 april 2003. the expert was questioned at a hearing on 3 july 2003. on 27 january 2004 another expert submitted a complementary opinion, at the request of the court.13.  the next hearing was held on 17 june 2004. the court subsequently dealt with an application lodged by the applicant to exempt her from payment of the fees for the expert opinion.iii ca 1322/05) the gliwice regional court quashed the first-instance decision and remitted the case for the second time.18.  a viewing of the land took place on 6 november 2007. afterwards anther expert opinion on road construction was ordered by the court.19.  at a hearing on 23 july 2008 the court questioned the expert and requested the preparation of another expert opinion on the value of the plot of land.22.  a hearing was held on 4 march 2010 and on 30 april 2010 the court held a viewing of the land.24.  the court held hearings in march 2011. on 31 march 2011 it gave a decision granting the applicant the easement in question.27.  on 9 december 2004 the applicant lodged a complaint with the gliwice regional court under the law of 17 june 2004 on complaint about breach of the right to have a case examined in judicial proceedings without undue delay (ustawa o skardze na naruszenie prawa strony do rozpoznania sprawy w postępowaniu sądowym bez nieuzasadnionej zwłoki – “the 2004 act”).iii s 36/04) the gliwice regional court rejected the claim on formal grounds, having found that the applicant “had not specified the circumstances on which her complaint had been based.” 29.  subsequently, the applicant lodged another complaint under the 2004 act.as regards the period prior to september 2004, the court relied on the supreme court’s jurisprudence and held that the 2004 act applied to delays caused by the court’s inactivity occurring before that date but only if that delay still continued; what had not been the case in the case under the consideration.
since the applicant’s ethnic designation had not been changed, on the same date he lodged a fresh request for it to be rectified (from bulgarian to macedonian), relying on section 17 of the state judicial act (“the act”) (see paragraph 23 below).the relevant parts of the decision read as follows: “... [the applicant’s] requests for a change to the details [recorded] in the electoral roll regarding ‘ethnicity’ were submitted after the announcement had been published of an election of [new] members to [the sjc].the requested change cannot be made because it [was intended to secure] the attainment of a(n) [electoral] right concerning the election of members of [the sjc].a change of ethnicity entry [sought exclusively for the attainment of another right] after the announcement for the election of members of the sjc [would put other judges] ... , in a disadvantageous position ...” 10.  the applicant lodged an appeal with the administrative court challenging that decision and arguing that the ministry’s decision had not been based on any statutory grounds.it furthermore added that: “... the request (lodged after the publication of the [election] announcement) for a change to the ethnicity entry was aimed exclusively at the attainment of another [electoral] right that would have put other judges (who had attained their right related to the election of [new] members to [the sjc]), in a disadvantageous position.[the applicant’s] request for the rectification post-dated the announcement of the election of [new] members to [the sjc].that was established on the basis of extracts from the electoral rolls of october 2006, december 2008 and july 2010 submitted together with the observations in reply to [the applicant’s] claim.this means that there has been no violation of his right to declare his own ethnicity.” 13.  the applicant appealed against this decision, contesting as unreasonable the finding that his request had aimed at enabling him to attain rights related to the election of new members to the sjc and that the requested change would have put other judges involved in that election in a disadvantageous position.lastly, he had not been given the opportunity to comment on the electoral rolls of 2006, 2008 and 2010, which the ministry of justice had submitted in evidence and to which the administrative court had referred in its decision establishing his ethnic identity as bulgarian.the judgment, in which the court cited the wording of provisions of the act and the general administrative procedure act (see paragraphs 19, 23 and 24 below), stated, inter alia, that: “... [the applicant requested] the modification of his ethnicity entry in the electoral roll after the [publication of] the announcement of the election of [new] members to the sjc, in which he ... participates.such a modification of the national ethnicity after the publication of the announcement related to another right would leave other judges who attain the right related to election of members to the sjc in a disadvantageous position.[the applicant], as a bulgarian, enjoyed rights related to the election of members to the sjc [given the fact that] he had declared himself in the electoral rolls of [2006, 2008 and 2010] as bulgarian ... ... [the ministry’s] decision is based on the state judicial council act and the general administrative procedure act ... ... [t]he court examined and rejected as ill-founded [the applicant’s] allegations that the impugned decision had restricted his right to assert his own ethnic identity.[the ministry’s] refusal [to do so] cannot be regarded as a restriction on his right to assert his ethnic identity, given that the modification in question was sought after the announcement of the election of [new] members to the sjc had been published.” 16.  on 5 october 2012 the applicant submitted himself for election as a member of the sjc.on an unspecified date, he submitted a written statement affirming that he was of macedonian ethnicity and that his application for election to the sjc had been made with regard to the general list of judges of the courts within the territorial jurisdiction of the štip court of appeal (see paragraph 21 below).17.  by a letter of 3 december 2012, the sjc informed the applicant that it had struck his name out of the general list of candidates for election to the sjc to be selected from judges of the courts within the territorial jurisdiction of the štip court of appeal.
6.  on 12 january 2010 the romny court convicted the applicant of both charges and sentenced him to two years’ imprisonment.by the same decision the court remanded him in custody pending the execution of its judgment.7.  on 23 march 2010, upon an appeal by the applicant, the sumy regional court of appeal (“the regional court”) quashed the judgment of 12 january 2010 and remitted the case for retrial.8.  on 27 april 2010 the applicant asked the romny court to order his release from custody, subject to an undertaking not to abscond.in that regard he submitted that he had no prior criminal record and that the crimes imputed to him were not serious.the applicant also submitted that, having been bound by an undertaking not to abscond throughout the first round of the proceedings, he had never attempted to abscond or to obstruct the investigation and had dutifully complied with all his procedural obligations.9.  on an unknown date in may 2010 the romny court refused the applicant’s request for release, having found that the crimes imputed to him were sufficiently serious as to potentially warrant a prison sentence of three years or more.it also ruled, without providing any details, that there was sufficient evidence that the applicant might obstruct the proceedings if he were to be released.10.  on several further occasions (in particular, on 13 july, 29 september and 7 december 2010) the applicant lodged similar requests for release; the court rejected each such application on the date on which it was lodged, referring to the seriousness of the offences imputed to the applicant and to the lack of any valid reasons justifying his release.11.  on 10 february 2011 the applicant again asked to be released from custody pending the proceedings against him, reiterating his previous arguments and emphasising that it was very difficult while in detention to keep to his special diet and secure the necessary medical supervision for his chronic medical conditions.12.  on 23 february 2011 the romny court allowed that request and released the applicant, subject to an undertaking not to abscond.referring to article 5 of the convention, the court noted that, regard being had to the applicant’s character (in particular, his age, health, family and social status, the absence of a prior criminal record and his positive character references), there was no reason to consider that he would abscond, obstruct the investigation or engage in criminal activity if released pending trial.the charge of bribery was dropped by the prosecutor’s office, and the applicant was committed to stand trial on the charge of fraud alone.14.  on 23 november 2012 the romny court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to a fine.however, it released him from any liability to pay the fine levied for the crime for which he had been tried as the time-limit for implementing that sanction had expired.
as a result of the investigation of the criminal case it has not been established that the officials of [the agency] have failed to perform properly their official duties or have used their official capacity to the detriment of the interests of their service...” 13.  the applicant subsequently demanded that the agency return the amd 75,820,000 paid to its account.14.  on 30 october 2007 the applicant lodged a claim with the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan, seeking to recover the money paid back to the agency, the amount of income tax collected from her, and damages for unlawfully retention of her assets.in doing so, it stated that the amount of amd 75,820,000 was to be returned to the applicant since there was no legal basis for the agency to keep that amount, on the ground that the decision to terminate the criminal proceedings confirmed that the applicant had not committed any illegal act.the court stated, in particular, that there should be a causal link between the damage allegedly suffered and the fault of the person who allegedly caused the damage, and that the claimant bore the burden of proof in this regard.20.  the applicant lodged an appeal, arguing that the court had applied the provisions of law concerning compensation for damages but that she had withdrawn her claim for damages and had merely demanded the return of her property unlawfully kept by the agency.she further argued that she had not been charged with any offence in the course of the criminal proceedings; the fact that she had paid the amount in question was confirmed by the payment slip, and moreover the agency had never denied being in possession of her property.the relevant part of the judgment read as follows: “article 1099 § 4 provides that monetary assets and other property given in fulfilment of non-existent obligations are not subject to return as unjust enrichment if the acquirer proves that the person demanding return of the property had knowledge of the absence of an obligation ... as a result of the examination of the materials of the civil case it has been revealed that the claimant returned the amount in question on the basis of [the agency’s] demand which was not based either on the law or ... on a contract.in particular, from the legal point of view the respondent [agency’s] demand for the return of amd 75,820,000 had no legal basis and the failure to respect it could not of itself bring about ... negative consequences for the claimant.the fact that [the applicant] was aware of having no obligations towards the respondent [agency] is also supported by the fact that, apart from [the agreement of 7 september 2004], the parties have not concluded any other ... agreements or an agreement to return a sum of money or another agreement in relation to it.as regards [the applicant’s] argument that [the agency] had informed her that the general prosecutor’s office was investigating matters relating to the ... agreement concluded with her, as a result of which she had been confused and therefore had returned the amount to [the agency]; the court of appeal notes in this respect that this argument may serve as an independent legal basis to dispute [the agency’s] actions in judicial proceedings ...” 22.  the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law.she argued that in the course of the proceedings it had not been substantiated that, when making the payment, she had been aware of the fact that she did not have any obligations towards the agency, since she had been informed to the contrary, namely that she had been overpaid and that she could be held criminally liable if she did not return the money.27.  according to article 1092, a person who has acquired possession of the property (acquirer) of another person (victim) without any legal or contractual basis has an obligation to return the unlawfully acquired property (unjust enrichment) with the exception of the cases stated in article 1099 of the code.28.  according to article 1099 § 4, monetary assets and other property given in fulfilment of non-existent obligations are not subject to return as unjust enrichment if the acquirer proves that the person demanding return of the property had knowledge of the absence of an obligation or had provided the property for charitable purposes.29.  paragraph 4 provides that the yerevan construction and investment project implementation agency is responsible for taking the plots of land and real estate, for drawing up price offers to proprietors, and for the supervision and implementation of payment of compensation for expropriation of property.30.  for the purpose of implementation of construction projects in yerevan, the government decided to designate real estate (plots of land, buildings and constructions) situated within the administrative boundaries of the kentron district of yerevan as expropriation zones, to be taken for the needs of the state, with a total area of 345,000 square metres.
7.  in 1995 the applicant’s uncle admitted that he was the father of a newborn baby boy a., whose mother was g., and at his request the boy was registered as living in the flat as the grandson of m. 8.  in november 1998 the applicant’s uncle died.9.  in december 1998 the applicant moved into the flat with her grandmother and, with the written consent of her grandmother, the authorities registered her as living in the flat as m.’s granddaughter.a., born in 1995, has acquired a right to the living premises where his mother [g.] lives...” 11.  the applicant and her grandmother asked the court to declare that g.’s son had not acquired any right to use the flat.she submitted in particular that after the death of her son’s father, the applicant, who had been living in the flat, and her grandmother had changed the locks and had not let her and her son into the flat.16.  on 19 july 2007 the st petersburg city court (“the city court”) quashed the judgment of 25 april 2007 as regards the part concerning the applicant’s eviction and the obligation on the district administration to conclude a social tenancy agreement with g.’s son.the city court held in particular that, in coming to the conclusion that the applicant had not proved that she had moved into the flat as a family member of her grandmother and in taking a decision to evict the applicant, the district court had not made any assessment of the fact that the applicant’s grandmother had initially brought the court proceedings together with the applicant and had never challenged the applicant’s right to occupy the flat.the city court also pointed out that the district court had not assessed other evidence submitted by the applicant confirming that she had carried out repair and decoration works in the flat, photographs of the applicant with her grandmother which had been taken in the disputed flat, or other evidence submitted by the applicant.the district court found, with reference to articles 53 and 54 of the housing code of the russian soviet federative socialist republic (see “relevant domestic law” below) that both the applicant and g.’s son were registered as living in the flat as the grandchildren of m., the previous tenant.the court considered that g. had proved that her son had moved into the flat and had lived there for some time, but had not been able to move back because the applicant had not let him in.the court considered that the applicant had not proved that she had moved into the flat as her grandmother’s family member and had shared the same household and taken care of her.she submitted in particular that the district court had not made any assessment of the fact that she and her grandmother had initially brought court proceedings together as members of the same family, and that her grandmother had never challenged her right to occupy the flat.nor had the district court taken into account her submissions that she had been living in the flat in question since childhood, that her grandmother had asked the authorities to register her as living in the flat, and that in 2000 and 2001 the welfare authorities had declared that they were a poor family.the city court held in particular that in taking its decision in the case, the court of first instance had assessed all the evidence in the case, including the witness testimony, and had reasonably indicated that a. had acquired the right to use the disputed living premises because he had been moved into the flat as a tenant’s family member in accordance with the procedure provided for by law.the city court agreed with the conclusion of the court of first instance that the applicant’s claims had to be dismissed because the applicant had not proved that she had moved into the disputed flat and had shared the same household as the tenant, m., her grandmother.the city court further held that the grounds of the applicant’s appeal had aimed to reassess the evidence in the case, and that, given the fresh conclusion that the court of first instance had duly assessed the evidence before it, those grounds could not serve as a basis for quashing the judgment.
5.  on 20 september 2007 the applicant, who was head of the brusyliv district state administration of zhytomyr region at the time, was arrested on charges of bribery.7.  in the course of the pre-trial investigation the applicant’s detention was extended a number of times, including on 15 november 2007, 17 january 2008 and 19 march 2008. the reasons for extending the applicant’s detention were the need to take additional investigative and procedural steps and the fact that there were no grounds to change the preventive measure.8.  on 19 may, 17 june, 26 june, 29 july and 7 august 2008 the courts further extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention, basing their decisions, in addition to the previously mentioned grounds (see paragraph 7 above), on the need for him to familiarise himself with the case file.9.  in the course of reviewing the extension of his detention on 24 september 2007, 8 january, 19 march and 7 august 2008, the applicant raised objections arguing, in particular, that his state of health had been unsatisfactory, that he had a stable family relationship, and that he had not absconded from justice.11.  in the course of the trial the applicant applied eleven times to change the preventive measure to a non-custodial one.he stated that his state of health had been unsatisfactory, that his relatives were ready to make the necessary payment of bail, and that a number of individuals, including a member of parliament and state officials, had provided personal guarantees securing his presence during the trial.the court further stated that the applicant had been provided with the necessary medical treatment in detention and that his state of health did not warrant his release.13.  according to the material in the case file, the applicant has suffered from varicose dilatation (варикозне розширення вен) since 1980. according to the government, the applicant was diagnosed with varicose dilatation of the lower limbs as early as in 1984.15.  it was concluded in a forensic examination carried out on 16 january 2008 at the request of the investigator that the applicant had a number of endocrine, heart, venous, neurologic, and digestive conditions.the forensic experts concluded that the applicant required elective surgery in respect of the varicose dilatation, and outpatient treatment in respect of the other conditions.16.  overall, in the course of his detention the applicant was recommended surgery six times in respect of the varicose dilatation, on 16 january 2008, 5 may 2008, 23 october 2008, 18 march 2009, 22 july 2009 and 18 march 2010.18.  on 22 april 2009 the sizo informed the applicant’s lawyer that he had been diagnosed with varicose dilatation of the lower limbs, third degree chronic venous insufficiency of the lower left limb, second degree chronic venous insufficiency of the lower right limb, hypothalamic dysfunction, impaired glucose tolerance, first degree diffuse non-toxic goiter (an enlarged thyroid) and a chronic trophic ulcer on the left shin.19.  on 12 october and 19 november 2009 the sizo issued another reply to the applicant’s lawyer, stating that it had been recommended that the applicant undergo surgical treatment in respect of his progressing varicose dilatation.this type of treatment could not be carried out within the sizo, and its medical staff were not in a position to foresee the consequences of the refusal to provide him with surgical treatment.22.  on 18 november 2013 the applicant was dispensed from serving the remainder of his sentence pursuant to a decision of the local court of 8 november 2013 altering his imprisonment to correctional labour.
8.  the ivs duty officer in the presence of police officer s. recorded the following injuries on the first applicant: bruises on the bridge of the nose, under both eyes, on the left shoulder blade, right shoulder and stomach, abrasions on the wrists, and an abrasion and a bruise on the buttocks.recorded the following injuries on him: a bruise in the area around each wrist joint measuring 13 to 0.4-0.5 centimetres; a bruise on the right shank measuring 3.5 to 2.5 centimetres; a stripe-shaped abrasion on the left forearm measuring 2.2 centimetres with uneven edges and a firm reddish-brown surface at the skin level; and small abrasions on each wrist measuring 0.2 to 0.4 centimetres and on the left shank measuring 0.3 to 0.7 centimetres of an irregular‑oval shape with uneven edges and firm reddish surface at or below the skin level.14.  on 27 march 2007 the first applicant was examined at the voronezh regional forensic medical examination bureau by the same expert who recorded the following injuries on him: a wound on the right wrist joint measuring 1.4 to 0.4 centimetres, of an irregular-oval shape, with uneven edges and rounded ends, under firm brownish scab rising over the skin level; an abrasion on the left wrist joint measuring 1.4 to 0.8 centimetres, of an irregular-oval shape, under firm brownish scab entirely coming off here and there; stripe-shaped abrasions on the wrists under firm brownish scabs entirely coming off here and there, measuring 3.5 to 0.4 centimetres (on the front side of the right wrist joint), 5.5 to 0.4 centimetres (on the back side of the right wrist joint) and 3.7 to 0.4 centimetres (on the back side of the left wrist joint).16.  according to the expert’s report of 27 march 2007, the first applicant’s examination was conducted in the presence of police officer s. and the applicant stated that on 19 march 2007 after his arrest police officers had punched him in the area of the stomach and the arms, had handcuffed him and tortured him with electric current.investigators from the leninskiy district prosecutor’s office of voronezh, and later from the investigative committee unit for the leninskiy district of voronezh, conducted pre‑investigation inquiries and issued seven refusals to bring criminal proceedings for lack of the elements of crimes under articles 286 § 3 (abuse of powers with use of violence) and 302 (coercion to give statements) of the criminal code in the actions of police officers s. and g., pursuant to article 24 § 1 (2) of the code of criminal procedure (“ccrp”).all refusals were annulled by the investigators’ superiors because they were based on incomplete inquiries and additional inquiries were ordered: -  refusal of 20 april 2007, annulled on 19 september 2007; -  refusal of 29 september 2007, annulled on 2 october 2007; -  refusal of 12 october 2007, annulled on 28 november 2007; -  refusal of 10 december 2007, annulled on 15 january 2008; -  refusal of 25 january 2008, annulled on 11 february 2011; -  refusal of 24 february 2011, annulled on 15 april 2011; -  refusal of 28 april 2011, annulled on 6 july 2011; and -  refusal of 8 july 2011 (on the grounds that the injuries could have been inflicted before the first applicant’s arrest and that the applicant had no injuries which could have been inflicted by electric current), annulled on 28 august 2015 (because the investigator failed, inter alia, to identify all police officers who had allegedly ill-treated the applicant).according to the first applicant’s wife who witnessed the applicant’s arrest at their home, the first applicant had no injuries before his arrest and he had injuries – he was limping and had a bruise under the right eye, an abrasion on the bridge of the nose and swallowed hands – next day when she saw him at the court hearing concerning his detention on remand.all refusals were annulled by the investigators’ superiors because they were based on incomplete inquiries and additional inquiries were ordered: -  refusal of 1 october 2007, revoked on 24 october 2007; -  refusal of 6 november 2007, revoked on 16 november 2007; -  refusal of 26 november 2007, revoked on 27 november 2007; and -  refusal of 7 december 2007, revoked on 28 august 2015 (on the grounds, inter alia, that the information about the lack of injuries on the second applicant on his arrival to sizo-1 on 23 march 2007 had not been supported by medical and other relevant documents).26.  on 20 march 2007 the leninskiy district court of voronezh examined in different proceedings an investigator’s request that the applicants be detained on remand on the grounds of the gravity of the crime of which they were suspected (murder) and resultant risks of their absconding, re-offending, threatening witnesses, victims and other participants to the proceedings, destroying evidence and otherwise hindering the criminal proceedings.in its decisions of 17 may 2007 (concerning both applicants, upheld on appeal by the voronezh regional court on 5 june 2007), 8 june 2007 (concerning the second applicant, upheld on appeal on 3 july 2007), 9 june 2007 (concerning the first applicant, upheld on appeal on 26 june 2007) and 6 september and 12 december 2007 (concerning the second applicant, the latter decision upheld on appeal on 17 january 2008) the district court, after hearing the applicants and their lawyers who maintained their objections, granted the investigator’s requests and extended the applicants’ detention, stating that they were accused of the grave crimes and the grounds for the court’s initial decision to remand them in custody had not changed.29.  on 11 october 2007 the regional court, after hearing the applicant’s lawyer and the prosecutor, upheld the decision of 14 september 2007, holding that the district court had taken into account the gravity of the offences incriminated to the applicant, his personality and the lack of grounds for the change of the preventive measure.30.  on 12 december 2007 the district court, having heard the applicants and their lawyers, extended the applicants’ detention until 16 march 2008. in addition to the gravity of crimes and the alleged corresponding risks of the applicants absconding, re-offending and influencing victims and witnesses, it noted that the investigator had to finalise important investigative measures, such as the additional questioning of victims, psychological expert examinations of the accused and bringing final charges against the applicants and their co‑accused.31.  in its decisions for extension of the applicants’ detention of 6 march (concerning both applicants), 17 march 2008 (concerning the first applicant, upheld by the supreme court of russia on 20 may 2008) and 18 march 2008 (concerning the second applicant, upheld on appeal on 20 may 2008) the voronezh regional court relied on the gravity of multiple crimes of which the applicants stood accused (including banditry according to final charges), the risk of their re‑offending and the need to finalise investigative activities involving 36 victims and eight accused and their lawyers.and m.; the first applicant noted that those victims, not mentioned in the courts’ decisions, had acknowledged at the trial that they had actually not received any threats from the defendants), the first applicant’s criminal records, the defendants’ abuse of their rights by submitting multiple requests the majority of which had been rejected and the resultant protraction of the proceedings and the risk of the defendants exerting pressure on jurors.36.  on 23 august 2011 the supreme court of russia quashed the judgment in respect of the first applicant and remitted his case to the trial court for a fresh examination from the moment following the jury verdict, extending his detention on remand until 23 november 2011. it upheld the judgment in respect of the second applicant.
on the same day the oktyabrskiy district court of izhevsk (“the district court”) imposed an administrative fine on the applicant and ordered his administrative removal and detention until his removal.10.  on 5 april 2016 the supreme court of the republic of udmurtiya excluded the removal order from the administrative penalty imposed on him by the district court.12.  on 3 june 2016 the supreme court of the republic of udmurtiya re‑opened the applicant’s case at the request of the migration official and sent it for re-examination to the district court.13.  on 16 june 2016 the district court reviewed the administrative removal order of 23 march 2016 and confirmed its validity.on 12 september 2016 the judgment of 16 june 2016 was upheld by the supreme court of the republic of udmurtiya.on 7 february 2017 the applicant filed a cassation appeal against these three decisions at the supreme court of the russian federation.14.  on 15 july, 7 november and 19 december 2016 and 27 january, 2 march and 10 april 2017 the oktyabrskiy district court of izhevsk allowed an application lodged by the bailiff for the postponement of the enforcement of the order of administrative removal by one month owing to the application of an interim measure by the court on 17 june 2016. the district court granted the bailiff’s request having relied on article 31.5 of the code of administrative offences ((“the cao”), see paragraph 21 below).in these proceedings the applicant’s lawyer also argued that there was a lack of grounds for the applicant’s detention and requested that the enforcement proceedings be terminated and that the applicant be released.however, the district court dismissed her arguments, having concluded that, “the grounds for the applicant’s detention had already been established by the court in the removal proceedings and the discontinuation of the enforcement proceedings in the circumstances of [the applicant’s] case is not provided for by article 31.7 of the cao” (see paragraph 22 below).all these decisions, except the one of 15 july 2016 (no appeal was brought), were upheld by the supreme court of the republic of udmurtiya.15.  on 17 may 2017 the supreme court of the russian federation (“the supreme court”) examined the cassation appeal complaint of the applicant and reviewed the judgments issued in respect of his removal (see paragraph 13 above).the supreme court confirmed the judgments but discontinued the enforcement of administrative penalty in the form of the removal imposed on the applicant on 23 march 2016. the supreme court found that the applicant might be exposed to a risk of torture or ill-treatment in syria in the event of his return there.according to the applicant, he did not appeal against this decision because the migration authorities had convinced the applicant that “his application for temporary asylum would be granted”.18.  on 25 november 2016 a second request lodged by the applicant for temporary asylum was denied by the migration authorities and the applicant did not lodge a complaint against this refusal.19.  according to the information provided by the applicant’s lawyer on 9 november 2017, while the proceedings before the court were ongoing, the applicant left russia of his own volition on 2 august 2017 and had settled in sweden.
6.  the facts presented below are based on the official version of the events contained in the trial judgment of 25 july 2006. at the time, the applicant was a military deputy prosecutor.the applicant suspected that the theft had been committed by k. he assigned a number of army privates to search for k. 8.  on 29 january 2000 the applicant together with a group of privates and a police officer, m., broke into a flat where k. was hiding.10.  in the subsequent days, the privates who were under the applicant’s direct command repeatedly beat k. as a result, k. signed a note acknowledging his debt to the applicant.had been justifiable as he had acted in self-defence; that he should have been acquitted of extortion; and that the prosecution had failed to prove that he had abused his power as regards the beatings of the suspects and witnesses.the applicant also claimed that, in contravention of the applicable rules of criminal procedure, during the preparation of the verdict the trial judge had repeatedly left the deliberations room and that he had prepared the text of the verdict outside perm where the trial had been held.the judge had talked openly about the applicant’s trial, telling everyone that he would find the applicant guilty and sentence him to a long term of imprisonment.as regards the applicant’s argument that the trial court had failed to question five witnesses, the court noted that three of them had been ill and had been unable to attend the hearing.nor does the case file contain any material confirming the [applicant’s] allegations that [judge r.] made statements in public about the verdict he was drafting ... the allegations made in the statements of appeal do not constitute such evidence either.” 19.  on an unspecified date the applicant applied for a supervisory review of his conviction.20.  on 26 january 2009 the presidium of the military court of the third circuit conducted a supervisory review and upheld the applicant’s conviction.21.  on 23 june 2009 the supreme court of the russian federation noted that the applicant had not been notified of the date and time of the supervisory review hearing, quashed the judgment of 26 january 2009 and remitted the matter for fresh consideration.22.  on 17 september 2009 the presidium of the military court of the third circuit conducted a new supervisory review of the applicant’s conviction and upheld it.23.  on 10 june 2010 the supreme court quashed the judgment of 17 september 2009 and remitted the matter for fresh consideration in view of the unlawful composition of the supervisory-review court.24.  on 11 august 2010 the presidium of the military court of the third circuit conducted a new supervisory review of the applicant’s conviction and upheld it.the presidium ruled, inter alia, that the trial court’s reliance on the witnesses’ statements had been justified, given that those witnesses had been unable to attend the hearing and that their testimonies had not been the decisive or sole evidence in the applicant’s case.the presidium dismissed as unsubstantiated the applicant’s argument that the trial judge had failed to comply with the applicable rules of criminal procedure when preparing his verdict.
5.  the applicant was arrested on 3 june 2012 and transferred to kaunas remand prison on 4 june 2012. on 5 june 2012 he was examined by a doctor (see paragraph 15 below).7.  on 15 march 2013 a report was issued by a medical expert, indicating that the use of a cpap device was the most effective way to treat sleep apnoea and that the applicant’s condition was deteriorating because he had not been using a cpap device.9.  on 19 september the applicant asked the prison administration to allow him to use a cpap device.on 3 october 2013 the administration of kaunas remand prison responded that under domestic law such a device was not among the items that could be given to detainees by their spouses or close relatives (see paragraph 14 below), but indicated that such an item could be purchased from the prison shop.the applicant then asked the kaunas remand prison administration to allow his relatives to give him the device.on 29 october 2013, this request was also refused, on the grounds that there were no indications in the applicant’s medical history or in the document issued by the prison hospital that the applicant needed the device (see paragraph 16 below).10.  on 20 october 2014 the applicant lodged a complaint before the domestic courts, which he specified on 19 february 2015. he asked the court to award him 86,800 euros (eur) in compensation for non-pecuniary damage suffered in the period between 4 june 2012 and 20 october 2014. the applicant stated that while he had been detained in kaunas remand prison, he had asked the prison administration to allow him to have a cpap device to treat his sleep apnoea, as recommended to him by a doctor in the prison hospital (see paragraph 8 above).the applicant stated that the prison administration had refused to allow him to have such a device, and he had been experiencing serious health issues.the court stated that the prison administration had failed to provide the applicant with the same level of healthcare available to persons who were not detained.it was clear from the case file that the applicant had twice asked the prison administration to allow him to purchase and use a cpap device.the court held that the applicant had a right to compensation in respect of non‑pecuniary damage suffered from 3 october 2013 (when his request was refused by the prison administration – see paragraph 9 below) until 20 october 2014 and thus decided to award the applicant eur 1,100 in this regard.the court also noted that there was no information in the case file to indicate that the applicant had not received appropriate healthcare in kaunas remand prison.it stated that although the recommendation issued by the specialist contained a reference to possible complications, there was no information in the applicant’s case file to show that the inability to use a cpap device had had any negative consequences for his health.13.  on 12 july 2017 the applicant asked the prison department for a transfer to alytus correctional facility from vilnius correctional facility, where he had been transferred on 20 march 2015. the applicant submitted that he had been serving his sentence in premises for disabled persons but that he could be transferred to the standard dormitory-type premises.on 2 august 2017 the applicant’s request was allowed and he was transferred to alytus correctional facility on 21 august 2017 where he was able to continue using his cpap device.
applied to the bucharest county court for the return of the second and third applicants to italy, the place of their habitual residence.he relied on the provisions of the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction (“the hague convention”) and those of council regulation (ec) no.2201/2003 of 27 november 2003 concerning jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and the matters of parental responsibility (“the brussels ii bis regulation”).12.  the county court heard evidence from the parents (hearing of 27 september 2015) and interviewed the children in the presence of a psychologist (on 16 november 2015).13.  in a judgment of 18 january 2016 the bucharest county court allowed the application for the return of the children to their habitual residence in italy.as for the allegations that the children ran a grave risk of being exposed to physical or psychological harm at their father’s hands, it found as follows: “the evidence in the file proves without doubt that the father used physical force and a raised voice to discipline his children.it is therefore evident that nothing can justify a departure from this norm.” 14.  the first applicant appealed, and in a final decision of 30 march 2017 the bucharest court of appeal upheld the order to return the children.the court of appeal considered that the existence of criminal proceedings against the first applicant in italy did not constitute grounds for refusing the return.in fact, the court reasoned, in accordance with the european arrest warrant procedure, a criminal sentence would have the same effect regardless of whether the first applicant lived in romania or italy.the court of appeal reassessed the allegations of grave risk for the children in italy and concluded as follows: “... it cannot be inferred that occasional acts of violence such as those which were proved by the recordings adduced in the file, would reoccur often enough to pose a grave risk ... under article 13 § 1 (b) of the hague convention ... ... it is reasonable to expect that the italian authorities would give the assurance that they would take the measures required by the [brussels ii bis regulation], so that the aim of the hague convention would be observed, namely that a child is not removed or retained in the name of rights linked to his person which are to a larger or lesser extent debatable.it is also reasonable to suppose that if after the decision is rendered the children are exposed to a risk, [the italian authorities] would take such requisite measures, if the risk was brought to their attention and supported by evidence.” 15.  on 11 july 2017 p.l.r.and a psychologist from the bucharest directorate general for social welfare and child protection (“the child-protection authority”) spoke with the children, with their mother’s permission.17.  a report of 29 may 2018 on the results of the counselling stated that the children refused contact with their father despite the first applicant’s efforts to encourage that relationship.on 13 july 2018 the court stayed the enforcement proceedings, at the first applicant’s request, on the grounds that the children’s refusal to go back to italy with their father had already been established.19.  it appears from the parties’ observations that at least on 26 september 2018 (the date of the most recent relevant information) the applicants were still living in romania.
8.  on 13 may 2016 the applicant lodged a request for refugee status, referring to a real risk of treatment contrary to article 3 by the uzbek authorities in the event of his transfer to uzbekistan.10.  on 16 may 2016 the migration authorities in the arkhangelsk region ordered the applicant’s deportation, referring to the above decision on the undesirability of his stay in russia.the court referred to: the applicant’s conviction in russia, negative character references from the penal colony, the charges against him in uzbekistan, the international search warrant, the fact that the applicant had arrived in russia in 2007 seeking employment, and the absence of any history of persecution or ill-treatment in uzbekistan.15.  on 28 june 2016 the applicant’s request for an interim measure under rule 39 of the rules of court was granted by the court, and his removal was stayed for the duration of the proceedings before the court.16.  on 30 june 2016, the day the applicant finished serving his sentence and was released from the penal colony in the arkhangelsk region, he was immediately arrested by the authorities without having had the chance to contact his lawyer, who was present outside the penal colony at that time.the applicant’s representatives submit that they immediately verified with the representative of the russian federation that the relevant authorities had been duly informed about the applied interim measure.the representatives also contacted the prosecutor general’s office, the local police and the migration authorities, informing them about the above interim measure and requesting compliance with it.17.  on the same day the applicant was taken to arkhangelsk airport, and he arrived at moscow domodedovo airport on the morning of 1 july 2016. between 9.49 a.m. and 12.28 p.m. the applicant’s representative sent faxes to the prosecutor general’s office and the domodedovo airport police station, informing them of the events and the fact that the interim measure had been indicated by the court.the letter stated that the police officers had been unable to prevent it, since when “the police officers arrived at the parking position... the airplane was closed and was preparing for the take-off to the destination airport”.21.  on 14 july 2016 the applicant’s representative asked the investigative committee to institute a criminal inquiry against the law‑enforcement agents who had enforced the deportation order, as well as the agents who had failed to prevent it.22.  on 22 july and 7 october 2016 the investigative committee informed the applicant’s representative that the request fell outside of its competence, and it was transferred to the prosecutor general’s office.23.  on 26 july and 2 september 2016 the prosecutor general’s office informed the applicant’s representative that no extradition decision had been issued because the prosecution in respect of the charges in uzbekistan was time-barred; and that they had been informed about the interim measure indicated by the court only on 1 july 2016, after the deportation had taken place.24.  complaints against the decisions of 22 july and 7 october 2016 of the investigative committee were dismissed by the basmanniy district court of moscow several times in 2016-2017, but each time, the lower court’s judgments were annulled by the moscow city court and it ordered that the complaints should be reconsidered.27.  on 24 october 2017 the applicant’s representative, ms trenina, informed the court that she was still in contact with the applicant through his relatives and the lawyer representing him in uzbekistan, and that he wished to maintain his application.in support of that assertion, she provided the following evidence: (a) a handwritten note (in uzbek with a russian translation) from the applicant’s mother dated 28 september 2017 and addressed to ms trenina, which stated that the applicant had expressed his wish to maintain the application during a meeting which he had had with her in the penal colony; (b) a handwritten affidavit from the applicant dated 12 october 2017 and addressed to ms trenina, which stated that he wished to maintain his application, that he had been subjected to ill-treatment during the investigation in uzbekistan, that he was being detained in inhuman conditions, that he had almost lost his eyesight, and that he had attempted to commit suicide while in detention; (c) a handwritten affidavit from the applicant dated 12 october 2017 and addressed to ms trenina, which described his deportation from russia and specifically mentioned that he had been in contact with his representatives via telephone throughout the deportation procedure on 30 june and 1 july 2016, and that the law-enforcement agents carrying out the deportation had been repeatedly informed of the indication of the interim measure by the court, but had chosen to ignore this information; (d) a report from ms rakhmatullayeva, the applicant’s lawyer in uzbekistan, dated 18 october 2017 and addressed to ms trenina, which stated that during a meeting in the penal colony – in the presence of an uzbek law-enforcement agent – the applicant had confirmed both his wish to maintain his application, despite his apparent fear of reprisal from the uzbek authorities, and the facts stated in the above-mentioned handwritten affidavits of 12 october 2017.
12.  according to the police record dated 16 june 2011, the applicant had the following injuries on admission to the police detention facility in gdynia: bruising of the left cheek and abrasions on his arms and back.28.  the forensic opinion was prepared on 26 june 2012. on the basis of the medical documentation, including the police record dated 16 june 2011 and certificates dated 17 june 2011, the forensic opinion established that the applicant had sustained tenderness of his left temple, swelling of the left side of his face with bruising, swelling of the right wrist, and abrasions on his wrists and his back.given the risk that the applicant might have had a firearm and seeing that the applicant had refused to be handcuffed, officer r. had decided to use the edw on the applicant’s back as the other officer was attempting to handcuff him.with regard to the edw, the prosecutor stated: “the electroshock weapon was used in accordance with procedure, and only in respect of [the applicant], in the circumstances described by the police officer arresting him and owing to his non-compliance with the orders.” 36.  the prosecutor noted that the arrest of five people (two men and three women) had taken place in a flat, in fact in one room (with four people in it) in a very small space.37.  the prosecutor noted that the applicant had not recorded any objections to the manner of his arrest in the record of arrest, despite the allegedly drastic actions of the police officers.the court had found that, in the light of the evidence available at the material time, the arrest had been justified and carried out lawfully.nonetheless, having analysed the totality of the evidence in the case, the prosecutor could not unequivocally establish that the injuries had resulted from the officers’ actions.despite the fact that the version of events presented by the applicant could not be entirely ruled out, the prosecutor, having regard to the principle of in dubio pro reo, decided to discontinue the investigation for lack of sufficient evidence for suspicion that the alleged offence had been committed.42.  the court noted that the cases and manner of use of coercive measures by the police was regulated in the ordinance of the council of ministers of 17 september 1990 on the use of coercive measures by the police.44.  the court noted that the arrestees’ behaviour and the fact that the arrest had concerned a case of kidnapping had determined the nature of the actions taken by the officers.if a lawful order given by a police authority or police officer has not been complied with, a police officer may apply the following coercive measures: 1)  physical, technical and chemical means of restraining or escorting persons or of stopping vehicles; 2)  truncheons; 3)  water cannons; 4)  police dogs and horses; 5)  rubber bullets fired from firearms; 2.  police officers may apply only such coercive measures as correspond to the exigencies of a given situation and are necessary to have their orders obeyed.” 48.  the ordinance of the council of ministers of 17 september 1990 on the use of coercive measures by the police (rozporządzenie rady ministrów w sprawie określenia przypadków oraz warunków i sposobów użycia przez policjantów środków przymusu bezpośredniego) was issued on the basis of section 16(4) of the police act.52.  in a letter to the commander in chief of the police (komendant główny policji) dated 28 june 2017, the ombudsman (rzecznik praw obywatelskich) expressed his concerns about the use of edws by the police.the guidance found by the cpt in some countries, to the effect that these weapons may be used when law enforcement officials are facing violence – or a threat of violence – of such a level that they would need to use force to protect themselves or others, is so broad as to leave the door open to a disproportionate response.in contrast, when the ‘contact’ mode is used, electrodes on the end of the weapon produce an electrical arc and when they are brought into contact with the person targeted the electrodes cause very intense, localised pain, with the possibility of burns to the skin.the technical information registered on the memory chip and the video recording of the use of the edw should be included in the report.
the first thing to be said is that these remarks must be viewed in the overall context of all that had taken place, which included the various responses of barry doyle regarding the death of his brother, the responses regarding his own family, his children by a previous relationship to his relationship with [g], as well as read or taken in the context of the limited answers he had given about living in limerick and the fact that he had conceded ... that being in custody on suspicion of the murder of [s.g.] was the lowest point in his life.but it is by no means clear that that would have been of any great assistance to him; the questions would still have been asked and he could well have been in the same situation of deciding that he was going to confess to the extent, limited in degree as it was, that he actually did in interview 15 and followed up in later interviews.” 29.  the court of appeal again referred to the fact that all interviews had been recorded, so that the trial judge was able to see precisely what had happened during them.the court of appeal also noted that the applicant criticised the judge’s charge on the question of the dissipation of inducement or threat, and recalled that the judge had consulted with the lawyers of both parties in advance on the presentation of that issue and both had indicated their agreement.the trial was satisfactory and the conviction of mr doyle was safe.” 31.  on 8 june 2015 the supreme court granted leave to appeal, identifying three issues for examination, one of which is of central relevance to the present application: “whether or not the appellant was, in the circumstances of this case, entitled to consult with a solicitor, and have a solicitor present, prior to and during the 15th interview with the [police], during which admissions were alleged to have been made.secondly, if they do constitute such threats or inducements, whether their effect had ‘dissipated’, or ‘worn off’, by the time of the admissions relied on by the state, as held by the trial judge, and whether or not there was any evidence on which it could have been determined that the effect of these threats, or inducements, (if any), had ‘dissipated’, or ‘worn off’, by the time of the alleged admissions.” 32.  on 18 january 2017 the supreme court dismissed the appeal, by a majority of six to one.given the fact that the jurisprudence of the ecthr has to date largely been developed in the context of civil law systems with early supervision of investigation by a magistrate, it cannot be said that it has been definitively determined that the convention requires a bright-line rule that in a common law system, an accused person must have not just access to, but the assurance of the presence of, a lawyer during any detention.this is particularly so because, until now, the convention jurisprudence has not adopted any absolute rule that evidence obtained in breach of a convention right must be inadmissible, but rather has applied a test of considering the overall fairness of the proceedings.” 36.  in his view, the legal argument for adopting an absolute rule of presence of a lawyer as a matter of constitutional principle therefore rested almost entirely on the reasoning of the miranda decision of the us supreme court.unavoidably, the appellant must face the fact that the logic of what is sought to be applied here is a retrospective recognition and application of a then unrecognised constitutional right to have a lawyer present throughout interviews.” [emphasis in the original] 41.  the judge continued that he would be prepared, in light of recent developments in law and procedures, to recognise in future cases a right under the constitution to have a solicitor present during police questioning.however, i am not aware of any decision reflecting the particular facts of mr. doyle’s situation ... in which the court has definitively declared the existence of such right.” 47.  he next referred to directive 2013/48/eu of the european parliament and of the council of 22 october 2013 on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and in european arrest warrant proceedings, and on the right to have a third party informed upon deprivation of liberty and to communicate with third persons and with consular authorities while deprived of liberty (oj 2013 l 294, p. 1–12)....” 48.  he then set out a series of considerations in support of according constitutional status to the right to the presence of a solicitor during questioning: the substantial length of detention permitted by law, allowing for multiple interviews throughout the day over a number of days; the daunting and frightening effect that detention may have on many people; even where the accused is a hardened criminal, the importance of preserving their rights too; the increasing complexity of the criminal law; the limits of judicial control, which prohibits rather than prevents abuse.while the recording of interviews permitted judicial scrutiny of the actions of the police, he was “not convinced that this ex post facto supervision is an adequate surrogate for the presence of a solicitor at the interview itself.” 49.  article 38.1 of the constitution enshrines the principle of fairness in the criminal process: “no person shall be tried on any criminal charge save in due course of law”.viewed in that light, i am driven to the conclusion that such an important and fundamental standard of fairness in the administration of justice as the right of access to a lawyer must be deemed to be constitutional in it origin, and to classify it as merely legal would be to undermine its importance and the completeness of the protection of it which the courts are obliged to give.” 51.  in the case the people (dpp) v pringle (1981) 2 frewen 57, it was held by o’higgins cj that, in the absence of an express guarantee against self‑incrimination in the irish constitution, it was not possible to infer a right to have a solicitor present during questioning.in that regard it seems to me that the irish position is the same as that acknowledged by the ecthr and by the supreme court of the united states.” 55.  later in his judgment he observed: “9.10  ... [t]he question as to whether a suspect is entitled to have a lawyer present during questioning does not arise on the facts of this case for the questioning in respect of which complaint is made occurred before the relevant lawyer even arrived.however, it does need to be noted that the jurisprudence of both the ecthr and the united states supreme court clearly recognises that the entitlements of a suspect extend to having the relevant lawyer present.” 56.  in a concurring judgment, hardiman j stated: “for many years now judicial and legal authorities have pointed to the likelihood that our system’s option for the very widespread questioning of suspects who are held in custody for that purpose, was very likely to attract a right on the part of such suspects, not merely to be advised by lawyers before interrogation, but to have lawyers present at the interrogation, and enabled to intervene where appropriate.where a lawyer participates during questioning, the fact that such participation has taken place shall be noted using the recording procedure in accordance with the law of the member state concerned; (c)  member states shall ensure that suspects or accused persons shall have, as a minimum, the right for their lawyer to attend the following investigative or evidence‑gathering acts where those acts are provided for under national law and if the suspect or accused person is required or permitted to attend the act concerned: (i)  identity parades; (ii)  confrontations; (iii)  reconstructions of the scene of a crime.” 60.  for a detailed summary of the recitals and other relevant provisions of the directive see beuze v. belgium [gc], no.
15.  on 16 april 2007 at 10 a.m. gegham sergoyan was examined by doctors h.e., n.c. and a.g. of the smh who indicated in the relevant record that gegham sergoyan had sustained a ballistic trauma to the cervical vertebrae with axis fracture, and that he had a fracture of the right side of the lower jaw.16.  on the same day gegham sergoyan was transferred to the central military hospital of the ministry of defence of armenia (the cmh) in yerevan pursuant to the transfer certificate issued by doctor h.e.the clinical diagnosis made by the doctors of the cmh stated ballistic trauma to the neck with lesion of the cervical part of the spine (second cervical vertebra) and ballistic fracture of the second and third vertebrae with traumatic spinal cord injury.19.  during his stay at the cmh, gegham sergoyan was examined by forensic medical expert a.d. of the republican centre of forensic medicine of the ministry of health of armenia (the republican centre of forensic medicine) who stated in his conclusion, inter alia, that the bullet had penetrated from the left side of the lower jaw and, according to descriptions contained in the medical records, it was directed from left to right and upwards from front to back.given that gegham sergoyan was in slippers, he had reprimanded him for violation of the uniform code and for having entered the duty room without permission, and had sworn at him, grabbed him by the chest and pushed him against the wall.the expert was requested to determine, inter alia, the cause of death, the existence of any injuries on the body, the time and method of their infliction and their possible link with the death.24.  on 10 may 2007 the minister of defence of armenia issued an order concerning the incident with the applicant’s son and the imposition of disciplinary penalties on persons responsible.the order stated, inter alia, the following: “... the internal investigation has revealed the following: - the military unit command had not thoroughly examined [h.g.’s] moral character or his personal and professional preparation, there had been no proper control over the observance of the daily schedule; - the instructions from the personnel responsible for the daily timeline in the military unit had been of a formal nature; - there had been an unhealthy moral environment among the officers and draft soldiers... with a view to penalising the persons liable for the incident i order 1. the imposition [of the following penalties] a. a “reprimand” in respect of the commander of [the military unit] ... for poor supervision of personnel responsible for the daily timeline; b. a “strict reprimand” in respect of: - the deputy commander of [the military unit] ... for failure to organise properly [military] service; - the deputy commander of [the military unit] responsible for the armoury ... (in charge of the military unit on the day of the incident) ... - the deputy commander of [the military unit] responsible for working with the personnel ... for the tense moral environment among the officers and draft soldiers.2. commanders of military units - to discuss the incident ... and to undertake concrete measures to prevent the occurrence of such ...” 25.  on an unspecified date in may 2007 the ministry of defence of armenia paid the applicant 2,250,000 armenian drams (amd) (approximately eur 4,650 at the relevant time), including compensation for gegham sergoyan’s funeral expenses and a lump sum insurance payment for the family.32.  in the course of the proceedings before the syunik regional court the applicant lodged a civil claim against the republic of armenia, namely the ministry of defence and the ministry of finance of armenia, seeking compensation in the amount of eur 300,000 for non-pecuniary damage sustained as a result of the murder of his only son, which had caused him deep sorrow and severe mental suffering: he had lost the normal rhythm of life and his health had deteriorated.had committed the crime during his service while assigned to duty in the military unit on 15 april 2007. gegham sergoyan was murdered while performing his army service obligations when he was on duty according to the relevant orders of the military unit command.he further submitted that, although no possibility of compensation for non-pecuniary damage existed under armenian civil law, such a requirement existed under the convention: according to article 6 of the constitution ratified international treaties were a constituent part of the legal system of armenia and, in the case of inconsistency with the national law, the norms of the treaty should prevail.as regards the applicant’s civil claim, the court of appeal relied on article 1087 of the civil code to state that, in the event of the victim’s death, only compensation for funeral expenses is envisaged under the civil law.the applicant submitted the same arguments as before and restated his position concerning his claim for non-pecuniary damages as expressed in his initial civil claim with the regional court and in his appeal before the court of appeal.52.  the constitutional court found article 17 § 2 of the civil code incompatible with articles 3 § 2, 16 § 4, 18 § 1, 19 § 1 and 43 § 2 of the constitution in so far as it does not envisage non-pecuniary damage as a type of civil damages and does not provide for a possibility to obtain compensation for non-pecuniary damage by impeding the effective exercise of the right of access to court and the right to a fair trial and at the same time hindering due compliance with its international obligations by the republic of armenia.
4.  the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in belgrade.5.  on 9 may 2005 the applicant lodged a claim seeking ownership of 265 shares of the company tri grozda a.d. beograd 6.  on 14 september 2007 the belgrade court of first instance delivered a judgment in favour of the applicant.7.  on 13 december 2011 the belgrade court of appeal reversed the judgment of 14 september 2007, and rejected the applicant’s claim.8.  on 3 april 2012 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal, complaining of a violation of his right to a trial within a reasonable time and requesting compensation in that regard.9.  on 23 september 2014 the constitutional court found a violation of the applicant’s right to a trial within a reasonable time.it held that the finding of a violation had constituted sufficient just satisfaction in the particular circumstances of the present case for the following reasons.first, the nominal value of the impugned shares was only slightly higher than 200 euros.the case was thus of minor importance for the applicant.secondly, it considered that the applicant had contributed to the length of the civil proceedings by failing to lodge a constitutional appeal earlier.
8.  at the police station the applicant was taken into police custody (inverzekeringstelling) and, before he had consulted his lawyer (who had not been immediately available) but with his consent, police officers commenced the so-called social interview (sociaal verhoor), during which questions were put to him about his personal circumstances and his personality but not about the offence of which he was suspected.when the applicant’s lawyer became available the police officers suspended the interview to give the applicant the opportunity to consult his lawyer by telephone.after that conversation, the applicant stated that his lawyer would come to see him at the end of the afternoon and that, on the advice of his lawyer, he would not answer any more questions.at the beginning of the interview, the applicant stated that he would prefer to have his lawyer present.10.  in the course of the interview the police officers questioning the applicant noted that he made a spasm-like movement with his arm.13.  on 25 march 2011 the regional court (rechtbank) of the hague found the applicant guilty of distribution of child pornography and sentenced him to a suspended sentence of two weeks’ imprisonment and to eighty hours’ community service.the regional court was of the opinion that the applicant should have been enabled to consult his lawyer prior to being interviewed by the police for the first time.given, moreover, that the contents of the interviews that had been conducted after the applicant had received legal assistance had not substantially differed from the content of the interview that had taken place without legal assistance, the regional court considered that the finding that a procedural requirement had not been complied with (vormverzuim) sufficed.14.  on 3 july 2013 the court of appeal (gerechtshof) of the hague quashed the decision of the regional court, convicted the applicant of the same offence and sentenced him to forty hours’ community service.as regards the claim that the applicant ought to have been assisted by a lawyer during the police interviews, the court of appeal held as follows: “at the hearing on appeal counsel submitted that at the time of the police interviews the suspect had the mental age of a 15 or 16-year old, and also that he was suffering from a brain disorder which may have caused him to have epileptic seizures.in the opinion of the court of appeal, the above does not entail an indication for the officers who interviewed the suspect that he had the mental age of a 15 or 16-year old, nor that the brain disorder from which the suspect is apparently suffering was capable of causing an epileptic seizure.after the suspect had, in the eyes of the interviewing officers, made ‘a kind of spastic’ movement, they had consulted a physician before resuming the interview.this means in the light of the salduz case-law that the suspect, who was an adult at the time, was not entitled to have a lawyer present at his interview.” 15.  the court of appeal based its conviction of the applicant on the following evidence: -  a complaint lodged with the police by the victim, who claimed that in march 2009 (when she had been 16 years old), she had shown the applicant various parts of her body via webcam, that she had subsequently been told by a third party that the applicant had sent photographs of her to that third party, and that she had been told by two other parties that they had received photographs of her; -  a further statement made by the victim to the police, according to which she had taken a photograph of a part of her body and sent it to the applicant by mobile telephone; -  a statement made by the applicant to the police on 20 august 2009 to the effect that he had sent several photographs (showing parts of the victim’s body), one of which he had taken by means of a screen shot while the others had been sent to him by the victim, to a third party via mobile telephone and that he had also uploaded them onto an image-hosting website; -  a statement made by the aforementioned third party to the police, according to which she had received two photographs from the applicant showing parts of the victim’s body; and -  a record drawn up by a police officer whose investigations into the victim’s allegations had shown that the photographs showing part of the victim’s body were accessible on the world wide web via a profile with a name used by the applicant on the above-mentioned image-hosting website.16.  the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law with the supreme court (hoge raad), complaining, inter alia, of the refusal to allow him to be assisted by his lawyer during police questioning.under that provision, the supreme court may limit its reasoning in a decision to a finding that a complaint does not provide grounds to overturn the judgment appealed against or does not require answers to questions of law in the interests of the uniform application or development of the law.
6.  on 1 august 2000 the ministry of the interior of belarus ordered the applicant’s arrest on suspicion of her having committed several criminal offences.8.  on 20 february 2014 the lyubertsy town court of the moscow region authorised the applicant’s detention for forty days pending her extradition to belarus.10.  on 18 august 2014 the town court extended the applicant’s detention until 18 february 2015. on 18 september 2014 the moscow regional court upheld the decision of 18 august 2014 on appeal.12.  on 20 august and 21 september 2015 the investigative committee of the republic of belarus discontinued the criminal proceedings against the applicant.m) 28 from 21 to 22 february 2014 15.  according to the government, the personal space afforded to the applicant during her detention in the remand prison was approximately 3.27 sq.if one of the inmates were sick or refused to take part in the daily exercise, the administration cancelled it for all the inmates held in the same cell.on 21 march 2014 the regional prosecutor issued a notice to the head of the regional penal service (fsin), advising that the conditions of detention in the prison be brought in line with the statutory requirements.as to the issue of overcrowding, the prosecutor indicated as follows: “as regards the number of beds ... in the cells ... the [statutory] requirement of 4 sq.m per inmate.” 21.  according to the applicant, between february and march 2014 the town prosecutor authorised the applicant’s mother to visit her at the remand prison on three occasions.22.  on 10 october 2014, in response to a request by the applicant to meet with her family, the prosecutor general’s office responded that, as stipulated in the pre-trial detention act, suspects and defendants could have no more than two family visits per month, subject to written authorisation from the official or authority in charge of the criminal case, and advised the applicant to apply to the law-enforcement bodies in belarus for approval of her relatives’ visits.23.  on 21 january 2015 the tverskoy district court of moscow dismissed a complaint by the applicant against the prosecutor’s decision of 10 october 2014, without considering the merits.24.  on 11 march 2015 the moscow city court quashed the decision of 21 january 2015 and remitted the matter to the district court for fresh consideration.29.  on 16 february 2012 the moscow city department of the federal migration service decided, on the basis of an earlier inquiry, that the applicant had been wrongly issued with a russian passport.they based their findings, inter alia, on information received from the russian embassy in minsk indicating that there was no information in the relevant database confirming the issuance of a russian passport in the applicant’s name in 2001.30.  on 5 february 2015 the lyublinskiy district court of moscow dismissed a complaint by the applicant against the decision of 16 february 2012. on 26 june 2015 the city court upheld the decision of 5 february 2015.
considering the gravity of the offence, the interests of protecting the legal order, and the fact that gathering evidence by other procedural means is either impossible or especially complicated, then, in the interests of elucidating the truth, the application is perfectly justified and lawful.” the other authorisations by preliminary investigation judges included variations of the same wording, occasionally also including references such as “when public officials abuse their position, it damages their credibility in the eyes of society and damages the state’s reputation” and “[t]his offence belongs to the category of offences relating to office.14.  during the pre-trial proceedings, the second applicant discovered a surveillance device in his office on 25 september 2005. on 3 october 2006 the offices of the third applicant, the second applicant company and the first applicant were searched, and on 20 september 2007 the premises of the first applicant company were searched.– were members of the riigikogu (the estonian parliament) at the time the pre-trial proceedings were completed, the consent of a majority of the members of parliament had to be obtained to lift their immunity and bring charges against them.as no dates suitable for everyone could be found out of the dates proposed by the applicants’ representatives, the court invited them to propose new dates for 2013. on 17 august 2012 the dates were set for january and february 2013. in the meantime, the court of appeal had also granted an application by the prosecutor for a review of the lawfulness of the surveillance activities.22.  the court of appeal convicted the applicants by a judgment of 19 june 2013. after examining the surveillance files, the court found that the prosecutors’ applications for authorisation of secret surveillance had contained sufficient information to assess the need for such activities.in convicting the first and the second applicant companies, the court relied on article 14 of the penal code (see paragraph 56 below) and found that the third applicant had acted in the interests of the two companies.27.  as for the period to be taken into account, the supreme court considered that the relevant period had not necessarily started running from the date when the first steps in the criminal proceedings had been taken, but rather when the applicants could be considered to be subject to a “charge”, or when they had been otherwise substantially affected by actions taken by the prosecuting authorities.28.  against that background, the supreme court considered that the beginning of the relevant time period should be determined as follows: 25 september 2005 for the second applicant (when he had discovered a surveillance device in his office); 3 october 2006 for the first applicant (when his office had been searched); 3 october 2006 for the second applicant company and the third applicant, in relation to certain criminal incidents (when the premises of the company, including the office of the third applicant, had been searched); 20 september 2007 for the first applicant company and the third applicant, in relation to other criminal incidents (when the premises of the company had been searched); and 16 october 2007 for the fourth applicant (when he had been questioned as a suspect).this meant that the criminal proceedings had lasted: eight years, nine months and five days with respect to the second applicant; seven years, eight months and twenty-eight days with respect to the first applicant, the second applicant company and the third applicant (in relation to certain criminal incidents); six years, nine months and eleven days with respect to the first applicant company and the third applicant (in relation to other criminal incidents); and six years, eight months and twenty-one days with respect to the fourth applicant.the supreme court admitted that the organisation of the court hearings at first instance (not planning hearings sufficiently far in advance and not deciding on procedural matters quickly enough, thus allowing for long disputes between the parties), the volume and structure of the criminal file, and the presentation of the statement of charges (which had entailed unnecessary repetition and the structure of which had been illogical to some extent) might have added to the duration of the proceedings.furthermore, although it might have been reasonable for the prosecution to remove some of the material from the criminal file, the supreme court also considered that it had been for the defence representatives and not for the prosecution to decide whether some of the evidence in the criminal file was relevant from the perspective of the defence.from the rest of the criminal proceedings (see paragraph 79 below), the supreme court considered that this had related to only one of the charges against the third applicant and the first applicant company, and the latter’s counsel had not objected to the separation.at the same time, the court considered that other than the two months and nineteen days that the second applicant had spent in detention, and the two days when the first applicant had been under arrest, the applicants had not been detained.40.  as the third applicant had raised the question of the compatibility of the regulation of secret surveillance with the constitution and the convention, the supreme court – also acting as a constitutional review court – analysed the regulation of the ccrp (the limitations as regards offences in respect of which secret surveillance could be conducted, the principle of foreseeability, and the permitted duration of surveillance).the supreme court also concluded that, in the particular circumstances of the case, the duration of the surveillance activities with respect to the second and the third applicants had not been excessively lengthy.
the government did not dispute the principal facts of the cases, as presented by the applicants, but contested the involvement of servicemen in the events in question.23.  the applicant was the wife of mr ibragim idrisov, who was born in 1951. she died on 24 august 2011. her daughter, ms larisa ibayeva (also spelled as larissa ibaeva), who is also the daughter of the disappeared mr ibragim idrisov, expressed her wish to pursue the application.on the same date servicemen from the shali district temporary department of the interior (“the vovd”) arrested him and placed him in a temporary detention ward on the premises of the vovd police station.26.  on the morning of 3 february 2002, when the applicant came to visit her husband in the vovd as usual, she was informed that mr ibragim idrisov had been released the day before, on 2 february 2002. meanwhile, mr ibragim idrisov’s gaz-2410 vehicle remained parked on the premises of the vovd.30.  on 20 february 2002 major a.sh., the head of the vovd, issued a report stating that mr ibragim idrisov had been detained on 27 january 2002, placed in the vovd’s temporary detention ward and then released on 2 february 2002. his vehicle remained on the vovd premises.31.  on 8 august 2002 the investigators informed the applicant that the proceedings in respect of the criminal case had been suspended for failure to identify the perpetrators.82.  on 25 october 2002 the investigators sent a letter to the federal security service (“the fsb”) asking whether any security operation had been carried out on 14 august 2002 and whether mr sharudi obrugov had participated in any illegal armed groups on the territory of the chechen republic.93.  on 13 january 2012 the ngo materi chechni, acting on behalf of the second applicant, asked the head of the chechen parliamentary committee on the search for the disappeared (комитет парламента чеченской республики по поиску лиц, без вести пропавших в период проведения контртеррористической операции) for assistance in the search of mr obrugov.122.  the first applicant was the mother of mr said-emin (also spelled as sayd‑emi and sayd-emin) ocherkhadzhiyev, who was born in 1967. she died on 2 april 2014. the second applicant, mr adam ocherkhadzhiyev, is the brother of mr said-emin ocherkhadzhiyev.130.  on 10 may 2011 the first applicant lodged a request with the investigating authority for the resumption of the investigation into the disappearance of her son.having finished picking in the evening on the same date, they headed down from the mountains in the direction of the road, where a vehicle was waiting to take them home.154.  on 2 august 2010 the investigators lodged a request with the head of the vedenskiy district police station for a properly secured on-site examination to be organised of the area between the settlements of ulus‑kert and selmintauzin.157.  on 15 july 2011 the investigators questioned a police officer who had been working in the villages of tevzana and khatuni since 2001. he stated that in 2003 various units of the fsb, the ministry of the interior, the ministry of defence and the main intelligence service of the ministry of defence (6-й отдел гру) in grozny had been stationed on the outskirts of the village of khattuni.165.  at some point after the abduction, one of ms tumisha sadykova’s colleagues (named adam) and a relative of the applicants (named aslanbek) – both of whom assisted the applicants in the search for ms tumisha sadykova – obtained information concerning the possibility of her being released in exchange for money.173.  on 8 november 2006 the investigators questioned mr a.s. (the father of ms tumisha sadykova), who stated in particular that some time after the abduction, two men (a colleague of his daughter named adam and a relative of his family) – both of whom had been engaged in the search for ms tumisha sadykova – had asked him to hand over to them the amount of money allegedly demanded by way of a ransom for her release.
5.  between 2012 and 2014 the applicant lodged numerous complaints with the local police department concerning the allegedly unauthorised use of the plot of land near the block of flats where her family resided.6.  on 15 january 2014 the head of the inter-municipal police department forwarded the following letter to the psychiatric and narcological service: “following receipt of numerous complaints, the [police department] asks you to examine (check) [the applicant] ... at her place of residence.[the applicant] might cause harm to others.” 7.  on 28 and 29 january 2014 a psychiatrist, sav., questioned the applicant’s neighbours, asking them if they had observed any strange behaviour on the applicant’s part.9.  on 31 january 2014 the psychiatrist informed the police that the applicant did not have any psychiatric disorders.10.  on 12 march 2014, in response to the applicant’s complaint, the dimitrovgrad town court found the psychiatrist’s actions unlawful.the court established that, contrary to the applicable legislation, the psychiatrist had failed to obtain the applicant’s consent to a psychiatric examination and that the applicant had objected to such an examination.11.  on 17 march 2014 the applicant asked the court to find the police’s decision to have her assessed by the psychiatrist unlawful.the court found that the actions of the police had had a basis in law.the court interpreted the letter of 15 january 2014 issued by the police department as a request for information from the psychiatrist as to whether the applicant suffered from any mental illness.it further reasoned that the police had not asked the psychiatric service to examine the applicant.in 2012 the police had received numerous complaints from the applicant, who had alleged that she had been persecuted by unknown persons, and complaints from owners and employees of concession stands alleging that the applicant had destroyed their property and had disrupted their activities by making scenes.accordingly, the police had decided to obtain information about the applicant’s mental condition.lastly, the court reasoned that the fact that, in response to the police’s request for information, the psychiatric service had examined the applicant unlawfully had no bearing on the lawfulness of the police’s actions.14.  on 17 december 2014 the regional court refused to grant the applicant leave to lodge a cassation appeal.15.  on 26 march 2015 the supreme court of the russian federation issued a similar decision in response to the applicant’s application to lodge a cassation appeal.
8.  the first applicant is the mother of mr suliman (also spelled as suleyman) isayev, who was born in 1966, mr rumid isayev, who was born in 1969, and mr ramzan isayev, who was born in 1973. the second applicant is the wife of mr suliman isayev and the third applicant is the wife of mr ramzan isayev.16.  during her questioning as a victim in the proceedings concerning the abduction of mr suliman isayev and mr ramzan isayev, the first applicant also described the circumstances of the disappearance of mr rumid isayev (see paragraphs 26, 40 and 42 below).37.  on 17 may 2007 the grozny district prosecutor’s office informed the first applicant and the ngo memorial that the investigation had been suspended and that the operational search activities were in progress in order to establish the whereabouts of mr suliman isayev and mr ramzan isayev.44.  on 31 march 2008 the grozy district court ordered the phone tapping of two mobile numbers belonging to ms g. 45.  on 8 april 2008 the zavodskoy district police station in grozny informed the investigators that no complaints concerning the alleged involvement of the isayev brothers into the abduction of people lodged by ms. g. were registered in the station’s logbooks.137.  on 1 june 2001 the first applicant informed the investigators about the interview with an officer of the fsb which had been broadcast over the radio the day before (see paragraph 130 above), and asked for the search for her son to be intensified.the first applicant was their mother; she died on 27 july 2018. the second applicant was their father; he died on 22 april 2016. the third applicant is the wife of mr mayr-ali shavanov and the fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh applicants are his children.the service personnel spoke unaccented russian; they were in three armoured infantry vehicles (боевая машина пехоты) with the registration numbers 318, 341 and 356. having checked the identity documents, the service personnel pulled bags over the shavanov brothers’ heads, forced them into one of the armoured infantry vehicles and drove off in the direction of grozny.159.  on 18 february 2001 some of the applicants went in person to the grozny district police station and the grozny district prosecutors’ office and reported the incident, requesting that the authorities open a criminal case into the abduction.the second applicant is the mother of mr andarbek abubakarov, who was born in 1975. the third applicant is the mother of mr mayrbek murtazaliyev, who was born in 1979; the fourth applicant is his wife and the fifth and sixth applicants are his children.in particular, it was suspended on 27 may 2011, then on 12 july 2011 this decision was annulled by the investigators’ superior; on 12 august 2011 the investigation was suspended again and resumed on 12 october 2011, then suspended on 11 november 2011. on 12 november 2013 the investigation was resumed, then suspended on 12 december 2013, resumed again on 9 october 2014 and suspended on 29 december 2014.218.  on the same day the investigators questioned seven police officers who had manned the checkpoint on the day of the events and witnessed the abduction.223.  on 13 may 2003 the investigators questioned mr ruslan sugatiyev’s brother, mr s.s. he confirmed the circumstances of the abduction as described above and additionally stated that the ural lorry, in which his brother had been taken away from the checkpoint on 8 february 2002, had been seen on several occasions entering the base of the 34 obron military unit.240.  the present application concerns the abduction of the applicants’ relative in the course of the same special operation carried out by the russian federal forces in avtury in may 2002 as in the case of mezhidovy v. russia (see mezhidovy and others v. russia [committee], nos.247.  in the beginning of 2004 the second applicant complained to the prosecutor’s office of the chechen republic of the disappearance of his brother and asked for assistance in the search for him.262.  on 18 september 2012 the first applicant asked the prosecutor’s office of the chechen republic to inform her about the progress in the criminal proceedings and to resume the investigation if it had been suspended.
5.  the applicant company is a limited liability company incorporated under moldovan law.6.  on 24 december 2012 and 21 june 2013 respectively the applicant company initiated two sets of civil proceedings challenging two decisions issued by the state tax inspectorate of străşeni (inspectoratul fiscal de stat străşeni – “the inspectorate”) under which it had been fined for non‑compliance with the vat reporting regulations.7.  on 26 december 2013 the străşeni district court upheld the applicant company’s claims and overturned the impugned decisions.the representative of the inspectorate was not present when the judgment was delivered, despite having been duly informed of the date and the time of the hearing.8.  on 5 february 2014 the inspectorate lodged an appeal against the judgment of the străşeni district court.no request for an extension of the legal time-limit for lodging an appeal was made.the applicant company objected to the appeal and argued that it had been lodged outside the thirty‑day time-limit and that the inspectorate had not requested an extension of the legal time-limit for lodging it.9.  in a decision of 3 september 2014 the chişinău court of appeal calculated the applicable time-limit and found that it had expired on 27 january 2014 and, accordingly, that the inspectorate had been late in lodging its appeal.it therefore decided to strike the appeal out of its list of cases as time-barred.the inspectorate lodged an appeal on points of law against that decision.it argued that the chişinău court of appeal could not strike out the appeal after having commenced its examination of the merits of the case.10.  on 8 october 2014 the supreme court of justice quashed the chişinău court of appeal’s strike-out decision of 3 september 2014. without contesting the court of appeal’s calculation of the time-limit for lodging the appeal, the supreme court of justice accepted the argument put forward by the inspectorate and found that the court of appeal had breached the rules of procedure by adopting a strike-out decision after having started an examination of the merits of the case.ultimately, the case was referred back to the chişinău court of appeal for re-examination.11.  on 28 january 2015, after rehearing the case, the chişinău court of appeal upheld the inspectorate’s appeal, quashed the judgment of the străşeni district court of 26 december 2013 and rendered a new judgment whereby the applicant company’s action was rejected as ill-founded.12.  on 10 june 2015 the supreme court of justice declared an appeal on points of law lodged by the applicant company inadmissible.
8.  on the same day the law-enforcement bodies of the nenetskiy autonomous region were informed of z.’s death.apart from a strangulation mark, multiple bruises and abrasions were discovered on z.’s face, forearms and shins which could have manifested shortly before z.’s death as a result of impacts from blunt objects, such as blows inflicted on her face, arms and legs at the hands of another person.10.  in may to june 2007 the applicant lodged complaints with the nenetskiy regional prosecutor’s office, seeking to have criminal proceedings instituted against her son-in-law, ch., who she alleged had incited z. to commit suicide by inflicting regular beatings and other violent actions on her.the above decisions were subsequently set aside by the supervising prosecutor and by the naryan-mar town court of the nenetskiy autonomous region (“the town court”) as unlawful and unsubstantiated.on each occasion it was noted that the instructions, given to the investigator by the prosecutor and the head of the criminal investigations department, to carry out procedural measures aimed at establishing the existence of the circumstances mentioned in the applicant’s complaint and the circumstances surrounding z.’s death, had not been complied with.12.  on 13 november 2009 the applicant complained to the regional prosecutor’s office of the failure of the criminal investigations department and the police department to carry out comprehensive and prompt inquiries into the death of her daughter.13.  on the same day the first deputy prosecutor of the regional prosecutor’s office held that there had been a failure to comply with the law and the requirement of promptness in carrying out the inquiry into z.’s death by the officers of the criminal investigations department and the police department, which had violated the applicant’s rights.15.  on 16 september 2011 the chief of the inter-district investigative department of the investigation committee of the russian federation for the arkhangelsk region and the nenetskiy autonomous region set aside the decision of 15 december 2009 as unlawful and unsubstantiated.in order to establish the circumstances of the incident and the reasons and the motives for the suicide, the chief investigator considered it necessary to carry out investigative measures involving, in particular, specialists and experts in psychology and psychiatry, which was only possible in the framework of a criminal investigation.18.  following another round of pre-investigation inquiries, on 24 october 2011 the institution of a criminal investigation into the death of z. was again refused under article 24 § 1 (2) of the code of criminal procedure, in view of a lack of the constituent elements of a crime under article 110 of the criminal code in ch.’s actions and the absence of any crime under article 105 § 1 of the criminal code (murder).had staged the suicide had been checked and found to be unsupported by the material in the case file.20.  in the meantime, on 8 may 2008 it had been established by the investigator that ch.’s actions in respect of z. contained the elements of a criminal offence under article 117 § 1 of the criminal code (causing physical suffering by inflicting regular beatings) for the period between 19 june 2006 and 8 may 2007. the relevant material was submitted for a pre-investigation inquiry to the nenetskiy autonomous region police department.24.  on 13 april 2011 ch.’s actions were reclassified as inflicting beatings, thus coming under article 116 § 1 of the criminal code, but charges under this article could not be pursued in the absence of an application by the victim.accordingly, the criminal proceedings were discontinued on the basis of article 24 § 1 (5) of the code of criminal procedure.25.  in april 2009 the applicant brought civil proceedings against the ministry of finance seeking damages for the non-pecuniary harm caused to her by the failure of the domestic authorities to carry out an effective investigation into the circumstances of her daughter’s death.
7.  on 23 july 2009 the prosecutor completed the investigation in respect of fifteen suspects, including the applicant, and transferred the case to the moscow city court.the case file contains information classified as state secrets and the disclosure of this information might have a serious adverse effect on the interests of society and the state.” 9.  on 24 may 2010 the jury delivered a guilty verdict in the applicant’s case.the court heard the prosecutor, the civil party, the defendants, including the applicant, and their counsel.as regards the applicant’s complaint about the lack of public hearing, the court stated as follows: “... the [trial] court justified its decision to hear the case in camera.the case file contains documents constituting state secrets and the disclosure of such information might entail a serious violation of the [interests] of society and the state.” 12.  on 10 september 2009 the main national television channel broadcast a programme on the circumstances of the criminal case against the applicant.the programme featured footage of the applicant’s two-storey house and its interior and the tax declarations of the applicant and the members of his family.13.  on an unspecified date the applicant and his wife brought a civil action for damages against the television channel, arguing, inter alia, that the respondent company had failed to obtain their consent for disclosure of their personal data, including the tax information and the footage of their house and its interior.regard being had to the above, the court accepts that the exact value of the house owned by the plaintiffs, the exact amount of their incomes and the exact amount of their real property, in the circumstances of the case, are immaterial.... according to the investment agreement ... the value of the house was estimated at ... usd 60,000 ..., which did not include the cost of the interior, including the installation of a winding staircase and a jacuzzi ... [one of the plaintiffs’ witnesses] submitted that [the applicant] had been offered a reduced price for the house because of his friendship with the management of the construction company ... [the court] finds it incompatible with the standing of the prosecutor.[the court] further takes into account that the plaintiffs had their title to the house registered on the basis of the purchase agreement ... accordingly, in addition to the amount paid under the investment agreement ... the plaintiffs paid a significant sum of money which exceeded their income ... and the amount they received when they sold their three‑roomed flat ... for the equivalent of usd 50,000 ... ... pursuant to [the russian federal law on the mass media], a journalist must obtain consent for the disclosure of information concerning a person’s private life from that person or his representative, except when such disclosure is necessary for the protection of public interests.the question raised in the programme about the public servant’s income and the value of his property is a matter of public interest.the court considers that [the applicant’s] claims that the respondent party should retract the information presented in the tv show that [the applicant] was involved in criminal activities and had received unlawfully from an entrepreneur usd 500,000 should also be dismissed.... ... [the journalist] presented in the show evidence contained in the criminal case file, including a certificate showing the plaintiffs’ revenues, video footage featuring the plaintiffs’ house, and excerpts from their telephone conversations.... according to ms samoylova (the applicant’s wife and a plaintiff), the moscow city court is examining a criminal case against [the applicant] ... [the court considers] that the journalist presented to the public his opinion that there is evidence confirming that [the applicant] is implicated in the commission of the offences he is charged with; [the journalist] commented on the criminal investigation, showed evidence collected and assessed it.... ... the court considers that [the journalist] produced evidence confirming his statements about the [applicant’s] involvement in illegal activities and dismisses the plaintiffs’ claims.” 15.  on 20 december 2010 the city court upheld the judgment of 18 may 2010 on appeal.
on 10 august 2005 the applicants’ ex‑parte architect estimated the fair rent of the property in 2005 at the equivalent of eur 229.64 per year, and its sale value at mtl 7,500 (approximately eur 17,470.30) – the property having been demolished, his estimate was based on the plans of the building from which it transpired that it had a depth of 14.5 metres and a width of 5.5 metres.17.  by a decision of 7 march 2012, acknowledging that the property had been demolished prior to the formal taking by the government, the lab considered that it was inconceivable that rent be paid for a property which had been demolished in order to be built anew, and that the right course of action would have been to acquire the property by outright purchase.they claimed that the demolition of the property was illegal and amounted to a de facto expropriation contrary to the constitution and the convention and its protocols; that article 19 of chapter 88 of the laws of malta and related articles were in breach of the constitution and the convention and its protocols; they requested the court to annul the lab’s decision and to award them damages as well as any other relevant remedy.20.  the defendants filed their reply and produced a valuation by an architect appointed by the commissioner of land who estimated the sale value of the property at eur 45,000. the report noted that the property had been demolished and was replaced by new residential apartments.21.  by a judgment of 12 february 2014 the civil court (first hall) in its constitutional competence delivered a partial judgment where it rejected the defendants’ plea that the applicants had not exhausted ordinary remedies, and found a violation of the applicants’ rights in so far as the recognition rent established for the taking under public tenure, which was not subject to any future increases, was too low and thus disproportionate.22.  in particular the court was of the view that ‑ despite the applicants’ claim that the property had been demolished prior to it having been taken under possession and use ‑ the period in which the property had allegedly been taken and demolished must have been the same as that when it had been taken under title of possession and use, and thus the latter taking could not be considered illegal.indeed there had been relevant witness testimony to the effect that the property had been demolished around three months prior to the first taking, the lab had accepted that it was so, and the government had not objected to such fact, nor had they shown when the demolition took place.the constitutional court further rejected the applicants’ claim that it would have been more appropriate to take the property by means of outright purchase, as they had not requested the lab to order the commissioner of land to take such a course of action under the mentioned article 19. the law granted the commissioner of land discretion as to which form of taking it would undertake and the constitutional court’s role was limited to verifying whether the form of taking which was actually used breached the rights of an individual.28.  as to the proportionality of the measure, the constitutional court noted that the applicants had claimed recognition rent of eur 229.64 yearly and were awarded by the lab a rent of eur 158.40 yearly which the applicants had not appealed.while the applicants claimed compensation of around eur 50,000 the constitutional court noted that the sale value according to the applicant’s ex-parte architect in 2005 was eur 17,470.30 and that in 2011, according to the technical experts of the board, it was eur 10,575.36. thus, given the small size of the property, the area in which it was in, the fact that it had been demolished at the expense of the government and the fact that the recognition rent was adequate, the constitutional court considered that eur 1,500 was an adequate amount of compensation to be shared by the applicants jointly.30.  at the date of lodging the application with the court, the applicants had not received any compensation, nor had they received any recognition rent since the date of the demolition of the property.it reads as follows: “the competent authority may acquire any land required for any public purpose, either - (a) by the absolute purchase thereof; or (b) for the possession and use thereof for a stated time, or during such time as the exigencies of the public purpose shall require; or (c) on public tenure: provided that after a competent authority has acquired any land for possession and use or on public tenure the conversion into public tenure or into absolute ownership of the terms upon which such land is held shall always be deemed to be an acquisition of land required for a public purpose and to be in the public interest: provided also that, subject to the provisions of articles 14, 15 and 16, a competent authority may acquire land partly by one and partly by another or others of the methods in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c): provided further that where the land is to be acquired on behalf and for the use of a third party for a purpose connected with or ancillary to the public interest or utility, the acquisition shall, in every case, be by the absolute purchase of the land.” 32.  section 13 regarding compensation read, in so far as relevant, as follows: “(1) the amount of compensation to be paid for any land required by a competent authority may be determined at any time by agreement between the competent authority and the owner, saving the provisions contained in subarticle (2).(2) the compensation shall in the case of acquisition of land for temporary possession and use be an acquisition rent and in the case of acquisition of land on public tenure be a recognition rent determined in either case in accordance with the relevant provisions contained in article 27.” 33.  the ordinance provided that compensation in respect of absolute purchase was to be calculated in accordance with the applicable “fair rent”, as agreed by the parties following the government’s offer or as established by the lab.in respect of public tenure, section 27(13) of the ordinance provided as follows: “the compensation in respect of the acquisition of any land on public tenure shall be equal to the acquisition rent assessable in respect thereof in accordance with the provisions contained in subarticles (2) to (12), inclusive, of this article, increased (a) by forty per centum (40%) in the case of an old urban tenement and (b) by twenty per centum (20%) in the case of agricultural land.” 34.  in so far as relevant, section 19(1) and (5) read as follows: “(1) when land has been acquired by a competent authority for use and possession during such time as the exigencies of the public purpose shall require, the owner may, after the lapse of ten years from the date when possession was taken by the competent authority, apply to the board for an order that the land be purchased or acquired on public tenure or vacated within a period of one year from the date of the order, and the land shall either be vacated or acquired on public tenure or purchased upon compensation to be determined in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance or of any ordinance amending or substituted for this ordinance.the residual ownership of land held on public tenure with the inherent right to receive recognition rent, shall, for all purposes of law, be deemed to be an immovable right by reason of the object to which it refers and shall be transferable according to law at the option of the owner, from time to time, of that right.” 35.  thus, while a taking under title of “possession and use” was intended for a determinate period of time, a taking under title of “public tenure” was for an indeterminate period of time, possibly forever, and the relevant recognition rent was to remain unaltered for its duration.
it concluded: “thus, as a result of reviewing the appeals, the court finds that the judgment of the shaki serious crimes court dated 17 march 2014 by which the defendant ilgar mammadov was found to be guilty under articles 220.1 and 315.2 of the criminal code and was sentenced to imprisonment for six years under article 220.1 of the criminal code and for four years under article 315.2 of the criminal code and overall for seven years by partial combination of these terms under article 66.3 of the criminal code, was lawful and grounded.” 31.  as regards sentencing the court of appeal stated as follows: “the court also notes that, during the conditional sentence, the convict is not released from criminal responsibility; when a sentence imposed by the judgment is not enforced, it is served in the special form defined by the law.the court, having regard to the personality of the convict ilgar mammadov, the existence of one minor child in his care, the absence of a prior criminal record, the fact that he has served the most part of the sentence and that he has not committed any illegal action during the period of imprisonment and the absence of any complaint or claim directly filed against him in connection with the crime committed, considers that his rehabilitation is possible without his serving the remaining part of his sentence and without his isolation from the public.accordingly, the court considers that the application of article 70 of the criminal code of the republic of azerbaijan and conditional enforcement of the remaining part of sentence, along with the determination of a probation period, corresponds to the law and is appropriate from the perspective of attaining the aim of the punishment.” 32.  the court of appeal decided that the unserved term of one year five months and 21 days should be deducted from his final sentence.44.  the government agent’s office also planned to organise, together with the supreme court, a series of training sessions for the judges of first‑instance and appellate courts as regards the implementation of the plenum’s decision of 3 november 2009. lastly, according to the action plan it was also envisaged that training would be held for prosecutors as regards the principle of presumption of innocence and the requirement of submission of the prosecution’s case files for review by the courts for the purpose of verifying the existence of a “reasonable suspicion”.having considered the judgment, the action plan provided and the advice of its secretariat, the committee adopted the following decision: “the deputies 1.  as regards individual measures and considering the circumstances of the case, called upon the authorities, to ensure the applicant’s release without delay; 2.  in view of the preoccupying reports about the applicant’s health condition, called upon the authorities to urgently take any necessary action and provide rapidly information in this respect; 3.  invited the authorities to indicate the further measures taken or planned in order to give effect to the court’s judgment, and to erase rapidly, as far as possible, the remaining consequences for the applicant of the serious violations established; 4.  noted, in this context, that the criminal proceedings, the initiation of which was criticised by the european court, are still pending before the supreme court; 5.  recalled the general problem of the arbitrary application of criminal legislation to restrict freedom of expression and conveyed their particular concern about the finding of a violation of article 18 taken in conjunction with article 5 of the convention; 6.  therefore called upon the azerbaijani authorities to furnish, without delay, concrete and comprehensive information on the measures taken and/or planned to avoid that criminal proceedings are instituted without a legitimate basis and to ensure effective judicial review of such attempts by the prosecutor’s office; 7.  expressed concern about the repetitive nature of the breach of the principle of presumption of innocence by the prosecutor general’s office and members of the government, despite several judgments of the court which, since 2010, have indicated the precise requirements of the convention in this regard, and insisted on the necessity of rapid and decisive action in order to prevent similar violations in the future; ...” 46.  during this period, the committee of ministers was informed in the context of the individual measures that mr mammadov had initiated a cassation appeal against the decision of the shaki court of appeal of 24 september 2014 (see paragraphs 21-22 above) to the supreme court.it stated: “the committee of ministers, under the terms of article 46 § 2 of the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, which provide that the committee supervises the execution of final judgments of the european court of human rights (“the court”) below; deeply deploring that, despite the court’s findings on the fundamental flaws of the criminal proceedings engaged against him and notwithstanding the committee’s repeated calls, the applicant still has not been released; recalling that it is intolerable that, in a state subject to the rule of law, a person should continue to be deprived of his liberty on the basis of proceedings engaged, in breach of the convention, with a view to punishing him for having criticised the government.recalling that the obligation to abide by the judgments of the court is unconditional; insists that the highest competent authorities of the respondent state take all necessary measures to ensure without further delay ilgar mammadov’s release; declares the committee’s resolve to ensure, with all means available to the organisation, azerbaijan’s compliance with its obligations under this judgment; decides in view thereof to examine the applicant’s situation at each regular and human rights meeting of the committee until such time as he is released.” 58.  the final decision adopted during this period at its 1273rd human rights meeting (6-8 december 2016) stated: “the deputies 1.  noting with the utmost concern that, more than two years after the final judgment of the european court and notwithstanding the repeated calls of the committee of ministers and the secretary general on the respondent state to release the applicant, he remains detained; 2.  recalling the previous decisions and interim resolutions adopted by the committee of ministers, particularly the repeated calls of the committee for the immediate release of the applicant; 3.  deeply deplored that the criminal proceedings against the applicant concluded on 18 november 2016 before the supreme court without the consequences of the violations found by the european court having been drawn, in particular, that of article 18 taken in conjunction with article 5 of the convention; 4.  firmly reiterated that it is not acceptable that, in a state subject to the rule of law, an individual remains deprived of his liberty on the basis of proceedings carried out in violation of the convention in order to punish him for having criticised the government and that, in consequence, the continuing arbitrary detention of ilgar mammadov constitutes a flagrant breach of the obligations under article 46, paragraph 1, of the convention; 5.  affirmed their determination to ensure the implementation of the judgment by actively considering using all the means at the disposal of the organisation, including under article 46, paragraph 4 of the european convention on human rights; 6.  finally expressed their deep concern about the absence of any information from the authorities concerning the general measures taken or envisaged to prevent violations of the rule of law through abuse of power of the kind established in the european court’s judgment; in this respect, encouraged azerbaijan to engage in meaningful dialogue with the committee of ministers.” 59.  exercising his powers under article 52 of the convention the secretary general of the council of europe appointed a representative to visit baku.recalling their previous decisions and interim resolutions calling for the immediate release of ilgar mammadov and in particular their decision of december 2016 affirming their determination to ensure the implementation of the judgment by actively considering using all the means at the disposal of the organisation; 3.  in this respect took note with interest of the azerbaijani authorities’ commitment to examine all avenues discussed during the mission of the representative of the secretary general to execute the ilgar mammadov judgment, as well as of the recent presidential executive order which foresees promising measures for the execution of this judgment; 4.  invited the authorities to keep the committee informed of the concrete measures adopted on the basis of this executive order and in particular of those enabling the release of ilgar mammadov without further delay; 5.  noted the indication given during the meeting by the azerbaijani authorities that the just satisfaction has been paid to ilgar mammadov in december 2015 ...; invited them to confirm this information in writing; ...” 62.  at its 1288th human rights meeting (6-7 june 2017), the committee of ministers’ adopted a decision which recalled the terms of the decision from its previous meeting, called for mr mammadov’s “unconditional” release and encouraged urgent progress of the executive order.67.  finally, at its 1302nd human rights meeting (5-7 december 2017) it adopted its fifth interim resolution (cm/resdh(2017)429) which triggered proceedings under article 46 § 4: “recalling anew a.  that in its above-mentioned judgment, the court found not only a violation of article 5 § 1 of  the convention, as no facts or information had been produced giving rise to a suspicion justifying  the bringing of charges against the applicant or his arrest and pre-trial detention, but also a violation  of article 18 taken in conjunction with article 5, as the actual purpose of these measures was to silence or punish him for criticising the government; b.  the respondent state’s obligation, under article 46 § 1 of the convention, to abide by all  final judgments in cases to which it has been a party and that this obligation entails, in addition to the payment of the just satisfaction awarded by the court, the adoption by the authorities of the respondent state, where required, of individual measures to put an end to violations established and erase their consequences so as to achieve as far as possible restitutio in integrum; c.  the committee’s call, at its first examination on 4 december 2014, of the individual measures required in the light of the above judgment to ensure the applicant’s release without  delay; d.  the committee’s numerous subsequent decisions and interim resolutions stressing the fundamental flaws in the criminal proceedings revealed by the court’s conclusions under article 18 combined with article 5 of the convention and calling for the applicant’s immediate and  unconditional release; e.  that the criminal proceedings against the applicant concluded on 18 november 2016 before the supreme court without the consequences of the violations found by the european court having  been drawn, in particular, that of article 18 taken in conjunction with article 5 of the convention; f.  that, over three years since the court’s judgment became final, the applicant remains in detention on the basis of the flawed criminal proceedings; considers that, in these circumstances, by not having ensured the applicant’s unconditional release, the republic of azerbaijan refuses to abide by the final judgment of the court; decides to refer to the court, in accordance with article 46 § 4 of the convention, the question whether the republic of azerbaijan has failed to fulfil its obligation under article 46 § 1; ...” 68.  in accordance with the committee of ministers’ rules (see paragraph 94 below) the views of the republic of azerbaijan were included in an appendix to the resolution (see annex to the present judgment).91.  rule 6 states as follows: “rule 6 - information to the committee of ministers on the execution of the judgment 1.  when, in a judgment transmitted to the committee of ministers in accordance with article 46, paragraph 2, of the convention, the court has decided that there has been a violation of the convention or its protocols and/or has awarded just satisfaction to the injured party under article 41 of the convention, the committee shall invite the high contracting party concerned to inform it of the measures which the high contracting party has taken or intends to take in consequence of the judgment, having regard to its obligation to abide by it under article 46, paragraph 1, of the convention.2.  when supervising the execution of a judgment by the high contracting party concerned, pursuant to article 46, paragraph 2, of the convention, the committee of ministers shall examine: a.  whether any just satisfaction awarded by the court has been paid, including as the case may be, default interest; and b.  if required, and taking into account the discretion of the high contracting party concerned to choose the means necessary to comply with the judgment, whether: i.  individual measures1 have been taken to ensure that the violation has ceased and that the injured party is put, as far as possible, in the same situation as that party enjoyed prior to the violation of the convention; ii.2.  for instance, legislative or regulatory amendments, changes of case-law or administrative practice or publication of the court’s judgment in the language of the respondent state and its dissemination to the authorities concerned.” 92.  rule 8 provides for the accessibility of information submitted in the supervision process: “rule 8 - access to information 1.  the provisions of this rule are without prejudice to the confidential nature of the committee of ministers’ deliberations in accordance with article 21 of the statute of the council of europe.this decision shall be taken by a two-thirds majority of the representatives casting a vote and a majority of the representatives entitled to sit on the committee.” 95.  rule 16 addresses the adoption of interim resolutions in the execution process and their intended function: “rule 16 – interim resolutions in the course of its supervision of the execution of a judgment or of the terms of a friendly settlement, the committee of ministers may adopt interim resolutions, notably in order to provide information on the state of progress of the execution or, where appropriate, to express concern and/or to make suggestions with respect to the execution.” 96.  rule 17 states: “rule 17 - final resolution after having established that the high contracting party concerned has taken all the necessary measures to abide by the judgment or that the terms of the friendly settlement have been executed, the committee of ministers shall adopt a resolution concluding that its functions under article 46, paragraph 2, or article 39, paragraph 4, of the convention have been exercised.” 97.  the procedures for the supervision of the execution of judgments were adopted by the committee of ministers in 2010 (see information document: cm/inf/dh(2010)37).urged the authorities to pay without delay the remaining amount of just satisfaction, including default interest; 2.  in view of the seriousness of the consequences which the applicant continues to suffer despite his early release, urged the authorities to explore all avenues including a reopening of the impugned proceedings in order to erase the consequences of the violations found;” (ii)  general measures 109.  in respect of the general measures taken in the four cases pending supervision to avoid similar violations of article 18 in conjunction with article 5, the committee’s secretariat’s analysis in the cases of tymoshenko and lutsenko (see the committee’s examination of the case at its 1193rd human rights meeting (4-6 march 2014)) indicated: “... reform of the prosecution service and the constitutional reform aimed at strengthening the independence of the judiciary, appear relevant and interesting and a more in-depth examination is under way (both these draft legislative reforms have been examined from a more general point of view by the venice commission in 2013 – see cdl‑ad(2013)025e and cdl‑ad(2013)034e).it also underlined that the progress achieved in these respects is also followed in the context of other groups of cases, notably the oleksandr volkov case, also dealing with important shortcomings in the organisation of the ukrainian judiciary.” 110.  in the third case, gusinsky, the secretariat’s analysis prepared at the 1243rd meeting (8-9 december 2015) advised the committee in relation to the violation of article 18 in conjunction with article 5 that: “... it appears that this violation was closely linked to the vagueness of the law at the time and the absence of effective judicial review of detention of suspects.
5.  the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in bor.6.  the proceedings began on 30 march 1992 when the applicant brought a lawsuit against third persons concerning the execution of a contract.7.  on 19 june 1997 the first-instance court accepted the applicant’s claim.8.  on 30 october 1997 the appeal court quashed the decision on legal costs, remitted that issue to the first-instance court for a retrial and upheld the remainder of the first-instance judgment.9.  the first-instance court subsequently rendered three decisions on the costs of the proceedings on 23 july 1998, 19 february 1999 and 3 march 2000. all of these decisions were quashed on appeal.10.  on 5 february 2013 the first-instance court rendered a fourth decision on the issue of legal costs awarding the applicant approximately 2,000 euros (eur).11.  according to the information on the file, the proceedings are currently pending before the second-instance court.12.  on 13 march 2013 the constitutional court found a violation of the applicant’s right to a hearing within a reasonable time and awarded him eur 300 for the non-pecuniary damage suffered in this regard.furthermore, the constitutional court ordered the applicant’s proceedings to be expedited.
7.  on 13 june 2012 the first applicant asked the ministry of health to either guarantee the provision of such medical assistance during the birth of her third child or to amend the secondary legislation so that healthcare professionals could be allowed to provide such assistance.the ministry then consulted numerous medical organisations – including the lithuanian midwives association (lietuvos akušerių sąjunga), the lithuanian fellowship of midwives and gynaecologists (lietuvos akušerių ir ginekologų draugija), the lithuanian doctors association (lietuvos gydytojų sąjunga), the obstetrics and midwifery clinics of both vilnius university and the lithuanian university of health sciences – for their views on home birth.moreover, the question of home birth concerned not only the woman’s, but also the state’s choice; at the same time, it was necessary to balance the interests of society and the rights of the individual.the applicant stated to the court that during her third pregnancy, having had positive experiences during the first two home births, she could not imagine herself giving birth outside her home, since this seemed to her “the safest, most tranquil [environment] ... for the most intimate of occasions”.17.  on 21 september 2012 the third applicant then asked the ministry of health to either guarantee medical assistance at her home during the birth of her third child or to amend the relevant secondary legislation so that the healthcare professionals were permitted to provide such assistance.given that in her request the third applicant insisted on relying on the court’s judgment in ternovszky (cited above), the ministry of health consulted the ministry of justice on the matter.the ministry of justice noted that the court had found a violation in the above‑mentioned case because of its very particular and specific circumstances, which had led the court to conclude that the situation in hungary, in as much as it related to healthcare professionals providing assistance during home births, was surrounded by legal uncertainty that gave rise to arbitrariness.that being so, the ministry also emphasised that the third applicant was welcome to visit the maternity wards in lithuania and to choose the one which had the environment that most suited her.19.  in her application to the court of 19 october 2012, the third applicant, like the second applicant, stated that she was “firmly resolved to give birth at home, irrespective of whether she would receive qualified assistance during the birth”.20.  after having lodged the instant application with the court, the third applicant also started administrative court proceedings in respect of the ministry’s refusal to grant her request for the changes in secondary legislation (see paragraphs 17 and 18 above).for the court, such legal regulation thus empowered the third applicant to give birth in a specialised medical institution of her choice, which was equipped in accordance with the requirements for such institutions, so that the health of the mother and the newborn would be protected and they could receive immediate high-quality and effective help, should any danger arise to their health or lives during childbirth.23.  the supreme administrative court also referred to the content of the ministry of health letter of 16 october 2012 (see paragraph 18 above), wherein that institution had reminded the third applicant that her family members could be present during the birth of her child and had offered her the opportunity to visit hospitals with maternity wards and to choose the most suitable one.there was no information in the file to the effect that the third applicant had ever approached any of the maternity wards or that she had faced obstacles in choosing how to make use of that right to privacy (for example, by requesting certain services, such as a private room) and then instituted court proceedings.one also had to bear in mind the fact that privacy in respect of the third applicant’s personal life (which she had sought by demanding to be provided with medical assistance during her home birth) could not be seen as having a greater value than the health of her and the newborn child, for the purpose of which the state had established a system of personal healthcare and qualified medical assistance.25.  in her application to the court the fourth applicant also stated that even though she was of “reproductive age”, she did not dare to become pregnant for the fourth time, owing to the charges pending in respect of j.i.š., “while the issue of giving birth at home remained legally unregulated in lithuania” (kol lietuvoje nėra teisiškai sureguliuotas gimdymo namuose klausimas).
9.  in 1970, l.g., one of the applicants’ ascendants, filed an application before the rent regulation board (hereinafter referred to as “the board”), on behalf of all the joint owners at the time, whereby he requested that the annual rent be raised.10.  on 14 august 1978 the applicants’ ascendants entered into a new lease agreement with the band club, whereby they willingly rented property a and part of the garden of property b (hereinafter, jointly referred to as “the rented property”) to the band club for 120 maltese liras annually ((mtl) – approximately eur 279.52), to be paid six months in advance.l.g., who died during the constitutional redress proceedings (see hereunder), gave evidence before the civil court (first hall), in its constitutional competence, to the effect that the annual rent due to the applicants was that of mtl 136 (approximately eur 316), and that the band club was actually paying mtl 130 annually (approximately eur 302).these amounts did not correspond to those agreed upon within the rent agreement of 14 august 1978. in the mentioned proceedings the court concluded that, on an unspecified date, the applicants and the band club had entered into a verbal agreement, whereby the annual rent due was increased because the band club had requested the use of a further part of the garden of property b.13.  in 2004 and 2005 the band club had requested that it be able to rent a further part of the garden of property b and for it to purchase the part of the property that was being utilized as the seat of the club.they referred to article 4 in conjunction with article 3 of the reletting of urban property (regulation) ordinance (hereinafter referred to as ‘the ordinance’), which precluded them from increasing the rent to reflect the market value of the rented property.17.  the court noted the attorney general’s arguments against the owners whereby he contended that: the owners’ ascendants had not been forced to enter into the rental agreement with the band club ‑ they had willingly entered into the agreement which at the time they deemed just; when the owners’ ascendants had entered into the agreement the special legal dispositions regulating the renting of a property as a club (introduced through the enactment of the reletting of urban property (regulation) ordinance) were already in place and therefore the owners’ ascendants had entered into the agreement with full knowledge of the consequences it would lead to; therefore they had brought the situation upon themselves and could not allege a violation of their rights, nor should the owners be resorting to the courts to alter their situation.18.  the court noted that, in 1923, when the owners had entered into the first rental agreement with the band club, the laws enacting the special dispositions concerning renting a property as a club had not yet come into force.the court considered that the rental agreement of 14 august 1978 was an extension of the first rental agreement - the first agreement having been entered into before the special dispositions had come into force.however, when comparing the circumstances in which the rent agreement had originally been entered into, to the present day circumstances, the element of proportionality had not been respected and thus the applicant’s rights had been breached.20.  as to the owners’ request for the court to establish a raise in the rent payable to them, the court considered that it was not its role to take on functions that the constitution granted to another organ of the state, just as much as it could not “erase” (tħassar) laws unless it found that they had “no effect” (ma jiswewx).21.  the court considered that the estimate provided by the ex parte architect did not suffice due to the criteria used and the approximate manner in which the calculations had been done.taking all the circumstances of the case into consideration, the evidence presented before it and the applicable laws, the court awarded compensation in the sum of eur 50,000.the court concluded that the case of the owners did not concern the renunciation of a human right, but rather the exercise on the part of the owners to dispose of their property as they desired.from the evidence presented before it, the constitutional court concluded that the agreement of 14 august 1978 established clearly that the owners wanted to enter into a rental agreement for a larger property, with a higher rent to be paid by the band club, and had done so.
5.  the applicants are russian nationals who at the material time lived in the neighbouring regions of the chechen republic and the republic of ingushetia.13.  according to the applicant, she reported the abduction immediately to the local military command in grozny, the office of the prosecutor of chechnya and various ngos.14.  on 14 july 2000 the applicant complained in respect of the abduction again to the leninskiy district police station and asked for assistance in the search for her son.17.  on 19 august 2001 the applicant complained in respect of the abduction to the representative of the president of the russian federation in the southern federal district and asked him for assistance in the search for her son.24.  the applicants are close relatives of mr said-magomed vatsayev, who was born in 1979. the first applicant is his mother, the second applicant is his brother and the third applicant is his sister.29.  on 23 july 2002 the first applicant reported the abduction to the head of the government of the chechen republic.40.  on 1 july 2011 the applicants challenged the investigators’ decision to suspend the investigation of 16 june 2011 and their failure to take basic steps before the grozny district court.48.  on 3 july 2003 the first applicant complained of the abduction to the military prosecutor of shali and requested assistance in the search for him.56.  on 6 may 2012 the first applicant requested that the investigators inform her of the progress in the investigation.58.  the first applicant is the mother of mr alvi lorsnukayev (in the documents submitted also referred to as lorsanukayev, lorsunukayev, lorsankayev), who was born in 1961. the second applicant is his wife.according to the applicants, between 2002 and 2008 they contacted the investigators and other authorities asking for information on the progress of the investigation.68.  on 15 july 2008 the first applicant requested that the investigators inform her of the progress of the investigation, resume the investigation and allow her access to the case file.75.  on 26 june 2012 the second applicants challenged the investigators’ decision of 22 august 2009 to suspend the investigation before the leninskiy district court of grozny.84.  in 2009 the first applicant asked the head of the chechen parliamentary committee on the search for the disappeared (комитет парламента чеченской республики по поиску лиц, без вести пропавших в период проведения контртеррористической операции) for assistance in the search for her son.90.  on 17 october 2011 the first applicant challenged the investigators’ decision to suspend the investigation of 18 march 2008 and their failure to take basic investigative steps before the shali town court.
(“the association”), to the applicants on the ground that their content included propaganda for an illegal organisation and referred to activities in support of the illegal organisation and of people on a “fast to the death”.11.  on 14 september 2005 mr tamer, the applicants’ lawyer at the material time, sent a letter to the applicants asking them to fill out and sign the forms of authority that were enclosed with the letter, to authorise him to lodge an application on their behalf with the court concerning the disciplinary board’s decision to intercept the letters sent by the association (see paragraph 7 above).12.  the administration of the edirne f-type prison believed the contents of the letter of 14 september 2005 to be suspect and therefore lodged a request with the public prosecutor on 21 september 2005 for a decision to refer the matter to an enforcement court to determine whether the material sent to the applicants included objectionable content.5351, the letter and the forms of authority should not be handed over to the applicants because it considered that mr tamer’s request for the applicants to complete the forms of authority for the purpose of bringing an application before the court did not constitute a permitted professional activity (serbest çalışma hayatına aykırılık) but instead pressurised and incited the applicants to institute proceedings.16.  on 26 december 2005 the edirne chief prosecutor’s office decided not to prosecute the governor in relation to mr tamer’s complaints, since the letter in question had been withheld from the applicants as a result of the implementation of the edirne enforcement court’s decision of 25 october 2005.18.  in the meantime, on 23 november 2005 mr tamer wrote to the committee of ministers of the council of europe informing it that the edirne f-type prison administration’s refusal to give the applicants the letter in question had impaired his ability to lodge an application with the court and constituted a violation of the european agreement relating to persons participating in proceedings of the european court of human rights.19.  on 22 february 2006 the registry of the court sent a letter to mr tamer acknowledging receipt of his letter dated 23 november 2005, addressed to the committee of ministers of the council of europe, as indicating the applicants’ intention to lodge an application with the court and invited him to submit a duly completed application form.22.  on 18 april 2007 the applicants’ representative sent a copy of the court’s letter together with forms of authority to the applicants and requested them to fill out the forms of authority in connection with application no.23.  the edirne f-type prison administration believed the contents of the letter of 18 april 2007 to be suspect and therefore lodged a request with the public prosecutor on 24 april 2007 for a decision to refer the letter to an enforcement court to determine whether the material being sent to the applicants included objectionable content.5351, the letter enclosing the forms of authority should not be handed over to the applicants, on the same grounds as those given in its previous decision dated 25 october 2005. the decision was served on the applicants on 18 may 2007.however, if it emerges from documents or other evidence that visits by lawyers to a person convicted of the offences set out in section 220 of the criminal code or sub-chapters 4 and 5 of chapter 2 of the criminal code are serving as a means of communication with a terrorist organisation or of committing a crime or otherwise jeopardising the security of the prison, the enforcement court may, at the application of the prosecution, impose [the following measures]: presence of an official during the lawyer’s visits; verification of documents exchanged between the prisoner and his or her lawyers during such visits; and/or confiscation of all or some of these documents by the judge.30.  section 55 sets out a prohibition on legal advertising as follows: “lawyers are prohibited from advertising or engaging in any conduct which may be regarded as soliciting for the purpose of offering their services ...” 31.  article 3 of the european agreement relating to persons participating in proceedings of the european court of human rights, ratified by turkey on 6 october 2004 and in force as of 1 december 2004, reads as follows: “1.the contracting parties shall respect the right of the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of article 1 of this agreement to correspond freely with the commission and the court.2.  as regards persons under detention, the exercise of this right shall in particular imply that: (a)  if their correspondence is examined by the competent authorities, its despatch and delivery shall nevertheless take place without undue delay and without alteration; (b)  such persons shall not be subject to disciplinary measures in any form on account of any communication sent through the proper channels to the commission or the court; (c)  such persons shall have the right to correspond, and consult out of hearing of other persons, with a lawyer qualified to appear before the courts of the country where they are detained in regard to an application to the commission, or any proceedings resulting therefrom.3.  in application of the preceding paragraphs, there shall be no interference by a public authority except such as is in accordance with the law and is necessary in a democratic society in the interests of national security, for the detection or prosecution of a criminal offence or for the protection of health.”
8.  at the material time the applicant and her family lived in the village of achkhoy-martan in the vicinity of the achkhoy-martan district department of the interior (“the achkhoy-martan rovd”) and the achkhoy‑martan district department of the federal security service (“the achkhoy-martan fsb”).24.  in the meantime, on 4 september 2008 and 14 april 2009, mr aslan abubakarov’s parents contacted the russian ministry of the interior and the chechen parliament’s committee for the search for missing persons respectively, asking for their assistance in the search for their son.55.  on 20 july 2003 the head of the avtury municipal administration informed the shali district department of the interior (“the shali rovd”) about the abduction of mr ruslanbek boltiyev, mr shamkhan zibikov and mr sayd-ali sharshuyev.58.  on 31 july 2003 the investigators questioned the tenth applicant, who described the circumstances of her husband’s abduction, and her neighbour, mr a.a. the latter stated that he had seen the abduction of mr sayd-ali sharshuyev by servicemen in camouflage uniforms, who had arrived in vaz and uaz vehicles without registration plates.102.  on 11 january 2005 the head of the avtury municipal authority informed the investigators that the remains of mr alikhan golbatsov’s car bearing signs of an explosion had been found near a road between the villages of avtury and niki-khita in the kurchaloiy district, chehcnya.108.  on 12 november 2007 the investigators resumed the investigation and asked the applicant to tell them the names of the village residents who had seen the abduction of her son.132.  at about 3 a.m. on 4 may 2003 (in the documents submitted the date was also referred to as 5 may 2003) mr lema khamzatov was at home in the noviye aldy settlement, chechnya (in the documents submitted the address was also referred to as grozny) when a group of about thirty armed servicemen in camouflage uniforms arrived at his house in apcs and uaz minivans.141.  on 25 august and 1 and 11 september 2003 mr lema khamzatov’s father contacted the russian prosecutor general, the head of the russian parliament and the head of the chechen parliament respectively, seeking their assistance in the investigation.from the documents presented by the applicants it appears that on 8 july 2010 the ngo srji/astreya, on behalf of mr lema khamzatov’s father, requested an update about the progress of the case and access to the documents in the case file.154.  on 7 february 2005 the argun deputy prosecutor overruled the refusal to open a criminal case dated 6 january 2005. the investigation into the abduction of the reshidov brothers was joined to the investigation in criminal case no.176.  at about 12 noon (in the documents submitted the time was also referred to as 2 p.m.) on 24 july 2005 mr magomed mezhiyev, who was an officer of the chechen ministry of the interior, and his acquaintance, mr a.m. (in the documents submitted also referred to as mr a.kh.177.  according to the applicants, several days after the abduction an unidentified armed man in a black uniform contacted them and offered to sell them for 1,000 united states dollars (usd) a video recording depicting mr magomed mezhiyev and mr a.m. being detained on the premises of the grozny district department of the interior (“the grozny rovd”).the first applicant stated that he had recognised the appearance and the voice of his son, the grozny rovd building and the car belonging to the head of the grozny rovd.187.  in the meantime, on 27 october 2006 the investigators attempted to examine the premises of the grozny rovd to verify whether it had been depicted on the video, but they were not let in owing to the lack of special authorisation.198.  on 6 january 2005 (in the documents submitted the date was also referred to as 28 january 2005) the applicant and mr bekmagomed daniyev were at home in their flat in the town of argun when at about 6 a.m. a group of armed men in camouflage uniforms arrived at their block of flats in three cars, including a uaz and white gazel minivan.
6.  on 3 june 2010 the maribor local court found the applicant guilty, pursuant to the (old) criminal code (see paragraph 34 below), of two counts of violent behaviour, which had been committed in the periods between 1 may and 29 june 2003, and between 1 july 2003 and 22 november 2004, respectively.9.  on 21 june 2011 the maribor local court informed the ministry of justice that the applicant’s conviction for the criminal offences committed in 2003 and 2004 had become final (see paragraph 6 above).he argued that at the time he had committed the criminal offence he could not have foreseen that it would have entailed such a sanction and that section 109 of the financial operations act should not have been applied retrospectively – an issue which in his view had been entirely disregarded by the ministry of justice.the applicant also emphasised that at the time he had acquired the licence the law had not provided for the measure of revocation in a case of conviction for a criminal offence.as regards the applicant’s assertion that the measure should not have been applied retroactively, it found that the time when the offence had been committed was not to be considered relevant since the measure in question pertained to the final conviction, thereby respecting the presumption of innocence.moreover, the applicant was of the view that, assuming that the administrative court had correctly interpreted the relevant provisions of the financial operations act, those provisions were inconsistent with the constitution.13.  on 13 february 2013 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s appeal on points of law as inadmissible, holding that the question he had raised did not meet the standard of “an important legal question” which should be resolved by the supreme court.the relevant provision of section 109 of the financial operations act was unambiguous and did not require any particular interpretation; it was clear from its wording that it applied equally to those liquidators who had acquired their licence prior to the enactment of the financial operations act as well as to those who had acquired it after the new act had come into force.he continued to aver that when given the licence, he had complied with all the pertinent criteria and that the relevant provisions of the financial operations act were unconstitutional.moreover, the courts had disregarded the fact that only a suspended prison sentence had been imposed on him and that the legal distinction to include all criminal offences committed with intent was arbitrary and not relevant to the aim of maintaining public confidence in the profession at issue.15.  on 6 november 2013 the constitutional court decided not to consider the applicant’s constitutional complaint, relying on the second paragraph of section 55(b) of the constitutional court act (see paragraph 36 below).19.  on 29 may 2013 the ministry of justice rejected his application, citing the financial operations act’s provision, pursuant to which a licence could not be granted once it had been revoked (point 2, paragraph 4 of section 108 of the financial operations act – see paragraph 30 below) and noting that the applicant’s licence had been revoked on 27 june 2011.24.  on 10 march 2015 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law on the grounds that he had failed to demonstrate that there was an important legal question, he had not pointed to any inconsistencies in the case-law and he had not shown that he had suffered very severe consequences as a result of the impugned measure, which the court pointed out had been a refusal to grant him a licence and not the earlier revocation.25.  on 27 may 2015 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal, relying on several provisions of the constitution including equal protection of rights, the right to judicial protection, freedom of work, as well as articles 6, 7 and 14 of the convention.the supreme court ignored his argument to the effect that the relevant provisions were unconstitutional and instead took a position that only a departure from case‑law would merit the examination of his appeal.
he also stated that he accepted to help the applicant move a photocopier (which had been found overturned on the floor) and that he had seen the applicant put the server of a computer network system under the sofa of a room on the second floor, and the video recorder and the safe-deposit box in other places.the applicant then admitted that the items allegedly stolen (the safe‑deposit box, the server and the cctv recorder) were found earlier at the premises (on the same day ‑ 1 february 2002) and he insisted that if the police were to watch the cctv video, they would see the four men.he confirmed that the police had, on the previous day, seized a video recorder (of the brand gyyr) and a video tape which was in it, and that upon the applicant’s request, the police, the applicant and the court‑appointed expert had viewed the content of the video tape together that same evening.the applicant explained that he could not confirm that the video recorder was the same one connected to the system, and the second tape inside it was surely not the same type that recorded the events of 29 january 2002. he could not remember how many video recorders of the brand gyyr he possessed noting that the new ones used to be in the stores and others could be in the repair room or in another room.22.  the court of criminal appeal further noted that in his subsequent statement the applicant said that the video he had watched with the police officers had started on 9 october 2000 and ended on 24 october 2000. he could not confirm whether the video recorder was the same one which had been included in the system but he considered that the second tape inside was surely not the one he was recording on, on 29 january 2002. he did not know how many videos of the brand gyyr he had.27.  on 15 june 2011, the applicant filed an application before the civil court (first hall), in its constitutional competence, complaining about a violation of article 6 of the convention on the basis that, inter alia, the court of criminal appeal’s judgment was based on statements given by the applicant to the police without the assistance of a lawyer.(a)   cases decided in 2011 - during the pendency of criminal proceedings against the complainants 35.  in the wake of the judgment in salduz, cited above, a number of accused persons raised constitutional complaints during the pendency of the criminal proceedings against them and requested the relevant criminal courts to make a referral to the constitutional jurisdictions.in 2011 three cases were decided by the constitutional court (in similar yet never identical formations of three judges), namely the police vs alvin privitera of 11 april 2011, the police vs esron pullicino of 12 april 2011, and the police vs mark lombardi, also of 12 april 2011. in the three cases the constitutional court held that the claimants had suffered a breach of their right to a fair trial under article 6 of the convention in so far as they had not been legally assisted.40.  the constitutional court did not order the statements to be expunged from the record of the proceedings, but it ordered that the court of criminal judicature be informed of the said judgment so that it could decide accordingly on the validity and admissibility of the statement made.2039/04, 9 february 2010) the court had stressed that the systemic restriction of access to a lawyer pursuant to the relevant legal provisions breached article 6. the constitutional court further referred to the finding in cadder v. her majesty’s advocate [2010] uksc 43, which concerned the same situation in the scottish legal system and where that court had agreed to follow salduz to the letter.by way of example: (i)  cases brought before the constitutional jurisdictions while the criminal proceedings were pending against the complainant charles stephen muscat vs the attorney general, constitutional court judgment of 8 october 2012 45.  by a judgment of 10 october 2011 the civil court (first hall) in its constitutional competence, dismissed an objection to the effect that the complaint was premature and found that the fact that the law precluded the accused from being legally assisted sufficed to find a violation.however, following a request for retrial which was upheld by a judgment of the constitutional court of 31 january 2014, no violation was found because the accused, who had given a statement in the absence of a lawyer, had not been forced to reply to the questions put to him by the police, nor was he particularly vulnerable to the extent that he would have required the assistance of a lawyer.accepting that the case was not premature, and in the light of the criminal courts’ referral pending criminal proceedings against mr fenech, it found that the mr fenech’s right to a fair trial had been breached only in relation to the statement given to the police, but not the statement given before the magistrate, which could thus be admitted as evidence in the criminal proceedings against him.for these reasons the constitutional court upheld the article 6 violation only in respect of the statement the applicant made to the police, which could not therefore be used in the criminal proceedings against him, but not in respect of the statement made before the inquiring magistrate, which could be used in the proceedings.it considered that to determine the fairness of the proceedings they had to be taken as a whole, on the facts of the case it did not appear to be so in the present case where mr pace did not object to the presentation of his statements to the jurors during the criminal proceedings, to the contrary he noted that he was not challenging the validity of the second statement, which showed that the applicant had not felt prejudiced by his statements, which had been reiterated before the court of magistrates.
8.  at the relevant time, the applicants held the following positions: sigurður einarsson was chairman of the board of kaupþing and chairman of the board credit committee; hreiðar már sigurðsson was chief executive officer of kaupþing and a member of the board credit committee; ólafur ólafsson was majority owner of a company which indirectly owned another company which was at the time the second largest shareholder in kaupþing, with 9.88% of its shares; magnús guðmundsson was chief executive officer of kaupþing’s subsidiary, kaupþing bank luxembourg s.a. (hereafter “kbl”).an investigation revealed that kaupþing had provided a loan for the entire purchase price of the shares, which the bank itself had owned prior to their sale: two companies in the british virgin islands, st and ga, the former of which was owned by al thani and the latter by the applicant ólafur ólafsson, had each obtained a loan from kaupþing amounting to half the purchase price, which they had then lent to a cypriot company, cs, itself owned by the two said companies.the government identified three different categories of data: “full collection of data” (heildarsafn gagna) referred to all the data seized and held by the special prosecutor, regardless of whether it had relevance to the case or not; “investigation documents” (rannsóknargögn) referred to the data, documents and other materials extracted from the full collection of data which had been defined by the special prosecutor as relevant to the case and which were marked as part of the “investigation file”; “evidence in the case” referred to the documents and other materials that were submitted in court by the prosecution or the defence and were part of the “case file” in the court proceedings.these folders were given the following names: -  ess kau q iceland, containing 8,956 documents, derived from kaupþing’s computer systems, where e-mails and personal drives of 62 employees were searched through, and from other items seized in searches at three companies related to the applicants and at a law firm, as well as from items handed over by the fme; -  ess kau q iceland 2, containing 54,468 documents, from kaupþing’s computer systems and from kbl; the e-mails of 11 employees of these companies in the period from 1 september to 31 october 2008 were searched; -  kau kbluc, containing 712,378 documents, derived from kbl’s computer systems after searching through all e-mails of 13 employees from december 2006. the documents in these clearwell folders were subsequently reviewed by the investigators by making further searches using the clearwell system and by reviewing them manually.at preliminary court sessions on 29 march and 27 april 2012 the applicants requested that the special prosecutor be required to hand over “a copy of the register of events (log-register) about connections between telephone calls or any other data which may have been created during the investigation of the case at the office of the special prosecutor and which contains an overview of telephone calls which were tapped on the basis of rulings on tappings in the case”, as well as copies of all e-mails which had passed through their e-mail addresses and had been seized by the special prosecutor during the investigation.24.  at a preliminary court session on 21 march 2013 the applicants requested “a summary of all documents and other materials which have been acquired by the police and have not been submitted in the case” or, alternatively, a summary of all documents which had been acquired during the investigation by the police, that had been identified in a clearwell search programme, and had been given the names “ess kau q iceland”, “ess kau q iceland 2” and “kau kbluc” and had not been submitted in the case.the district court, in a ruling of 26 march 2013, dismissed the applicants’ requests on the ground that section 37 § 1 of the criminal procedures act applied only to data which had come into being and were still available but did not oblige the police or the prosecution to prepare documents at the request of the defence.it then observed in relation to the request dismissed by the district court on 29 may 2012 that it could not be overlooked that the collection of data seized by the police was enormous in scope and that among the data were e-mail communications that by their nature had to concern the financial affairs of a great many customers of kaupþing and which had to be kept confidential, as well as personal messages concerning the private lives of employees.it observed that “when an assessment is made as to whether the right of an accused man to access to documents has been restricted ..., the basic condition must be satisfied that a demand concerning that matter has been referred to the courts.” consequently, it held that there were no grounds for dismissal of the case on the basis of a violation of the right of access to documents.the applicants’ phones were tapped in the period from 9 to 27 march 2010. the special prosecutor informed the applicants by letter of 28 december 2011 that the tapping had taken place and informed them that the records from the phone tapping would be deleted in accordance with section 85 § 1 of the of criminal procedures act.the calls had been recorded with help from the computer forensics division of the rejkjavík metropolitan police; they had been scanned by the investigators, who had at the same time made brief notes about what they regarded as relevant to the investigation of the case; the investigators had been instructed to stop listening to phone calls when it became clear that a defendant was speaking to his defence lawyer and not to record what had been revealed in the conversation up until that point.dated 19 september 2016 in which he stated that his wife, mrs s., had been appointed vice-chair of the board of the fme on 1 january 2007 and that she had resigned on 25 january 2009. she had confirmed that between 9 december 2008, when the transactions at issue had been sent to the fme, and the date of her resignation, the transactions had been discussed once in a board meeting, on 19 january 2009, when the director of the fme had announced that a specialist had been appointed to make further inquiries into them; the specialist had handed his report to the fme on 6 march 2009 and the fme had submitted its complaint to the special prosecutor on 13 march 2009. consequently, the matter had never been discussed while mrs s. had been on the board.36.  the government had also received a statement from á.k.’s son, mr k., dated 19 september 2016, confirmed by a former member of the winding-up committee of kaupþing, according to which mr k. had worked in kaupþing’s legal department from november 2007 until the bank collapsed in october 2008. shortly after the appointment of the resolution committee, mr k. had started working for the committee and he had been head of its legal department from december 2008. after the resolution committee had been discontinued at the end of 2011 and a winding-up committee had been appointed, mr k. had taken up the position as head of the legal department of the latter committee, a post which he had held until august 2013. mr k. noted in his statement that when he had taken the position of head of the legal department of the resolution committee, it had been decided that cases concerning criminal investigations and actions for damages against former employees would not form part of the work of the legal division of the resolution committee, because he had been an employee of kaupþing before its collapse; the same applied after the winding-up committee was appointed.anybody aged fifteen or older who is subject to icelandic jurisdiction and is not the defendant or his representative must appear before the court as a witness to respond verbally to questions asked of them about the facts of the case ... ... 4. if the witness is located far from the court or if attending the court would otherwise cause him significant inconvenience, the judge may decide that testimony is to be given during the court session by telephone ot other telecommunications methods, provided that the testimony is given in such a manner that everyone present during the session is able to hear the testimony.the summons shall state the name and address of the witness, the main reasons for the summons, the name of the court, where and when the testimony is to be given and what the consequences may be if the witness does not attend or comply with his duty in other respects.
5.  the applicants are: (1) ms umidat mukhtarova, who was born in 1942, (2) ms manash mukhtarova, who was born in 1965, (3) ms mariya umarova, who was born in 1950, (4) mr lechi umarov, who was born in 1942, (5) ms zara umarova, who was born in 1977. the second applicant lives in grozny.6.  the first and second applicants are the mother and the sister of mr sharpudi (also spelled as sharpuddi and sharpudin) mukhtarov, who was born in 1975. the third and fourth applicants are the parents of mr zaurbek (also spelled as zovrbek) umarov, who was born in 1975 (in the documents submitted the year was also stated as 1981).at about 3.30 p.m. on 1 november 2003 he and his friend mr zaurbek umarov were on the outskirts of the village when a group of armed servicemen in camouflage uniforms arrived in a military uaz and vaz‑2106 vehicles without registration numbers.they put mr mukhtarov and mr umarov on the ground threatening them with weapons, then forced them into the vehicles and drove off in the direction of ordzhonikidzevskaya village.15.  on 13 january 2004 the investigators requested an extension of the investigation’s time frame, stating, amongst other reasons, that there were grounds to suspect that the abduction of mr sharpudi mukhtarov was linked to his friendship with mr zaurbek umarov.20.  on 24 november 2008 the investigation was resumed following the second applicant’s submissions to the investigators about the tv interview with mr umarov (see paragraph 35 below).23.  on 1 april 2009 the sunzhenskiy district court of ingushetia granted the investigators’ request and allowed the seizure of the video containing the interview with mr umarov from the ntv channel.in reply ntv informed them that the video recording of the programme had already been destroyed owing to the expiry of the conservation period.34.  on 4 august 2008 the first applicant informed the investigators about the death of her husband, mr m.m., and asked to be granted victim status in the criminal case.35.  on 12 november 2008 the second applicant informed the investigators of the television programme in which mr zaurbek umarov had appeared (see paragraph 9 above).36.  on 3 march 2009 the second applicant’s lawyer asked the investigators to be allowed to read the investigation file and make copies of the documents.40.  according to the fifth applicant’s submissions to the court, mr umarov’s relatives had learnt about his abduction from mr mukhtarov’s relatives on 1 november 2003. they complained about the incident to the local police and sunzhenskiy district police station.despite their complaints, the criminal case was opened only on 18 december 2003. the third, fourth and fifth applicants had received no news about the whereabouts of mr umarov since then.41.  on 7 september 2005 the ngo memorial, acting on behalf of ms z.u., mr umarov’s sister, asked the public prosecutor of ingushetia whether any criminal case had been instituted into mr umarov’s disappearance.and the ngo memorial that the criminal case into the abduction of mr mukhtarov and mr umarov had been opened on 18 november 2003, and that the investigation had been suspended.
5.  on 2 february 2010 the applicant submitted a written statement in which he denied that he had collaborated with the state security bodies after 1944. such a statement was to be submitted to the fact verification commission (“the lustration commission”) by public officials and was required under the additional requirement for public office act of 2008 (“the 2008 lustration act”).by a decision of 12 september 2011, the lustration commission confirmed that the applicant satisfied the additional condition for the performance of the office of a judge, having confirmed that he had not collaborated with the security bodies of the past regime.6.  on 16 november 2012 the lustration commission, on a request by its chairman, reopened the lustration proceedings in respect of the applicant and, on the basis of “new facts and evidence”, quashed its decision of 12 september 2011. the commission’s decision, which referred to submissions made by a third person (namely a certain z.t., who was identified in connection with the chairman’s request) in its introduction, relied on three files concerning three people (one of whom was z.t.the relevant parts of those notes read as follows: “... i [the handler] met with [the applicant], a law student [at the time], on two occasions on which he expressed a wish to collaborate with the state security office (служба за државна безбедност) ... ... the relationship (пријателската врска) – [the applicant] informed me that [code name] had exchanged letters with ... ... the conversation with [the applicant] was on my [the handler’s] initiative ... the source [the applicant] was used occasionally, during his stay in skopje.he was reassigned for use to ...” 7.  the lustration commission found that, under the law on determining conditions limiting the exercise of public office, access to documents and the publication of information about cooperation with state security bodies (“the 2012 lustration act”, which had replaced the 2008 lustration act), the applicant had collaborated with the state security bodies.its decision stated, inter alia: “... [the applicant] had provided the security bodies with information about certain people of interest for the state security office ... on the basis of documentary evidence, it was established that the state security office had used [the applicant] as an operational liaison ... ... the lustration commission established that [the applicant], as a secret collaborator, informant or operational liaison, [in the process of] creating and storing information about certain people, by which their rights and freedoms had been violated on political or ideological grounds, had collaborated with the state security services in a conscious, secret, organised and continuous manner, in return for favours in getting promoted, by which the condition specified in sections 4 and 18 of the [2012 lustration act] is fulfilled.” 8.  after the lustration commission published the above decision (and the notes of the security bodies referred to in the decision) on its website, the applicant requested (making a non-disclosure statement) and obtained a redacted copy of those documents, in the form in which they were published on the commission’s website.they were redacted to withhold the identities of the handler(s) who had drawn them up and the third persons in respect of whom the applicant had allegedly provided information to the security bodies.9.  in a written statement of 27 november 2012, certified by a notary public, p.k., the handler who had drawn up some of the notes to which the lustration commission had referred in its decision, stated, inter alia: “... i drafted [the notes] (содржината) concerning [the applicant] without [his] knowledge, according to my interpretation (по мое видување) and following a spontaneous conversation that he had not requested, let alone intended to be used for a role as a secret collaborator or informant.i avow that [the applicant] was not recorded or registered by the security bodies as such ... neither i nor my colleagues, as far as i know, had requested that he be registered as a secret collaborator, informant, operational liaison ... neither had [the applicant] made a request to collaborate with the security service ... i submit that the contents of the official records are not truthful (веродостојни) and at times [the applicant] had not provided the information in any organised manner, i.e. ... he had not been an organised liaison with the state security office ...” 10.  on 30 november 2012 the applicant challenged the commission’s decision before the administrative court.in that connection, he subsequently submitted a letter from the intelligence service (управа за безбедност и контраразузнавање) dated 2013, in which it was confirmed that the applicant had not been registered in its records and that the documents used in the impugned proceedings had not been from its archives.referring to the information in the relevant documents (see paragraph 6 above), which it found truthful (having compared the copy documents in the applicant’s case file with the originals), the court confirmed the lustration commission’s findings that the applicant had collaborated with the security services in a conscious, secret, organised and continuous manner as a secret informant, notably as an operational liaison.the court made its decision at a hearing held in private because the commission had correctly established the relevant facts on the basis of written material and [the applicant] had not submitted any evidence that led to different facts.” 12.  on 24 january 2014 the applicant requested that the lustration commission grant him access to the original documents in his case file.the authenticity of the files used against him had also been compromised in that they had not been from the archives of the intelligence service on the one hand, but that they had seemingly been drawn up by handlers at the state security office – which was the predecessor of the intelligence service – on the other hand.14.  at a hearing held in private, and in the absence of the parties, on 12 june 2014, the higher administrative court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the lower court’s decision without hearing the testimony of the witnesses proposed by the applicant.the court confirmed the findings of the lower authorities after it had verified that the contents of the documents in the applicant’s case file, admitted as copy documents, were identical to the originals from the state archives.
7.  following an application lodged on 3 may 2007 by the zagreb county state attorney’s office, on 4 may 2007 the investigating judge of the zagreb county court authorised the use of secret surveillance measures in respect of the fourth applicant and three other persons, on the grounds that they were suspected of drug trafficking proscribed by article 173 §§ 1 and 2 of the criminal code.the application refers to the police report ... of 3 may 2007 concerning the use of secret surveillance measures in respect of m.m., alleging that there is probable cause to believe that the persons mentioned [in that report] often communicate about purchasing cocaine, [something] which is established on the basis of telephone conversations with m.m., [a person] in respect of whom this court ordered [secret surveillance] measures under article 180 § 1 (1) and (3) of the code of criminal procedure on 5 march 2007. the investigating judge considers that the application is well founded, because in this particular case the investigation of these criminal offences could not be carried out by other means, as [the offences] concern the criminal offence proscribed by article 173 §§ 1 and 2 of the criminal code.bearing in mind the above facts, the investigating judge [issues] an order under article 180 § 1 (1) of the code of criminal procedure ... because the stated circumstances point to there being sufficient grounds for suspecting the commission of the criminal offence proscribed under article 173 §§ 1 and 2 of the criminal code.” 8.  on 1 june 2007 the zagreb county court issued another order, accepting an application by the office for the suppression of corruption and organised crime (ured za suzbijanje korupcije i organiziranog kriminaliteta, hereinafter “the oscoc”) for the use of secret surveillance measures for a period of three months in respect of the first and fourth applicants and four other persons, on the grounds that they were suspected of drug trafficking proscribed by article 173 § 3 of the criminal code.the judge’s relevant statement of reasons reads as follows: “in explaining its application for an order implementing measures referred to in article 180 § 1 (1) [in respect of the first applicant] and (3) of the code of criminal procedure [in respect of the first and fourth applicants], the oscoc refers to the report of the zagreb police department ... of 31 may 2007. namely, by analysing the implementation of surveillance measures and the recording of telephone conversations, that is remote communication by mobile telephones ... used by a.j.... the enclosed document delivered with the oscoc’s application ... of 31 may 2007 and the conversations monitored so far indicate that a.j., with the assistance of [the fourth applicant] has organised a criminal group that sells large amounts of cocaine (several kilograms) in the territory of zagreb and the republic of croatia, [a criminal group] which, in addition to [a.j and the fourth applicant] consists of [the first applicant], g.t., k.k.... given the information stated above, and since there are grounds for suspicion that an offence of narcotic abuse under article 173 § 3 of the criminal code has been committed and that criminal offences of this kind are still being committed, and taking into consideration that inquiries into the criminal offences could not be carried out in any other way or would be carried out with unreasonable difficulties, given how the offences are committed, the application submitted by oscoc ought to be accepted ...” 9.  on 14 june 2007 the oscoc requested that an order which included additional telephone numbers be issued against the first applicant and a.j.14.  in the course of the proceedings before the zagreb county court the applicants challenged the lawfulness of the secret surveillance, alleging that it had not been ordered in accordance with the relevant domestic law and that the evidence so obtained was not relevant or accurate, as nothing suggested that they had been involved in the alleged drug trafficking.16.  the latter decision was confirmed by the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske) on 14 may 2008. the relevant statement of reasons given by the supreme court reads as follows: “... this second-instance court agrees with the first-instance court’s conclusion that evidence obtained by using an investigative measure ordered against a person in respect of whom there is a reasonable suspicion that he is committing, alone or jointly with others, one of the criminal offences proscribed under article 181 of the code of criminal procedure, can be used not only against [that person], but also against every other person caught participating in [that person’s] criminal activity, [when] the criminal activity of the other person amounts to the criminal offence proscribed under article 181 of the code of criminal procedure, but always on the condition that the other person has been caught acting together with the person against whom one of the measures under article 180 § 1(1)-(6) has been lawfully issued.... section 22 of the office for the suppression of corruption and organised crime act (zakon o uredu za suzbijanje korupcije i organiziranog kriminaliteta, hereinafter ‘the oscoc act’) provides that in proceedings concerning criminal offences under section 21 of the oscoc act, the code of criminal procedure and other general provisions of criminal procedure shall apply, unless the oscoc act provides otherwise.therefore, the content of the cited provisions of the oscoc act, to which the appellants refer in their appeals, does not exclude the application of special measures under article 180 § 1 of the code of criminal procedure, but such measures are extended in respect of some criminal offences by the measures provided for under section 41 of the oscoc act.consequently, in its application for special measures of inquiry into criminal offences proscribed by article 173 § 3 of the criminal code in the specific case against the defendants, the oscoc proposed the application of the provisions of article 180 § 1 of the code of criminal procedure which the court had applied when issuing the order ... of 1 june 2007. therefore, since the oscoc has jurisdiction over proceedings regarding the criminal offence under article 173 § 3 of the criminal code and proposed ordering special measures of inquiry into such an offence under article 180 § 1of the code of criminal procedure, the court accepted the application, which is why the issued order is not unlawful.furthermore, applying article 180 § 1 of the code of criminal procedure to the order at issue, even though daily reports and documentation regarding technical recordings drafted by the members of the police authorities who were implementing the ordered measures were not delivered to the investigating judge on a daily basis – the judge did not ask for this under article 182a of the code of criminal procedure, but this was done after the special measures had been implemented – this does not render the order in question unlawful pursuant to article 9 §§ 1 and 2 of the code of criminal procedure, nor does it make the material evidence obtained from the measures unlawful, contrary to the allegations in the defendants’ appeals.it was not contrary to article 8 of the european convention on human rights and fundamental freedoms or contrary to the criteria set by the european court of human rights, because it was based on the relevant provisions of the code of criminal procedure, had a legitimate aim, and was necessary, taking into account all the specific circumstances involved in establishing the perpetrators of the criminal offence.” 17.  at a hearing held on 15 december 2008 the trial court heard m.s., a witness called by the fourth applicant.22.  on 13 january 2010 the supreme court informed the parties that a session of the appeal panel would be held on 9 march 2010. the parties were invited to attend, but it was expressly stated that the presence of the accused, who were in pre-trial detention and had a lawyer, would not be ensured, and that there would be no order for them to be brought to court.as to the first, second and third applicants’ complaint concerning the reasoned opinion of the state attorney’s office of the republic of croatia not being forwarded to the defence, the constitutional court noted that at the session of the appeal panel the deputy state attorney had reiterated the arguments submitted in the opinion in question.
the expert opinions were submitted to the court on 12 july 2010. according to the opinions the applicant was fit to work.on 28 march 2011 the applicant’s representative also challenged the impartiality of all the judges of the szczecin regional court.11.  in august 2011 the court sent the case file to an expert on psychiatry who submitted his supplementary opinion in september 2011. the expert suggested that a further opinion on the applicant’s mental health should be obtained.on 28 november 2012 the szczecin court of appeal quashed the decision of 19 october 2011, finding that insulting remarks contained in a letter to a court should not be regarded as contempt of court.14.  subsequently, the court dealt with various applications by the applicant to have a legal aid lawyer appointed, which were ultimately dismissed on 26 march 2015. the applicant lodged several procedural applications with the court, in particular challenging experts.the applicant also challenged the judges again; the presiding judge was changed following a decision of the president of the court on 20 may 2015.15.  on 22 may 2015 the szczecin regional court gave a judgment in which it dismissed the applicant’s appeal against the zus decision of 29 january 2010. the applicant appealed.in july 2016 the court granted her request for a legal aid lawyer and one was appointed to represent the applicant before the supreme court.19.  on 27 february 2018 the szczecin court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the regional court’s judgment.20.  on 25 april 2018 the court granted an application by the applicant for a legal aid lawyer for the purpose of lodging a cassation appeal.25.  the applicant lodged several complaints under the law of 17 june 2004 on complaints about breaches of the right to have a case examined, in an investigation conducted or supervised by a prosecutor and in judicial proceedings, without undue delay (ustawa o skardze na naruszenie prawa strony do rozpoznania sprawy w postępowaniu przygotowawczym prowadzonym lub nadzorowanym przez prokuratora i postępowaniu sądowym bez nieuzasadnionej zwłoki - “the 2004 act”).the court, relying on convention principles, considered that, taking into account the complexity of the case, the length of the proceedings had not been excessive.in particular, in the second of the above-mentioned decisions, the court agreed that the proceedings in the case had concentrated on the examination of the applicant’s applications for legal aid and her applications challenging the experts and judges.on 26 february 2018 the szczecin court of appeal rejected the applicant’s most recent complaint about the length of the proceedings before the court of appeal as it had not been lodged by a lawyer.29.  a detailed description of the relevant domestic law and practice concerning remedies for excessive length of judicial proceedings – in particular, the applicable provisions of the 2004 act – is set out in the court’s decisions in the cases of charzyński v.poland ((dec.), no.
4.  on 30 november 2004 the applicant company signed a contract (“the contract”) with the ministry of finance (“the ministry”) for an investment loan, expressed in the equivalent of the national currency, with the repayments calculated in euros (во денарска противвредност пресметана во евра).clause 11 of the contract stipulated that a statutory default interest rate (затезна камата по стапка yтврдена со закон) was to be paid on all overdue repayments, which, according to an annex forming part of the contract, were expressed in euros.5.  on 4 september 2012 a bailiff issued an enforcement order under the terms of the contract.the applicant company’s protest and appeal against the enforcement order were dismissed by both the president of the ohrid court of first instance (основен суд охрид) and by the bitola court of appeal (апелационен суд битола), with the final decision being dated 3 april 2013.6.  on 17 may 2013 the applicant company lodged a civil claim against the ministry seeking an annulment of clause 11 of the contract, claiming that, in accordance with domestic law, interest on the repayment of loans in foreign currencies should be calculated on the basis of that foreign currency’s domestic rate (домицилна камата) instead of the statutory default interest rate.in that respect it relied on a judgment by the supreme court in which the same provision, contained in an identical contract regarding a state-granted loan to another person, had been annulled (рев1.7.  the applicant company’s claim was dismissed by the ohrid court of first instance and the bitola court of appeal on 7 october and 13 january 2014 respectively, each holding that the loan had been approved in the national currency and therefore the statutory default interest rate applied.neither court commented as to the supreme court’s case-law.the final judgment was served on the applicant company’s representative on 31 march 2014.8.  on 27 may 2015 insolvency proceedings were opened in respect of the applicant company.9.  in judgments рев.1 бр.202/2012 of 24 october 2013, the supreme court held that interest on state-granted loans which were to be repaid in amounts expressed in a foreign currency should be calculated on the basis of that currency’s domestic interest rate.the supreme court took the stance that the loan repayment instalments were the determinative factor in the cases, and since, in those cases, the instalments had been expressed in a foreign currency, the statutory default interest rate was not applicable.the same stance was taken in two appeal court judgments (тсж бр.828/08 of 21 may 2008 and тсж 1527/09 of 11 november 2009).
the decision merely stated that the reasons advanced by the investigator were sufficient for the court to conclude that the applicant might try to abscond from justice, obstruct the investigation, and influence the other suspect or witnesses in the proceedings.10.  in the course of the pre-trial investigation the applicant’s detention was extended a number of times, including on 27 july, 22 and 28 september, and 15 and 29 november 2017. the reasons for extending his detention were the severity of the possible sanction, the need to take additional investigative and procedural steps, and the fact that the existing risks [of the applicant’s absconding or obstructing the criminal proceedings] were still relevant.the trial court maintained the custodial preventive measure in respect of the applicant, reiterating, without providing details, the same reasons which had been mentioned at the pre‑trial stage, namely that there was a reasonable suspicion that the applicant had committed the said crime; if released he might attempt to abscond from justice; the statutory penalty for the crime was up to ten years’ imprisonment along with confiscation of all property; and, being a foreign national, he had no permanent place of residence in ukraine and was unemployed.13.  in the decisions taken on 22 september and 13 december 2017, 28 march, 13 june and 11 september 2018, and 7 november and 11 february 2019, the courts also referred to the fact that the applicant was a national of the russian federation, and might therefore escape justice abroad as he had not handed in his passport, had no permanent place of residence, no social ties in ukraine and was unemployed.14.  in the course of the proceedings in respect of the extension of his detention, on 28 september and 13 december 2017, 28 march, 24 april, 13 june, 11 september, 7 november 2018, and 11 february 2019 the applicant raised objections.he stated that he suffered from cardiac and neurological conditions and that his state of health required treatment in a specialised medical facility outside the sizo; that he had a permanent residence permit issued by the ukrainian authorities; and that he had had a civil partner and two children born in ukraine.he further stated that a non‑custodial preventive measure had been applied to his two co-accused in the course of the pre-trial investigation, and the fact that they were at liberty had not obstructed the investigation.the neurologist also stated that by 13 september 2017 the applicant had needed further examinations and treatment at a medical facility specialising in neurology, in order to specify the further treatment to be prescribed.25.  on 29 september and 10 october 2017 the applicant consulted a neurologist, who prescribed him medication and massage of the limbs of the left side of the body.27.  on 3 january 2018 the applicant’s defence lawyer requested the kyiv bureau for forensic medical examinations to carry out a forensic examination with a view to establishing, inter alia, what medical conditions the applicant was suffering from and whether he required medical treatment.29.  on 9 february and 6 march 2018 the sizo administration replied to the defence lawyer’s applications for the applicant’s transfer to a specialised medical facility, informing him that such a transfer would be possible if the relevant documentation confirming the readiness of the medical facility in question to admit the applicant for treatment, were presented.30.  on 8 may 2018 the applicant’s defence lawyer applied to the trial court, seeking the applicant’s transfer to a medical facility specialising in neurology with a view to his further examination and in-patient treatment.on the same day the trial court allowed that application and ordered the applicant’s transfer to a relevant medical facility of the applicant’s choice and at his or his relatives’ expense.31.  on 11 may 2018 the sizo authorities informed the applicant’s defence lawyer that his client’s transfer for treatment would be possible if he presented relevant documentation confirming the readiness of the medical facility in question to admit the applicant for treatment.the second category is the intermediary one, the first constituting the severest level of disability and the third the least severe.
article 150 of the code (“place of serving life imprisonment”) provided that life prisoners were to serve their sentences in maximum-security correctional colonies.article 151 (“procedure for, and conditions of, the execution and serving of life sentences”) further provided, inter alia, that life prisoners were entitled to one short visit every six months.in turn, article 139 (“medium-security correctional colonies”) provided that prisoners serving their sentences in such colonies were entitled, inter alia, to have one short visit every month and one long visit every three months.8.  by a letter of 27 june 2007 the state department of ukraine for the execution of sentences informed the second applicant, in reply to a letter sent by him on an earlier date, that female life prisoners were entitled to have one long visit every three months, as provided by article 139 of the code, given that they served their sentences in medium-security colonies, as provided by article 18 of the code.referring, in particular, to article 151 of the code, the department further stated that male life prisoners were entitled to have one short visit every six months and that they were not entitled to have long visits.article 150, as amended, stated that persons sentenced to life imprisonment were to serve their sentences as follows: male prisoners ‑ either in maximum-security sectors of medium-security correctional colonies or in maximum-security correctional colonies; and female prisoners – either in medium-security sectors of minimum-security correctional colonies with general conditions of detention or in medium-security correctional colonies.a newly introduced article 151² (“specifics regarding the serving of sentences by female life prisoners”) provided that female life prisoners were to be placed, as a rule, in medium-security sectors of minimum-security colonies with general conditions of detention.it also provided that female life prisoners were to be subject to the regime laid down for prisoners held in medium‑security colonies (that is, the regime provided for in article 139 of the code).10.  by the law of 8 april 2014 on the introduction of amendments to the code relating to the adaptation of status of convicted persons to european standards the code was amended again (“the 2014 amendments”).article 151 was amended to entitle all life prisoners to one short visit every month and one long visit every three months regardless of the type of correctional colony in which they were detained or the security regime to which they were subject.12.  the first applicant stated that he and his family had wished to maintain their relationships, but as the result of the absence of the right to long visits until 2014 he had had to divorce his wife.13.  the second applicant stated that, because of the lack of the opportunity to have long visits until 2014, he had lost contact with his family.his relatives had died – in particular he referred to his father having died in 2012 – and when the 2014 amendments entitled him to long visits, there had no longer been anyone to visit him.14.  the third applicant stated that, in the absence of the right to long visits until 2014, his right to found a family had been more declaratory than effective as, in particular, he had not been able to have any physical contact in order to conceive children.the government submitted that while serving his sentence the third applicant had had twelve short visits (between 25 july 2012 and 26 december 2017) and fourteen long visits (between 5 august 2014 and 6 february 2018) from his wife, mother, father and friends.
7.  the next morning the police conducted a search of the applicant’s house, where he lived with his parents, and recovered a handgun.according to the record of the examination, the applicant’s lawyer had agreed to the interview taking place in his absence.he had arrived in skopje on the day of the murder and he had been picked up by f.n.10.  on 6 july 2005 the applicant was indicted for murder and attempted murder before the skopje court of first instance (“the trial court”).11.  on 30 september 2005 the trial court requested that the ministry of justice (“the ministry”) summon j.t.given the severity of his condition, the expert expressed concerns about how the applicant could have arrived at the place of the crime, which was located some 8-9 kilometres from his house (не би можела да тврдам како се случило да се оддалечи).m.j. stated that he had seen the applicant at home at the time of the murder.a.m. stated that he had seen the applicant in front of his house at about the same time, adding that the applicant could only walk very short distances unaccompanied.on the same day the trial court requested information regarding the summons of 23 november 2005. the ministry responded that it had forwarded the summons to the albanian authorities and that the trial court should allow more time between hearings to ensure a timely delivery of the summons.he argued that admitting j.t.’s statement into evidence was a violation of section 351 of the criminal proceedings act, by which the trial court had to provide the defence with an opportunity to cross-examine him.19.  on 7 february 2008 the trial court acquitted the applicant, holding that there had been no nitrate particles found on his body, the handgun that had been seized from the his house had not been the one used in the murder and there was no fingerprint evidence to suggest that he had been the perpetrator.the sole evidence in support of the prosecution had been the evidence provided by j.t., which was insufficient for a conviction.20.  the skopje court of appeal (апелационен суд скопје) quashed the judgment, finding that the lower court had not given adequate weight to the evidence provided by j.t.it reiterated its earlier findings (see paragraph 19 above), but concluded that the applicant had been guilty of the crimes on the basis of the on-site examination, the statement of j.t., the identification parade and the fact that j.t.23.  on 4 july 2014, after holding a public hearing, the skopje court of appeal upheld the judgment finding that the evidence produced by j.t.
5.  on 7 july 2000 the applicant company and the ukrvuglegeologiya state company (“the uvg”), an administrative entity of the ministry of fuel and energy of ukraine represented by its own administrative entity, the sevastopol‑based izumrud recreation centre (“the irc”), concluded a ten‑year rental agreement, under which the applicant company rented bedroom block no.7.  on an unspecified date the applicant company applied to the sevastopol office of the state property fund of ukraine (“the fund”) seeking the privatisation of block no.this sum represented the block’s market value minus the value of the repairs made to it by the applicant company (uah 375,295), as established in an expert report prepared on 30 november 2003 by the i. company at the office’s request.12.  in august 2005 the applicant company lodged a claim with the donetsk regional commercial court against the uvg, asking the court to oblige the uvg to remove block no.in turn, the uvg lodged a counterclaim against the applicant company and the fund’s sevastopol office, seeking the invalidation of the contract of 26 december 2003, alleging that the irc and block no.14.  on 21 march 2006 the commercial court of appeal of the donetsk region quashed the above-mentioned judgment on the grounds that the case had to be examined by the sevastopol city commercial court.on 21 june 2006 the higher commercial court quashed that decision as erroneous and upheld the judgment of 1 february 2006.  on 23 august 2006 the supreme court refused to allow an appeal by the uvg against the decision of 21 june 2006.15.  in the meantime, on 20 december 2005 the ministry for the coal industry (the successor to the ministry of fuel and energy) decided to reorganise the uvg by singling out its structural unit, the irc, and creating on its base the izumrud recreation centre state enterprise (“the irc state enterprise”).16.  on 23 october 2006 the donetsk regional commercial court allowed a request by the applicant company and replaced the uvg with its successor, the irc state enterprise, as a party in proceedings instituted for the enforcement of the judgment of 1 february 2006 which remained unenforced.19.  on 4 june 2008 the court returned the request unexamined, as the irc state enterprise had subsequently withdrawn its request, having failed both to explain the reasons for it and to send a representative to the court hearings.20.  in september 2006 the irc state enterprise lodged a claim with the sevastopol city commercial court against the fund’s sevastopol office and the applicant company, seeking the invalidation of the contract of 26 december 2003. in response, the applicant company sought the discontinuation of the proceedings, arguing, with reference to article 80 of the 1991 code of commercial procedure, that the same dispute between the same parties had already been resolved by the judgment of 1 february 2006.as to the applicant company’s request, the court held that by the time the case had been resolved by the donetsk regional commercial court, the irc had been reorganised into an independent legal entity and its property rights had been transferred to the irc state enterprise.the uvg had not therefore been a proper party to the proceedings and it could not have put forward any counterclaims seeking the invalidation of the contract of 26 december 2003. the applicant had thus failed to prove that the courts had already decided a claim by the irc state enterprise in relation to the same object and grounds.as to the applicant company’s objections, it stated that it was the irc state enterprise, and not the uvg, which should have been the proper respondent (counterclaimant) in the case when the judgment of 1 february 2006 was adopted, and that the applicant company had failed to prove that the same dispute with the irc state enterprise had already been decided by the courts.it held that under domestic law in the event of the invalidation of a sale of privatised objects, money paid by buyers for such objects was to be refunded, on the basis of a court decision, from the proceeds of their onward sale.
the applicant and k.gj., who was undersecretary (подсекретар) in the ministry of defence (“the ministry”) at the time, were convicted of abuse of office (злоупотреба на службена положба и овластување) in relation to two procurement contracts (for food and construction services) concluded in december 2000 between the ministry and hs (“the company”) that had been owned at the time by z.s.he maintained that the procurement process had been conducted through the ministry’s administration (стручни служби) and the undersecretary, that he had not been informed of the details of individual contracts and that the two contracts had been lawfully concluded.maintained that the two contracts had been concluded in accordance with the law as they had been exempt from the regular process under the public procurement act for the following reasons: the food contract had concerned urgent procurement; and the construction contract had concerned issues of security and defence.16.  at a hearing held on 11 september 2003 the trial court, despite the objections of the defence, read out z.s.’s pre-trial statement (see paragraph 10 above) since police enquiries had confirmed that he had left the country for the united states.his examination was considered relevant in the context of v.t.’s role in the case and the use of the funds transferred by the ministry to the company.the trial court also needed to examine those ministry officials that had participated in the procurement procedure regarding the contracts in order to establish whether the defence arguments regarding the lawfulness of the contracts were valid.the first hearing in the re-trial proceedings was held on 13 september 2005. in the course of the proceedings, the trial court held numerous hearings, examined a number of witnesses and admitted other documents and expert evidence (see paragraph 20 below).19.  at the hearing held on 27 april 2006 the trial court admitted the written record of z.s.’s pre-trial statement as evidence on basis of section 351(2) of the criminal procedure act (see paragraph 29 below) since securing his attendance at the trial would have been extremely difficult and might have prolonged the proceedings, given that repeated police enquiries had confirmed his residence in the united states.20.  at the same hearing, the court admitted documentary evidence, including: financial and other documents related to the company; official documents from the ministry related to the procurement process and the two contracts; and several letters from the ministry sent in reply to enquiries made by the trial court.the defence challenged the veracity of the letters and applied to have the signatories examined at the trial.21.  at the hearings held on 10 and 17 november 2006 the defence reiterated their request to examine the signatories of the letters (see paragraph 20 above) and some other witnesses and proposed as evidence written material (including army reports and documents, government transcripts and media articles related to the armed conflict) in order that the court establish the relevant facts in respect of the circumstances related to the procurement process, the execution of the contracts, the influence of the deteriorating security situation and z.s.’s role in the company’s affairs.relying on a considerable amount of evidence, including the testimony of ministry officials who had participated in the two contracts and other witnesses, written material related to the procurement, two expert reports and the statements of the two experts at the trial, the trial court concluded the two contracts had not been awarded in a process compliant with the rules of public procurement.as to the construction contract, the court found that there had been neither a legal framework governing the construction of military housing on the site of the base, nor a clear decision or plan for the particular location, which suggested that the defendants’ choice of location had been aimed at circumventing the public-procurement rules.25.  the applicant appealed, arguing, inter alia, that the trial court had dismissed all his applications to introduce evidence (see paragraphs 20 and 21 above) which aimed to prove: (i) that the deteriorating security situation had justified the urgent food procurement and impeded the execution of the construction contract; (ii) that any construction in the military base had fallen under the “security” exception of the public-procurement rules.it further found that the trial court had admitted into the file evidence proposed by both the prosecution and the defence that had been necessary for establishing the relevant facts.
m. according to the applicant, she did not reside in the flat and rented it out in the summer as it was located in the historic part of the city centre and next to the beach.9.  on 22 september 2005 the executive committee of the yalta city council (“the executive committee”) approved a report on the examination of the pushkinska building issued by an interdepartmental commission set up by the executive committee.10.  on 5 october 2005 yalta city council (“the council”) and the executive committee concluded an agreement with the company which provided, inter alia, that the company would purchase two flats to move the applicant and the owner of another apartment from the dangerous building in exchange for granting to the company title over the applicant’s and the other person’s flats and then over the building as a whole (“the agreement”).the council and the executive committee further undertook to take measures to evict the applicant from the dangerous building, to authorise the company to demolish the pushkinska building, and to grant a construction permit.14.  on 16 june 2007, in a letter, the executive committee invited the applicant to appear, by 1 july 2007 at the latest, before the relevant body and obtain the title deeds (ордер) to the sosnova flat.15.  on 17 july 2007 the executive committee applied to the yalta city court to have the applicant evicted and her title to the pushkinska flat terminated, her moved to the sosnova flat and her property rights over the latter flat established.the executive committee noted, in particular, that the pushkinska building was under the threat of collapse and that, as the body responsible for observance of the technical condition of buildings and rehousing of residents from dangerous ones, it did not wish to be answerable for any grave consequences which the dangerousness of the pushkinska building might cause.17.  on an unspecified date the court of appeal of the autonomous republic of crimea (“the court of appeal”) remitted the case for fresh consideration to the first-instance court, noting that the council, as the owner of the sosnova flat, had not been involved in the proceedings.the court made the following findings: (a) it was not in dispute between the parties that the pushkinska building was a municipal property and was maintained by a municipal company, and that it was the executive committee’s task under the relevant laws to exercise control over the safety of buildings irrespective of their form of ownership; (b) in carrying out this obligation, the executive committee found that the building had been under the threat of collapse and these findings had been valid and had not been appealed against by any interested person.the agreement and the council’s decision of 19 october 2005 approving it were likewise valid; (c) pursuant to article 112 of the housing code the executive committee had been obliged to provide the applicant with a replacement dwelling, which it had done, but the applicant had refused to move on a voluntary basis without providing any reasons; and (d) pursuant to the agreement, which had been approved by the council, the pushkinska building was to be demolished, and not renovated, as claimed by the applicant, which made her return to the property impossible; she thus had to be evicted from that flat and moved to another apartment with her title to the pushkinska flat annulled by the court, which would be in compliance with article 346 § 2 of the civil code.in particular, the pushkinska flat was her private property and not that of the state and thus the provisions of the housing code, cited by the trial court, had been inapplicable to her situation and could not have served a basis for annulment of her title to the property.189 of 26 april 1984, in accordance with which as it was within the regional council’s ambit to decide, on the basis of a proposal by a city council, whether a building should be demolished or restored and stated that the council had thus acted ultra vires when it had allowed the company to demolish the building in the agreement.the applicant also disputed the fairness of the calculations used by the first-instance court, referring to the fact that, just before the pushkinska building had been declared dangerous, the company had bought several flats from the applicant’s neighbours, which had been in poor condition, for very high prices – much higher than the building price referred to by the council.23.  on 17 june 2008 the court of appeal upheld the judgment of 9 april 2008. it reiterated that it had been correctly established by the first-instance court that the pushkinska building had been under the threat of collapse and that in this situation, pursuant to article 112 of the housing code, the applicant must be evicted and provided by the executive committee with another dwelling.it pointed out in that connection that article 41 of the constitution allowed deprivation of property in exceptional cases of public necessity, on the grounds of and by the procedure established by law, and – the court emphasised – on the condition of advance and complete compensation of its value.
8.  during the night of 15 to 16 july 2016 a group of members of the turkish armed forces calling themselves the “peace at home council” attempted to carry out a military coup aimed at overthrowing the democratically elected parliament, government and president of turkey.the day after the attempted military coup, the national authorities blamed the network linked to fetullah gülen, a turkish citizen living in pennsylvania (united states of america) and considered to be the leader of a terrorist organisation known as fetö/pdy (“gülenist terror organisation/parallel state structure”).in connection with the above events, the turkish ambassador to moldova accused the orizont schools of ties to that movement and accused the teachers in those schools of terrorism.11.  in connection with the above events, on 6 april 2018 all the applicants applied to the moldovan bureau for migration and asylum (“the bma”) for asylum.13.  on 6 september 2018 in the morning, seven teachers from the orizont schools – among them the applicants – were arrested in their homes or on their way to work by individuals wearing plain clothes and taken to an unknown destination.14.  on the same day the turkish media reported that the turkish secret service had conducted a successful operation in moldova, during which seven members of the fethullah gülen movement had been arrested.15.  on 6 september 2018 some of the members of the applicants’ families, their colleagues from the schools and human rights defenders spent the day at the airport in the hope of stopping the applicants’ deportation to turkey.18.  on 7 september 2018, the head of the bma, o.p., stated in an interview that the authority had not been involved in the case of the seven orizont teachers and that the procedure for declaring them undesirable and removing them from moldova had not been carried out by the bma.the decisions contained a thorough analysis of the manner in which the gülen movement followers had been treated in turkey and concluded that the applicants’ fear of reprisals at the hands of the turkish authorities were justified.in particular, the bma found that the turkish authorities had committed acts of harassment, threatening, arbitrary detentions and other serious human rights violations in respect of opposition leaders and members of the gülen movement.the letters accompanying the decisions were posted on 7 and 10 september 2018 and were signed by the head of the bma, o.p.20.  several days after the applicants’ arrest and transfer to turkey their families also received from the bma decisions dated 5 september 2018, banning the applicants from entering moldovan territory for a period of five years and ordering their expulsion under supervision from moldova by the bma in accordance with section 58 of the status of aliens act (see paragraph 27 below).in its report, the european parliament issued a statement in which it expressed itself in the following terms on the manner in which the applicants had been transferred from turkey: “29.strongly condemns the recent extradition/abduction of turkish citizens to turkey due to their alleged links to the gülen movement, in violation of the rule of law and basic human rights; urges the moldovan authorities to ensure that any extradition requests coming from third countries are processed in a transparent manner while following judicial procedures fully in line with european principles and standards...” 23.  amnesty international also made a statement in relation to the deportation of the seven orizont teachers to turkey.on 6 september 2018 the organisation’s director for eastern europe and central asia made the following statement in relation to the applicants’ transfer to turkey: “the moldovan authorities didn’t just violate these individuals’ rights once by deporting them - they put them on a fast-track to further human rights violations such as an unfair trial.
9.  on 22 february 2011 a group composed of a judicial police officer, a criminalist and a forensic medical expert carried out an on-site investigation (kqyrjen e vendit të ngjarjes) at tirana university hospital centre and an external examination of the corpse (kqyrjen e kufomës) of sh.p, and took photographs at the scene.he had noticed that the mattress and the blankets were wet and that the area around the bed was very dirty.on 21 march 2011 the lezhë detention facility replied by letter stating that the applicant had been suffering from dyspnea, his lower limbs had both had oedemas, and that he had therefore been urgently transferred to tirana prison hospital.14.  on 10 march 2011, the prosecutor in charge of the case ordered a series of investigative actions to be carried out by a judicial police officer: “(1)  to contact forensic experts who would carry out a forensic examination to find out the cause of death of the deceased; (2)  to seize the criminal and medical files of sh.p.from the prison facilities, as well as from the hospital; (3)  to search the registers of the tirana prison hospital, tirana university hospital and shkodër civilian hospital in order to find out when he had been hospitalised, what the diagnosis had been, how long he had stayed, etc.; the pages of the register relevant to the search would have to be attached to the report; (4)  to question tirana prison employees, medical staff who had taken care of sh.p., and his family members about his medical history, his treatment, when he had last been hospitalised, etc.; and (5)  to carry out any other action which might be deemed necessary before 29 march 2011.” 15.  on 25 march 2011 i.o., one of the doctors who had been taking care of the applicant’s brother in the hospital, when questioned by the judicial police officer, stated that while under their supervision sh.p.16.  on 25 march 2011 p.d., one of the doctors who had been taking care of the applicant’s brother in the hospital, when questioned by the judicial police officer, stated that sh.p.underwent a negligent medical treatment, this would be the subject of an inquiry by another forensic medical commission once they had the investigative file at their disposal ...” 18.  on 24 february 2011 the police reported sh.p.’s death to the tirana prosecutor’s office, which registered it in a criminal file.the decision was based on the medical report of 30 march 2011, which had found that the death of sh.p.19.  on 17 may 2011, the applicant lodged a complaint with the tirana district court against the decision of the tirana prosecutor’s office.on 20 october 2011 the tirana district court rejected the applicant’s complaint on the grounds that he did not have legal standing to complain against the impugned decision, because he had only been notified of it as a family member of the deceased.20.  on 20 april 2012 the tirana court of appeal upheld the tirana district court’s decision of 20 october 2011. on 23 january 2014 the supreme court rejected an appeal lodged by the applicant.on 17 november 2015 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s complaints against the ordinary domestic courts’ decisions, with the argument that the statutory denial of standing to challenge the prosecutor’s decision did not violate the essence of the applicant’s right of access to a court.21.  on 16 february 2015 the applicant reported the death of his brother to the tirana prosecutor’s office.
she complained that the payment order had been based on a lease contract which had turned out to be null and void but which she had secured by a blank bill of exchange signed by her.the court examined in detail the financial situation of the applicant.in particular it noted that in 2010 her company had generated a gross income of pln 213,000; however, the expenses exceeded this sum by approximately pln 50,000. as regards the first four months of 2011 the applicant had declared a gross income of pln 53,600 and expenses of pln 48,500; therefore she had generated a net income of over pln 5,000. moreover the applicant had declared that she had other financial obligations, amounting to pln 4,000 per month, which she had been paying on time.the court agreed that her financial situation had been difficult and that she had not initiated the current proceedings.moreover, the applicant had declared a net income for the first four months of 2011. in an extensively reasoned decision the domestic court concluded that the applicant should be expected to pay one third of the fees due for lodging an appeal against the payment order.8.  the applicant appealed against the decision of the court officer.the applicant stressed that she had not instituted the civil proceedings, so could not prepare for their costs or limit the sum claimed.9.  on 3 august 2011 the koszalin regional court upheld the decision of the court officer.11.  on 26 august 2011 the court officer of the koszalin district court partly allowed the applicant’s request and exempted her from the court fees above pln 1,000 (equivalent to eur 250).the court took into account the applicant’s difficult financial situation but noted that the court fee should not have been regarded as less important than the other financial obligations that the applicant had been able to honour, in the amount of pln 4,000 monthly.having examined all the arguments relied on by the applicant, the court considered that the situation did not justify a total exemption from the court fees.14.  on 26 october 2011 the koszalin regional court rejected the applicant’s appeal against the payment order of 2 may 2011 and rejected her third application for full exemption from the court fees as it had been substantially the same as the one lodged before and examined on 26 august 2011.15.  on 10 november 2011 the applicant appealed against the decision of 26 october 2011. she was ordered to pay a court fee of pln 1,500 for pursuing her appeal.17.  on 30 march 2012 the szczecin court of appeal rejected her appeal against the decision of 26 october 2011 for failure to pay the fee.the decision was delivered to the applicant on 10 april 2012. it appears that around that time the applicant took up employment.
7.  according to the applicant, he was also punched in the face by one of the police officers during the arrest.the allegations that he had been kicked on his knee and had had the door slammed in his face were not confirmed in the course of the subsequent investigation.18.  on 27 june 2013 the stalowa wola district prosecutor severed complaints against the two police officers who had arrested the applicant and j.b. from the proceedings described in paragraphs 15-17 above.the expert referred to a certificate from the dentist dated 25 june 2013, the applicant’s medical files from stalowa wola district hospital and two medical certificates of 24 june 2013. he confirmed that the applicant had experienced bruising and swelling to his left knee.as to the origins of these injuries, the expert confirmed that the bruising had been typical of the kind caused by truncheons, while the knee injury could have occurred when the applicant had resisted getting into the police car or going to another room.23.  on 12 november 2013 the prosecutor questioned dr m.b., one of the doctors who had treated the applicant in stalowa wola district hospital on 26 june 2013. the doctor stated that he had diagnosed the applicant with chronic instability of the knee.24.  on 12 december 2013 the prosecutor questioned dr h.l., another doctor who had treated the applicant in stalowa wola district hospital on 26 june 2013. the doctor stated that the applicant had had several bruises on his thighs and chest.the prosecutor established that, during the police intervention on the night of 23 june 2013, the applicant and his friends had behaved aggressively, insulted the officers and resisted arrest.29.  the prosecutor acknowledged that the police officers had used force against the applicant as he had been aggressive during the arrest, but he had not been beaten by the police officers whilst at stalowa wola district police station.on the other hand the officers had clearly and in detail described the course of the events and their statements were coherent and logical.he further relied on the report prepared by the visual technology expert who had analysed the cctv footage and noted that his injury could have occurred in the room without cctv (while he had been searched).although they all agreed that the applicant had been beaten by police officers in the car and at the police station, they had not been able to give a consistent version of events.consequently, the court agreed with the prosecutor that the applicant’s aggressive and provocative behaviour during his arrest had justified the use of force by the police.in so far as the applicant had referred to the visual technology expert’s report, the court noted that, even if the applicant had begun limping after leaving the room where the body search had taken place, the possibility that his knee injury had occurred earlier on and that he had only begun to feel pain in that leg at a later stage could not be excluded.also, the medical opinion had not been explicit in this respect, since the applicant suffered from chronic instability of the knee, and the swelling might have resulted from the resistance he had demonstrated while getting into the police car.
9.  in its report to the municipal court of 4 june 2008 issued as part of the mandatory mediation procedure, the sesvete social welfare centre established that the relationship between the parents had been deeply and permanently strained; communication between them was poor and they had difficulties agreeing on parental care.10.  in the course of the divorce proceedings, the court heard a number of experts, including, on 30 june 2008, a psychologist from the sesvete social welfare centre, who stressed that the child needed contact with his father in order to maintain an emotional bond with him.12.  meanwhile, on 30 september 2008 by a partial judgment the sesvete municipal court dissolved the marriage between the applicant and d.m., but the proceedings continued as regards the remaining issues of custody, contact rights and child maintenance, on which the court decided to obtain an expert opinion from the zagreb child protection clinic (poliklinika za zaštitu djece grada zagreba).the relevant part of that decision reads as follows: “... on the basis of the case-file, the first-instance court concludes that meetings between the father and the son have thus far not been taking place in a manner corresponding to the best interest of the child, because the father had been able to see the son very rarely, and those rare occasions on wednesdays had been limited to fifteen minutes after school ... ... the lack of co-operation by the parents concerning the exercise of their parental rights, the mother’s firm attitude and her unwillingness to co-operate with [the applicant] must not run counter to the child’s interests ... given that so far the mother has not been co-operative as regards the time scheduled for father-son meetings once a week, it was in the interest of the child to supplement the previous decision ...” 16.  an appeal lodged by d.m.17.  in january 2011, at the request of the sesvete social welfare centre, the court ordered an expert assessment of the parties, taking into account the growing resistance of the child to contacts with his father.the relevant part of that judgment reads as follows: “the child is eleven and a half years old and, notwithstanding the significance of the mother’s influence on his development (concerning the father’s allegations of manipulation), he leaves the impression of a boy standing firmly behind his beliefs and attitudes, who expresses his will openly and clearly ... the child wishes to live with his mother and to spend a maximum of two hours on saturdays with his father, without supervision, as his weekly schedule is full of school and music assignments.the boy had asked his father to terminate the lawsuits against his mother, and said that the father would then be able to see him ... in an essay which the child wrote in the third grade, one can detect a firm connection with his mother, the heavy burden of the pending court proceedings (enforcement proceedings, criminal proceedings, present case) and the child’s feeling that his father has left his mother and does not respect the love he feels for her.... in order that a father-son emotional bond can be established and developed, and taking into account the child’s wishes and his free time, the court decides to start with saturday meetings for two hours ... so that the child can see that the court has respected his ability to independently express the wish to spend more or less time with the father, and afterwards every saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. [as suggested by the vinkovci social welfare centre] ... having regard to the events and the length of these proceedings, the centre’s proposal of 28 september 2012 that the court order the parents and the child to undergo an assessment at the zagreb child protection clinic, after which the centre would give its final opinion, was dismissed, as there are no reasons for the court to delay its decision after more than four years, given that the vinkovci social welfare centre has issued its recommendation and that the decisions in the proceedings are subject to change within the meaning of section 102 of the family act.” 20.  both parties lodged appeals against that judgment, which were dismissed by the second-instance court.if she failed to comply with the court order, the applicant suggested that the court enforcement officer, the police and the representatives of the social welfare centre intervene at the scene.following an appeal lodged by d.m., on 21 may 2010 the vukovar county court (županijski sud u vukovaru) quashed the enforcement order and remitted the case, finding that the first-instance court had to seek an opinion from the relevant social welfare centre.given the suggestive influence and manipulative behaviour of the mother, it was the mother’s wish, and not the wish of the child, not to have contacts with the father.a forensic psychologist concluded that the child’s desire to break ties with the father should be seen in the context of extremely suggestive behaviour and manipulation by his mother and that the cessation of contact with his father did not contribute to the child’s welfare.... given that in the instant case one of the basic rights of the child provided for in the convention on the rights of the child and the legislation in force is jeopardised, it was necessary to offer the parents professional assistance in establishing an adequate relationship by [imposing] the [child protection] measure of supervision of contacts between the son and the father so as to enable both parents to participate in [the child’s] upbringing.[therefore,] because of the distance [between the two towns] and work obligations, and [given] the [resultant] impossibility of implementing the court’s decision in the part concerning contacts between the son and the father during the week owing to changed circumstances, those [contacts] will not be covered by the supervision of contacts between the son and the father.” 44.  on 25 january 2012 the centre again imposed the child-protection measure of supervising the exercise of parental authority for a further year.45.  in the final report on another child protection measure of supervising the exercise of parental authority, issued for the period between july 2015 and june 2016, the social worker concluded that the measure had produced no results as the contacts between the applicant and his son were still not taking place.
the applicant was charged on thirty-eight counts with respect to various offences related to stealing cars, dealing in drugs, assaults and burglaries, in the context of an organised criminal gang.8.  at a session on 23 november 2010 the trial court decided to sever the remainder of the case from the proceedings against the applicant, which would be dealt with at a separate trial and joined with other charges brought against him.in consequence, the proceedings against the applicant were to be transferred to another division of the łódź regional court.the decision pertaining to the competence of the court was quashed on 14 december 2010. on 28 december 2010 the trial court extended the applicant’s detention on remand.on 4 february 2011 the proceedings were stayed pending the outcome of another trial, but that decision was quashed upon appeal on 16 march 2011. the case was transferred to the relevant division of the court in march 2011, and thereafter the presiding judge scheduled the beginning of the trial for 14 september 2011 and undertook other preparative actions (such as tracing the addresses of some twelve witnesses).during the proceedings the applicant lodged multiple procedural requests which were examined by the trial court.9.  the łódź regional court held about twenty-four hearings in total and on 13 may 2013 convicted the applicant and sentenced him to nine years’ imprisonment.11.  a hearing of the appellate court scheduled for 15 april 2014 was cancelled due to the absence of the applicant’s lawyer.12.  on 12 june 2014 the łódź court of appeal allowed the applicant’s appeal in part and reduced his sentence to eight years’ imprisonment.14.  the applicant lodged two complaints under the law of 17 june 2004 on complaints of breaches of the right to have a case examined in an investigation conducted or supervised by a prosecutor, and in judicial proceedings, without undue delay (ustawa o skardze na naruszenie prawa strony do rozpoznania sprawy w postępowaniu przygotowawczym prowadzonym lub nadzorowanym przez prokuratora i postępowaniu sądowym bez nieuzasadnionej zwłoki - “the 2004 act”).the court, relying on the convention principles, ruled that, taking into account the complexity of the case, the length of the proceedings had not been excessive.during the period under consideration the trial court had prepared diligently for trial by, for instance, securing the presence of a large number of witnesses who had been summoned from various detention facilities.16.  on 28 november 2012 the łódź court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s second complaint.the court examined the course of the proceedings and ruled that there had been no delays on the part of the courts.it noted that the trial court had taken many procedural decisions requested by the parties, including the applicant.
7.  on 1 october 2000, at the request of the tax authority, the building was valued by an estate agency at 352,000 moldovan lei (mdl).8.  on 29 january 2001 the department of privatisation and administration of state property sold the building in question to company b. for mdl 360,500 (approximately 29,678 euros (eur), following a public auction.9.  on 25 april 2003 the applicant company bought the building from company b. for mdl 628,000 (approximately eur 22,053).10.  on 29 march 2007 the prosecutor general’s office initiated court proceedings in which it sought the annulment of both the sale of the building on 29 january 2001 and the subsequent transaction between company b. and the applicant company.it also sought the return of the building to its initial owner, company v. the reason relied upon by the prosecutor’s general’s office was that the valuation of the building conducted by the estate agency had not been carried out in accordance with the provisions of the law.the court held, inter alia, that in accordance with the statute of limitations, the prosecutor general’s action could not be initiated more than three years after the events in dispute had taken place.12.  on 11 october 2007 the supreme court of justice upheld an appeal by the prosecutor general, reversed the judgment of the economic court of appeal, and upheld the action in its entirety.the supreme court considered that the prosecutor general’s action concerned a declaration of the absolute nullity of the contracts in question and that therefore, in accordance with article 217 of the civil code, enacted on 12 june 2003, it could not be limited in time.following this judgment, the transactions of 29 january 2001 and 25 april 2003 were annulled and each party involved was ordered to return to the other parties whatever they received by virtue of those transactions.13.  on 7 december 2007 the applicant company lodged a revision request against the above judgment in which it indicated that it had carried out an expert evaluation of the disputed building by an independent expert who determined its value at mdl 8,550,000 (approximately eur 511,440) after the improvements made by the applicant company to it.14.  in the meantime, the applicant company did not leave the disputed building because it had its production line there and it needed time and resources to find another suitable building and to move its production line.15.  since company v. did not need the disputed building, the applicant company proposed to it and the latter accepted to conclude a friendly settlement agreement in accordance with which company v. agreed that the applicant company would retain ownership of the building in exchange for mdl 325,092 (approximately eur 19,328).16.  on 20 march 2008, within the framework of the review proceedings, the supreme court of justice upheld the parties’ request to settle the case.it confirmed the friendly settlement agreement between the applicant company and company v., and on that basis it quashed its previous judgment and rejected the prosecutor general’s action.17.  it is unclear from the materials of the case and the parties’ submissions whether after the adoption of the judgment of 11 october 2007 by the supreme court of justice, company b. returned to the applicant company the amount received as a result of the transaction of 25 april 2003.
6.  the applicants, who were born in 1980 and 1977, respectively, live in slobozia and parcani, in the self-proclaimed “moldovan republic of transdniestria” (“mrt”).in view of the fact that, in the applicants’ submission, it was impossible for them to apply to the court directly, the application was lodged by their mothers.7.  on 2 march 2005 the applicants were arrested by the “mrt” authorities and placed in detention on remand on suspicion of murder.on 1 june 2009 they were convicted by an “mrt” court and sentenced to terms of fourteen years and a half, and fourteen years’ imprisonment, respectively.on 4 august 2009 the supreme court of the “mrt” upheld the above judgment, but reduced the sentence of the first applicant to fourteen years’ imprisonment.8.  it does not appear from the material in the case file and from the parties’ submissions that the applicants informed the authorities of the republic of moldova about the proceedings against them and the conviction and detention in the “mrt”.9.  in december 2014 the applicants challenged their conviction by way of an extraordinary appeal before the supreme court of the republic of moldova which, on 14 february 2015, upheld their appeal and quashed the judgments of the “mrt” courts on the ground that they had been issued by unconstitutional tribunals.10.  the applicants were released from detention on 20 july and 20 august 2015, respectively, for reasons which were not related to the supreme court of moldova’s decision of 14 february 2015.
9.  the following issues are raised in connection with those events and their aftermath:[1] (i)  all applicants: whether alleged verbal and physical harassment on the part of the personnel involved in the project against the applicants breached their right to freedom of peaceful assembly; (ii)  the first six applicants: whether their arrest and conviction for refusal to obey the orders to leave the site breached their freedom of peaceful assembly.in this respect there are two sub-groups: the first five applicants who were arrested together and the sixth applicant who was arrested on a different date; (iii)  the first and second applicants: whether the above-mentioned proceedings for failure to obey the police order to leave were fair in view of the applicants’ absence from the appeal hearings; (iv)  the third, seventh and ninth applicants: whether those applicants were subjected to inhuman or degrading treatment by the personnel involved in the project and, if so, whether there was a failure to protect them from such treatment and investigate it effectively.the subject of the agreement was the provision of security guard services for the purpose of preventing third parties from entering the road construction site, and the services were to be provided as from 28 may 2010. ps held a licence authorising it to provide commercial security guard services, issued on 11 april 2007 by the ministry of the interior.on 29 may it asked the chief of police of the then dzerzhinsky (presently shevchenkivsky) district, where gorky park is located (hereinafter “the district”), to ensure public order on the construction site, referring to an incident the previous day in which, according to the company, unidentified people had interfered with the construction work, shouted profanities at the workers and tried to provoke a fight.at the same time, the court concluded that the district court had not had sufficient grounds to impose the maximum punishment on the applicants, having failed to sufficiently take into account the circumstances of the cases and the applicants’ personal characteristics.(b)  the third and fourth applicants 60.  in the course of the hearing before the district court the third applicant stated that he had indeed been in gorky park, he had not heard any orders to leave the site from the police officers but had heard it from a person in civilian clothing.on 14 june 2010 the district court, having heard the police officers, who supported the charges, the third and fourth applicants and some witnesses, convicted the applicants as charged and sentenced them to fines of 136 and 170 ukrainian hryvnias (uah) respectively, at the time the equivalent of about 14 and 17 euros (eur) respectively (see paragraph 97 below).(c)  the fifth applicant 62.  on 23 june 2010 the district court, having heard the police officers, the fifth applicant and some witnesses, convicted the fifth applicant as charged and fined him uah 170, at the time the equivalent of about eur 17. on 27 july 2010 the court of appeal quashed the conviction by a final decision and discontinued the proceedings against the fifth applicant under article 22 of the code of administrative offences (see paragraph 95 below).in justifying the sanction, the court stated that it had taken into account the nature of the offence and its specific circumstances, the applicant’s personal characteristics, the fact that he had no employment, the absence of aggravating or attenuating circumstances, and the need to re-educate the offender and to prevent new offences.contrary to the applicant’s arguments, there was no indication of illegality in the police order to leave the site, in particular because the applicant had not submitted any evidence of any challenge having been lodged concerning the police actions or the executive committee’s decision of 19 may 2010 authorising the tree felling.concerning the sentence, the court of appeal was in no positon to reduce it, since neither the applicant nor his lawyer had asked the court to modify the district court’s judgment in that respect, in the light of any particular circumstances of the case or of the applicant’s personal characteristics, but had rather insisted only on the applicant’s innocence.the decision stated that it was the result of an investigation conducted in response to a large number of complaints in connection with the gorky park events, including from several members of parliament, a member of the regional council, the pechenigy ngo (see paragraph 76 above), a number of journalists and a number of protesters, including the applicants’ then representative, mr bushchenko (see paragraph 2 above), and the seventh and ninth applicants.86.  according to the applicants, notwithstanding their persistent efforts and requests submitted on 17 february, 5 july, 9 august and 12 september 2011, they had been unable to obtain a copy of the decision of 9 august 2010. they submitted a copy of the letter from the city prosecutor’s office of 19 august 2011, which stated that in response to mr bushchenko’s request of 5 july 2011 a copy of the decision of 9 august 2010 had been sent to him on 26 july 2011. on 4 october 2011 mr bushchenko wrote to the prosecutor’s office again, stating that in fact a copy of the decision had not been enclosed with the authorities’ previous letters.they submitted copies of letters addressed to the city prosecutor’s office and to the city and district police chiefs in which they had asked to be provided with a copy of the decision of 20 august 2010 and enclosed postal receipts showing that those letters had been delivered on 9 and 10 november 2010. in their comments of 1 march 2012 concerning the applicants’ observations of 15 november 2011, the government commented on a number of factual matters raised by the applicants (notably the public consultation concerning the project, see paragraph 200 below) but not on the applicants’ alleged inability to obtain a copy of the decision of 20 august 2010.90.  in november 2010 a number of protesters, including all the applicants, lodged an action with the kharkiv circuit administrative court, complaining that the police had failed to protect them against assaults during their peaceful protest against the tree felling, in particular on 28 and 31 may and 1 and 2 june 2010. according to the government, in the course of the trial in this case the seventh applicant was examined by a representative of the police.
6.  the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in corjova.7.  he had his car registered with the authorities of the republic of moldova and had moldovan registration plates installed on it.8.  on 16 december 2006 a customs officer of the self-proclaimed “moldovan republic of transdniestria” (“mrt”) stopped the applicant at a check‑point and seized his car on the ground that upon entry on the territory of transdniestria he had failed to stop at the border.he was later obliged to pay a fine of 58 united states dollars in order to recover the car.9.  on 19 december 2006 the applicant’s driving licence was seized on the ground that he had failed to comply with traffic rules.his car was also seized, on the ground of his failure to comply with customs regulations, but the seizure report was destroyed and he was able to recover his car five hours later after the intervention of a group of russian peacekeepers.his driving licence was not returned and he was issued a temporary driving licence.10.  according to the applicant, he complained to the authorities of moldova, but they informed him that there was nothing they could help him with.the moldovan government disputed the fact that the applicant had informed them about the circumstances of the present case.11.  reports by inter-governmental and non-governmental organisations, the relevant domestic law and practice of the republic of moldova, and other pertinent documents were summarised in mozer v. the republic of moldova and russia ([gc], no.11138/10, §§ 61-77, 23 february 2016).
lastly, the city court noted that the report of the ombudsman for children in st petersburg stated that both parents had parental authority in respect of v., that the applicant’s rights were not diminished on the territory of the russian federation, and that the removal of the child from her mother in russia to her father in finland for the purposes of permanent residence in finland could, on account of her numerous medical conditions, cause her physical harm.43.  the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction (“the hague convention”) entered into force between russia and finland on 1 january 2013. it provides, in so far as relevant, as follows: article 1 “the objects of the present convention are – a)  to secure the prompt return of children wrongfully removed to or retained in any contracting state; and b)  to ensure that rights of custody and of access under the law of one contracting state are effectively respected in the other contracting states....” article 3 “the removal or the retention of a child is to be considered wrongful where – a)  it is in breach of rights of custody attributed to a person, an institution or any other body, either jointly or alone, under the law of the state in which the child was habitually resident immediately before the removal or retention; and b)  at the time of removal or retention those rights were actually exercised, either jointly or alone, or would have been so exercised but for the removal or retention.if the judicial or administrative authority concerned has not reached a decision within six weeks from the date of commencement of the proceedings, the applicant or the central authority of the requested state, on its own initiative or if asked by the central authority of the requesting state, shall have the right to request a statement of the reasons for the delay.if a reply is received by the central authority of the requested state, that authority shall transmit the reply to the central authority of the requesting state, or to the applicant, as the case may be.” article 12 “where a child has been wrongfully removed or retained in terms of article 3 and, at the date of the commencement of the proceedings before the judicial or administrative authority of the contracting state where the child is, a period of less than one year has elapsed from the date of the wrongful removal or retention, the authority concerned shall order the return of the child forthwith....” article 13 “notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding article, the judicial or administrative authority of the requested state is not bound to order the return of the child if the person, institution or other body which opposes its return establishes that – a) the person, institution or other body having the care of the person of the child was not actually exercising the custody rights at the time of removal or retention, or had consented to or subsequently acquiesced in the removal or retention; or b) there is a grave risk that his or her return would expose the child to physical or psychological harm or otherwise place the child in an intolerable situation.in considering the circumstances referred to in this article, the judicial and administrative authorities shall take into account the information relating to the social background of the child provided by the central authority or other competent authority of the child’s habitual residence.” article 14 “in ascertaining whether there has been a wrongful removal or retention within the meaning of article 3, the judicial or administrative authorities of the requested state may take notice directly of the law of, and of judicial or administrative decisions, formally recognised or not in the state of the habitual residence of the child, without recourse to the specific procedures for the proof of that law or for the recognition of foreign decisions which would otherwise be applicable.” article 19 “a decision under this convention concerning the return of the child shall not be taken to be a determination on the merits of any custody issue.” 44.  the explanatory report to the hague convention, prepared by elisa pérez-vera and published by the hague conference on private international law (hcch) in 1982 ( “the explanatory report”), provides as follows: 1.  the notion of ‘the best interests of the child’ “21.... the true victim of the ‘childnapping’ is the child himself, who suffers from the sudden upsetting of his stability, the traumatic loss of contact with the parent who has been in charge of his upbringing, the uncertainty and frustration which come with the necessity to adapt to a strange language, unfamiliar cultural conditions and unknown teachers and relatives.25.  it is thus legitimate to assert that the two objects of the convention – the one preventive, the other designed to secure the immediate reintegration of the child into its habitual environment – both correspond to a specific idea of what constitutes the ‘best interests of the child’.... from the convention’s standpoint, the removal of a child by one of the joint holders without the consent of the other, is equally wrongful, and this wrongfulness derives in this particular case, not from some action in breach of a particular law, but from the fact that such action has disregarded the rights of the other parent which are also protected by law, and has interfered with their normal exercise.this implies above all that they are to be interpreted in a restrictive fashion if the convention is not to become a dead letter ... the practical application of this principle requires that the signatory states be convinced that they belong, despite their differences, to the same legal community within which the authorities of each state acknowledge that the authorities of one of them – those of the child’s habitual residence – are in principle best placed to decide upon questions of custody and access.as a result, a systematic invocation of the said exceptions, substituting the forum chosen by the abductor for that of the child’s residence, would lead to the collapse of the whole structure of the convention by depriving it of the spirit of mutual confidence which is its inspiration.114.  with regard to article 13, the introductory part of the first paragraph highlights the fact that the burden of proving the facts stated in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) is imposed on the person who opposes the return of the child ... 116.  the exceptions contained in [article 13] (b) deal with situations where international child abduction has indeed occurred, but where the return of the child would be contrary to its interests ... each of the terms used in this provision, is the result of a fragile compromise reached during the deliberations of the special commission and has been kept unaltered.105.  the second paragraph [of article 11 of the hague convention], so as to prompt internal authorities to accord maximum priority to dealing with the problems arising out of the international removal of children, lays down a non-obligatory time‑limit of six weeks, after which the applicant or central authority of the requested state may request a statement of reasons for the delay.in short, the provision’s importance cannot be measured in terms of the requirements of the obligations imposed by it, but by the very fact that it draws the attention of the competent authorities to the decisive nature of the time factor in such situations and that it determines the maximum period of time within which a decision on this matter should be taken.” 45.  the relevant provisions of the united nations convention on the rights of the child, which was signed in new york on 20 november 1989 and entered into force in respect of russia on 15 september 1990, read as follows: preamble “the states parties to the present convention, ... convinced that the family, as the fundamental group of society and the natural environment for the growth and well-being of all its members and particularly children, should be afforded the necessary protection and assistance so that it can fully assume its responsibilities within the community, recognizing that the child, for the full and harmonious development of his or her personality, should grow up in a family environment, in an atmosphere of happiness, love and understanding, ... have agreed as follows: ...” article 3 “1.
6.  in 2007 the applicant was charged with trafficking in human beings, together with another co-accused, b. in particular, he was charged with the attempt to organise the transfer of s. to a foreign country for the purpose of sexual exploitation.10.  s. declared that she had met only b., who had promised to find her employment in russia; that b. had arranged accommodation for her in the apartment she had been renting in slobozia; that b. had taken her passport and that another roommate, c.t., had informed her about b.’s intention to transfer her to cyprus for the purpose of sexual exploitation.she said that b. had told her about her arrangement with the applicant to transfer s. to turkey, that the applicant had intended to take care of all the formalities and that he had promised a reward for each woman she had found who could be moved to turkey for the purpose of prostitution.13.  the district court convicted both b. and the applicant on all counts, sentencing b. to seven years’ imprisonment, but absolving her from the execution of the sentence because she was infected with hiv, and sentencing the applicant to eight years’ imprisonment.14.  on 6 december 2007 after having heard the prosecutor, the applicant and the victim, the bender court of appeal concluded that the prosecution had failed to provide reliable evidence in support of the contention that the applicant had indeed acted together with b. and that the first-instance court had based its findings essentially on b.’s statements.it appears from the material in the domestic case file that a summons was sent to the applicant’s address on an unknown date; however, the post office did not deliver it and returned it with a note to the effect that that the applicant did not live on that address.the court quashed the judgment of the bender court of appeal, upheld the applicant’s conviction by the first-instance court and ordered a fresh examination of the case in respect of b. it did not examine directly any evidence and based its findings on the case file as established by the lower courts.on the basis of the case-file material, it found the testimonies of b., s. and e. to be reliable and directly incriminating in respect of the applicant and to be sufficient to prove his guilt.the court re‑examined and dismissed as ill-founded the applicant’s appeal against the judgment of ștefan-vodă district court of 8 june 2007. it allowed the prosecutor’s appeal and sentenced b. to seven years’ imprisonment in a closed-type detention facility, without allowing any adjournment for serving the sentence.17.  on 27 november 2008 the applicant was arrested at his place of work and only then was he informed of the judgments of the supreme court of justice of 1 april 2008 and of the chișinău court of appeal of 20 october 2008. the applicant appealed against the latter, arguing, inter alia, that he had not been legally summonsed and that in his absence the court had adopted a decision relying on assumptions rather than on factual evidence.18.  on 28 april 2009 the supreme court of justice held a hearing in the presence of the applicant, his representative, the victim and the prosecutor.the court allowed the applicant’s appeal and found that the chișinău court of appeal had been entitled to examine the case in respect of b. only, because in respect of the applicant a final judgment had been delivered on 1 april 2008 by the supreme court of justice.the court removed any reference to the applicant from the judgment of the chișinău court of appeal of 20 october 2008 but did not change in any way the sentence in respect of him.19.  on 2 june 2009 the applicant submitted an extraordinary appeal to the supreme court of justice, arguing, inter alia, that there had been a violation of article 6 of the convention as he had not been legally summonsed to the supreme court of justice hearing of 1 april 2008 and to the court of appeal hearing of 20 october 2008, and complaining of the lack of evidence and reasons for his conviction.on 28 october 2010 the supreme court of justice rejected the appeals, noting, inter alia, that the applicant had not appeared in court despite the fact that he had been summoned to the hearing of 1 april 2008, and that the applicant had been represented at that hearing by a pro bono lawyer.
5.  the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in chişinău.6.  the applicant had a dispute with h. over ownership of a house.he brought a claim against h. seeking acknowledgement of his property rights, as his father’s heir, and h.’s eviction from the house.h. lodged a counterclaim, seeking acknowledgement of her property rights to the house as she had built it.7.  on 20 december 2007 the buiucani district court dismissed h.’s counterclaim and allowed the applicant’s claim in full.on 20 may 2008 the chișinău court of appeal upheld the earlier judgment and dismissed h.’s appeal.h. did not attend the appellate hearing, even though the summons had been repeatedly sent to the address she had provided in her appeal.a registered letter was returned with a note stating that h. did not live at the address indicated by her.the judgment became final after the expiry of the two-month time-limit for lodging an appeal on points of law.8.  on 11 may 2009 h. lodged an appeal on points of law with the supreme court of justice, stating that she had only learned of the judgment of 20 may 2008 on 23 april 2009. in her application, she indicated the same address as in the proceedings before the court of appeal.the applicant asked the supreme court of justice to dismiss the appeal as being lodged outside the legal time-limit.he submitted that since it had been h. who had lodged the appeal with the chişinău court of appeal, it had been her duty to enquire about the progress of the proceedings and not to wait for a year before doing so.9.  on 16 october 2009 the supreme court of justice allowed h.’s appeal on points of law, quashed the previous judgments and delivered a new judgment on the merits of the case dividing the disputed house into equal shares between the applicant and h. the court argued that the appeal had not been lodged outside the time-limit because h. had not attended the hearing before the court of appeal and there was nothing in the file to suggest that that court had informed her of the availability of the full judgment.the court concluded that without any evidence of the date when h. had learned of the judgment, her appeal was considered to have been submitted on time.the judgment was final.
during the conversation... she says that “dad touched her [vagina]” and that mum “told her to say that”, no other information can be obtained ... assessment and opinion of the paediatrician ... sexual organ externally female, clean, no irritations or change of colour... appointment arranged with ... gynaecologist ... for 30 june 2014. assessment and opinion of the psychologist the girl comes accompanied by her parents ... at this point the girls is separated from her parents and remains alone with the interviewer but several times exits the room checking on her parents, which she also does when parents were in the room while she was outside in the hallway with a companion ... as her reason for coming she says that her mother had told her that her father “had done something bad, was touching her [vagina]”, which is why “her mum is protecting her from her father, so that she does not go close to him”.in order to determine the forensic issues, in light of the complicated status of the girl and the overall circumstances of the ‘case’, it would be necessary to obtain an expert opinion, which could sufficiently determine the psychiatric and psychological characteristics of both parents and their causal link with the behaviour of the child or possible manipulation of the child.6.  the child should certainly [receive] intensive treatment so as to diminish or remove the obstacles from the emotional and social sphere.” 43.  on the same day a senior expert consultant of the z state attorney’s office issued a report on the applicants’ case, the relevant part of which reads as follows: “... on her mother’s initiative, the girl has been examined at various psychological and psychiatric institutions, so one gets the impression that the mother visits various experts and institutions in order to support her accusations and when she does not obtain confirmation of her accusations, she goes to another institution.the relevant part of the letter sent to them reads: “... after careful assessment of the ... documentation ..., even though it has been concluded with certainty that child b shows erotic behaviour inappropriate for her age, no facts or circumstances have been established which would clearly indicate that the cause of this behaviour is sexual abuse of child b by the suspect c. since in this case reasonable suspicion has not been established that c has sexually abused child b, or that his behaviour amounted to any other criminal act liable to state-assisted prosecution, there is therefore no basis for the state attorney’s office to process [the case] further.” 45.  on 30 january 2015 the z state attorney’s office issued a formal decision not to prosecute.furthermore, elements of pressure by the mother on the child were observed by other experts ... it has been established that the conduct of the mother, who is well informed about the manner in which sexually abused children are treated and monitored, led the child to give statements which were often contradictory or untrue, which is why it is no longer possible to obtain a truthful statement from the child.” the decision then concludes that, taking into account all the facts and circumstances, it was not possible to conclude that c had committed any criminal offence liable to state-assisted prosecution.... (3)  if the report was filed with the court, the police authority or a state attorney lacking jurisdiction, they shall receive it and immediately forward it to the state attorney having jurisdiction ...” article 207 “(2)  the police shall notify the state attorney about all inquiries into criminal offences immediately, and not later than 24 hours from the moment the action was conducted ... ... (4)  on the basis of conducted inquiries, the police shall ... compose a criminal complaint or a report about the conducted inquiries, stating all the evidence which it gathered ... (5)  should the police subsequently learn about new facts [or] evidence ... it shall collect the necessary information and inform the state attorney about it immediately ...” article 285 “(1)  the following persons are not obliged to give evidence as witnesses: ... 4.  a child who, owing to his or her age and emotional development, is unable to understand the meaning of the right not to give evidence as a witness cannot be heard as a witness, but the information obtained from him or her through experts, relatives or other persons who have been in contact with the child may serve as evidence.(4)  measures which may be taken by a social welfare centre to protect the rights and welfare of a child may also be applied in respect of persons who care for a child on a daily basis.” section 128 “when determining the appropriate measure to protect the rights and welfare of a child, the body conducting the procedure shall ensure that a measure is applied which restricts as little as possible a parent’s right to care for the child where it is possible to protect the rights and welfare of the child by such a measure.” section 131 “measures to protect the rights and welfare of a child shall be ordered on the basis of an expert assessment if it has been established that there has been an infringement of the child’s rights or welfare or that the child’s rights or welfare are at risk.” section 134 “a social welfare centre may apply [the following measures] to protect the rights and welfare of a child: 66.  the national strategy for the rights of children in the republic of croatia for the period 2014 to 2020 (nacionalna strategija za prava djece u republici hrvatskoj) was adopted in september 2014 by the croatian government.the child and the holder of parental responsibility or other legal representative, if any, shall be informed of any measures or rights specifically focused on the child.” article 19 “a person should be considered to be a victim regardless of whether an offender is identified, apprehended, prosecuted or convicted and regardless of the familial relationship between them ...” article 20 – right to protection of victims during criminal investigations “without prejudice to the rights of the defence and in accordance with rules of judicial discretion, member states shall ensure that during criminal investigations: (a)  interviews of victims are conducted without unjustified delay after the complaint with regard to a criminal offence has been made to the competent authority; (b)  the number of interviews of victims is kept to a minimum and interviews are carried out only where strictly necessary for the purposes of the criminal investigation; ... (d)  medical examinations are kept to a minimum and are carried out only where strictly necessary for the purposes of the criminal proceedings.” article 22individual assessment of victims to identify specific protection needs “4.in addition to the measures provided for in article 23, member states shall ensure that where the victim is a child: (a)  in criminal investigations, all interviews with the child victim may be audiovisually recorded and such recorded interviews may be used as evidence in criminal proceedings; (b)  in criminal investigations and proceedings, in accordance with the role of victims in the relevant criminal justice system, competent authorities appoint a special representative for child victims where, according to national law, the holders of parental responsibility are precluded from representing the child victim as a result of a conflict of interest between them and the child victim, or where the child victim is unaccompanied or separated from the family; (c)  where the child victim has the right to a lawyer, he or she has the right to legal advice and representation, in his or her own name, in proceedings where there is, or there could be, a conflict of interest between the child victim and the holders of parental responsibility.each party shall take the necessary legislative or other measures to protect the rights and interests of victims, including their special needs as witnesses, at all stages of investigations and criminal proceedings, in particular by: a.  informing them of their rights and the services at their disposal and, unless they do not wish to receive such information, the follow-up given to their complaint, the charges, the general progress of the investigation or proceedings, and their role therein as well as the outcome of their cases; ... d.  providing them with appropriate support services so that their rights and interests are duly presented and taken into account; ... g.  ensuring that contact between victims and perpetrators within court and law enforcement agency premises is avoided, unless the competent authorities establish otherwise in the best interests of the child or when the investigations or proceedings require such contact.... 4.  each party shall provide for the possibility for the judicial authorities to appoint a special representative for the victim when, by internal law, he or she may have the status of a party to the criminal proceedings and where the holders of parental responsibility are precluded from representing the child in such proceedings as a result of a conflict of interest between them and the victim.each party shall take the necessary legislative or other measures to ensure that: a.  interviews with the child take place without unjustified delay after the facts have been reported to the competent authorities; b.  interviews with the child take place, where necessary, in premises designed or adapted for this purpose; c.  interviews with the child are carried out by professionals trained for this purpose; d.  the same persons, if possible and where appropriate, conduct all interviews with the child; e.  the number of interviews is as limited as possible and in so far as strictly necessary for the purpose of criminal proceedings; f.  the child may be accompanied by his or her legal representative or, where appropriate, an adult of his or her choice, unless a reasoned decision has been made to the contrary in respect of that person....” 79.  the relevant part of the explanatory report to the council of europe convention on the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse reads as follows: article 31 – general measures of protection “... 227.  paragraph 4 makes provision for the situation in cases of sexual abuse within the family, in which the holders of parental responsibility, while responsible for defending the child’s interests, are involved in some way in the proceedings in which the child is a victim (where there is a “conflict of interest”).... iii.5 article 31 § 4: appointment by the judicial authorities of a special representative for the victim to avoid a conflict of interest between the holders of parental responsibility and the victim 125.  considering that the level of family support is one of the most important predictors of the degree to which the child can adjust following his or her disclosure, family support can be heavily disrupted when the alleged perpetrator is part of the child’s family environment....” article 56 – measures of protection “... 2.  a child victim and child witness of violence against women and domestic violence shall be afforded, where appropriate, special protection measures taking into account the best interests of the child.” 82.  the relevant part of the recommendation rec (2006) 8 of the committee of ministers to member states on assistance to crime victims, adopted by the committee of ministers on 14 june 2006 at the 967th meeting of the ministers’ deputies, reads as follows: 1.  definitions “1.3.
the applicant claimed, in particular, that the bailiffs had determined the debt on the basis of the gross earnings the applicant had received as a private entrepreneur, without deducting the expenses he had incurred in the course of those activities.8.  in june 2007 the expert provided the report, indicating that the applicant had submitted to the tax authorities the information about his gross earnings obtained in the course of his business activities.the court of appeal noted that the bailiffs had relied on the official data obtained from the authorities and had correctly determined the amount of debt by referring to the available information on the applicant’s income.the court had regard to the written evidence as well as oral statements of the company director, who had submitted that the company had provided the flat to the applicant’s former husband in order to reward him for his professional achievements.16.  the applicant appealed, arguing, among other things, that the court had wrongly resolved the dispute on the basis of the family code of 2002, which had come into effect on 1 january 2004 and which could not apply retrospectively to the property regime in respect of the flat at issue.under the marriage and family code of 1969, which had been in force when her former husband had acquired the flat, the latter had been the common marital property of the spouses, and no exceptions were made for rewards or awards for personal achievements of one of the spouses.17.  on 27 october 2009 the kyiv regional court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal as unfounded, holding that she had failed to prove that the flat was the marital property of the former spouses and that she had made any contribution to the acquisition of the flat.42. on the same date company o. issued a certificate stating that the applicant’s husband was the successor of company o. under the agreements of 20 december 1995 and 22 december 1998, given that company o. had been declared bankrupt and the construction work had not been completed.on 12 april 2010 the kirovskyy district court of kirovohrad dismissed the claim, finding that the applicant’s husband “had not been a party” to the agreements of 20 december 1995 and 22 december 1998 and that therefore the defendants could not be held liable for failing to comply with any contractual obligations.23.  the applicant appealed, arguing that her husband had been expressly designated as a party to the agreement of december 1995. in any event, under the applicable law, contracts could be concluded for the benefit of a third party and such beneficiary was entitled to seek proper performance of the contract.24.  on 21 september 2010 the kirovohrad regional court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal, holding that the claim against company k. was groundless because it had been just a technical contractor and not a party responsible for the provision and distribution of flats; it had been the responsibility of company o. to provide the applicant’s husband with the flat.28.  following the applicant’s request, on 4 march 2010 the obukhiv district court ordered the local land resources department to submit to the court the land ownership documents given to the farm, including an official list of citizens who had been given the shares in the plots of land allocated to the farm.the court stated, in particular, that the applicant had failed to submit the official list of citizens who had been given shares in the plots of land allocated to the farm.30.  the applicant appealed, arguing that (i) the fact that his grandmother had not received the share of land had been confirmed, in his opinion, by the official replies from the local authorities which he had submitted to the court; and (ii) he did not have access to the list of citizens mentioned by first-instance court.31.  on 4 november 2010 the kyiv court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal, endorsing the first-instance court’s reasoning that by not providing the official list of citizens who had received the shares of land, the applicant had failed to prove that his grandmother had not received any such share.
7.  in april 2007 the prison authorities discovered that a mobile phone had been smuggled into the prison in december 2006. in may 2007 an investigation was opened against the applicant and in october 2007 several investigative measures against the applicant, including telephone surveillance, were ordered.he was accused of having accepted a bribe in the amount of 200 euros (eur), of having smuggled a mobile phone into the prison and of having provided it to an inmate.8.  subsequently, the district court appointed defence counsel for all accused, and provided them in turn with access to the case files, including the recordings of the telephone surveillance.9.  on 8 january 2010 the main proceedings were instituted before the district court, and on 12 january 2010 the court scheduled the trial hearings.10. the first hearing of the main proceedings took place on 3 may 2010 and after fourteen hearings the district court convicted the applicant for having taken a bribe and sentenced him to a term of imprisonment of one year and four months, suspended on probation.14.  on the day on which the judgment was pronounced, 18 november 2011, the public prosecutor lodged an appeal on points of law and submitted the reasoning on 16 january 2012. responses to the appeal were submitted by the accused, and the court of appeal scheduled a hearing for 21 january 2013.15.  on 21 january 2013 the court of appeal set the judgment of the regional court aside and remitted the matter to the regional court.17.  in its reasoning concerning sentencing the court held, inter alia, that it had to be taken into consideration in favour of the applicant that the deed had been committed already in 2006, that more than eight years had elapsed since then and that he had been subjected for many years, since 2007, to a criminal investigation and court proceedings that had been pursued against him.the court had also taken into account that the applicant had been suspended from service as soon as he had been convicted by the court of first instance and as a consequence had been receiving only a reduced salary since then.these had resulted from the fact that the presiding judge had only been able to schedule hearings on the matter from 11 february 2015 onwards after the matter had been remitted by the court of appeal on 29 january 2013. a discontinuation of the proceedings sought by the applicant based on the unreasonable length of the proceedings had, however, not been appropriate.this was only an option in extreme cases, where the weight of the disadvantage to be compensated for was greater than the weight of the punishment to be executed, to which such compensation was to apply.19.  the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law against the judgment of the regional court on 2 april 2015 and submitted his writ of appeal on points of law on 8 april 2015.23.  the applicant then applied to the administrative court seeking an interim injunction, under which he would retain his status as a civil servant for the time being, and the land of saarland would be instructed to continue paying his basic salary.the court also stated that the fact that, in the event that the suspension of his prison sentence was revoked, only five months would have to be served, did not change the fact that he had been sentenced to a term of imprisonment of at least six months.24.  on 6 october 2016 the court of appeal dismissed an appeal lodged by the applicant against the decision of the administrative court of 12 july 2016.
two hours later police officers from the volnovakha police arrived and took him to the volnovakha police station, where at about 2 p.m. police officers g., p. and s. started threatening him and told him to confess to the murder of a. he refused and at about 9 p.m. they twisted his arms behind his back, put handcuffs on his wrists, pushed him down to the floor, put a plastic bag on his head blocking his airway, connected and switched on an electric shock device attached to his right wrist, and started hitting him in the head and body.at 9.10 a.m. on 28 may 2008 he attended the police station again to “give explanations” and left at 11.40 a.m. at 7.52 p.m. he was arrested there in the presence of his lawyer, t. 9.  according to the police visitors’ book, on 27 may 2008 the applicant arrived at the police station at 7.10 p.m. and left at 9.10 p.m. on 28 may 2008 he arrived at the police station at 9.10 a.m. and left at 11.40 a.m., while t. came to the police station at 7.10 p.m. only the above two entries were made on 28 may 2008. the photocopy of the visitors’ book provided by the government does not contain a column with visitors’ signatures.16.  on 29 may 2008 the applicant lodged a complaint with the town prosecutor regarding his alleged ill-treatment at the volnovakha police station on the evening of 27 may and unlawful detention on 27 and 28 may 2008. in particular, he described in detail the alleged ill-treatment (as stated in paragraph 7 above).17.  on the same day t. complained to the prosecutor that on the evening of 28 may 2008 g., who had ill-treated the applicant the day before, had threatened her during her conversation with the applicant in the police station corridor.some of them (abrasions on the right forearm and left wrist) had been sustained up to one day before the examination, while others had been sustained three to four days (some bruises on his face, right shoulder joint and right shoulder) or five to seven days (haematomas in the right groin area and on the left shoulder joint) before the examination.a number of others (haematomas on the head, neck, face, left hip and forearm, left wrist and knee, abrasions on the right forearm, left leg, and a scratch on the right leg) could have been sustained during the period indicated by the applicant.22.  following the pre-investigation inquiries, on 7 june, 7 august and 28 november 2008, 21 january and 10 april 2009 the town prosecutor or his assistant refused to institute criminal proceedings in respect of the applicant’s complaint of 29 may 2008. while mentioning the applicant’s explanation that he had been beaten at the police station on 27 may 2008 and the expert report of 2 july 2008, which had established that he could have sustained a number of injuries during the period indicated by him, the prosecutor found that there was no evidence that those injuries had been inflicted at the police station and not elsewhere, because on 27 and 28 may 2008 the applicant had not been at the police station all the time.and police officer k., who had been on duty on 28 may 2008. according to them, on 27 may 2008 g. had received a call from the donetsk regional police informing him that they were holding the applicant, who was suspected of a crime committed on the territory of the volnovakha district.24.  on 21 july and 4 november 2008, 18 january, 30 march and 21 september 2009 the higher prosecutor or the volnovakha court set aside the above-mentioned decisions on the grounds that the inquiries were superficial and had not examined all the circumstances stated by the applicant.25.  on 14 january 2010 the town prosecutor ordered a handwriting analysis of two signatures allegedly written by the applicant in the visitors’ book on 27 and 28 may 2008. however, on the same day he again refused to institute criminal proceedings, largely for the same reasons as before.in complaints lodged with the volnovakha court the applicant stated that he had only been informed of the results of the above-mentioned analysis in a letter from the prosecutor, but had not been provided with the document containing those results.28.  on 1 june 2010 the applicant complained to the volnovakha court about the decision of 14 january 2010. he stated, inter alia, that if the prosecutor had established that he had been taken to the police station on 28 may 2008 at about 8 p.m. without any visible injuries, and the medical examination at 10 p.m. had found numerous injuries on him, that meant that he had received them on 28 may 2008 between 8 and 10 p.m. the applicant also complained that those who had attended the police station on 27 and 28 may 2008 and could have been witnesses to the events on those days had not been identified.that report, based on the material of the expert medical examination of 29 may 2008, established that the applicant’s injuries had been caused by rubbing, compression and hyperextension of the skin and by blows.the applicant’s father complained to the higher prosecutors, pointing to a contradiction between the prosecutor’s decisions in which it had been established that the police officers had not seen any injuries on the applicant when he had been taken to the police station on 28 may 2008, and the expert report of 2 july 2008, which stated that a number of injuries could have been sustained by the applicant on 27 may 2008. therefore, those officers would have seen the injuries and had therefore given false statements.in particular, the expert report of 2 july 2008 had not mentioned the injuries on the applicant’s back and the expert had to establish the manner in which the injuries had been sustained and whether they could have been sustained in the circumstances alleged by the applicant.
6.  the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in makhachkala, republic of dagestan.9.  in 2002 the applicant and t.k.separated.married yu.k.and k. however, the girls still remained living with the applicant.14.  on 18 february 2008 the kirovskiy district court of makhachkala (“the district court”), sitting in a single-judge formation composed of judge i., granted an application lodged by the administration of the kirovskiy district of makhachkala to place k. in a closed educational institution for minors for two years and five months.in taking this decision the district court relied on the following circumstances: k.’s not attending school, running away from home, vagabonding and leading an anti-social and immoral lifestyle, as well as unsuccessful attempts to discipline k. and her being detained in the temporary detention centre for juvenile offenders.15.  on an unspecified date shortly afterwards k. was placed in a closed educational institution for minors in the town of pokrov, vladimir region, some 2,500 km from her home town of makhachkala.according to the applicant, his daughter’s correspondence with him was subjected to censorship by the facility’s administration.16.  in the meantime, the applicant brought proceedings seeking the establishment of his paternity vis-à-vis kr.and k. 17.  on 9 april 2008 the district court established the applicant’s paternity in respect of kr.18.  at the applicant’s request, the prosecutor of the republic of dagestan applied to the presidium of the supreme court of the republic of dagestan for a supervisory review of the decision of 18 february 2008.19.  the present application was already pending before the european court of human rights when, on 7 august 2008, the presidium of the supreme court of the republic of dagestan, by way of a supervisory review, quashed the decision of 18 february 2008 as unlawful and unjustified, and discontinued the proceedings.the court held, in particular, that in violation of the procedure established by the federal law on basic measures for preventing child neglect and delinquency of minors, no.120-fz of 24 june 1999 (“the minors act”), the district court had decided to place k. in a closed educational institution for minors in the absence of a decision refusing to institute criminal proceedings or a decision to discontinue the criminal proceedings against the latter, and without her having undergone a prior medical examination.
in particular, an access ramp was installed; one toilet cubicle was equipped with an alarm bell linked directly to the school secretariat; the yard was asphalted; the nurse’s office was moved to the ground floor, next to the first applicant’s classroom; the first applicant was provided with specially adapted desks in the classroom; and an air-conditioning unit was placed in the classroom.the court observed that the rehabilitation plan had not been drawn up in accordance with the legal requirements, in particular because the second applicant had not been involved in the process and the plan had not included all the services required by the child and had not taken into account his particular needs.these complaints mainly concerned the alleged lack of services for her son, both in school and outside school, and the manner in which the competent authorities handling his case had discharged their obligation to support the first applicant and to adapt the infrastructure to the needs of people with disabilities, and in particular to the first applicant’s needs.the applicants sought to compel these authorities to re-evaluate the first applicant’s educational placement, to provide support in school, to adapt the school premises to the first applicant’s needs, and to grant compensation for the harm suffered by the child in school.(b)  the court ordered the cmbrae and the ismb to adapt the school curriculum and the educational plans to the first applicant’s needs, finding as follows: “while in the special education [curriculum] the educational plans and school curriculum are tailored to the type and degree of disability, thus allowing time for therapy ..., in mainstream schools this kind of adaptation does not exist.however, in the present case the child, who was placed in a mainstream school, has a normally developed intellect but has a neuromotor disability which drastically limits his movement ... a daily school programme of 6-7 hours goes against the medical recommendations ... and limits his opportunities to undergo therapy.” (c)  it ordered the ismb and the child protection authority to continue to provide the first applicant with psycho-educational assistance and a safe environment in school, in terms of the physical surroundings and specialist personnel..... based on the parties’ statements, the court finds that the authorities involved did not refuse to provide the child with the services that he was entitled to under the law and which were included in his personal rehabilitation plan; [what they refused were] merely the conditions imposed by the mother that [the services] should be provided on the school premises ... however, in order to meet the child’s complex needs and ensure that he had access to all services, the authorities, in addition to the psycho-educational counselling offered by the school psychologist, organised speech therapy and physiotherapy in his school.for these reasons, the [applicants’] action is allowed and the institutions involved are ordered to take measures to ensure the continuity of services in terms of personnel, but also in terms of the physical environment and the necessary equipment.” (d)  the court ordered the ismb, the child protection authority, the bucharest v local council and the bucharest iv local council to take measures to ensure the child’s assistance and safety in school, via teachers, school auxiliary staff, a personal assistant or a qualified caregiver.... the child has severe neuromotor disabilities which make it impossible for him to move, to walk, to help himself, to take notes in class, etc., and which consequently make it necessary for him to be assisted by another person who can move him, as needed, from the wheelchair or assistive devices to his desk and back; help him move around the school (take charge of him at the school door, accompany him back to the door at the end of the school day, and take him to the toilet, the sports room, and the laboratories which are on the upper floor); help him with taking notes during lessons and writing down the homework; assist him with physical exercises; assist him in the event of an emergency evacuation, etc.there is nothing to prevent the [child protection authority] and the bucharest v local council from including these activities in the personal assistant’s contract ... therefore the court considers that, in principle, the assistance, supervision and safety of the child during school hours must be ensured by his personal assistant or in the latter’s absence ... by a person approved and nominated for the purpose by the parent ... for the same reason, the ismb and the bucharest iv local council ... must take measures in order to ensure the child’s effective access to education and his supervision and safety.... as the court thus considers that the child’s action is well-founded on this count, it orders the ismb, the child protection authority and the bucharest iv and v local councils to take measures in order to ensure the child’s supervision and safety in school, via the teachers or auxiliary staff, his personal assistant or a qualified caregiver.” (e)  the court ordered the ismb and the bucharest iv local council to ensure the first applicant’s access to education by rendering the school building accessible by wheelchair, in particular by: providing specially adapted desks in the classroom and laboratories; ensuring access to the upper floors of the school building; removing the obstacles preventing the first applicant from moving around the school, such as thresholds and narrow doors; adapting the sports room to the child’s needs; and providing him with a computer and software adapted to his educational needs.61.  in a final decision of 7 february 2018 the bucharest court of appeal examined the appeals lodged by the parties against the decision of 10 june 2016. it amended the county court’s decision so that the authorities’ obligations applied only for as long as the first applicant attended classes in a mainstream school, but dismissed the remaining appeals.the council explained that the person appointed to assist the first applicant had been replaced on several occasions because of disagreements with the second applicant, but argued that the mere fact that the second applicant was dissatisfied with these persons could not be regarded as a failure on the part of the authorities to comply with the court order.66.  in a judgment of 2 march 2017 the bucharest district court dismissed the objection and found as follows: “it appears that the minor, stoian ştefan moshe, was unable to benefit from the measures ordered by the court not only because of the poor cooperation between his legal representative and the ... authorities, but also because of the bureaucratic mechanism for implementing the measures and the manner in which responsibilities in this sphere are shared between the authorities concerned.the court found as follows: “the assertions made by the objecting parties – that at the date on which the enforcement request was lodged they had already complied with the obligations laid down in the court decision – is contradicted by the facts, as the child’s school situation is still uncertain in so far as he still does not benefit in school from the conditions set by that court decision.” 68.  on 23 january 2018 the district court noted that the authorities had not fully complied with their obligation under the interim injunction of 25 july 2016 and that all the objections to enforcement had been dismissed.
9.  during the 1992-95 war the applicant was a member of the el mujahedin unit which had been organised as a unit within the local forces of the army of the republic of bosnia and herzegovina (“the arbh”) in august 1993 (for more information about foreign mujahedin in bh see al husin v. bosnia and herzegovina, no.15.  on 29 december 2011 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal with the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina (“the constitutional court”) against the decisions of the aliens service, the ministry of security and the state court of 1 february 2011, 2 march 2011 and 29 november 2011, respectively (see paragraph 14 above).on 15 march 2011, after a deportation order against the applicant had been issued and become final (see paragraph 14 above), the court decided, in the interests of the parties and the proper conduct of the proceedings, to indicate to the government that the applicant should not be expelled to syria until further notice (rule 39 of the rules of court).the appeals chamber held that the administrative authorities and the state court had failed to take into account the situation in the country of the applicant’s origin and the potential violations of his rights under article 3 and 5 of the convention in the event of his deportation to syria.the appeals chamber invited the state court to examine that possibility in the light of the circumstances of the case – in particular, the length of the applicant’s detention, the applicant’s personal circumstances and the evidence related to national security.on 23 may 2014 the court heard the applicant and disclosed to him the open evidence, the relevant part of which reads as follows: “imad al husin arrived [in bosnia and herzegovina] immediately after the outbreak of war ... [at the time he] was a member of the el mujahedin unit, in which he was one of the main persons in charge of logistical support.the applicant acted as one of the leaders in the formation of a mujahedin community in donja bočinja, in the municipality of maglaj; [the mujahedin community] was a closed community and the first of that sort in bosnia and herzegovina ... the applicant was in charge of reconstruction and building and of maintaining contacts with the authorities.security information shows that imad al husin owns various real estate in bosnia and herzegovina worth millions, as well as [holding] bank accounts abroad ... the members of the bočinja community claimed that they did not ‘respect the laws of bosnia and herzegovina’ and did not ‘recognise the bosnian government’... [the applicant], as one of the leaders of the mujahedin community, knew that some members of his community had left to fight with other mujahedin, mostly in afghanistan ... he had contacts with mujahedin who had fought or were still fighting in afghanistan, chechnya, iraq, libya and syria.in 2002 and 2005 the federal financial police discovered a number of irregularities concerning the bedr bosna company, mostly concerning tax evasion ... from mid-2007 he maintained closer contacts with members of criminal circles in sarajevo ... on 25 june 2008 imad al husin attempted to buy ammunition, most probably for a gun, in an ammunition shop located in hifzi bjelavca street ... in sarajevo ... but was refused because he did not possess a gun licence ... in 2008 he was visited by a certain hussam mousaa el abed, who at the time lived in denmark; on that occasion he gave [to the applicant] money collected abroad ... al abed was suspected of providing financial support to terrorist organisations ... on 3 april 2007 imad al husin obtained a passport from the syrian embassy in belgrade ... his family in syria is very influential and its members serve at the highest level of bashar al assad’s government.having assessed the reasons given by the aliens service and the ministry of security, the content of the classified and open evidence, and the applicant’s arguments, the court concluded that there still existed reasonable doubt as to whether or not the applicant posed a threat to national security and that the imposition of a less strict preventive measure was not justified, given the particular circumstances of the case.ap 2742/13) the constitutional court examined an appeal lodged by the applicant against sixteen judgments delivered by the state court between 14 march 2013 and 25 march 2015 concerning the lawfulness of his detention in the period between 21 march 2013 and 7 june 2015. the constitutional court found a violation of article 5 § 1 (f) of the convention with regard to the period of the applicant’s detention from 21 march 2013 until 14 march 2014 (the lawfulness of which had been addressed by the state court in judgments delivered between 14 march 2013 and 6 january 2014).48.  the constitutional court does not see any reason to depart from [that] practice ... in the present case as regards the judgments delivered in the period from 14 march 2013 until 6 january 2014, since the content of the [national security agency’s] information, on the basis of which he was declared a threat to national security, was not disclosed to the appellant, and the state court failed to adequately examine that information and assess its reliability.[as regards the other impugned judgments] ... the constitutional court notes that the appellant was detained because it had been established that he posed a threat to national security; his detention was extended in accordance with the law ..., and he had the possibility of [seeking] judicial review of these decisions ... [on 14 may 2014 the appeals chamber of] the state court quashed the judgment of 10 march 2014 because the state court and the administrative bodies should have disclosed to the appellant the reasons for his detention and the circumstances and facts which had led ... [the national security agency] to conclude that he posed a threat to national security ... ... 57.  the constitutional court notes furthermore that the appellant is a syrian national and not a stateless person, that his bh citizenship was revoked because it was established that he had acquired it by means of fraudulent conduct, false information and the concealment of relevant facts; and that he was placed in detention ... on national-security grounds and that a deportation order has been issued against him.in view of that – and the fact that the authorities have displayed particular diligence in the case of the applicant, who is neither a refugee nor a stateless person ... and the adequate assessment of the existence of a prima facie reasonable suspicion that if released the appellant would pose a threat to national security – the constitutional court concludes, all the while taking into account the excessive length of the appellant’s detention, that there was no violation of article ii/3.d of the constitution of bosnia and herzegovina and no violation of article 5 § 1 (f) of the convention as regards the rest of the impugned judgments [delivered between 6 january 2014 and 25 march 2015] ... ... 64.  the constitutional court considers it necessary to emphasise that although it has found a violation of article 5 § 1 (f) of the convention in respect of the judgments delivered between 14 march 2013 and 6 january 2014, given that it did not find such a violation in respect of the rest of the [impugned] judgments, it considers that exceptionally, in the particular circumstances of the case, the finding of a violation is sufficient and that there is no need to remit the case for a rehearing ...” 44.  on 22 december 2015 (decision no.by the same decision preventive measures were imposed on the applicant, which included the following: a prohibition on his leaving the sarajevo canton (which encompasses ilidža municipality); the duty to report to the ilidža police in person between 9.30 a.m. and 10.30 a.m. every wednesday, saturday and sunday; and the duty to report to the aliens service by telephone (from his landline number) every monday, tuesday, thursday and friday between 9.30 a.m. and 10.30 a.m. furthermore, the applicant’s passport, which had expired on 2 april 2009, was seized.
according to the minutes of the report drawn up on the on-site investigation it took measurements and photographs, produced a detailed description of the site of the accident, identified the drivers involved in the incident and had medical personnel collect blood samples from all three drivers in order to establish the level of alcohol in their blood.22.  on 28 october 2005 the applicant’s lawyer asked the court of appeal prosecutor’s office to postpone the deadline set for the applicant, inter alia, because he was unable to consult the applicant or submit evidence to the file on account of the latter’s serious medical condition.subsequently, from 7 june to 22 november 2007, the applicant asked the police department and the prosecutor’s office for additional evidence to be included in the file, including a technical expert report concerning the circumstances of the accident and new forensic expert reports on his blood alcohol level and the dynamics of the accident.33.  on 3 october 2007, following the police department’s request of 14 august 2007 for a forensic expert report concerning the alcohol in the applicant’s blood, the mina minovici forensic institute (hereinafter “the forensic institute”) informed the police department that the substances used when the biological samples had been collected from the applicant could not explain the presence of alcohol in his blood.furthermore, depending on the outcome of the forensic expert report, the police department was also instructed to produce a second version of the technical expert report assessing whether the accident could have been avoided given the applicant’s alcohol level at the time of the accident.40.  following a challenge by the applicant against the police department’s decision of 30 march 2009, the district court prosecutor’s office informed the applicant on 30 april 2009 that the criminal investigation file had been sent to the laboratory for criminological reports and that in the absence of the file his challenge could not be examined within the legal time-limit.the high court of cassation and justice granted the applicant’s request on 21 june 2011, noting the positions of the parties and the fact that the applicant had lodged criminal complaints against the judges and prosecutors from ploieşti (see paragraph 62 below).it took the view that this new forensic expert report should be able to establish whether the applicant’s injuries had been produced by the impact between his car and the lorry or by the impact between d.i.’s car and the applicant’s car or by a combination of the two events.the forensic expert report of 11 april 2012 could not establish how many of the medical-care days needed by the applicant had been the result of the self-inflicted injuries or of the injuries caused by d.i., or whether the latter’s actions had generated any need at all for medical-care days.61.  the applicant’s appeal on points of fact and of law against the judgment was dismissed as inadmissible by the court of appeal on 7 march 2013 on the grounds that the judgment of the district court was not amenable to appeal.in some decisions relating to the applicant’s complaints, such as a decision delivered by the prosecutor’s office attached to the high court of cassation and justice on 10 september 2009 and a decision delivered by the prosecutor general on 25 october 2011, the competent authorities indicated that the applicant was motivated by a subjective dissatisfaction with the outcome of the investigation, or even by a desire to take revenge on the investigators.the final judgment of the criminal court was res judicata for the civil court which was called to examine the civil action in so far as it concerned the existence of the act, the person who had committed it and that person’s guilt.with regard to the existence of the damage or of the guilt of the perpetrator of the unlawful act, the civil court is not bound by the provisions of criminal law or by the final judgment of acquittal or of closing the criminal trial (article 1365).the time-limit can be interrupted by the lodging of a court action or of a civil‑party claim during the criminal proceedings instituted, or before the court, up to the moment when the court starts the judicial examination of the case (article 2537).if the time-bar is interrupted by the lodging of a civil‑party claim, the interruption remains valid until the order to close or suspend the criminal proceedings or the decision of the court to suspend the proceedings is notified, or until the criminal court has delivered a final judgment (article 2541).
10.  according to the second applicant, on 23 september 2002 he lodged two appeals against the extension order of 13 september 2002. the first one, recorded under reference number 35/13/2-218-z, was sent to the supreme court of the russian federation and the second one, recorded under reference number 35/13/2-217-z, was sent to the volgograd regional court.15.  on 21 december 2005 the presidium of the supreme court quashed the judgment of 8 july 2003 by way of a supervisory review and remitted the case to the appellate court for fresh consideration.the appellate court held, inter alia, that the participation of the lay judges in more than one criminal trial per year could not undermine the “legitimacy” of the tribunal in the applicants’ case.18.  on 28 august 2007 the second applicant requested that the time-limit for lodging an appeal against the decision of 13 september 2002 be restored due to the disappearance of the hard copy of his original complaint.с.  alleged censorship of the second applicant’s letters by the administration of the correctional colony and interference with his right of individual petition 21.  according to the second applicant, on 26 march 2009 he sent an application to the court via the administration of the correctional colony.22.  on 11 december 2009 the registry of the court received the initial letter sent by the second applicant through the administration of the correctional colony on 19 november 2009.by that time, the second applicant had sent sixteen letters to the registry of the court through his relatives, his representative and the administration of the correctional colony.26.  between 31 july 2007, the date on which the application with the court was lodged, and 8 december 2011, the date on which the complaints were forwarded to the government, the registry of the court sent nineteen letters to the second applicant either acknowledging receipt of letters or requesting documents.the decision stated as follows: “at 6.40 a.m. on 15 may 2006 [the second applicant], while being inspected by the guards of the correctional colony, resisted, pushed back one of the guards, mr mar., and tried to kick him.in view of the circumstances of the case and [applicable laws], the measures [of restraint] taken against [the applicant] were lawful”.30.  on 28 december 2007 the deputy head of the administration decided to terminate yet another inquiry into the second applicant’s alleged ill‑treatment of 27 december 2007. he dismissed the applicant’s allegations, reiterating verbatim the text of the decision of 15 may 2006.31.  on 27 january 2008 the regional assistant prosecutor, repeating virtually the same facts and findings as those in the decision of 28 december 2007, acknowledged the lawfulness of the measures taken by the guards of the correctional facility on 27 december 2007.the investigator’s decision further reads as follows: “the authorities conducting the preliminary inquiry are sceptical about [the second applicant’s] allegations, since he tries to conceal his discontent with the regime of the correctional colony and complains about the measures taken by the administration of the colony as being unlawful.... other employees of the correctional colony stated that no unjustified or unlawful measures had been taken in respect of [the second applicant].” 34.  on 17 december 2010 the head of the investigative committee quashed that decision and remitted all the material for fresh consideration.38.  according to the second applicant, on 12 may 2010 he was called to the office of the head of the correctional colony and after being threatened to withdraw his application to the court, he was beaten up by several guards.
9.  on 9 june 2008 the first applicant initiated proceedings against the călăraşi dgaspc, seeking a court order for payment of her salary rights in respect of financial compensation corresponding to her unspent annual leave for the previous three years, a supplement for extra work she had performed, and overtime pay for work she had done during weekends and public holidays.it argued that the first applicant had had no right to claim the benefits allegedly not given to the second applicant because only the president of the county council had a legal right to exercise rights on behalf of the child.11.  on 7 october 2008 the călăraşi county court (“the county court”) allowed the first applicant’s action in part, and ordered the călăraşi dgaspc to pay her financial compensation corresponding to her unspent annual leave for the period 2005-2007 and a supplement for extra work she had performed.it held that, even though the contract between the first applicant and her employer was special in nature because foster parents worked from home and were responsible for raising the children entrusted to their care, the provisions of the labour code (“the code”) applied.14.  on 14 july 2009 the first applicant initiated proceedings against the călăraşi dgaspc, seeking a court order for: overtime pay for work done during weekdays; overtime pay for work done during weekends and public holidays, starting from july 2006 until 2009, and continuing thereafter; payment of a holiday bonus for the period 2006-2008; payment of the allowances provided for by article 3 of the relevant collective agreement contract; payment of the personal needs allowances provided for by law for the second applicant in respect of the period september 2004-june 2008; payment of the second applicant’s remaining food allowance for the period january-march 2008; payment of a supplement for the third applicant’s food allowance for the period may 2008-april 2009; payment of the housing allowance for the period 2004-september 2009; reimbursement of fees for her psychological examination; and non-pecuniary damages.it held that, in accordance with legislation which had entered into force in april 2008, she had been entitled to payment of a supplement for the third applicant’s food allowance for the period may 2008-april 2009. however, it noted that as of may 2008 the first applicant had received the above-mentioned supplement for the other child in her care.it held that, in accordance with the provisions of the code and the relevant collective agreement concerning her employer, all the employees of that office, including her, were entitled to a supplementary payment for work done during weekends and public holidays for the period 2008-2010. moreover, she was entitled to be paid for the work she had done on three days in november 2009. however, she had received compensation for the work she had done on the other four days in question.the court further dismissed her claim for overtime pay for 2010. it held that in accordance with the relevant provisions of the code (see paragraph 11 above) and of the relevant collective agreement concerning her employer, all the employees of that office for whom overtime could be calculated were entitled to such payments.in dismissing the first applicant’s claim for a supplementary payment for work done during weekends and public holidays, the court relied on similar reasons to the ones provided by the same court on 6 december 2011 when it had dismissed a similar claim raised by her for the year 2010 (see paragraph 21 above).26.  on 14 december 2010 the first applicant initiated proceedings against the călăraşi dgaspc, seeking a court order for payment of financial compensation corresponding to her unspent annual leave for the period 2008-2010 and payment of the second applicant’s remaining food allowance for the period january-march 2008.since the applicant had spent her annual leave for the period 2008-2010 in the company of her foster children and had not been relieved of her duties, she was entitled to the financial compensation she claimed.by a final judgment of 19 june 2007 the piteşti court of appeal held that, in accordance with the provisions of the constitution and the code, the claimants were entitled to compensation for unspent annual leave for the period 2003-2005. to hold otherwise would be to discriminate against them in relation to other categories of employees.by final judgments of 28 january and 28 april 2009 the cluj and the bucharest courts of appeal held that, in accordance with the provisions of the relevant collective agreement and the code, the claimants were entitled to overtime pay for work done during weekends and public holidays, and/or to compensation for unspent annual leave for the period 2005-2008. the bucharest court of appeal also held that the claimants were entitled to overtime pay for work done during weekends and public holidays also for the period after 2008.32.  on 4 january and 9 february 2017 the călăraşi dgaspc informed the government that the amount corresponding to the first applicant’s unspent annual leave for the period 2008-2010 had been paid to her in full in five instalments between january 2013 and june 2016. in addition, prior to her retirement, she had never asked the călăraşi dgaspc for financial support for her foster children’s possible extracurricular activities, or to be relieved of her duties during her annual leave.33.  on an unspecified date in 2015 the iași court of appeal asked the bench of judges of the high court of cassation and justice (“the court of cassation”) in charge of delivering advisory opinions to clarify the divergent practice of the courts of appeal which had existed both before and after 3 october 2013 as regards the question of whether foster parents who continued to work voluntarily during their annual leave were entitled to financial compensation corresponding to their unspent annual leave.
12.  on 20 june 2001 the parties signed another agreement, reducing the overall debt to usd 2,021,370.13, apparently to take into account the fact that one of the ships to which the debt related had in the meantime been transferred to the applicant company in partial settlement.15.  on 29 september 2003 the applicant company lodged an application with the commercial court seeking recognition of the debt owed to it by blasco in the amount stipulated in the agreement of 20 june 2001 (see paragraph 12 above).18.  on 15 march 2005 the odessa commercial court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) quashed the commercial court’s ruling, holding that − since the claim had been lodged within thirty days of publication of the bankruptcy proceedings notice − it could not be rejected without an examination of the merits but rather had to be examined on the merits and either allowed or dismissed.in that connection it referred to a number of letters from the president of the commercial court to various executive authorities: (i)  a letter to the ministry of the economy of 19 january 2006 in which the court president asked the ministry − which at the time was the body responsible for licensing bankruptcy receivers − for candidates to act as the receiver in the proceedings concerning blasco.in that letter the court president referred to the instruction of the president to the cabinet of ministers, the prosecutor general and the central bank concerning the audit of the debtor company; (ii)  a letter to the prime minister of 26 april 2005 in which the court president stated that in the period prior to 2001, when the bankruptcy proceedings were suspended, a major part of the debtor’s assets had been transferred to the ministry of transport and certain state-owned and other companies.he complained that in the course of the bankruptcy proceedings the ministry of transport and blasco’s management had failed to provide sufficient information about the debtor’s assets and obligations and that blasco had been transferring assets to third parties outside of the bankruptcy proceedings.the court president accordingly asked the prime minister for her intervention in order to compel those officials to comply with the law; (iii)  a letter to the president of ukraine of the same date and with similar content; (iv)  a letter to the president of ukraine of 3 march 2006. in that letter the court president pointed out that the president’s earlier instruction to the cabinet of ministers concerning the need to take steps to improve the blasco situation had not been complied with and that the court had been unable to obtain information from the authorities about the debtor’s assets for more than seven years.25.  for the applicant company, the statements in the above letters were evidence of the fact that the commercial court had failed to play an active role in protecting the creditors’ interests.the applicant company also pointed out that the decision of 24 february 2006 to initiate a rehabilitation procedure in respect of blasco (see paragraph 21 above) referred to the instruction of the president of ukraine in a way that suggested that it was a document that constituted guidance to be followed by the court.26.  on the same day, 23 december 2008, the applicant company also lodged a separate application with the hcc asking it to discontinue the bankruptcy proceedings as they were unfair to the creditors and represented an inadequate tool for protecting their interests and, instead, to recognise the state’s direct responsibility for blasco’s debts.the applicant company cited examples of transfers of the debtor’s assets prior to the initiation of the bankruptcy proceedings and the letters from the commercial court’s president indicating that similar activities could be continuing.27.  on 21 january 2009 the hcc allowed the applicant company’s appeal in part, quashed the court of appeal’s decision of 12 august 2008, and remitted the case to the court of appeal on the grounds that the latter had essentially required the applicant company to comply with the requirements of domestic ukrainian law concerning record-keeping and submit documentary proof to prove its claims, whereas it should have determined the applicable law and evaluated the claims in that light.32.  on 22 february 2013 the applicant company requested the withdrawal of judge b., who was presiding over the bankruptcy proceedings at the time, and all the judges of the commercial court.it referred to a newspaper article published in 2001. the article reported blasco’s then ceo saying, at a press conference, that the company was transferring that building to the court in order to secure the court’s cooperation in accelerating the examination of the company’s cases (see paragraph 42 below).it argued that: (i) the lower courts’ assessment that there were “newly established” circumstances in the case justifying reopening had been erroneous, in particular because blasco had failed to prove that it had been unaware of the circumstances it had cited as “newly established”; (ii) the courts had erred in their assessment of the evidence in finding that blasco had not missed the three-year time-limit to request reopening; (iii) the courts’ conclusions concerning the nature and origin of its claims against blasco had been erroneous as they had not been supported by the evidence in the file; (iv) the hcc had applied the general provisions of the code of commercial procedure concerning evidence and the requirement that judicial decisions be lawful in a divergent manner; (v) the applicant company had been discriminated against in breach of international treaties.
7.  the applicant was a member and one of the leaders of a group which called itself the national religious movement, which was founded in tbilisi on 11 may 2011. on 26 may 2011 a police officer drew up a report, which stated that he possessed information that twenty-four individuals, including the applicant, were plotting a violent overthrow of the government of georgia.8.  on 30 may 2011 a press release was posted on the website of the ministry of the interior (“the moi”), which said that an armed group of twenty-four people had been detained in kintsvisi on 26 may 2011.9.  according to the official record of the detention and search of the applicant, which he duly signed, the applicant was placed under arrest at 6.12 a.m. on 27 may 2011 at tbilisi police headquarters on suspicion of committing an offence under article 315 § 1 of the criminal code (conspiracy or insurrection intended to change the constitutional order of georgia by violent means).the applicant maintained that the actual time of his arrest was different from the time of the arrest indicated in the official record.in particular, he alleged that he had been punched in the face by one of the officers of the special forces in kintsvisi and then severely beaten by the same officer and several others in the kareli police station.the judge relying on the official record of the detention and search of the applicant dismissed his submission that he had been arrested in kintsvisi rather than tbilisi.his conviction was upheld by the tbilisi court of appeal on 22 november 2011. by a decision of 12 march 2012 the supreme court of georgia rejected an appeal by the applicant on points of law as inadmissible.on 1 june 2011 the prison administration sent a copy of the above report together with the applicant’s complaint about his alleged ill-treatment to the chief prosecutor’s office of georgia and requested the initiation of proceedings.23.  during 2012 the office of the public defender of georgia, acting at the request of the applicant, sent three requests for information to the office of the chief prosecutor of georgia concerning the investigation into the alleged ill-treatment of the applicant.this time along with providing details of his alleged ill-treatment, the applicant gave the investigator several photographs and a video footage depicting one of the officers of the special forces allegedly involved in his ill-treatment.28.  according to the case file, on 3 may 2016 the investigation into the offence of exceeding official authority by the police was transferred from the shida kartli prosecutor’s office to the chief prosecutor’s office of georgia.8 prison, according to which the following injuries were observed on the applicant on 28 may 2011: small bruises on his nose and left eye, large haemorrhages in the area of his buttocks, left thigh and the tailbone.the responsible prosecutor concluded that there was sufficient medical evidence to show that the applicant and other detainees had sustained various injuries on 26 may 2011. in support of his conclusion he also referred to the statements of the twenty-three co-defendants of the applicant, who had all confirmed the fact of their enduring physical and psychological abuse on the day of the arrest.most of them, according to the prosecutor, had not voiced their ill-treatment allegations at the initial stage of the investigation out of fear of further abuse and also in exchange for plea bargain that the prosecution had concluded with them.while requesting that a number of other specific investigative measures be undertaken, the applicant again asked the prosecution authorities to grant him victim status and also to reclassify the offence under the investigation from abuse of power (an offence under article 333 of the criminal code) to torture (an offence under article 144 § 1 of the criminal code).
10.  on the same day the cabinet of ministers issued an instruction (розпорядження) entitled “measures to increase the safety of citizens”, which envisaged a number of measures in response to the disaster, including: (i) directing the ministry of finance and local executive authorities to take action to revoke the licences of the entities which had operated the establishment where the fire had taken place; and (ii) directing the ministry of finance to suspend (зупитини) all gambling licences for one month.he pointed out, in particular, that: (i) the licensing law did not provide for such grounds for the revocation of licences as the banning of a particular activity; (ii) the proposed law was contrary to the constitutional provisions protecting property (see paragraph 58 below); (iii) the proposed law was silent regarding the matter of expenses already committed by businesses for the acquisition of licences and for rent; and (iv) businesses would sue the state for the funds they had paid for licences and permits and for any other damage they would incur if the bill became law.it claimed 11,461,690 ukrainian hryvnias ((uah – about 905,426 euros (eur) at the time) in damages, representing: part of the licence fees corresponding to the period from the prohibition law’s entry into force to the date on which the applicant company’s licence was supposed to expire (25 april 2011); and various losses it had suffered in respect of the purchase of gambling-related equipment and special tax-control software, the refurbishment of gambling premises and lost profit.the applicant company also relied on the following provisions of the civil code (see paragraphs 68-71 below): (i)  article 1166 concerning the general obligation to compensate for tort damage; (ii)  article 1170 concerning the obligation of the state to compensate for damage caused by the enactment of laws terminating property rights (hereinafter also referred to as “the legislative takings clause”); and (iii)  article 1173 concerning the obligation of public authorities to compensate for damage caused by their unlawful decisions and actions.(a)  first set of proceedings: reimbursement of licence fees 25.  in the first set of proceedings (application form submitted on 25 september 2012) the applicant claimed uah 360,349.59 (about eur 30,160 at the time) from the state treasury administration and the ministry of finance, corresponding to the licence fees for the unused part of her licence, in respect of the period from the prohibition law’s entry into force to the date on which her licence was supposed to expire (16 may 2011).1. she relied on the provisions of domestic law incorporating the convention and the court’s case-law and the primacy of the former (see paragraphs 74 and 76 below) and argued that the prohibition law, by revoking her licence, had terminated her property rights within the meaning of the legislative takings clause.(b)  second set of proceedings: challenge against the cabinet of ministers’ instruction to suspend all gambling licences 31.  in the second set of proceedings (application form submitted on 4 november 2013), the applicant sought to have the acts of the cabinet of ministers and of the ministry of finance regarding the one-month suspension of her licence declared unlawful and quashed (see paragraph 11 above).46.  in november 2010 the applicant company asked an authority responsible for licensing for a certificate, which it intended to submit to the state treasury department to obtain reimbursement of the funds paid for the licence, under the procedure established for the reimbursement of erroneous and excess payments to the treasury (see paragraph 77 below).48.  on 4 may 2011 the lviv circuit administrative court allowed the applicant company’s claim in part and ordered the state treasury to return uah 963,030.15 (about eur 80,600 at the time), corresponding to the part of the licence fees for the period from the prohibition law’s entry into force to the date on which the applicant company’s licence was supposed to expire (27 october 2013).it argued that, because the prohibition law had revoked its licence in the absence of any grounds for doing so under the licensing law and, indeed, in the absence of any wrongdoing on its part, the domestic law did not meet the requirement of “foreseeability” under the convention.61.  article 150 authorises the constitutional court to review the constitutionality of laws enacted by parliament on applications from the president, forty-five members of parliament, the supreme court, the parliamentary commissioner for human rights and the legislature of the autonomous republic of crimea.section 4(4) directed the cabinet of ministers to take the following action, within three months: (i)  submit to parliament a bill providing for gambling in specially designated areas; (ii)  submit to parliament draft amendments to other laws flowing from the prohibition law; (iii)  amend its own regulations in line with the prohibition law and ensure that executive agencies did the same at their level; and (iv)  adopt new regulations as required for the implementation of the law.74.  section 17 of the law on the execution of judgments of the european court of human rights of 2006 provides that the courts, when deciding cases, are to apply the convention and protocols and the court’s case-law of as a source of law.76.  article 8 §§ 1 and 2 of the 2005 code of administrative justice, as worded at the relevant time, provided that the courts were guided (керується) by the principle of the rule of law and that they had to apply this principle taking into account the case-law of the european court of human rights.article 9 § 4 of the code of administrative justice provided that in the event of a contradiction between a legislative act and the constitution, an international treaty or a legislative instrument which was higher in the hierarchy of norms and one which was lower, the court was to apply the former.
5.  the applicants were born in 1976 and 1982 and live in khust and kharkiv respectively.6.  the first applicant lodged a claim against a social security authority, seeking an increase in the amount of child allowance she was receiving.that judgment was upheld on appeal but the social security authority lodged a further appeal on points of law.7.  on 6 november 2012 the higher administrative court (“the hac”), having examined the appeal, quashed the lower courts’ judgments and dismissed the applicant’s claim.8.  the second applicant moved from the territory of the republic of moldova controlled by the so‑called “moldavian republic of transdniestria” (“mrt”) (see ilaşcu and others v. moldova and russia [gc], no.under domestic law, repatriating ukrainians were entitled to the tax-free and duty-free import of their foreign-registered vehicles.however, the customs office refused to apply this tax exemption in the applicant’s case on the grounds that the car had not been registered by the appropriate authorities of the republic of moldova.a first-instance court allowed her claim and ordered the customs office to clear her car through customs.that judgment was upheld on appeal but the customs office lodged a further appeal on points of law.9.  on 4 april 2013 the hac allowed the appeal, quashed the lower courts’ decisions and dismissed the applicant’s claim.10.  both applicants alleged that the hac, contrary to domestic law (see paragraph 11 below), had not sent them copies of the appeals lodged in their cases or informed them of the pending appeals by any other means, thus depriving them of an opportunity to respond.they alleged that they had only learned of the appeal proceedings when they had been served with the hac’s final decisions quashing the lower courts’ decisions in their favour.11.  as worded at the relevant time, articles 214 and 215 of the 2005 code of administrative justice provided that a hac judge-rapporteur would decide, having considered an appeal, whether to initiate proceedings to review the lower courts’ decisions on points of law.if the judge decided to initiate such proceedings, he or she was required to inform the parties of that decision and serve a copy of the appeal on the opposing party with a time-limit for responding.12.  the relevant provisions of the code concerning the procedure for serving court documents are summarised in lazarenko and others v. ukraine (nos.
29/00/0016-00 (“the investigation”), the chief military prosecutor’s office launched an official investigation into the accident under article 263 § 3 of the russian criminal code (a provision on “a breach of safety procedures while using a means of transportation which causes the death of two or more persons by negligence”).the prosecutors found that there had been minor technical defects in the kursk and certain omissions in the organisation and conduct of the naval exercise and the rescue operation.9.  on 30 december 2002 b.k., counsel for the relatives of the deceased members of the kursk crew, challenged the decision to terminate the investigation before the chief military prosecutor.10.  on 21 april 2004 the military court of the moscow garrison confirmed the decision of 22 july 2002. on 29 june 2004 the appeal tribunal of the military court of the moscow garrison upheld the judgment on appeal.11.  between 2000 and 2005 the applicant company published in the newspaper a number of articles written by the second applicant covering the kursk catastrophe and the investigation into it.the article appeared under the headline “the kursk case must be reopened” («дело «курска» надо открывать заново»), followed by a subtitle “those wearing military rank insignia are among those responsible for the wreck of the submarine and the death of its crew” («в гибели лодки и экипажа есть виновные в погонах»).it further alleged that there were reasons to believe that the investigators had made the conclusion about the absence of a causal link between the naval officers’ omissions and the death of the kursk crew members under pressure.... [was] not supposed to be key evidence, but [it] became decisive[1], as [the expert] pursued a specific aim: to prove that twenty-three crew members in the ninth compartment had died no later than eight hours after the explosion in the kursk.” 15.  the article suggested that the expert findings made by v.k.however, in the earlier expert reports it was mentioned that the crew [had] died [several hours] after the ignition of the fire[3] in the ninth compartment, and that it was not possible to establish the time of the ignition.... the fire in the ninth compartment ... started a considerable time after the explosion and the sinking of the kursk.he sought a retraction of the following four statements that, in his view, had tarnished his honour, dignity and business reputation: [1]  “[the expert] pursued a specific aim: to prove that twenty-three crew members in the ninth compartment had died no later than eight hours after the explosion in the kursk.” [2]  “this is the aim pursued by v.k.therefore, a journalist could not claim exemption from liability for defamation on the grounds that he or she was expressing an opinion if that opinion was damaging to the interests protected by the constitution of the russian federation and the civil code of the russian federation, namely honour, dignity and business reputation.the respondents’ argument – that the material from the criminal case file revealed many breaches of law which had taken place during the expert examination with the participation of v.k.... the evidence submitted by the respondents does not prove the truthfulness of the disseminated statements about the claimant.” 22.  the district court ordered the applicant company to pay v.k.... in the statement of appeal, the respondent [company] claims that the journalist expressed her opinion, which was based on the criminal case material, and that civil law does not hold a journalist liable for the expression of a subjective opinion.
6.  on 16 january 1997 the orhei mayor’s office attested the property right of a number of private individuals over plots of land in the town.8.  on 10 september 1999 the territorial cadastre office registered the plot of land as belonging to c. 9.  on 31 january 2000 the orhei mayor’s office amended the annex to its decision of 16 january 1997. c. continued to be mentioned as the owner of the relevant plot of land.10.  on 15 july 2005 the orhei mayor’s office lodged a civil court action aimed at annulling the property right of c. and the applicant to the relevant land.11.  on 15 february 2017 the orhei district court rejected the court action lodged by the mayor’s office and accepted that of the applicant.it noted, inter alia, that the applicant had raised the issue of expiry of the three-year limitation period and added that under article 78 of the old civil code (see paragraph 15 below), the court had to apply the rules concerning the limitation period regardless of the parties’ arguments.however, in the operative part the court omitted to refer to the expiry of the limitation period and found that the court action had been groundless.the court also accepted the applicant’s action, extending the time-limit for accepting her brother’s inheritance since she had taken possession of the relevant land immediately after his death.12.  on 4 october 2007 the chișinău court of appeal overturned that judgment, accepting the appeal lodged by the mayor’s office.it annulled c.’s title to the relevant land, finding that he had obtained it in error and that under the applicable law he could not be the owner of that land.13.  on 12 march 2008 the supreme court of justice upheld the judgment of the chișinău court of appeal.the general limitation period for defending, by a court action, against the breach of a person’s rights (prescripția) is of three years ...” “article 78.  mandatory application of the limitation period.the competent court ... shall apply the limitation period regardless of the parties’ request.” “article 581.  acceptance of inheritance.... it shall be considered that the heir has accepted the inheritance if he/she took actual possession or administration of inheritance assets ...” 16.  the relevant provisions of the civil code (in force from 12 june 2003) read as follows: “article 7.  application of the civil law in time.... (6)  the provisions of the new law concerning limitation periods ... shall apply to limitation periods which started before the date of entry into force of the new law, but did not end before that date.... the start, the suspension and the interruption of the limitation period shall be determined under the old law for the period before the entry into force of the new law.
5.  following judicial proceedings which ended with a final judgment of the bălţi court of appeal of 8 december 2009, the applicant company obtained a final ruling obliging the cadastral authority to register immovable property privatised by it in 1999 and in 2004 in its name.6.  on an unspecified date the defendant in the proceedings lodged a request for a review of the judgment of 8 december 2009, seeking its annulment on the grounds that in a technical report dated 25 may 2009 it had been stated that the immovable property in question did not qualify as immovable property (“the review request”).7.  on 24 august 2010 the bălţi court of appeal dismissed the review request on the grounds that the information contained in the technical report of 25 may 2009 did not qualify as new and relevant information which could not have been obtained before the delivery of the final judgment in the case.8.  on 22 december 2010 the supreme court quashed the above judgment and ordered a re-examination of the review request.9.  on 16 november 2011 the chişinău court of appeal re-examined the review request and allowed it.the court relied on grounds other than those relied upon by the defendant in framing the request.in particular, the court relied on a government decision from 2005, in accordance with which the disputed goods had been transferred to the defendant’s control.the court quashed the final judgment of 8 december 2009 and ordered a fresh examination of the case.10.  on 16 august 2012, after examining the merits of the case, the edineţ district court again found in favour of the applicant company and required the cadastral authority to register some of the immovable property privatised by the applicant company in 1999 and in 2004 in its name.the cadastral authority challenged that judgment by lodging an appeal and the proceedings are still pending.
he was initially held in the pre-trial detention centre of the “mrt” ministry of internal affairs (“ivs tiraspol”), and on 30 october 2009 was moved to the hlinaia prison in grigoriopol.9.  the second applicant was not allowed to see the first applicant, and the osce was refused access to ivs tiraspol on 19 october 2009, where some 90 detainees, including the first applicant, were on a hunger strike to protest against ill-treatment and inhuman conditions of detention.at the time of the last submissions to the court, the case was pending before the “mrt” supreme court.in particular, on 27 october 2009 the second applicant complained to the russian embassy in moldova, which promised to officially contact the “mrt” prosecutor’s office in connection with the case.18.  in reply to the second applicant’s letter of 12 october 2009, asking for permission to see the first applicant, on 29 october 2009 the prosecutor’s office of the “mrt” replied that “under [the applicable legislation] the investigator is not under an obligation to authorise the meeting of detainees with their relatives.22.  on 29 july 2009 the second applicant was told by a lawyer appointed by the “mrt” court that the first applicant had been brought to that court for a hearing.when the second applicant saw the first applicant, he allegedly had blood on his face and some green substance on his head, which she claims masked the effects of a severe blow to his head.it reiterated the charges against the first applicant and stated that “... the court takes into account the fact that [the first applicant] is charged with a serious offence for which the law provides a punishment of lengthy imprisonment, that he is not well viewed by society, that he is unemployed and has already been convicted of a criminal offence in the past, that he does not acknowledge his guilt, which gives the court reasons to believe that if released he may abscond or reoffend.the case-file contains sufficient evidence to support the investigator’s request.” 24.  on an unknown date in september 2009 the first applicant attended a court hearing and was able to have a brief conversation with the second applicant, in the course of which he told her that he had been ill-treated and intimidated.he described the conditions of detention in the following manner: he was held in a cell in the basement of the detention centre without any access to daylight; he was held with persons with infectious diseases such as hiv and tuberculosis; there were insufficient beds (in the form of hard platforms, without any mattresses or bed linen), forcing the detainees to take it in turns to get some sleep; he was only allowed one shower a month; the toilet was in the cell and was very rarely cleaned; the cell was damp and lacked a working ventilation system; the cell was full of parasitic insects and on the rare occasions when disinfections were carried out the detainees were present in the cell; there were almost no hygiene products; the food was inedible, full of mould and insects; and no medical assistance was given to him despite his injuries.25.  the second applicant submitted that all the food and other items which she had attempted to send to the first applicant had been rejected by the prison administration or destroyed.26.  on 15 october 2009 mr v. ursu, a member of the consulting committee for prevention of torture in moldova, reported that on 14 october 2009 he had been informed by relatives of several persons detained in the detention centre of the “mrt” ministry of internal affairs that many detainees in that centre were on hunger strike and that they were being subjected to ill-treatment.in particular, on 27 october 2009 the second applicant complained to the russian embassy in moldova, which promised to officially contact the “mrt” prosecutor’s office in connection with the case.in letters to the council of europe and to the centre for human rights the second applicant noted that she had seen the first applicant covered in blood and with bruises on his head.30.  in a letter to the tiraspol city court, dated 3 february 2010, the first applicant complained that he had been severely beaten by the “mrt” militia on 23 july 2009 when he had been arrested.
according to the police reports, the applicant was under the influence of alcohol, “uncooperative, making the insertion of a catheter necessary”; he was also “violent and resisted the procedure”.that decision was subsequently overturned, and the proceedings were discontinued by a decision of the püspökladány district court of 22 april 2011. the püspökladány district court established that the police measure could not be held to be lawful, since the medical intervention had been carried out without the applicant’s written consent, required under the health care act.the applicant challenged the evidence obtained through the urine test, and the court found it established that he had consented to the use of the catheter, as evidenced by five or six witness testimonies, and he had only withdrawn his consent upon realising that the intervention was painful.the judgment stated that, irrespective of the result of urine test, it was clear that the applicant had been under the influence of alcohol at the material time, as observed by the police officers, the witnesses and the doctor on duty.as to the urinary catheterisation, relying on the witness testimonies of the doctor on duty, a nurse, a driver who was on duty at the medical service at the time and the police officers, the prosecutor’s office concluded that the applicant had voluntarily agreed to the sample being taken by catheterisation.17.  in a parallel procedure, on 16 march 2010 the applicant lodged a complaint with the independent police complaints board (“the board”), the body responsible for inquiring into alleged violations of fundamental rights committed by the police, challenging the use of handcuffs and leg restraints, the fact that he had been held for questioning, his ill-treatment at the hands of the police officers, and the forcible taking of urine and blood samples.the board inquired with the doctor on duty about the incident, who stated in his reply that the applicant had agreed to the insertion of a catheter before a number of witnesses, and that he had interpreted the fact that the applicant had removed his clothes as consent to the procedure.according to the facts established by the board, since the applicant had been unable to produce the urine sample, the police officers had asked the doctor on duty to carry out the catheterisation.18.  the board commissioned an expert opinion from the chief physician of the budapest institute of forensic medicine, who stated in an opinion of 4 june 2010 that, although some medical institutions required written consent for catheterisation, this was not the policy of the majority of institutions.20.  following the adoption of the board’s opinion, the applicant’s complaint was examined by the commander of the national police service under section 92(1) of act no.21.  the applicant sought judicial review of the decision, arguing that he had not been heard during the proceedings and the facts had been established solely on the basis of the testimonies of the police officers and the medical staff.the court emphasised that, according to the medical expert opinion commissioned by the board, there was no clear medical approach to catheterisation and the question of whether it was an invasive or non-invasive intervention, thus hospital practice differed in relation to the necessity of consent.23.  the court concluded that the procedure had been in compliance with the provisions of the police act setting out that a police officer could oblige a driver to provide a sample of breath, blood and urine for the purposes of a test.the court also indicated that the question as to whether consent was required for catheterisation, and whether the procedure should or should not have been carried out against the applicant’s will, was outside the scope of its examination.24.  the applicant lodged a petition for review with the kúria, arguing that the commander of the national police service had failed to establish the facts of the case.
during questioning by the german police, a.b., who was a suspect, declared that the murder had been committed by the applicants who had beaten up the victim and strangled him.stated that he had only helped them to carry the victim’s dead body and that he had not seen the body being thrown into the river.according to a.b., after the murder, the applicants manipulated the german family into believing that the victim had been arrested by police in another part of germany and that he needed the money.the court found that the only piece of evidence presented by the prosecutor in support of the accusation against the applicants was the statements made by a.b.himself had been accused by the german police of the victim’s murder at the time of his questioning, he had a personal interest in accusing other persons.in particular, he had stated to the german police that he had not been present when the victim’s body had been thrown into the river.to moldova, and the applicants had not been present during the interview with the german police and had therefore been unable to put questions to a.b.however, the applicants were found guilty of fraud as a result of the fact that they had manipulated the german family with whom the victim’s money had been deposited, and had appropriated the money.9.  on 25 february 2010 the chişinău court of appeal allowed an appeal by the prosecutor and reversed the judgment of the lower court in so far as it concerned the murder charges.the court admitted a.b.’s statements given before the german police in evidence and found the applicants guilty of murder.at the same time, the applicants were cleared of the charge of fraud on account of the statute of limitations.before the german authorities and read out during the hearing before the court of appeal could not be admitted in evidence unless they had had the opportunity to confront a.b.11.  on 18 january 2011 the supreme court of justice dismissed the applicants’ appeal and upheld the judgment of the court of appeal.the supreme court held that the fact that the applicants had not been present during a.b.’s questioning by the german authorities had been as a result of their own actions, because they had left germany by that time.wrote a dissenting opinion in which they expressed the view that the applicants’ rights as guaranteed by article 6 § 1 of the convention had been breached by the fact that they had been unable to examine the only prosecution witness, a.b., on whose evidence their convictions had been based.
5.  the applicant, who was born in 1948, lives in corjova, a village under the formal control of moldovan authorities, but where agents of the self‑proclaimed “transdniestrian moldovan republic” (“mrt”, see ilaşcu and others v. moldova and russia [gc], no.48787/99, § 90, echr 2004‑vii for further details) frequently intervened during the events in question, notably by blocking the participation of the local population in elections held in moldova.the applicant, who is an ambulance driver, submitted his candidature for the position of mayor of corjova.7.  on 1 june 2007, at 11 p.m., the applicant’s ambulance was stopped by the “mrt” road militia and his documents (moldovan national identity card and driving licence) were taken away from him without any explanation.8.  on 2 june 2007 the applicant went to the “mrt” militia station located in dubăsari and asked for the return of his documents.he was then arrested and placed in a detention cell.a few hours later a person came to his cell and, without presenting himself, asked him about his work and his electoral propaganda.the applicant later found out that the visitor had been a judge and that, following that discussion in the cell, the judge adopted a decision, finding him guilty of the administrative offence of unlawful electoral propaganda and sentencing him to 15 days’ administrative detention.9.  the applicant submits that he was not allowed to contact his relatives or to find a lawyer, and was not issued with a copy of the court’s decision, which prevented any possibility of lodging an effective appeal against the decision of 2 june 2007.10.  during his detention the applicant was placed in a cell which, according to him was damp and cold.when the applicant’s relatives, alerted by his absence, contacted the local authorities in order to find out about his fate, they were informed of the applicant’s detention.11.  on 17 june 2007 the applicant was released from detention and he was issued with a copy of the decision of 2 june 2007. the time-limit for lodging an appeal had already expired by that time.12.  in the meantime, on 6 june 2007, the applicant complained to the moldovan prosecutor’s office of his unlawful detention.based on this complaint, a criminal investigation was initiated on 12 june 2007, the applicant and witnesses were subsequently heard.however, on 4 august 2010 the investigation was suspended due to the fact that the three accused were hiding from it in the “mrt”.
the latter is controlled by the authorities of the self-proclaimed “moldovan republic of transdiestria” (“the mrt”), while varnița itself is under moldovan control.when the applicant’s brother announced that he had called the moldovan police, the applicant was attacked by the “mrt” officers, forced into their car and driven away.9.  later in the evening, the applicant’s car with the remainder of merchandise was seized by the “mrt” customs authority.10.  on 6 february 2008 the bender city court (an “mrt” court) found the applicant guilty of having committed the administrative offence of resistance to the customs officers.the applicant was given neither a copy of the record of his arrest prior to its examination by the court, nor a copy of the court decision of 6 february 2008.12.  on 15 february 2008 the applicant lodged a summary appeal against the decision of the first-instance court, noting that he would submit a full appeal once he received a copy of the decision of 6 february 2008. at his request, on 17 march 2008 he obtained a copy of that decision.13.  on 18 march 2008 the “mrt” supreme court quashed the lower court’s decision because of the failure to specify the exact place where the offence had been committed.on 25 april 2008 the “mrt” supreme court accepted an extraordinary appeal lodged by the president of that court’s chair and decided that the case was to be re-examined by that court.14.  on 27 may 2008 the applicant received by fax a letter dated 12 may 2008 summoning him to the hearing of the “mrt” supreme court on 27 may 2008 at 10 a.m. because of this late summoning he could not appear at the hearing.on the same day the court rejected the applicant’s appeal against the decision of 6 february 2008, finding that he had been arrested on the territory of the city of bender after refusing to abide by orders of the “mrt” customs authority.15.  on 6 february 2008 the applicant’s brother made a criminal complaint in the applicant’s name to various moldovan authorities, including the prosecutor general’s office, about the applicant’s unlawful arrest by officers from the “mrt”.16.  on 7 february 2008 the applicant’s brother sent a complaint about the applicant’s abduction by the “mrt” authorities to the embassies of several countries in moldova, including that of the russian federation.on 11 february 2008 the applicant sent letters to various embassies, including that of the russian federation, thanking them for their intervention into the case by bringing the matter before the joint control commission.in view of the moldovan prosecuting authorities’ inability to effectively prosecute persons on the territory controlled of the “mrt”, on 28 august 2008, the investigation was suspended.on 30 may 2013 the investigation was resumed and was pending by the time of the last submissions made to the court (december 2013).
14.  according to one source, in the morning of, or, according to another source, at 2–3 p.m. on 23 december 2004 the applicant was arrested by three officers, two young fair-haired ones, and an older one wearing a moustache.15.  at the station the applicant was shown into a room on the third floor.they tied the applicant into a painful position called “the swallow” (“ласточка”), in which hands and legs are fastened together behind the back, and four times suffocated him with a gas-mask filled with ammonia.16.  once in front of the investigator, the applicant complained to him of the torture.in response, the investigator commissioned a forensic examination of the applicant, but for some reason omitted to record the applicant’s complaint.the doctor established the following injuries: bruises on the left eye and cheekbone caused by a blunt object three to five days before, and bruises on the upper lip and damage to the two upper front teeth caused by blunt objects no more than one day before.he joined the two investigations, and on 21 february 2005 interviewed the applicant as the accused.25.  on 28 march 2005 the complaint was referred to the prosecutor of the sovietsky district of orsk for a pre-investigation inquiry (доследственная проверка).26.  the inquiry into the applicant’s allegation of torture was entrusted to investigator pa. of the oktyabrsky district prosecutor’s office.27.  in his turn, pa. asked the head of the unit in which the applicant’s alleged assailants served to hold an internal inquiry (служебная проверка).based on the gathered evidence, he concluded that the applicant had been injured before he had been brought to sovietsky police station, and thus the officers had no case to answer.at the same time, the investigator decided not to prosecute the applicant for falsely accusing the officers because he had been honestly mistaken that they had wronged him.he said that on the night of the murder he had been drinking elsewhere and that he had been tortured into falsely incriminating himself as proven by the injuries on his body.32.  the court dismissed this defence, noting that the forensic report suggested that the applicant had been injured before his arrest, and that the pre-investigation inquiry had cleared the officers of any misconduct.37.  the applicant appealed, pleading that he himself would be prepared to undergo a lie-detector test to prove his accusations, that the court had blindly sided with the operatives, that in 2006 or 2007 u. had been convicted for torturing others and of forging official records, and that the court had ignored the case-law of the strasbourg court.
7.  by a first-instance judgment of 21 may 2002 the supreme court of the republic of buryatiya convicted the first applicant of several offences including robbery, theft, forgery, destruction of property, banditry, possession and transportation of firearms and murder, sentencing him to life imprisonment.8.  the judgment was upheld on appeal by the supreme court of russia on 19 june 2003. the first applicant did not allege in his appeal arguments that the composition of the first-instance court had been unlawful.9.  on 22 september 2004 the eniseyskiy district court of the krasnoyarsk region brought the first applicant’s conviction in line with newly introduced amendments to the russian criminal code, having made minor corrections to the legal characterisation of his acts.11.  in 2007 the first applicant made some enquiries to check the lawfulness of the composition of the first-instance court in his case.thereafter, in an attempt to contest the lawfulness of his conviction on the above-mentioned grounds, he requested that the prosecutor’s office of the republic of buryatiya institute supervisory review proceedings with a view to setting aside the judgment of 21 may 2002. his requests were unsuccessful.the first applicant submitted a copy of a judgment in the case of another inmate, which stated that the prison guard who monitored the cells in that prison was a woman.21.  whilst serving a prison sentence in ik-2 (special-regime correctional colony) in the zabaykalskiy region, on 22 june 2013 the third applicant was transferred to iz-1 (pre-trial detention centre) in the same region with a view to ensuring his participation in court proceedings unrelated to this case.a screenshot of the cctv camera submitted by the third applicant shows that it was installed above the entrance door, at ceiling level, in such a manner that the entire cell was clearly visible, including, at least in part, the bed.the screenshot also shows that the toilet was separated by a partition at each side, but had no cover, with the result that the upper part of the cubicle was visible.23.  on an unspecified date the third applicant lodged a complaint against the actions of the administration of pre-trial detention centre iz-1 (“the detention centre authorities”) with the ingodinskiy district court of chita (“the district court”).26.  it found it established that the third applicant’s cell and all the other cells in pre-trial detention centre iz-1 were equipped with cctv cameras located under the ceiling for the purposes of surveillance of detainees.27.  the court further observed that article 83 of the russian code of execution of criminal sentences (see paragraph 33 below) and section 34(1) of the pre-trial detention act (see paragraph 34 below) enabled the use of audio and video equipment for surveillance and control with a view to preventing escapes and other crimes or breaches of internal order.204-dsp of 3 november 2005, as amended on 25 may 2011 (see paragraphs 35-38 below), provided that only body searches and supervision of detainees during hygienic procedures should be performed by officers of the same sex, whereas surveillance of cells by cctv cameras by officers of the opposite sex was not prohibited by the above-mentioned legal instruments.1393-o-o of the constitutional court of russia dated 19 october 2010 (see paragraphs 42-43 below) stated that use by the authorities of various pre-trial detention centres and penal institutions of technical means of surveillance and control was part of the mechanism that ensured detainees’ personal safety and respect for their rights, as well as performance by them of their obligations.29.  the district court concluded that, under the applicable law, as interpreted by the constitutional court of russia, it was permissible for officers of the opposite sex to perform cctv camera monitoring of detainees, thus the situation had not debased the third applicant’s dignity, as the female officers had acted within their competence and in the performance of their professional duties.
