Former FBI director James Comey speaks during a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing on Capitol Hill, Thursday, June 8, 2017, in Washington. WASHINGTON (Sputnik) - The White House initially said Trump fired Comey over his handling of the Hillary Clinton private email server investigation, however, later the US president stated that when he decided to dismiss Comey, he was thinking of the Russia investigation. US President Donald Trump said in a statement on Thursday that he did not fire former Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Director James Comey because of the Russia investigation. Not that it matters but I never fired James Comey because of Russia! The Corrupt Mainstream Media loves to keep pushing that narrative, but they know it is not true! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 31, 2018 In an interview with NBC News Lester Holt in May 2017, Trump said he was thinking about "this Russia thing" when he decided to fire Comey. READ MORE: Twitter on Fire as Comey Strikes Back at Trump "Lying" About FBI Comeys firing ultimately led to the appointment of Special Counsel Robert Mueller to investigate allegations of Russian interference into the 2016 election and collusion between Moscow and the Trump campaign. Russian officials have repeatedly denied allegations of interference, calling the accusations groundless and absurd. Trump has also denied any collusion with the Kremlin and has called Muellers investigation "a witch hunt."
President Trump responded to the Senate Republicans inability to pass a skinny version of Obamacares repeal the only way he knows how: Twitter. Senate Republicans werent able to muster enough votes to pass their skinny repeal of Obamacare. Senators voted 49-51 shortly before 2:00 a.m. Friday morning. Sen. John McCain (R-Arizona) cast a surprise "no" vote. Lisa Murkowski (Alaska), Susan Collins (Maine). The bill, titled the Health Care Freedom Act, would have repealed the individual insurance mandate. It would also have repealed the employer mandate for eight years. GOP leaders and Vice President Mike Pence huddled with McCain, Murkowski and Collins before the vote, which was stalled for nearly an hour. A few minutes before the vote, McCain crossed the chamber to huddle with Democrats. McCains "no" vote came as a shock to many. The vote is a devastating blow for Republicans who have fought for months to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act and will likely have to start the process all over again. " This is clearly a disappointing moment," Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said shortly after the final vote tally was called. Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer admitted that the current health care law is not perfect and called for Republicans and Democrats to work together to fix the problems with Obamacare. Other memorable moments from the health care debate: Now the Senate will move on to the defense budget.
The NFL national anthem story isn’t going away anytime soon. As the FS1 Dynamic Duo began discussing the topic, Sharpe went on an incredible eight-minute rant on how NFL owners suddenly got an awakening about President Trump’s comments at an Alabama rally about players who kneel during the national anthem. And then he expressed why he was disappointed and unimpressed: I’m disappointed, Skip and Joy, because this is the tipping point. Of the 7,537 things that President Trump has said in the last 50 years, him calling an NFL player a ‘SOB’ is what brought the NFL, the owners and players together. Because see Skip, what we know about people with money, they don’t like to be told what to do…they don’t like being bullied. And he also pointed out a number of owners, including Jerry Jones, Daniel Snyder, Shad Khan, and Robert Kraft, who contributed to Trump’s inauguration. Now I’m unimpressed because this wasn’t a protest. So what are we showing solidarity against, Skip? We’re showing solidarity because President Trump . They don’t like being told what to do, Skip. And then, Skip, he called players that protested the anthem … he called them ‘SOB’s.’ That’s what got the owners, that’s what got the players to unite. It wasn’t until he came for the NFL that their conscience was shocked! Sharpe said he was very disappointed in him, saying Lewis sat in that chair right there saying that he could never kneel, never not stand for the national anthem citing those who died fighting for the flag and then he went down on both knees. It was one of the more emotional segments on Undisputed in its brief history.
In his election campaign, Mr Trump was clear about his desire to build a "great great" wall along the border of the US and Mexico which he believes will bring an end to illegal immigration from South and Central America. LBC presenter Ian Collins received a call from Mexican Josephine, who explained why she could not wait for work to begin on the wall. Josephine believes people from her native country are victimised because the Mexican government does not do enough for their people and have no authority when it comes to handling crime, especially in relation to drugs. She said: We get the blame for all these criminals. Many areas of Mexico have become worse than Chicago. they look after their family and they have machine guns and they drive around in trucks. Collins then asked: So you’re saying Donald Trump wasn’t being a racist then? I don’t want to put words in your mouth I just want to be clear. Tue, December 13, 2016 Donald John Trump is an American businessman and politician who is President-elect of the United States as well as chairman and president of The Trump Organization No, no, no, Josephine replied. Since becoming President-elect has reiterated his intention to crack down on immigration. Speaking to CBS in his first major interview since being elected Mr Trump said: What we are going to do is get the people that are criminal and have criminal records, gang members, drug dealers, where a lot of these people, probably two million – it could be even three million – we are getting them out of the country or we are going to incarcerate. Collins, attempting to understand why the Mexican woman was so pleased about Mr Trump’s election success, said: Was he saying something that lots of people think but are too scared to say? Josephine said: Yes, and another thing is that I love the people that are here that I know, I know many people that are Asians, that are Arabs, good speaking English people, but there are very few. The most people in the area don’t want to mix, and they are very hostile. I have scrutinised everything in this campaign and newspapers said today he is getting rid of three million migrants.
Methinks she doth protest too much -- and too late. The behavior described by the women coming forward cannot be tolerated. Their courage and the support of others is critical in helping to stop this kind of behavior. Hillary Clinton knew who and what Weinstein was as surely as she knew and knows what Bill Clinton is. At the same time, mind you, that Hillary Clinton was active in directing a campaign to paint the battalion of women who had been sexually assaulted by Bill Clinton as morally decrepit if not outright crazy. she has benefited from as much as a quarter million dollars from Weinstein. The Obamas and the Clintons embraced him, did fundraisers with him, paid tribute to him, Toobin continued. Any man who demeans and degrades women in such fashion needs to be condemned and held accountable, regardless of wealth or status. We should celebrate the courage of women who have come forward to tell these painful stories. Hillary famously said that all claims of rape, abuse, and harassment should be deemed credible and be believed until proven otherwise. And then there’s Juanita Broaddrick, who has accused President Clinton of rape. At a Trump press conference in 2016, Broaddrick, tired of being accused of being part of that vast right-wing conspiracy, and afraid that her attacker would once again occupy the White House with the woman who orchestrated the attacks on Bill Clinton’s bimbo eruptions, repeated her accusation: Actions speak louder than words, Broaddrick said. In a separate interview, Broaddrick shared her own story of brutal sexual assault which she says Bill Clinton perpetrated against her. Later in this interview, Jones, Willey, and Broaddrick expressed fear at how a potential President Hillary Clinton would use the power of her office. It should terrify all men and women, Willey added.
UPDATE May 22, 2018: The Little Rock Police Department has recovered human remains in Chalamont Park, the last place Ebby Steppach was seen. And now only Crime Watch Daily tracks down a key witness who sheds light on the frightening possibilities. The next morning Ebby sends a frightening text message to her friend Gage Fulton. But he tells Vickers that she is horrified and confused. But Michael says there hadnt been an arrangement to meet anywhere. She would move out and hang out, which was really unusual, but she would never run away and not talk to her family," said Laurie. And Ebbys family is searching for her everywhere. But police are not saying exactly where or if anyone was in the car with her. " Not only that, Ebbys family says they still dont know if some of the people who were with her at that party have even been questioned by police. And the alarming possibility that she has been sex-trafficked haunts everyone who knows this case. Then a few days later I run into her again with another young black gentleman. And the third time she was back with another couple gentlemen." He was about five-foot-six, five-seven, had long dreads," said And his eyewitness account is about to go ballistic when we show him what weve brought along with us. Thank God we have someone now, we have people now that understand that and check on that as soon as they can." Ebby Steppach stands 5 feet 2 inches tall and weighs about 110 pounds.
Members of the Dallas Cowboys organization have been reluctant to protest the national anthem, with head coach Jason Garrett calling the anthem sacred and Dez Bryant saying he wouldn’t protest. Their attitudes mirror what’s coming from the top. Cowboys owner Jerry Jones has made it clear that he opposes national anthem protests. In an interview with FOX Business, Jones said he did not think the place to express opinions is by protesting the flag. " I do not think the place to express yourself in society is as we recognize the American flag." – Jerry Jones on National Anthem protests pic.twitter.com/3JkrdMhwWy — FOX Business (@FoxBusiness) September 24, 2017 Jones’ thoughts echo that of many Americans, though as the demonstrations attest, there are many who disagree. Based on his public comments, it would be a surprise to see a display from any Cowboys on Monday night.
The State Department argued at a federal hearing Thursday that its ability to process the 100,0 Hillary Clinton emails ordered released under a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit has been hindered by a lack of manpower due to a "hiring freeze" and that the urgency to release the documents has been diminished by the publics lack of interest in the subject, according to the watchdog group that won the lawsuit for the documents release. But Judicial Watch, a conservative watchdog group that sued the State Department in May 2015 for the thousands of emails and documents, isnt buying it. Judicial Watch President Tom Fitton is accusing the State Department of slow-rolling the emails being sent from the FBI to the State Department, a large number of which Clinton "failed to disclose" to the government when she served as secretary of state, he said. On July 15, the FBI allegedly turned over to the State Department a new disk of emails belonging to former Clinton aide Huma Abedin. The emails were apparently discovered on a laptop owned by Abedins estranged husband, Anthony Weiner. Weiner pleaded guilty in May to sending a number of text messages and sexually explicit pictures last year to a 15-year-old girl in North Carolina. State Department spokeswoman Pooja Jhunjhunwala told Circa "‎the Department takes its records management responsibilities seriously and is working diligently to process FOIA requests and to balance the demands of the many requests we have received." " We are devoting significant resources to meeting our litigation obligations," she added. The State Department was ordered in November to process documents at the rate of 500 pages per month, but "at that rate it would take until 2020 for the bulk to made public," Fitton said. So far, the State Department has produced 17 batches of documents, Fitton said. " I can understand the presidents frustration because he wanted these made public. However, his Justice and State departments are making excuses of why they have to slow-roll it this way." Trump has made numerous assertions about Clinton and her email server. In June, he tweeted that Clinton destroyed her phones and "bleached" her emails. If the president wants these emails released then he will have to demand that the agencies abide."
Should statues and memorials of Confederate soldiers and officers remain standing, or should they be removed. Those in favor of removing the statues say the statues represent racism. Those who want the statues to remain complain that removing the statues would be an attempt to get rid of history. Should cities and states get rid of Confederate statues and memorials?
President Barack Obama is set to speak at the Democratic National Convention Wednesday night. Obama will take the stage 12 years after he first came to national attention as a freshman senator from Illinois at his partys 2004 convention. Ostensibly, Obama was there to endorse Massachusetts senator John Kerry for his White House bid. If there is a child on the South Side of Chicago who cant read, that matters to me even if its not my child. If there is an Arab-American family being rounded up without benefit of an attorney or due process, that threatens my civil liberties. It is that fundamental belief -- it is that fundamental belief -- I am my brothers keeper, I am my sisters keeper -- that makes this country work. Well, I say to them tonight there is not a liberal America and a conservative America. There is not a black America and a white America and Latino America and Asian America. The pundits -- the pundits like to slice and dice our country into red states and blue states, red states for Republicans, blue states for Democrats. Do we participate in a politics of cynicism, or do we participate in a politics of hope? Im not talking about blind optimism here, the almost willful ignorance that thinks unemployment will go away if we just dont think about it, or a health care crisis will solve itself if we just ignore it. Im talking about something more substantial. The hope of immigrants setting out for distant shores. The hope of a skinny kid with a funny name who believes that America has a place for him too. ( I believe we can provide jobs to the jobless, homes to the homeless, and reclaim young people in cities across America from violence and despair.
Credit: HealthNutNews Recently, Erin Elizabeth from HealthNutNews wrote up an expose about the past year’s findings concerning the many disappearances of holistic doctors. His family, like the families of many other missing and dead naturopathic practitioners and MD doctors, believe that he was murdered for using and promoting controversial therapies, such as GCMaF. According to Elizabeth, nearly 50 doctors have now died or gone missing under mysterious circumstances. In fact, according to one Berkeley doctor, conventional treatments for concerns such as cancer are less effective than forgoing treatment in the first place. Update: Family and loved ones of Dr. Hedendal have spoken to the media that they are suspicious of his death and want answers. Dr. Bradstreet (see story #1) was living in Georgia at the time of his death and before that he lived in the neighboring state of Florida. The other was one of her husband’s childhood friends who was just recently extradited to Florida. He’s 6′ tall and described as Irish-looking with a goatee (details can be found in the links). I had met Dr Gonzalez and his amazing wife, and my better half has interviewed him several times. His official website says that while they initially thought it was a heart attack, his autopsy does not support that belief and shows no heart attack. 10) August 12, 2015 Osteopath Mary Bovier is found slain to death in her home in Pennsylvania. 13) September 16, 2015 I reported that our colleague, best selling author and holistic MD, Mitch Gaynor, is found dead outside his country home; an hour or so from Manhattan where he practiced. One was stabbed in what his friends called a safe neighborhood. She is the only one in this entire series I’ve ever written about who is not a doctor of some sort (DC, MD, DO, and even a PhD at the end) But she was a board certified Nurse Practitioner whose patients rave about her endlessly. Investigators quickly state they can’t see any evidence that it’s a homicide, but her mother and other relatives state publicly there is no way she crawled 1.5 miles through brambles and water and mud to put a plastic bag over her head in a culvert. An arrest is quickly made of a young man who has no priors and lived with his father oceanside in Santa Barbara.
In August outspoken Missouri State Senator Maria Chappelle-Nadal called for the assassination of President Trump. Chappelle-Nadal posted the comment on Facebook. Chappelle-Nadal then deleted it in a panic. Maria Chappelle-Nadal was removed from her committee assignments the next week. But she was not removed from public office. On Thursday Chappelle-Nadal compared Trump to Hitler. Democrat Maria Chappelle Nadal defended her decision to compare President Trump to Hitler in an interview on Thursday afternoon… AND she played the race card. FOX 2 reported: The St. Louis Post-Dispatch interviewed Chappelle-Nadal about the tweet. She tells the newspaper that, I have a First Amendment right to share my opinion, and if a meme is offensive to people, they should look at the First Amendment again, she said. Then ask yourself why you have different qualifications for a black woman of Puerto Rican descent than other people putting up a meme with no words. Maria is the future of the Democrat Party — constant insults and pure insanity.
Former Dems Now Backing Trump: Our Countrys Going in the Wrong Direction Donald Trump joined Bill OReilly on "The Factor" tonight to discuss a wide range of topics, including his claims that the election is rigged against him. " The system is rigged," Trump said, arguing that the media has been "horrible" in their coverage of him, while giving Hillary Clinton a pass for her various scandals. He added that Clinton was also given a pass by the Justice Department and the FBI for her private email server and mishandling of state secrets. " She is so guilty in so many different ways that she shouldnt even be allowed to run for president," Trump stated. " So right there, the system is really rigged." The Republican nominee added that he also isnt ruling out the possibility of widespread election fraud, with votes being miscounted at locations around the country. OReilly pointed out that there arent any "hard facts" to back up such allegations. " Trump asserted that there are 1.8 million deceased people registered to vote and 2.8 million people registered to vote in two states. " There are things that are going on, Bill." Watch the "OReilly Factor" interview above, and let us know what you think in the comments. Clinton Aide in New WikiLeaks Email: We Need to Clean This Up.
Oct 19, 2017 at 3:09 PM From Washington, D.C. to the NFL and Hollywood, America’s idols are tumbling down. For too long, we have wasted precious time and money worshipping these so-called social justice warrior hypocrites who continue to disappoint. Huge swaths of Americans still bow at the altar of social justice. They believe government-forced charity will advance us to an utopian paradise where everyone enjoys the same outcome, despite personal effort, upbringing, unique abilities and education. Truth is, though, social justice is an oxymoron based on the false premise that the cure for injustice is leveling the playing field and redistributing wealth. As former Vice President Joe Biden once said, You may call it redistribution of wealth â€’ I just call it being fair. Marx hated religion, private property and Judeo-Christian values as much as leftists do today. Yesteryears’ creepy social justice warriors are now out of the closet and no longer hide their agenda. All that, while they divide us into two groups, normal folks and them. As I’ve said before, Democrats’ sacrosanct belief that the government was created to control how fairness is spread around is nothing more than a modern-day effort to reinvent Robin Hood, without all the chivalry and green tights. I know, the devil is always in the details, but I’ll go ahead and say it anyhow. Forced charity doesn’t bring about justice. In sharp contrast, there is a power in authentic generosity that no amount of government social-engineering could or will ever match. The social justice crowd should dust off the knees they protest with and try it sometime. ^ Susan Stamper Brown lives in Alaska and writes on culture, politics and current events.
Rumors that Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux are allegedly on the verge of divorce have been circulating as early as a few weeks into their marriage. New reports claimed that there is a new woman involved in Jennifer Aniston and Justin Therouxs alleged rocky relationship and its none other than Jens close friend, Chelsea Handler. A source claimed that Justin allegedly cant stand Chelsea and her antics. " Recently, Justin came home to find Chelsea cooking breakfast in their kitchen . completely naked," Celeb Dirty Laundry reported. " Chelsea hates wearing clothes, and she documents her naked adventures on social media all the time." " But Justin Theroux has forbidden her from having any more naked romps in his house while he is out of town," the report continued. According to an insider, Chelsea Handler was allegedly just trying to be funny. Unfortunately, Justin Theroux wasnt laughing. Apparently, Theroux confronted Aniston about her friend and how she irritates him. " Chelsea thought it was hilarious, but Justin was really annoyed. It bugged him to come home and find Chelsea there and the house a mess, but he bit his tongue. But now that he and Jen are married, he is establishing some ground rules, chief among them is that Chelsea is no longer welcome in their guest room," the report said. It has been previously reported that the newly weds are allegedly having problems over Jennifer Aniston being jealous because of Justins purported closeness with his "The Leftovers" co-star, Margaret Qualley. The newlyweds friends are hoping that the couple work out their differences especially since the couple is allegedly in the process of adopting a baby.
The hotel security guard wounded in the Las Vegas mass shooting has been arrested as an accomplice to that event. Fake news web sites capitalized on the tragedy of the 1 October 2017 mass shooting event in Las Vegas by proffering various unfounded conspiracy theories as news, particularly those positing that a second shooter took part in the carnage in additional to the one who rained bullets onto a concert crowd from a room on the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay hotel. In particular, fake news sites focused on Jesus Campos, the Mandalay Bay security guard who reportedly went to investigate a door alarm on the 32nd floor and was wounded in the leg when the shooter fired an estimated 200 bullets through his hotel room door. Those sites initially reported (without any evidence) that Campos was not an innocent victim wounded in the course of his duties, but was actually suspected of being an accomplice in the mass shooting. Jesus Campos had originally been praised for his apparent heroics on October 1st, as he supposedly rushed to Paddock’s suite, was shot in the upper thigh through the door, and continued to help get people to safety despite his wounds. However, FBI officials involved in the investigation now believe he was an accomplice of Paddock’s, and was involved in the initial shooting as a second gunman from the other broken window in Paddock’s 32nd-floor room. According to a senior FBI official, authorities became suspicions by the extreme amount of gunpowder residue found on Campos’ hands and inconsistencies in his timeline of events. We believe he killed [the shooter], shot holes through the door and his own arm to produce physical evidence for his cover story, then went and lay next to the elevator, the FBI official told CNN. Although some confusion remains, as of this writing, about the precise timing of when Campos was wounded relative to the onset of the larger mass shooting rampage, law enforcement has not at any time suggested that Campos was an accomplice to that mass shooting, much less taken him into custody on that basis. Snopes.com has long been engaged in the battle against misinformation, an effort we could not sustain without the support of our readers. If youd like to learn more about how you can support us, click here.
If You Vote For Trump, Then Screw You Drew Magary wants a word with anyone whos about to be on the wrong side of history. There are many more, including Trump’s club trying to welch on a $1 million hole-in-one payout (out of all of Trump’s bad qualities, his steadfast refusal to pay people what he owes them, while bragging about it, is the most enraging), along with the old bit about Trump blithely ignoring local ordinances so he could put a big, dipshit flagpole up at the Mar-A-Lago club, with his lawyers stating—with a straight face—that a smaller flag would fail to appropriately express the magnitude of Donald J. Trump’s . . . Remember when Trump said he would get rid of food regulations? Regardless, in the end, people are still gonna vote for this man. I’m not gonna waste any more time trying to convince you that you’re about to do something you’ll regret forever. I’m not gonna try to ANNIHILATE Trump by showing you records of his hypocrisy and greed. I am preaching to the sad little choir in my soul here. YOU are the people who want to revolutionize the way America does business by voting for its worst businessman, a disgusting neon pig who only makes money when he causes problems for other people instead of solving them. /video/5b7490bd8c1abc4fee00001d.js?iu=/3379/conde. "& My reasons for hating Trump are better than your reasons for hating Hillary. Show me all the arguments against her you like. Trump has shown no respect for anyone, so I don’t see why you deserve any either. TRENDING THIS VERY SECOND travel-and-eats Where to Eat and Drink in Houston, the New Capital of Southern Cool culture Serena Williams Catsuit Is Banned from All Future French Opens news-and-politics No One Knows Why This QAnon Conspiracy Theorist Was in the Oval Office with Trump The old saw is that people get the politicians they deserve, and I’ll be crestfallen if Trump wins and proves this to be true once more. No no, I think you people deserve the EXACT same fate as Trump himself, and that is to lose, badly. Drew Magary is a GQ correspondent and author, most recently of " The Hike."
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. WASHINGTON (AP) — The Trump administration is preparing to restore the flow of surplus military equipment to local law enforcement agencies. The government program had been sharply curtailed by the Obama administration amid an outcry over police use of armored vehicles and other war-fighting gear to confront protesters. Documents obtained by The Associated Press indicate President Donald Trump plans to sign an executive order undoing an Obama-era directive that restricted police access to military grenade launchers, firearms, ammunition and other gear. The documents say Trumps order would fully restore the program under which "assets that would otherwise be scrapped can be repurposed to help state, local, and tribal law enforcement better protect public safety and reduce crime."
Hillary Clinton apparently cant escape the " deep state." The Daily Beast reported Thursday that the Department of Justice has taken an interest in a familiar subject — the infamous email server of the former Democratic presidential candidate and her alleged bungling of classified information. Citing a source close to Attorney General Jeff Sessions, The Daily Beast claims that the Justice Department wants to know how those tasked with investigating Clintons private email server went about their probe. DOJ officials are also reportedly interested in tallying the classified material contained in her emails and finding out "who put that information into an unclassified environment," The Daily Beast says. Before Clinton was cleared of criminal wrongdoing by the FBI in July 2016, the former secretary of state claimed that many of the emails on her server were classified after the fact or that she was unaware of which "headers" denoted that an email was classified. Clintons emails are a favorite grievance of President Trump, who has repeatedly called for his erstwhile political rival to be investigated again. As such, people within the DOJ are reportedly concerned that Trumps vocal tweets on the matter could cause the impression that the law enforcement agency is only doing the presidents bidding. An unnamed former DOJ official even suggested to The Daily Beast that it was "an open question" if this inquiry would occur "without a political directive from the White House." The Justice Department would not comment on the reported inquiry to The Daily Beast.
Image via Getty UPDATED 10/18/17, 2:45 p.m. ET: NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell held a press conference on Wednesday and spoke about how the NFL wants players to stand during the national anthem. However, he also reemphasized that the league will not try to force players to stand at this point. " We just had two days of conversation of which this was a fair amount of dialogue and I think we all see this the same way," Goodell said. " Our focus is on the opportunity we have to make our communities better through these efforts with our players. We’ll deal with these issues as they come up." Goodell steered clear of directly addressing the tweet Donald Trump sent out on Wednesday about the NFLs decision not to force players to stand. Goodell: "were focusing on what we should be doing as the NFL," in response to more questions about Trumps Tweets — Jason La Canfora (@JasonLaCanfora) October 18, 2017 Additionally, Goodell said he wants the league to "stay out of politics" and talked about how he hopes that there will eventually be "zero" players kneeling during the anthem. As per usual, Donald Trumps using his personal Twitter account to spew garbage takes about shit he doesnt truly understand. The NFL has decided that it will not force players to stand for the playing of our National Anthem. Total disrespect for our great country! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 18, 2017 "The NFL has decided that it will not force players to stand for the playing of our National Anthem," Trump tweeted. " This is no doubt in response to the NFL saying they would not prohibit players from protesting the anthem late last week. If Trump was so concerned about players protesting the national anthem—which, again is a part of the First Amendment—why doesnt he stop the police from murdering black people? You know, what these fucking protests are actually about. Oh right, because while he spews a hatred for "fake news," he has no problem feeding the fuckery.
It is a rich if tragic irony that the same progressives denouncing Richard Spencer and demanding that municipal statues be torn down for their alleged white supremacist qualities are themselves closely aligned with a white supremacist-tied group. I am speaking, of course, of Planned Parenthood, which is to the abortion-loving Left what Adolf Hitler’s bunker would have become to fascists had Germany not demolished it in the late 1980s: a sort of holy shrine upon which adulation and adoration can be fixated.
Could Trumps Missing Signature Force Him to Be Deposed? Immunity Deal Shows Value of CFO in Prosecution. FRONT PAGES UK THE PAPERS WORLD HEADLINES BOXOFFICE TV RATINGS ABCNEWS ADWEEK ATLANTIC AXIOS BBC BILD BILLBOARD BLAZE BOSTON GLOBE BOSTON HERALD BREITBART BUSINESS INSIDER BUZZFEED CBS NEWS CBS NEWS LOCAL CELEBRITY SERVICE C-SPAN CHICAGO SUN-TIMES CHICAGO TRIB CHRISTIAN SCIENCE CNBC CNN DAILY BEAST DAILY CALLER DEADLINE HOLLYWOOD DER SPIEGEL E! Global Car Sales Hit Speed Bump After Decade of Growth. FBI Pursuing Con Queen Impersonating Top Hollywood Execs. Tourists shocked as migrants unload on beach. Pittsburgh becomes largest city WITHOUT daily print newspaper. Crippling costs of war reporting and investigative journalism. THIEL: President Only Republican Who Isnt Zombie. CASHIN: Stock market betting on Pence should legal issues take dark turn. Global-Warming Advocates Pressure Media to Silence Skeptics. NYC Housing Authority employees accused of using projects for wild orgies. SECESSION: Redstone Civil War Heats Up Again As Daughter Prepares To Take Control. Fate of 22 grizzly bears up to judges decision. WEATHER ACTION QUAKE SHEET VISITS TO DRUDGE 08/26/2018 021,630,090 PAST 24 HOURS 845,089,325 PAST 31 DAYS 10,626,276,451 PAST YEAR DRUDGE REFERENCE DESK EMAIL: DRUDGE@DRUDGEREPORT.COM BE SEEN!
On July 28 1982, President Ronald Reagan designated August 14 as Navajo Code Talkers Day. Reagan called it a day dedicated to "all members of the Navajo Nation and to all Native Americans who gave their special talents and their lives so that others might live." " When called upon to serve the United States, [the Navajo Nation] contributed a precious commodity never before used in this way. In the midst of the fighting in the Pacific during World War II, a gallant group of men from the Navajo Nation utilized their language in coded form to help speed the Allied victory." According to the U.S. Marine Corps, Code Talkers took part in every assault by Marines in the Pacific during the war from 1942 to 1945 serving in all Marine six divisions. The Code Talkers were a vital part to the Allied forces victory as the Navajo language is the only spoken code to have never been deciphered. " The dedication and unswerving devotion to duty shown by the men of the Navajo Nation," Reagan said the proclamation, "should serve as a fine example for all Americans."
Usher ILOSM family the situation between Usher and his STD accuser, Quantasia Sharpton, has just gotten even more real. For Ms. Sharpton, it’s bad, but for Usher, it’s great. As we previously informed you all, Quantasia claimed that she’d met Usher at his concert and then had a one night stand with him later that night, without him telling her that he allegedly has herpes… Fans Called Accuser’s Bluff It was her details ( and the prior lies she was accused of telling about other celebs) that caused many Usher fans to call her bluff though. Sharpton claimed that after Usher’s concert, she went back to her Days Inn hotel room and Usher called her, then went to Days Inn to sex her up like Color Me Badd (okay she didn’t say the Color Me Badd part, but if the shoe fits…). Anywho, after fans heard her ‘Days Inn’ claim, they were like ‘Chile please…Usher ain’t rollin’ up to a cheap Days Inn hotel room to have sex with you.’ Many Usher fans didn’t buy the employee’s story either. Check out what was reported by Usher’s people below… 1. : Usher and , Grace Miguel Sources close to the singer tell TMZ … he says there was never a hotel hookup with Quantasia Sharpton, telling friends, in November 2014 he was on the verge of getting engaged to Grace Miguel. Usher tells them at the time of his alleged encounter, Grace was his manager and they spent ALL their free time together. His people say when the two weren’t enjoying free time, it was all business, and they were inseparable. The couple got engaged less than 2 months after the alleged Days Inn tryst.-via TMZ 2. TRAVEL SCHEDULE CONFLICT: We’re told his travel schedule was super tight too … making it even more unlikely he even had time to step out for a secret trip to the Days Inn. -via TMZ Sometimes it’s best to make moves in silence…I wonder if Quantasia Sharpton and her attorney, Lisa Bloom, are now wishing that she did, because this is turning out to be a mess. Join us on Facebook for the most engaging discussions from the Old School! Old School News With A New Point Of View!
Stephen Paddock has been identified as the sole suspect in the Las Vegas concert shooting that took place on Sunday night. Police say that Paddock opened fire from the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay Resort &amp; Casino, killing 58 people and injuring hundreds more. Police found  more than 10 rifles in Paddock’s hotel room. It has been reported that he committed suicide. Just about 12 hours following the attack, the Associated Press reported that ISIS has claimed responsibility for the attack, adding that Paddock converted to Islam months ago. BREAKING: Without providing evidence, Islamic State claims Las Vegas attack, says shooter converted to Islam months ago. — ISIS has not released any kind of video to support their claims. He told the outlet that his brother didn’t have any political or religious affiliation. Eric also clearly stated his opinion on the shooting, saying it was not a terror arrack. Something happened, he snapped or something. We know absolutely nothing, this is just, we are dumbfounded, Eric Paddock explained. He has no political affiliation, no religious affiliation, as far as we know. This wasn’t a terror attack…He’s my brother, we don’t have a very close relationship but we talk occasionally. There’s no rhyme or reason here, it makes no sense, Eric added. The FBI is not currently investigating any ties between ISIS and Paddock.
and his wife, Jane Sanders have hired prominent defense attorneys amid an FBI investigation concerning possible bank fraud, according to CBS News and Politico Magazine. The investigation centers on a loan that Jane Sanders secured to expand Burlington College when she was its president. Jane Sanders allegedly distorted school donor levels in a 2010 loan application for $10 million from Peoples United Bank to buy 33 acres of land for the school, which shut down in 2016. Bernie Sanders told the Washington Post that the investigation would clear his wife of any wrongdoing. Rich Cassidy has reportedly been hired to represent Bernie Sanders, while high-profile Washington defense attorney Larry Robbins is reportedly representing Jane Sanders.
PHOTO: Instagram Dont freak out the next time you see President Barack Obama sans wedding ring—he and Michelle are still #goals. In fact, the reason why Obama often goes ringless has us loving the First Couple—who recently celebrated their 24th wedding anniversary on October 3—all the more. It appears that President Obama keeps his left-hand naked because he wants to keep his most precious valuable safe, and doesnt want to risk anything happening to his wedding band. A video recently surfaced on the Washington Post of President Obama discreetly slipping off his wedding ring and placing it in his pocket as he approached a small crowd to shake hands—seemingly indicating that he wants to keep it close and out of any potential harms way. ( Even with all of the Secret Service agents surrounding him, Obama still takes the utmost precautions with his beloved wedding ring. However, if Obama were to lose his wedding ring—say it slips out of his pocket—he could always call the Ring Finders.
Here’s one thing we can all say for certain regarding the latest twist of the Hillary Clinton email scandal: James Comey, who was once regarded as the Eliot Ness of law enforcement, a modern day straight-shooter impenetrable to political pressure, will instead leave the office of FBI chief as something closer to Inspector Clouseau. My sources in law enforcement were pretty convinced Comey would do the right thing and recommend charges to the Obama Justice Department, despite its political consequence, because the evidence was there and Comey was supposed to be so non political. He was a Republican appointed by Democrat Barack Obama to run a quasi independent investigative arm of the DOJ because he had a fierce independent streak. But there appears to be limits to Comeys independence, these same people now concede. That didn’t happen, of course, as Comey would explain -- and the markets that day recovered as he announced how Hillary Clinton may have done something criminal even if she never intended to do it and as a result he was giving her pass. Note to reader: Markets will take criminal over crazy any day of the week. But that wasnt the sentiment inside the FBI, where according to my law enforcement sources, a near mutiny broke out among career agents who believe there was plenty of evidence pointing to Clintons gross negligence that Comey initially said never existed, and that their boss caved to political pressure from the Obama DOJ. He also didn’t go through the process of creating his own easily hacked private server. Another difference: Clinton used her private account exclusively, and Powell didn’t. I say closed in quotes to underscore the murkiness of FBI investigative procedures. Cases are rarely officially closed and even when they are the bureau will leave the door open that additional information would re-ignite their efforts. The country could have been spared this spectacle if he had just done the right thing in July and recommended a charge against Clinton. Then the Democrats could have regrouped and given the nomination to Bernie Sanders or Joe Biden or someone who doesnt stand a chance of being indicted or impeached if elected. Yes if Hillary Clinton manages to win, she will be a sitting duck for every GOP investigative committee, particularly as the odds grow the Republicans will now keep the House and possibly the Senate. If you thought the last eight years were contentious, you aint seen nothing yet.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. intelligence agencies provided advanced warning to Russia about a major terrorist plot in St. Petersburg, allowing Moscow to thwart an attack that could have killed large numbers of people, the White House said on Sunday. President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia called President Donald J. Trump today to thank him for the advanced warning the United States intelligence agencies provided to Russia concerning a major terror plot in Saint Petersburg, Russia, the White House said in a statement.
"Day One" is a multi-part series in which CBS News Margaret Brennan speaks with former U.S. government officials on the major foreign policy issues the next president will inherit on the first day of their presidency. The next president will face countless challenges on day one. Among the biggest is the ongoing civil war in Syria. Look, the best-case scenario would be to have Assad step down, to have a transitional government be able to establish itself representing each of the factions that are there -- the Sunnis, the Kurds, the Shias. MARGARET BRENNAN: What are the odds of that? PANETTA: The worst-case scenario is that Assad continues to remain in power, continues to kill Syrians. That refugees continue to flow out of Syria, that the Russians continue to have a presence there and continue to attack our moderate forces that were trying to train in Syria. And that ISIS then uses that and creates an even bigger base from which to conduct attacks against this country. BRENNAN: Sounds like youre describing whats happening now. And its what can continue to happen in the future if we dont deal with it. Will the next president have to commit more American boots on the ground? We cant surrender one objective for the other. Weve gotta continue to press on both fronts. PANETTA: We are hoping upon hope that the Russians will do the right thing. She said she would arm the moderate rebels, and pressure Russia to get out of Syria.
Roy Moore for Senate In a report titled ‘Roy Moore’s Facebook page shared inflammatory memes, article praising Russia’s anti-gay laws,’ CNN (Cable News Network), one of most rabid left-wing, anti-conservative channels in the United States, sternly criticized the conservative contents of the Facebook page belonging to Roy Moore, the Republican nominee for US Senate in Alabama. Among Moore’s Facebook posts hated by CNN the most highlighted was the BarbWire article  Conservative Russians Give Moral Lesson to Facebook’s Homosexual Propaganda, written by me. CNN said, Moore’s Facebook page also shared an article from the religious conservative website BarbWire.com in July 2015 with the headline, Conservative Russians Give Moral Lesson to Facebook’s Homosexual Propaganda. The article highlighted efforts by some Russians to counter a feature on Facebook that allowed users to overlay a rainbow over their profile picture. Trending: English Professor Assigns Trump-Bashing Books The strongest reaction came from conservative Russians who overlaid an image of the colors of their country’s flag — white, blue and red — over their profile picture, the article read, adding that users also countered the homosexual #LoveWins hashtag with #pridetobestraight and #pridetoberussian. The article also described Russia’s efforts to crack down on the LGBT community, including the country’s so-called gay propaganda law, as a strong stance in defense of traditional family values. CNN added, Moore shared an article in July 2015 that praised Russia’s anti-gay laws and Russians who opposed Facebook’s feature that allowed users to change their profile pictures to celebrate same-sex marriage: I considered it a privilege to have a my conservative BarbWire article shared by Judge Roy Moore. I considered it an even greater privilege to have my name connected with fine conservative leaders such as James Dobson and Chuck Norris, in the official list of endorsements of Moore. As a conservative evangelical Christian, I am not surprised that CNN attacked Moore just because he shared one of my BarbWire articles. After all, what expect from the Communist News Network? Portuguese version of this article: CNN ataca Roy Moore só porque ele compartilhou meu artigo no portal conservador BarbWire The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not necessarily represent the views of Barb Wire. The Secret Plan To Destroy Trumps Administration
During the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit in New Delhi on Friday, former President Barack Obama threw some expert-level shade President Donald Trumps way. As the world knows, Trump cant tear himself away from Twitter. He seems to thrive on approval, especially on social media. So imagine how it burns that Obama has twice as many followers as Trump. In a conversation with journalist Karan Thapar, Obama said: And look, Ive got 100 million Twitter followers. I mean, I actually have more than other people who use it more often.
Justice Department began investigation of police departments patterns, practices after 2015 death of Freddie Gray The U.S. Justice Department unloaded on Baltimores police department Wednesday, accusing officers of routinely targeting African Americans. Federal and local officials are now demanding change. The Justice Department has released a scathing report on the Baltimore Police Department, highlighting routine violations of civil rights and discrimination towards African-Americans. CBS News justice reporter Paula Reid joins CBSN with details. Grays neck was mysteriously broken in a police van. Brian Rice, the highest ranking of the six officers charged in the death of Freddie Gray, was found not guilty Monday. CBS News Paula Reid breaks down the acquittal of Lt. Gray sustained fatal injuries in police custody last year, spurring violence across Baltimore. Its been a year since the death of Freddie Gray in police custody sent Baltimore into riots. The man who was in charge, former police commissioner Anthony Batts, was fired in the fallout. Since that moment Batts has maintained his silence -- until he spoke with Jeff Pegues. When the 25-year-old died April 19, 2015, and riots erupted, Baltimore and its residents were forced to confront old, painful issues Its been one year since the death of Freddie Gray, a black man who died while in police custody. Grays death led to violent clashes and a national debate over the relationship between police and the black community. Deray McKesson is an activist and Baltimore mayoral candidate, and joins CBSN to discuss what has changed in the city since last year. Court rules that Officer William Porter must testify against co-defendants charged in case of 25-year-old who died in police custody Baltimore judge ruled that Officer William Porter, whose trial ended in a hung jury, does not have to testify against three fellow officers PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo
Image via South Park is one of televisions longest-running shows, a 20-seasons-and-counting award-winning cultural behemoth that has spawned movies, imitations, and countless time-wasting memes. The piece, " How South Park Helped Empower the Alt-Right," grabbed my attention enough that I decided to call her up and see why exactly she thought Kyle, Cartman, and crew led us to Richard Spencer, 4Chan, and Charlottesville. It treats PC culture as [if] the opposite of PC culture is not to care about anything. Now we have prosperity Christianity—actually telling people that God wants them to collect as much wealth as possible. It’s really interesting to learn the kind of things he talked about. I think white people at the time looked at that as being shocking, and that’s why he was labeled as a shock jock. He promoted education and feeding the hungry. I think it’s interesting how you have that transition from somebody who was just being real and communicating to his people in a way that made sense to him; and then you have Howard Stern, who makes a lot of money—and in fact an entire career—from pissing people off. The alt-right promotes the idea of white male victimization, drawing in youth that has been told by South Park that the plight of marginalized groups doesnt matter and that "political correctness" is oppressing them. Cartman is a perfect representation of satire gone wrong. Just like with Wall Street, the people who view your content take the literal meaning of something instead of taking it as the indictment that it is. You aren’t supposed to identify with him. That is supposed to be represented in his bigotry, his ignorance, and his appearance as well, with him being fat. South Park has had some really transphobic content. The sudden emergence of the bathroom bills surprised me, but maybe it shouldn’t have.
There was a break-in at Stephen Paddock’s Reno home on Sunday. Local police say they were called to the home by a neighbor who says they saw the lights on. Reno police officer Tim Broadway told The Associated Press, Nobody really saw anything, just a light was on with nobody in the residence. Police are not aware of any damages or anything that was stolen. According to KOLOtv investigators searched Paddock’s Reno home on October 3rd and found firearms. At a news conference Tuesday afternoon, Investigators said they found five handguns, two shotguns and a plethora of ammunition and electronics. The house is being treated as a potential crime scene. We can’t even trust the FBI at this point so who knows what really happened with this ‘break-in’. But the major question that everyone wanted to know was – why did the killer do it? This directly contradicts with the earlier report that the security guard found the room of the killer and stopped him from shooting on the crowd. In a significant timeline change, Sheriff Lombardo reveals Mandalay Bay security guard, Jesus Campos, was shot BEFORE the Las Vegas attack started. Las Vegas sheriff says Mandalay Bay security guard was shot 6 minutes before first shots were fired at crowd., I could feel them (bullets) pass right behind my head, engineer Stephen Schuck told NBC News’ Today on Wednesday. Schuck was on a higher level of the Las Vegas hotel on Oct. 1 when he got a call to look at a fire exit door that wouldn’t open on the 32nd floor. Why is the information only coming out now?
The world Is watching and so is oil as the death toll rises in the streets of Iran, where the people revolt against a terrible economy and the lack of any real freedoms and rights. They are hungry for food &amp; for freedom. ETF reports that this has led to the lowest ever volumes of oil discoveries in 2017, Rystad Energy said last week. In ten years’ time, U.S. shale production may peak, at least according to OPEC that sees shale peaking after 2025, although the cartel has conceded that U.S. tight oil has defied previous forecasts and has increased production more than initially expected and will continue to do so in the short-term. Deferred maintenance and bad management as the Venezuelan government stole money and failed to do even the most basic maintenance for the facility according to sources. Wicked winter weather is causing a surge in oil and natural gas and coal demand. The Energy Report has kept our bullish outlook and we still believe that the double bottom at $26 a barrel was a generational low. I am hearing from many folks still that were underhedged last year and are now paying the price. Member NIBA, NFA Past results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Investing in futures can involve substantial risk of loss &amp; is not suitable for everyone. Trading foreign exchange also involves a high degree of risk. Before opening an account and trading, you should seek advice from your advisors as appropriate to ensure that you understand the risks and can withstand the losses. Any decision to purchase or sell as a result of the opinions expressed in this report will be the full responsibility of the person authorizing such transaction. The MoneyShow Orlando is coming in February. Time Is running out Go to Flynn.OrlandoMoneyShow.com.
Trump Jr. allowed Tuesday night in an interview with Sean Hannity of Fox News Channel that "he has probably met with other people from Russia" but insisted that he did not attempt to coordinate to impact the election or try to damage Hillary Clinton. He repeatedly suggested that the charges of collusion were "ridiculous" and "overplayed" and insisted that his father knew nothing about the June 2016 meeting. " The publicist describes the lawyer as a "Russian government attorney" who has dirt on Clinton as "part of Russia and its governments support for Mr. Trump." Heres my statement and the full email chain pic.twitter. As congressional committees and Special Counsel Robert Mueller, a former FBI director, investigate, the emails will almost certainly be reviewed for any signs of potential campaign collusion with the Kremlin, which the White House has repeatedly denied. Mueller spokesman Peter Carr declined to comment on the emails, citing the ongoing investigation. Here is page 4 (which did not post due to space constraints). 1Xi4nr2gq— Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) July 11, 2017 In the emails, Goldstone wrote to Trump Jr. that the information "would be very useful to your father." She also said she "couldnt have had" information on Hillary Clinton. " The elder Agalarov was involved with Trump in hosting the 2013 Miss Universe pageant in Moscow. The two men also had preliminary discussions about building a Trump Tower in Moscow that fell through. Trump also appeared in a music video with the younger Agalarov. The presidents son posted the emails only after they were obtained by The New York Times. In his third description of what occurred, on Tuesday, Trump Jr. said he had believed the information he would hear about Clinton would be political opposition research. And, as we have said, she had no information to provide and wanted to talk about adoption policy and the Magnitsky Act."
Earlier this year, two hunters suffered gun-related injuries while camped out at the Circle Dug Ranch, a Texas ranch near the U.S.-Mexico border. According to Texas Monthly, a 26-year-old hunting guide named Walker Daugherty was shot in the abdomen. One of his clients, 59-year-old Edwin Roberts, was shot in the arm. After the incident, a GoFundMe page was launched to help Daugherty pay for his medical expenses. More than $25,0 was raised to cover Daugherty’s medical expenses. CREDIT: Credit: GoFundMe Upon hearing the story, Texas Agriculture Commissioner Sid Miller posted a message to Facebook calling Daugherty a hero and pledging his support for a border wall. This is why we need the wall and to secure our borders, wrote Miller. According to the Dallas News, the post was shared 6,500 times before Miller deleted it. Weeks later, law enforcement officials determined Daugherty’s story was false. According to KOSA CBS 7 in Texas, an investigation by the Presidio County Sheriff’s Department found that the gunfire did not come from immigrants crossing the border — it came from the hunters themselves. Investigators determined that Daugherty shot Roberts and that another hunting guide, Michael Bryant, shot Daugherty. We do not deny that our hunter client was hit by a bullet that resulted from a horribly fearful and confusing situation. However, the bullet that shot our son was not. That shot came later and from an entirely different direction. Daugherty and Bryant have since been indicted on charges of deadly conduct by discharging firearms in the direction of others, reports the Austin American-Statesman.
BERKELEY, Calif. (KCRA) — Several fights broke out during largely-peaceful protests in Berkeley Sunday afternoon when about 4,0 people converged on the city, police said. Thirteen people who ranged in ages from 20 to 47 years old, were arrested for "various violations including assault with a deadly weapon and felony assault during the events, Berkeley police said. The SFGate reported they were quickly swept up by officers inside Civic Center Park. Police detained Patriot Prayer leader Joey Gibson at the protests. Hundreds of people gathered on the UC Berkeley campus around 10 a.m. Sunday. The march was part of the Bay Area Rally Against Hate Rally. The skirmish was tense but ended quickly. The right-wing protesters sought protection from police and were escorted away. Before the unpermitted events, Berkeley police put into place several rules in response the protests, stating, "To ensure the peaceful expression of free speech, the City of Berkeley will be prohibiting sticks, pipes, poles and anything else that can be used for a riot at Civic Center Park." Police also said anything that "covers or partially covers the face and shields the wearers face from view, or partially from view, is prohibited." However, protesters with an anarchist group arrived at the park wearing masks and hoods that covered their faces. Then the group blended in with the rest of the crowd. Gibson was one of the people assaulted by the group. Police broke up the fights, using what appeared to be a smoke grenade to stop one scuffle. The three people who were attacked ran behind police lines to escape.
TAMPA BAY, Fla. - Americans around the country are being urged to donate blood at their local blood center in order to assist victims of Hurricane Irma. OneBlood, a Florida based blood center, resumed blood collections on Tuesday. All blood types are needed, however, there is an urgent need for platelet donors and people with O negative blood. Hurricane Irma forced OneBlood to suspend operations for three days and as a result, there is an urgent need to replenish the blood supply in Florida. Donors should visit for donor center hours and blood drive locations. OneBlood, in coordination with America’s Blood Centers and Blood Centers of America, has been actively arranging for shipments of blood to be brought in to Florida by blood centers from around the country. OneBlood is urging people living outside of Irma’s path to visit their local blood center and donate blood as soon as possible to assist those desperately in need in Florida. Those interested in donating blood may contact the following organizations to find a local blood drive and to schedule an appointment: AABB: +1.301.907.6977
Facebook Stephen C. Paddock has been identified as the lone shooter in the Las Vegas shooting that occurred at the Route 91 Harvest Festival, as reported by USA Today. The shooter is currently dead and suicide has been reported as the probable cause of death. Since news of the shooting broke, Paddock’s family has begun to speak out and his brother Eric, from Orlando, Florida, has been talking to the media. Eric Paddock Said His Brother Had No Religious Affiliations, Prior to ISIS Reports Not an avid gun guy at all…where the hell did he get automatic weapons? CBS News (@CBSNews) October 2, 2017 In an interview with Daily Mail, Eric Paddock said that his brother had no political or religious affiliation of which he was aware. Something happened, he snapped or something. Right now, we believe he was the sole aggressor and the scene is static. Unfortunately, ISIS accounts online are claiming Stephen C. Paddock actually converted to Islam months ago and the shooting was on their behalf. He explained: We know absolutely nothing, this is just, we are dumbfounded … We have absolutely no idea. Our condolences go to the victims and all their families. Stephen C. Paddock was living in Nevada at the time of the shooting. Eric Paddock said that he and his brother lived on different coasts and that they did not speak very often. In an interview with Las Vegas Review Journal, Paddock also said: We have no idea how this happened. It’s like an asteroid just fell on top of our family. Shooter Stephen C. Paddock opened fire from a 32nd floor hotel room at the Mandalay Bay Hotel &amp; Casino.
Some time back it was reported that an alert Maryland police officer saw an Islamic woman in an SUV videotaping a bridge’s support structures. An FBI raid on Elbarasse’s home unearthed a trove of Islamic doctrinal books and key Muslim Brotherhood documents—which became evidence in the largest terrorism-financing trial in U.S. history. Islam’s books are the real bomb, Muslim reformer Islam al-Behery said. Its ideology is its blueprint for world domination. Phase Two: Gradual public profile by infiltrating government, the judiciary, finance, intelligence, police, prisons, military, education and religious institutions. Phase Three: Escalation prior to conflict and confrontation with rulers using mass media. Weapons training domestically and overseas in anticipation of zero-hour. Phase Five: Seize power to establish the Islamic state. Other documents outline the plan to replace the U.S. Constitution with sharia (Islamic law). Sharia is based on the Quran and other Islamic writings. Moderates see it a spiritual struggle, or outwardly observe it for fear of reprisal. But for radicals, sharia is the legal and political foundation for jihad and global rule, a power play to force Islam on the world. No other laws or governments may coexist with sharia. Though jihad is obvious in North America and Europe, it’s not limited to the West. Charged with blasphemy, he lost the election and was sentenced to jail.
President Trump holds a joint press conference with Sheikh Sabah Al Ahmad Al Sabah of Kuwait. Trump holds joint press conference with Kuwaits leader, Amir . Trump on Thursday also seemingly touted his administrations success against ISIS compared with his predecessor, former President Obama. " What we do is kill ISIS," Trump said of Americas involvement in Syria. " We have done better in eight months in my presidency that was accomplished during the last eight years. Military action would certainly be an option," he said during a press conference. " Our military is stronger now," Trump added. " Each day new and beautiful equipment is delivered, by far the best in the world. But if we do use it on North Korea, it will be a very sad day for North Korea. I will tell you that North Korea is behaving very badly and its gotta stop." We also thank Kuwait for its humanitarian leadership and its partnership in the fight to destroy ISIS," Trump added in a joint press conference with Kuwaiti leader Sabah Al Ahmad Al Sabah. Trump initially seemed to side with Saudi Arabia on the disagreement, but he then instructed Secretary of State Rex Tillerson to back the Kuwaiti mediation initiative. Trump was also expected to discuss global efforts to isolate North Korea by halting employment of its guest workers during his talks with Al Sabah. Kuwait has about 6,0 North Korean guest works within its borders as worldwide tensions rise over the Asian nations pursuit of nuclear weapons. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
While officially the White House is condemning the ISIS suicide attacks in Tehran today, in keeping with their policy of being against ISIS, President Trump’s own statement on the matter appeared less than wholly sympathetic, attributing the attacks to Iran  falling victim to the evil they promote. President Trump has made clear since the campaign that he does not like Iran, and spent much of his recent trip to the Middle East pushing hostility toward Iran, as well as portraying Iran as being to blame for most of the terrorism in the region. That ISIS is the world’s biggest terrorist organization, and that Iran has been heavily supporting both Iraq and Syria in fighting ISIS, doesn’t fit into Trump’s narrative, and the fact that ISIS just launched terrorist attacks in Tehran is particularly unwelcome to the US agenda of trying to spin everything wrong in the Middle East as being Iran’s fault. President Trump’s answer to this, then, is to remind everyone that Iran is a state sponsor of terrorism, an official designation by the US government which means effectively nothing, and only currently applies to three countries that the US doesn’t like, none of whom has anything to do with ISIS, al-Qaeda, or other major international terrorist groups.
With most rational individuals condemning Kathy Griffin’s reprehensible photoshoot, some dark souls are coming out of the woodworks and showing their true colors. The shocking photo shoot prompted a nationwide outrage and sparked debate over whether or not Griffin should be investigated as a threat to national security. As the Trump family reacted to the photo, it was reported that President Trump’s youngest child—11-year-old Barron—had seen the photo while watching the news and became understandably upset. The one thing these so-called artists fail to take into account is the impact their message will have on family members of their targets. It’s incredibly hard to believe that creating images of this violent nature wouldn’t provoke thought into how they will affect families or even the audience. Radical Islamic terrorists are notorious for beheading innocent people—including Americans—for propaganda videos. By far, the most disgusting social media post came from some guy who apparently won big on Jeopardy over ten years ago. Ken Jennings took to Twitter and decided to campaign for Dirtbag of the Year. Barron Trump saw a very long necktie on a heap of expired deli meat in a dumpster. He thought it was his dad and his little heart is breaking, the game show winner from 2004 posted on his Twitter account. He thought it was his dad &amp; his little heart is breaking — Ken Jennings (@KenJennings) May 31, 2017 This kind of reaction is absolutely reprehensible, especially under the circumstances. With serious reactions to the photo taking place in the United States, opportunists usually crawl out of the woodwork to make a sad attempt at humor. Hatred promoted by his father?This was in reference to the two men who were killed in Oregon defending a Muslim girl from an attack. Regarding which, by the way, President Trump released a statement condemning the act as hatred that has no place in the United States. It seems like reactions to disturbing incidents like the Kathy Griffin photo expose the true nature of individuals and separate those with compassion for humans—regardless of political belief—from truly heinous people.
Overview Alt-Left refers to a loosely defined term to describe left-wing principles, organizations, politicians and activists, encompassing almost everything outside the norm of mainstream democratic liberal politics. 1] The partys goals were to unite the far-left political parties of Switzerland under a democratic socialist platform. [ On August 4th, 2015, Redditor launched zxz242 the subreddit / . [ This is oriented to be a place for Left-wing Nationalism, Left Communism, Anarchism of all branches, and any other form of political revisionism. Yes, syncretic politics are welcome among regulars and contributors, so long as theyre based on empirical evidence, and not on mysticism, romanticism, and traditionalism." On April 9th, 2016, the Facebook group "Alternative Left" launched. [ As of August 2017, the group has more than 2,0 likes and 2,0 follows. He says, "When youre talking to someone who is adamant a Trump hat is triggering and could cause, you know, anxiety to certain marginalized voices that is alt-left. Highlights In March 2017, Vanity Fair [7] magazine published an article entitled "Why the Alt-Left Is A Problem Too," which pointed to far-left activist groups that supported Bernie Sanders, derided Hillary Clinton and reject "identity politics" as a problem for American left-wing politics. On August 12th, 2017, Twitter @Lukewsavage wrote, "Alt left is a term quite literally designed to draw equivalence between white supremacists and people who want universal healthcare." Alt left" is a term quite literally designed to draw equivalence between white supremacists and people who want universal he Trump "Unite The Right Rally" Comments Following the violent Unite The Right Rally that left one person dead and dozens injured, President Donald Trump made a series of statements on the event. 8] The following day, Trump delivered another statement. The reaction to Trumps comments brought the term "alt left" into a wider conversation. The post (shown below, right) received more than 42,0 retweets and 88,0 likes. Liberal arts college professor brutalizes Nazi, who has a permit.
Let’s face facts: Our president holds racist views. Todays top news by email The local news you need to start your day Recaptcha requires verification. protected by reCAPTCHA Privacy - Terms Privacy - Terms It should have been obvious from the despicable things he said about Mexican immigrants. It should have been clear from his anti-Muslim rants. And now it’s emerging again in the debate over Dreamers and Salvadorans who have been protected from deportation. Trump says he wants to put America First in all matters. Advocacy groups for immigrants condemned what Trump reportedly said, and Democrats plan to introduce a censure resolutionnext week. Rep. Cedric Richmond of Louisiana, chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, tweeted that the president’s comments are further proof that his Make America Great Again agenda is really a Make America White Again agenda. What was really tough was the outlandish proposal made – a big setback for DACA! He refused to answer questions about the uproar, including whether he was racist. Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California said Trump’s vile comments only make the jobs of Americans stationed all over the world harder – soldiers, diplomats and businesses. For me, however, the conclusion is inescapable. And he very well could be a full-on racist. But it would be even worse if we ignore it. Read the influential voices on California and national politics and issues.
All those who support him are being lied to daily. Once again, Trump has told his gullible supporters that we are letting people in by the thousands who are not vetted and that we don’t know who they are. Refugees must first apply to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, which collects documents and performs interviews. Less than 1 percent of refugees get approved for relocation. If they are approved, they are referred to the State Department to begin the vetting process. More information is collected and they are put through security screenings from the National Counterterrorism Center, the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security. Breaking News Be the first to know when big news breaks Recaptcha requires verification. protected by reCAPTCHA Privacy - Terms Privacy - Terms If the refugee is Syrian, they must go through another layer of security, which includes further checks by a special part of Homeland Security, the USCIS fraud detection and National Security directors. There, interviews with USCIS officers would take place and fingerprints run through biometric databases of the FBI, Homeland Security and Department of Defense. If all these are passed, health screenings take place. Then refugees are enrolled in cultural orientation classes while information continues to be checked. This process typically takes 18 to 24 months after applying to the UN. This is the most vigorous vetting anyone has ever faced to enter the U.S. Donald Trump is trying to instill fear in the gullible supporters that he has. He has lied about his health records, his tax returns, President Obama’s birth certificate, election fraud (31 cases of voter impersonation in over 1 billion votes) and hundreds of other things, and those who choose to believe him either don’t care about his lies or aren’t smart enough to find out the truth for themselves.
The German public have, as predicted, kept ahold of nurse. But it is the breakthrough of the AfD into the German Parliament that is causing headlines around the world. As I recently explained at book-length, it is inevitable that things will get complicated when the people in charge of Europe make decisions as appalling as those Angela Merkel made in 2015. But it was also reckless, short-sighted and will cause severe issues for German society for generations to come. This obviously suits the incumbents, and is best achieved by depicting any and all parties concerned about immigration – including the mass immigration which people across the political spectrum now say they acknowledge to have been an unrepeatable disaster – as Nazis, fascists and racists. The incumbent politicians and parties acknowledge they have made mistakes, promise not to repeat those mistakes but insist that anyone wishing to make them pay any political price must recognise that they are voting for a Fourth Reich. Their problem is that at some point the public recognise the ploy. This has a follow-on problem which is especially worth pondering in Germany. This is among the problems that Merkel and co have now set up. The AfD’s platform and pronouncements require close and unbiased attention. This should include having their words and actions reported accurately. This suggests that she might – just might – take what is essentially the second broad option for Europe’s political mainstream. Instead it is to recognise that the concerns of the public are concerns that should be addressed and remedied by the political mainstream. Which isn’t, surely, such a radical idea. We’ll see which path Germany now goes down.
A Connecticut woman bought a desk from Staples, but after a few years grew tired of it. There was nothing peculiar about the transaction at all. Muroff and his wife had difficulty fitting the desk into the room. They decided to take it apart to fit it in. After Noah removed the filing cabinets, he noticed a plastic bag poking out. If we didn’t take those drawers out, we never would have found it, Muroff said. But he knew immediately that he couldn’t keep the money. It turned out she hid her inheritance in the desk and couldn’t remember where she put it. When Muroff called her, she was speechless. She was so shocked and touched that anyone would call, he said. The woman was so grateful, she summed up how she felt in a thank-you card. I do not think there are too many people in this world that would have done what you did by calling me. You certainly are one of them, the woman wrote. I cannot thank you enough for your honesty and integrity. Due to restrictions, this video cannot be viewed in your region.
WASHINGTON, DC — As South Florida begins the long process of rebuilding after Hurricane Irma, the Federal Emergency Management Agency added Broward, Martin, Palm Beach &amp; St. Lucie Counties to the list of counties eligible for Individual Assistance. While President Trump’s September 10 Major Disaster Declaration included all 67 Florida counties on the list for Public Assistance, only nine counties were eligible for federal assistance to individuals and households. Video: Time-lapse of Hurricane Irma FEMA’s new declaration comes after the Members of Congress sent a letter to the White House and urged FEMA these counties be included for Individual Assistance. Residents in the above counties are encouraged to see what benefits are applicable to them and apply at
FBI Director James Comey caused a major shakeup in the presidential election with his letter Friday revealing a review of newly-discovered emails related to the FBI previously-closed investigation into Hillary Clintons use of a private server. Many things remain vague and unknown about the newly uncovered emails. What we do know is that the FBI believes they are "pertinent" to its investigation into Clintons use of a private server during her tenure as secretary of State. According to an official close to the investigation, there are thousands of new emails under review. What we dont know is whether they contain any classified material or could have any bearing on the previous investigation. Could the emails lead to criminal charges against Clinton? That is impossible to know at this point. In a speech Friday, Clinton said she is "confident" that the new developments wont change the FBIs recommendation not to prosecute her for improperly handling classified materials. Although Comey could not put a timetable on how long it will take to review the new material, a source tells USA TODAY that is unlikely it will be completed before Election Day. What is the connection to Anthony Weiner? The emails were discovered as part of an investigation into former New York congressman Anthony Weiner, who is suspected of having sexually charged communications with a 15-year-old girl. Investigators came across the emails while looking into devices used by Weiner. Weiner is married to — and currently separated from — longtime Clinton aide Huma Abedin who had access to the same device or devices. Did Attorney General Loretta Lynch approve of Comeys letter to lawmakers? Lynch shared her objections just hours before Comey sent the letter, according to USA TODAYs source.
This past weekend, Americans watched in shock as alt-right members, neo-Nazis and white nationalists descended upon Charlottesville, Virginia, attempting to spread their message of hate and intolerance. Clashes between white nationalists and counter-protesters were numerous. One counter-protester, Heather Heyer, was killed when a man rammed his car into several counter-protesters. Earlier that day, he was photographed displaying the symbols of a white nationalist group called Vanguard America, which later denied he was a member. That weekend journalist Shaun King posted a video of several men beating a 20-year-old man named Deandre Harris. When a viewer asked why he marched with racists, Ramos said, I stood by racist people but they weren’t racist to me. If our views aren’t extreme, if we’re not a full-blown racist, then we’re completely absolved of perpetuating anti-blackness, right? When we think like that, we tend to ignore the colorism — often subtle — that permeates through much of Latin America. Pulitzer prize-winning Dominican-American author Junot Diaz once said, White supremacy’s greatest trick is that it has convinced people that it exists always in other people, never in us. Earlier this year, Carlos Hakas, the man who angrily knocked over an elotero’s cart in Los Angeles, exclaimed, I’m not racist, I’m from Argentina! In 2015, Univision entertainment reporter Rodner Figueroa compared Michelle Obama to a cast member of Planet of The Apes. It doesn’t just happen in the U.S. The idea that anti-blackness is only a thing perpetuated by white Americans is what leads a Mexican sports newspaper to make jokes like this one, literally days after a person died in Charlottesville: Meanwhile, in Mexican print media… ? Last year, Trilce Ortiz listed eight (out of many) ways that Latinos perpetuate anti-blackness. 404 File not found this page does not exist. Recommend this story to a friend by clicking on the share button below.
Donald Trump defended past disparaging remarks about women during Thursday’s GOP debate, saying he doesn’t have time for total political correctness and that oftentimes he’s just kidding. Youve called women you dont like fat pigs, dogs, slobs and disgusting animals, Fox News debate moderator Megyn Kelly told Trump. Does that sound to you like the temperament of a man we should elect as president, she added. Trump said those comments were directed at TV personality Rosie O’Donnell, who has publicly feuded with Trump in the past. I think the big problem this country has is being politically correct. Ive been challenged by so many people and I dont frankly have time for total political correctness and to be honest with you this country doesnt have time either, Trump shot back to cheers. Frankly what I say and oftentimes its fun, its kidding, we have a good time, Trump added.
We have made great strides in the policing of thought in this country. Eich, as many people in circumstances such as his, was stricken with the sudden desire to spend more time with his family and quietly resigned. Or else we will show you a display of true tolerance. In fact, it is no longer enough to be tolerant. I saw that in friends’ eyes, [friends] who are LGBT [lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgendered]. He sounds like a dedicated and thoughtful professional who was able to separate his work and personal lives–as well he should have been. They must offer affirmation of the LGBT agenda or pay the price. Their much vaunted toleration doesn’t extend to those who might have opposing viewpoints, like Eich. President Obama himself was opposed to same sex marriage in 2008. It’s about ramming through the right outcomes. An Associated Press piece about Eich’s resignation asks whether the episode undercuts the well-groomed image of Silicon Valley as a marketplace of ideas and diversity of thought, and whether, in this case, the tech world surrendered to political correctness enforced through a public shaming on social media. Andrew Sullivan, the unreliably conservative columnist had this to say: Will [Eich] now be forced to walk through the streets in shame? The whole episode disgusts me – as it should disgust anyone interested in a tolerant and diverse society. If we are about intimidating the free speech of others, we are no better than the anti-gay bullies who came before us. The trite knock at the religious right is to be expected from a regular guest on Bill Maher’s show, but Sullivan is right to call the gay rights activists out on their bullying tactics.
Sex-trafficking is happening in nearly every city and in every state in the U.S. In an all-new Crime Watch Daily in-depth investigation, we take you inside the epidemic that has exploded in recent years. She says it was only after police busted her trafficker for tax evasion that she was able to finally break free. TRAFFICKING DELUNA Much like the heroin epidemic we are now facing, sex-trafficking is a massive problem in the United States. These are not just women being brought in from other countries. Were talking about teens, or even younger, being recruited from middle schools and high schools in just about every city in America. Crime Watch Daily interviews a young woman lured into the sex-trade world and how its now landed her in prison doing serious time. Now shes in prison in Texas, convicted of trafficking herself. TRAFFICKING IN DEKALB COUNTY Crime Watch Daily teams up with law enforcement agencies all over the country who are cracking down on the illegal sex trade business. On the streets of Georgia, we encountered an alleged pimp that was more than happy to talk to us. But in a series of new civil suits brought by former victims, attorney Erik Bauer claims Backpage actually helped edit the ads to make them appear more legitimate. Is there some type of moral responsibility that technology companies and CEOs have? No comment from the men or their attorneys. How far will one dad go to rescue his girl from the clutches of a criminal? " These photos will be used to determine where perpetrators of sex trafficking are committing their crimes. # HumanTrafficking #SexTrafficking #SexCrimes #SexualAssault #Prostitution #Rape
Drop 1: Bruno Balanta] Dont let them run you [Verse 2: Olly Simmons] Theyre gonna take it all away This is a war and the enemies engaging But you can see through their lies and decide for your life I wont be confined by their regimented borders Weve got the strength of over fifty thousand soldiers Were not duty bound to anybodys orders (Come on everybody now) Dont let em run you! [ Drop 2] [Verse 1: Olly Simmons, Bruno Balanta] It doesnt matter what they say I wont accept it in any single way and-a Through the floors and-a through the cabling Theyre permeating in through every single day But I wont be confined by their regimented borders Weve got the strength of over fifty thousand soldiers And were not duty bound to anybodys orders (Come on everybody now) Dont let em run you [Buildup: Olly Simmons, Bruno Balanta] (Do what you wanna do) (Do what you wanna do) (Do what you wanna do) (Dont let em run you) Dont let em run you! [ Drop 3: Olly Simmons, Bruno Balanta] You! Dont let em run you [Verse 2: Olly Simmons] Theyre gonna take it all away This is a war and the enemies engaging But you can see through their lies and decide for your life I wont be confined by their regimented borders Weve got the strength of over fifty thousand soldiers Were not duty bound to anybodys orders (Come on everybody now) Dont let em run you! [ Drop 4] [Outro: Bruno Balanta] Dont let em run you
Medical science is constantly making cancer breakthroughs, however there’s an extensive process to bring treatments to the public. After making a discovery in the lab and performing tests, there are human clinical trials that require oversight by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) before approval. Hyperthermia Therapy BestMedicalDegrees.com outlines this experimental use of heat to target tumors. Doctors can take the best and most active T-cells that have invaded a tumor and extract them to multiply in a lab – the patient’s immune cells are then wiped out and the lab-grown cells are re-infused back to them, it adds. Modified T-cells are also being looked at to treat other solid tumors as well as hematologic cancers (cancers of the blood), it adds. ABC says the leading drug in this new therapy is called Glivec (or STI571). TNFR2-targeting Antibodies The National Cancer Institute detailed a potential new cancer therapy in early 2017, which looks to target ovarian cancer cells. Tumor Treating Fields This therapy, which the American Brain Tumor Association said was recently approved by the FDA for glioblastoma (an aggressive brain cancer), usually follows surgery and radiation therapy, adds the source. These electrical fields exert selective toxicity in proliferating cells thereby halting cell division and destroying the cancer cells, notes the source. Virus Therapy Usually, having a virus is a bad thing. However, this therapy essentially involves introducing a virus to cancer cells that leave healthy cells alone, notes StandUp2Cancer.org. The virus only seeks out cancer cells due to their genetic mutation that normal cells don’t have, it explains. One treatment in particular is called Reolysin, developed by a Canadian biotechnology company, notes the source. The site notes that almost 300-patients with various forms of cancer in Canada, the U.S. and the U.K. have been treated with this therapy, which infects cancer cells and causes them to explode. Apparently, side effects (such as a low-grade fever) are a lot milder than those associated with chemotherapy and radiation, it adds.
So there is a new meme going around on Twitter, that is becoming so popular even Kenny G is getting in on the action. There are a million great spins on this, but here are some of our faves! Roommates Oh my god, they were: ⚪ Dead⚪ Nearby? Man⚪️Woman Looking for: ⚪️Men⚪️Women?That damn fourth Chaos Emerald pic.twitter. philanthropist — m (@tjhmmnd) August 20, 2017 7. G Looking for: ⚪️ A Relationship⚪️ Casual Sax? Gundam Fighter ⚪️Woman Looking for: ⚪️Men ⚪️Women ? another bro to chill five feet away from in a hot tub because im not gay⚪️man — em (@parkerisadork) August 19, 2017 10. 9wenYt — Scampi (@lmScampi) August 20, 2017 13. evil sorcerer Shang Tsung Seeking⚪️ men⚪️ women? The ability to press Z without immediately falling into a dark depression pic.twitter. 4 — its_me_klc (@its_me_klc) August 20, 2017 20. AH: ⚪️O⚪️AH?ᵃʰ stop i couldve dropped my: ⚪️donut ⚪️bagel ? My father to take me into the city to see a marching band — Spiciest Emo Meme (@ThyArtIsMemes) August 20, 2017 23. rolling out looking for americas greatest diners drive-ins and dives — Chance Harbour (@ChanceHarbour) August 20, 2017
You might have missed it, because while it happened in plain sight, it also happened in increments. You had to put the pieces together to appreciate the magnitude of it. You see, America repudiated its president. This, of course, was in response to that pathetic performance in the wake of the tragedy in Charlottesville, Va., when he suggested moral equivalence between white supremacists and those who protest them. In response, America — a pretty broad swath of it, at least — has condemned him. The reference is not to the shellacking he took from pundits or the reprovals of GOP leaders Mitch McConnell and Paul Ryan. But you did not expect the Chairman and CEO of Merck to quit the president’s American Manufacturing Council. He was followed through the door by members of that panel and others. The Washington Post listed the Salvation Army, the American Red Cross, Susan G. Komen and the American Cancer Society among those who have chosen to hold their galas elsewhere. Bob Corker, a respected Republican senator who has heretofore sought to engage with the president, raised sharp questions not just about Trump’s competence, but also his stability, and called for radical changes in the White House. Graduates of Liberty University called on fellow alumni to return their diplomas to protest LU president Jerry Falwell Jr.’s support for Trump. And really: How toxic are you when Lionel Richie doesn’t want to shake your hand? It seems that a great many Americans reached a moment of decision and reacted as you would have hoped. Problematically, that office is occupied now by a man with no moral compass, a man whose only true North is self. What was not predictable was this chorus of castigation from such a wide spectrum of American life.
Tionne ‘T-Boz’ Watkins recently revealed that a family member was killed at the hands of an itchy trigger-fingered cop. Watkins hit the the net with her heartbreaking story about her cousin, 25-year-old Eddie Russell, Jr., who was shot multiple times and killed by police in Peoria, Illinois. The department is investigating the fatal shooting death, however T-Boz and her family are disputing the officer’s account of what happened. He Had Mental Health Issues AND THE COPS KNEW THAT! Eddie Russell Jr -A Human-Being -A Son- Brother-Friend-Nephew – Cousin-HUMAN! I don’t see a gun in his hand at the bank they say he tried to rob! They blocked everyone off including neighbors at a 4 block radius including his mother and father and family!People could NOT go home! COPS DIDN’T HAVE ON BODY CAMS now isn’t that convenient! They kept his BODY OUTSIDE ON THE GROUND FOR MANY MANY HOURS! First they reported he ran out shooting =LIES! His Mother and Father and Family need JUSTICE! This was a mentally iLL young man who needed help and should have received just that! His Mother Has Tried For Many Years To Get Her Son Mental Health Counseling He Needed! Officers claim he robbed the First Mid-Illinois Bank and Trust before returning home where an hours-long police stand-off ensued. Hopefully they will find the answers they seek in this horrible tragedy.
Former President Obama has chosen not to host hard-copy versions of his manuscripts and letters in his presidential library. Is the former Commander-in-Chief hiding something? The move has historians scratching their heads. Fox News report: The Obama Foundation is taking an unconventional approach to the presidential center and library being planned in Chicago. It’s opting to host a digital archive of President Barack Obama’s records, but not keep his hard-copy manuscripts and letters and other documents onsite. The decision has historians scratching their heads. All archivists are waiting to see how this will work, because we are all struggling with how to make things available digitally, Peggy Glowacki, a manuscripts librarian at the Richard J. Daley Library at the University of Illinois at Chicago, told the Chicago Tribune. An interesting piece of information to note is evidence surrounding Susan Rice’s role in the ‘unmasking’ probe have been moved to the future library. President of Judicial Watch, Tom Fitton said Wednesday on Fox &amp; Friends that President Trump can obtain these records from the Obama Presidential Library because they are federal records. Fox &amp; Friends host Steve Doocy said that the President himself could obtain the records if he were to ask for them. Tom Fitton: Yes, they are still federal records. They are under the control of the national archives and he can get ’em. If he needs them, then the President can conduct his official duties he can get them, Subpoenas issued by Congress can get them. Special Counsel Mueller, if he decides to actually investigate real crimes like the unmasking, the illicit surveillance, the leaking–he could get them if he issued subpoenas. There are options to get these records and they need to be taken because there could be elements of the records in the other agencies, but these are key White House records about what the White House was up to and that to me is as important as anything else.
Illegal aliens, paid Soros protesters, angry Black Lives Matter terrorists inspired by Obama’s race war and Bernie Sanders supporters who have absolutely no idea why they showed up, sent four innocent police officers to the hospital; prevented thousands of innocent Americans from exercising their First Amendment right. Where are all of these concerned citizens (especially the Black Lives Matter terrorists) to protest for a solution for the murder of 117 people in Chicago already this year? Stats via: heyjackass.com Trending: NEW MEXICO FIVE Planned Terror Attack At Atlanta Hospital…Judge Let Them Out On Bond! George Soros Moveon.org group takes responsiblity for Alinsky style violent protests against free speech at Trump rally: Moveon.org shows its support for Socialist, Bernie Sanders. Here they warn anyone who opposes his radical ideology: Four police officers were sent to hospital: Violence against police officers is not only acceptable with Bernie Sanders and Black Lives Matter terrorists, its necessary to create chaos and panic: What kind of violent protest would be complete without Barack Obama’s good friend, domestic terrorist Bill Ayers: Actual terrorist Bill Ayers is protesting against trump in Chicago. Where are all of these concerned citizens (especially the Black Lives Matter terrorists) to protest for a solution for the murder of 117 people in Chicago already this year? Stats via: heyjackass.com Trending: NEW MEXICO FIVE Planned Terror Attack At Atlanta Hospital…Judge Let Them Out On Bond! George Soros Moveon.org group takes responsiblity for Alinsky style violent protests against free speech at Trump rally: Moveon.org shows its support for Socialist, Bernie Sanders. Here they warn anyone who opposes his radical ideology: Four police officers were sent to hospital: Violence against police officers is not only acceptable with Bernie Sanders and Black Lives Matter terrorists, its necessary to create chaos and panic: What kind of violent protest would be complete without Barack Obama’s good friend, domestic terrorist Bill Ayers: Actual terrorist Bill Ayers is protesting against trump in Chicago. Where are all of these concerned citizens (especially the Black Lives Matter terrorists) to protest for a solution for the murder of 117 people in Chicago already this year? Stats via: heyjackass.com Trending: NEW MEXICO FIVE Planned Terror Attack At Atlanta Hospital…Judge Let Them Out On Bond! George Soros Moveon.org group takes responsiblity for Alinsky style violent protests against free speech at Trump rally: Moveon.org shows its support for Socialist, Bernie Sanders. Here they warn anyone who opposes his radical ideology: Four police officers were sent to hospital: Violence against police officers is not only acceptable with Bernie Sanders and Black Lives Matter terrorists, its necessary to create chaos and panic: What kind of violent protest would be complete without Barack Obama’s good friend, domestic terrorist Bill Ayers: Actual terrorist Bill Ayers is protesting against trump in Chicago. pic.twitter.com/7dqat4Dvmh It’s probably just a coincidence that on a day that Obama was too busy to attend Nancy Reagan’s funeral, he was able to address a crowd about his hate for Trump only hours before this organized chaos in Chicago: And finally, we’re wondering how much our Organizer In Chief had to do with this Alinsky style chaos in Chicago:
Postpartum depression has become more visible as celebrity moms including Brooke Shields, Drew Barrymore and Chrissy Teigen have publicly shared their struggles with feeling sad and hopeless after birth. If men became partnered fathers during that time, their testosterone levels decreased more than the men who stayed single. Along similar lines, psychologist Robin Edelstein and I found that men assessed repeatedly over their partner’s pregnancy showed declining testosterone levels from early to late pregnancy. Lower testosterone, higher depression Previous research has linked testosterone with men’s depression levels in general. Both moms and dads reported on their symptoms of depression several times across the first few years of parenthood. We found that dads with lower testosterone reported feeling more depressed. But ours is the first study to observe this relationship specifically in fathers of infants. In other words, having a low-testosterone mate might make for a better-quality relationship, in turn reducing the likelihood that women will become depressed. If men had higher testosterone, moms reported higher levels of intimate partner aggression about six months later. Testosterone is associated with more aggressive and competitive behavior. So it makes sense that human males would show shifts in testosterone as they adapt to parenthood. Their contributions are great news from the family’s perspective, but may put men at heightened risk of some of the same depressive symptoms that many new mothers face. In modern industrialized societies like the United States, many new parents lack the extended family support networks that can help lighten the burden of childcare. If new dads (or moms) are experiencing depressed moods after the birth of their infants, they can take some comfort in the fact that these feelings are normal – and may even be rooted in our evolutionary biology. Postpartum depression affects the whole family and should be taken seriously.
A voting sign points early voters to the polling station at the Hillsbourgh County Supervisor of Elections office on October 24, 2016 in St. Petersburg, Florida. ( Getty) The early voting period in Florida has come to an end, and the final results are now in. Early voting in Florida began on October 24th, and it concluded on November 6th. According to data released by the Florida Department of State’s Division of Elections, 6.4 million Floridians voted early this year. In the end, the Democrats were able to come away from early voting with the advantage. A total of 2,558,0 votes were cast by registered Democrats, and 2,471,0 votes were cast by registered Republicans. This translates into 39.85 percent of the vote going to the Democrats, and 38.49 percent of it going to the Republicans. This turnout of 6.4 million voters is a significant increase compared to four years ago, when only 4.4 million votes were cast early. In the end, Barack Obama won Florida, but it was a tight race, with the president defeating Mitt Romney by a margin of just 0.88 percentage points. Democratic turnout tends to be high in early voting, and Republican turnout tends to be high on Election Day. This year, about 1.2 million of the ballots cast came from those not affiliated with any of the two major parties. It’s unclear who these voters selected, but many polls have suggested that they tend to gravitate towards Donald Trump. According to The Wall Street Journal, about twice as many Florida Hispanics have voted early compared to 2012. However, African American turnout was down 11 percent this year, according to McClatchy DC. Join over 240,0 people who get the most important news stories and the best shopping deals from Heavy – Delivered right to your inbox.
