Rumors that Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux are allegedly on the verge of divorce have been circulating as early as a few weeks into their marriage. New reports claimed that there is a new woman involved in Jennifer Aniston and Justin Therouxs alleged rocky relationship and its none other than Jens close friend, Chelsea Handler. A source claimed that Justin allegedly cant stand Chelsea and her antics. " Recently, Justin came home to find Chelsea cooking breakfast in their kitchen . completely naked," Celeb Dirty Laundry reported. " Chelsea hates wearing clothes, and she documents her naked adventures on social media all the time." " But Justin Theroux has forbidden her from having any more naked romps in his house while he is out of town," the report continued. According to an insider, Chelsea Handler was allegedly just trying to be funny. Unfortunately, Justin Theroux wasnt laughing. Apparently, Theroux confronted Aniston about her friend and how she irritates him. " Chelsea thought it was hilarious, but Justin was really annoyed. It bugged him to come home and find Chelsea there and the house a mess, but he bit his tongue. But now that he and Jen are married, he is establishing some ground rules, chief among them is that Chelsea is no longer welcome in their guest room," the report said. It has been previously reported that the newly weds are allegedly having problems over Jennifer Aniston being jealous because of Justins purported closeness with his "The Leftovers" co-star, Margaret Qualley. The newlyweds friends are hoping that the couple work out their differences especially since the couple is allegedly in the process of adopting a baby.
Before you judge Hillary Clinton as a Republican presidential candidate, you should have all your information. In The Spring of 1971 I Met A Girl Bill and Hillary’s love story started very appropriately – in a college class of political and civil rights. Bill claims that Hillary had a sense of self-possession and strength that he found magnetic. ADVERTISEMENT Doctor Says Dont Cover Up Your Dark Spots - (Try This Instead) Here’s Why Guys Are Obsessed With This Underwear… Why Is This Never Mentioned About The Brady Bunch? She said that he was the first man ever not to be scared of her. ADVERTISEMENT Here’s Why Guys Are Obsessed With This Underwear… Doctor Says Dont Cover Up Your Dark Spots - (Try This Instead) Feeling Old? We’ve been walking and talking and laughing together ever since. ADVERTISEMENT Doctor Says Dont Cover Up Your Dark Spots - (Try This Instead) Here’s Why Guys Are Obsessed With This Underwear… Feeling Old? Do This Once A Day And Watch What Happens Bill then decided to try something else. Bill and Hillary ended up getting married in their living room in October 1975, with only 15 guests there to celebrate their love. Do This Once A Day And Watch What Happens Having a strong woman by his side was by no means easy. ADVERTISEMENT Doctor Says Dont Cover Up Your Dark Spots - (Try This Instead) Here’s Why Guys Are Obsessed With This Underwear… Learn 10 Signs of Alcoholism To Help You Identify An Alcoholic And It Was The Greatest Moment Of My Life In February 1980, just 15 minutes after Bill got home that day, Hillary’s water broke, and their daughter Chelsea was born just before midnight. Bill called the birth of Chelsea the miracle of a new beginning. Do This Once A Day And Watch What Happens Just like any other child, Chelsea loved the slumber parties, family vacations, and had a passion for ballet and volleyball. Despite Hillary’s incredibly successful career as a politician, she always prioritized her family – something Bill always loved.
Hillary Clinton Photo Credit: Contributed The Business Council of Westchester will be honoring one of its own in November. Hillary Clinton, a Chappaqua resident who ran unsuccessfully for president last year, will be presented the Westchester Global Leadership Laureate Award on Monday, Nov. 20 at the Business Councils annual fall dinner at the Hilton Westchester in Rye Brook. We are pleased to present Westchester’s own Hillary Rodham Clinton with this special award in recognition of her lifetime of achievement in New York, the nation, and the world,’’ said Marsha Gordon, President, and CEO of the Business Council of Westchester. We are honored that she has agreed to accept the award in person and to speak at the dinner.’’ Previous speakers have included Cardinal Timothy Dolan, New York City Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly and 60 Minutes reporter Steve Kroft. Clinton represented New York as senator from 2001 to 2009, resigning to become Secretary of State. Click here to sign up for Daily Voices free daily emails and news alerts.
MAINZ, Germany — At least 17 ISIS militants have arrived in Europe concealed as refugees, according to Germany’s domestic intelligence service. Hans-Georg Maassen, the head of the BfV agency, said in an interview with the daily FAZ newspaper over the weekend that most of them are already in prison or dead." The total includes two suspects who died in the Paris terror attacks, according to the report. Last year, Germany alone welcomed more than 1.1 million migrants, mostly from Syria and Afghanistan. In an interview with NBC News earlier this year, Maassen said that ISIS was trying to "send a political, not an operational signal" by capitalizing on the migrant crisis. that it is capable of smuggling terrorists to Europe concealed as refugees and that every refugee can be a terrorist," the intellgence chief added. His agencys annual security report published last week notes that Europe is faced with a new dimension of [Islamist] terror," stating that it has to be assumed that ISIS is planning further attacks in Europe, including Germany.
In August outspoken Missouri State Senator Maria Chappelle-Nadal called for the assassination of President Trump. Chappelle-Nadal posted the comment on Facebook. Chappelle-Nadal then deleted it in a panic. Maria Chappelle-Nadal was removed from her committee assignments the next week. But she was not removed from public office. On Thursday Chappelle-Nadal compared Trump to Hitler. Democrat Maria Chappelle Nadal defended her decision to compare President Trump to Hitler in an interview on Thursday afternoon… AND she played the race card. FOX 2 reported: The St. Louis Post-Dispatch interviewed Chappelle-Nadal about the tweet. She tells the newspaper that, I have a First Amendment right to share my opinion, and if a meme is offensive to people, they should look at the First Amendment again, she said. Then ask yourself why you have different qualifications for a black woman of Puerto Rican descent than other people putting up a meme with no words. Maria is the future of the Democrat Party — constant insults and pure insanity.
From flickr.com: made in china {MID-167067} made in china ( Image by twicepix) Permission Details DMCA Article originally published in LaborPress By Robert Weiner and Ben Lasky After deferring to China for Korea and seeing no results, President Trumps return to disciplining China over trade crimes is the right position. Add to the mix: devalued currency, refusal to sell fair quantities of American-made products, unbelievably low worker wages, lead and other poisons in dog food and baby food, plagiarized health and cancer research, deficient tires. Trump has now come back around to the correct view. The President slipped off the wagon for a while. However, dozens of missile tests later, with Kim Jong Un even closer to a long-range nuclear weapon, Trump now realizes that China only used the North Korea bait to give themselves more trade freedom against us. It is time to call the Chinese government out. China was unwilling to help make North Korea release Otto Warmbier early enough to get him medical help. The President should say, Youre not dealing with North Korea the way you should be." Apparently we can sell cows to China, but not cars. Schumer criticized Trump for at first reversing course. Schumer said of Trump and his team, "Now they say they (China) arent manipulating their currency. The way to get China to help with North Korea is be tougher with them on trade." In 2015, the FBI released a survey of 165 anonymous companies, half of which reported they had been victims of economic espionage. Otto Warmbiers coma and death, and Koreas missile tests and H-bomb, are just more proof Schumer is right--Instead of making nice with China, President Trump must hold them accountable, as he promised. How To Easily Kill All Indoor Odor, Mold, And Bacteria — Without Lifting A Finger Trump to End the Dollar as We Know It by November 8, 2018?
Print Close Top Hillary Clinton aides were upset a Muslim man was publicly named as the shooter in a 2015 massacre that left 14 people dead, and a longtime Clinton confidant even expressed regret that the terrorist wasn’t a white man, according to purported emails released by WikiLeaks on Sunday. The email chain began on Dec. 2, when digital operative Matt Ortega forwarded a tweet from MSNBC host Christopher Hayes that named one of the shooters in the San Bernardino, Calif., attack as Sayeed Farook. Consultant Karen Finney forwarded the email to Podesta, commenting, Damn. Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik, gunned down 14 people and injured 22 in a terror attack during a holiday party at the Inland Regional Center on Dec. 2. The attackers pledged their allegiance to ISIS before dying in a shootout with police later in the day. Nowhere in the suggested seven-point answer does Islamic terrorism make an appearance. Instead, it’s suggested that Clinton call the enemy radical jihadists. Now, of course there are those who twist Islam to justify mass murder, point three begins. Declaring war on Islam or demonizing the Muslim-American community is not only counter to our values – it plays right into the terrorists’ hands. Point seven states: Radical jihadists underestimate us. We will keep our country safe and strong, free and tolerant. And we will defeat those who threaten us. Obama held a lengthy press conference earlier this year to specifically address why he refused to link Islam and terrorism. But in the wake of the Orlando nightclub terror attack in June, and amid more Trump prodding, Clinton relented somewhat. So far, about 12,0 of 50,0 alleged emails have been released.
Jul 1, 2017 at 3:15 PM The progressive strategy of investigating President Donald Trump nonstop for Russian collusion or obstruction of justice or witness tampering so far has produced no substantial evidence of wrongdoing. Trump acts as if he is a Nietzschean figure, assuming that anything that does not destroy him only makes him stronger. And now, slowly, his accusers are becoming the accused. Comey confessed that he had reluctantly agreed to Lynch’s request. Last month, in testimony before the Senate Intelligence Committee, Comey admitted that he asked a friend to leak notes about Comey’s earlier conversation with Trump in hopes of forcing the nomination of a special investigator to lead the Russia investigation — perhaps a successful gambit, given that Comey’s friend, former FBI Director Robert Mueller, was soon appointed to that role. Comey also wrongly dismissed Hillary Clinton’s email problems because of a perceived lack of criminal intent — a supposedly mitigating circumstance that legally should have had no bearing on things. In the present highly charged climate, would that be seen as a form of Russian collusion? Rather, the lesson is that progressives should have offered alternative political visions that might have won back the American people rather than attempting to terminate the Trump presidency on charges to which the progressive side was far more vulnerable. Currently, House and Senate investigations are doing to Democrats what has been done Trump. So far these probes seem to have better chances to prove alleged wrongdoing. What does all this political back-and-forth mean? Democrats struck preemptively to take out Trump before he unwound the Obama legacy. The return volley is being launched at a time when an energized Trump is gaining momentum on health care and tax reform, and an improving economy. In sum, to thwart a new president’s policies, it is probably wiser to offer alternative agendas instead of trying to destroy him before he has even entered office. Victor Davis Hanson is a classicist and historian at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University.
If You Vote For Trump, Then Screw You Drew Magary wants a word with anyone whos about to be on the wrong side of history. There are many more, including Trump’s club trying to welch on a $1 million hole-in-one payout (out of all of Trump’s bad qualities, his steadfast refusal to pay people what he owes them, while bragging about it, is the most enraging), along with the old bit about Trump blithely ignoring local ordinances so he could put a big, dipshit flagpole up at the Mar-A-Lago club, with his lawyers stating—with a straight face—that a smaller flag would fail to appropriately express the magnitude of Donald J. Trump’s . . . Remember when Trump said he would get rid of food regulations? Regardless, in the end, people are still gonna vote for this man. I’m not gonna waste any more time trying to convince you that you’re about to do something you’ll regret forever. I’m not gonna try to ANNIHILATE Trump by showing you records of his hypocrisy and greed. I am preaching to the sad little choir in my soul here. YOU are the people who want to revolutionize the way America does business by voting for its worst businessman, a disgusting neon pig who only makes money when he causes problems for other people instead of solving them. /video/5b7490bd8c1abc4fee00001d.js?iu=/3379/conde. "& My reasons for hating Trump are better than your reasons for hating Hillary. Show me all the arguments against her you like. Trump has shown no respect for anyone, so I don’t see why you deserve any either. TRENDING THIS VERY SECOND travel-and-eats Where to Eat and Drink in Houston, the New Capital of Southern Cool culture Serena Williams Catsuit Is Banned from All Future French Opens news-and-politics No One Knows Why This QAnon Conspiracy Theorist Was in the Oval Office with Trump The old saw is that people get the politicians they deserve, and I’ll be crestfallen if Trump wins and proves this to be true once more. No no, I think you people deserve the EXACT same fate as Trump himself, and that is to lose, badly. Drew Magary is a GQ correspondent and author, most recently of " The Hike."
From flickr.com: Money {MID-161793} Money ( Image by 401(K) 2013) Permission Details DMCA No Pill Can Stop Tinnitus, But This 1 Weird Trick Can The walls are closing in on Congress. Terrifying walls of water from Hurricanes Harvey and Irma, which, when the damage is totaled, could rise to a half trillion dollars. The Walls of War: The multi-trillion dollar ongoing cost of Afghanistan, Iraq and other interventions. The crumbling walls of the U.S. infrastructure, which need at least $3 trillion to be repaired or replaced. A wall of 11 million undocumented immigrants, whose deportation could easily cost $200 billion. The planned wall at the Mexican border, which some estimates place at $67 billion. Then there is the Wall of All, the $20 trillion national debt. The same article indicates the Founders anticipated having to borrow money on the full faith and credit of the United States. This was a powerful, object lesson in debt retirement, relevant today. It is abundantly clear from a plain reading of the coinage clause that the Founders never intended that the only way the government was to be funded was to borrow money. The money system transited from public control to private control, and there it has remained. As a member of Congress, I came to the conclusion that while the debate over taxation was interesting, it was wholly insufficient. One must first study how money is created, before one can sensibly have a discussion of how it is to be taxed. With the help of staff, I spent a full five years working with legislative counsel to come up with a way to realign with the founding principles, to reclaim and to re-establish for our nation the sovereign power to create money. The vehicle was H.R. 2990, the National Emergency Employment Defense (NEED Act), which articulates why the current debate over the debt ceiling should lead directly to a debate about monetary policy, and the origins of the debt-based economic system.
This promotion is in no way sponsored, endorsed or administered by, or associated with, Facebook, Google, Amazon or Dollar Shave Club. All participant information is being provided to dealmaxx.net. By entering this sweepstakes you will be added to the dealmaxx Deal Hunter news. You are not obligated to remain on this email list in order to win this prize. Check this item out on Dollar Shave Club Drawing Will Be February 28th at 3PM EST 1 Cup of This (Tonight) Will Burn Your Belly Fat Like Crazy
The Queen has sent a message of condolence to the President of the United States of America following a shooting on Sunday evening in which at least 58 people were killed, and over 500 others were injured. In a statement, The Queen said: Prince Philip and I were saddened to learn of the terrible attack in Las Vegas. Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims and the families and those who have been injured. The incident, which is now the worst mass shooting in recent American history, happened on Sunday evening and is said to have been perpetrated by a 64-year-old man named as Stephen Paddock. Paddock opened fire from the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay Hotel towards a festival which was being attended by 22,0 people. It is not known what the motive for the attack was. However, investigators have said that there is no evidence the 64-year-old was linked to any international terrorist group. President Donald Trump described the attack as pure evil and praised the emergency services saying that their speed saved lives. It is understood Mr Trump will be visiting Las Vegas later this week. More information will be added to this page as it becomes available.
MADISON – U.S. Rep. Mark Pocan (WI-02) released the following statement after the White House announced the Keystone XL Pipeline will be exempt from President Trump’s executive order requiring construction projects to be built with American steel. President Trump has repeatedly vowed to build construction projects with American steel as a way to support manufactures and create jobs here at home—even going as far as making it one of his first signed executive orders, Rep. Pocan said. But now, he has decided that a major construction project will not abide from his own Buy America plan. House Republicans have already shown their hand by opposing provisions to permanently require American steel be used in our country’s infrastructure projects. If President Trump is concerned with livelihood of American workers, he should take steps to ensure the Buy America Act is strongly and meaningfully enforced. Unfortunately, the President’s talk about ‘Buy America’ is proving to be just another broken promise to the American people. Previously, Rep. Pocan sent a letter to the Trump transition team asking the President to enforce and expand the Buy America Act, and also highlighting Congressional Republican leadership’s opposition to requirements that American tax dollars go to companies that employ American workers. To date, Rep. Pocan did not receive a response from the transition team, nor have White House officials responded in any capacity.
President Trump has said that any legislation touching the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program must include a border wall between the U.S. and Mexico. ( Under President Trump, it might be two: chain migration. DACA protects undocumented immigrants who arrived in the U.S. as minors from deportation. Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced in September that the program would be phased out for these reasons. It must give our immigration officers the resources they need to stop illegal immigration and also to stop visa overstays. White House press secretary Sarah Sanders described the president as reiterating in the meeting with GOP senators the administration’s view that any action on DACA must come with action on the presidents immigration reform principles, which were released last year. endorsed by Trump in August, would cut immigration in half in part by limiting family-based immigrant sponsorship to spouses and minor children. They would like to see something like this provision be part of any DACA deal. And one of those negative effects is you’re going to have a whole new chain of chain migration. The way to control for that negative effect is to stop chain migration. Many immigrant communities and their advocates also oppose the change, arguing that it is already too difficult to immigrate to the U.S. and, this is, itself, a driver of illegal immigration. But Graham suggested Thursday that Trump could succeed where Obama and Bush failed if lawmakers were willing to compromise. If you want it bad enough, well get it and it will be good for the country. But Ive never been more optimistic about an immigration reform proposal making it to the presidents desk right now. We can fix DACA in a way that beefs up border security, stops chain migration for the DREAMers, and addresses the unfairness of the diversity lottery, he wrote.
In October 2017, Colin Kaepernick told a CBS reporter he would stand for the national atnthem if he were signed by an NFL team. Kaepernick was the first NFL player to sit, and then kneel, during the anthem, in protest against police brutality and racial injustice. The sports web site Bleacher Report similarly reported: Free-agent quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who remains unsigned after sitting or kneeling during the national anthem throughout the 2016 season, said he plans to stand if signed by an NFL team. Jason La Canfora of CBS Sports revealed Kaepernick’s intentions Sunday. These reports (and others) were ultimately based on claims made by CBS reporter Jason La Canfora, who has since resiled from these claims. However, as of press time, the Daily Wire’s article retained its original, inaccurate headline QB Colin Kaepernick Now Says He’ll Stand for the National Anthem If He’s Signed to a Team. As of press time, the Bleacher Report has not yet updated its story. On 7 October 2017, CBS reporter Jason La Canfora appeared on the show NFL Today and summarized a conversation he had had with Kaepernick. NFL Today deleted a video of La Canfora’s claims from its Twitter account, and La Canfora himself posted a series of tweets clarifying that he had not, in fact, discussed the possibility of standing for the national anthem in his conversation with Kaepernick. Wanted to clarify one thing regarding @Kaepernick7. However, I cant say if they are true or not. Colin and I didn’t discuss Colin would have to address any future demonstrations. I didn’t ask him if he would sit or stand. Our chat primarily about his will to play I know @Kaepernick7 is fully committed to playing football and helping those in need. If youd like to learn more about how you can support us, click here.
The FBI is advising people to hang up if they receive a call from a woman screaming for help. The virtual abductors coerce victims to pay a ransom before victims can find out that no one has been kidnapped. Most of the victims were from the Los Angeles and Houston areas. The FBI issued the warning because kidnappers have widened their pool of potential victims by no longer targeting only specific individuals and Spanish speakers. The callers also are cold-calling numbers in various cities. In a recent investigation, the FBI found that more than 80 people have fallen victim to the new tactics in California, Minnesota, Idaho and Texas. Those victims paid more than $87,0 in ransom. The scam works this way: The potential victim answers a call and hears a woman screaming, Help me! The scammers typically demand that the ransoms are wired to Mexico. The charges are the first federal indictment in a virtual kidnapping case, the FBI said. Robert A. Cronkleton: 816-234-4261, @cronkb How to avoid falling victim If you receive a call from someone demanding ransom for an alleged kidnap victim, the FBI suggests: Hang up the phone. Request to speak with the alleged victim. Listen to the voice of the alleged victim if they do speak. Try to contact the alleged victim on the phone, text or social media. If you believe a real kidnapping has taken place, call 911.
The editor-in-chief of the ultra-conservative, Steve Bannon-run news outlet Breitbart admitted during a radio broadcast Friday morning that his teams defense of defeated Alabama senatorial candidate Roy Moore was a bid to protect President Donald Trump from the potential fallout from the various accusations of sexual misconduct against him. Multiple women have alleged that both the president and Moore either harassed or assaulted them in their years before taking elected office. " If you set the standard that Roy Moore, who was accused of abusing five women . . . If you make that the standard, the left is going to use it to take out President Trump." There was never any reason to cave unless you have a . . . unless you would like President Trump to get removed from office," he continued. " Much of the Republican Party does not see that as a negative," he said. When youve got a race when youve got a horrible candidate. His message did not resonate, he had all the baggage, he had the scandal. When hed run for statewide office hed only won in very tight races or relatively tight, considering hes the Republican. Roy Moore was not a good candidate at all." Working hard to deny the many claims of sexual misconduct against him, forward the candidates bizarre, often unconstitutional positions and cast aspersions on his opponents — first GOP primary candidate Luther Strange and then Democratic contender and eventual victor Doug Jones — Breitbart became a sort of mouthpiece for the Moore campaign, even when the campaign could barely speak on its own behalf. Indeed, Breitbart leader and former Trump White House advisor Steve Bannon directly campaigned for Moore, framing the candidate as a Trumpian, anti-establishment vanguard of a new ultra-conservative takeover of Congress (even though the president backed Strange in the primaries). They are all "useful idiots" for each other. With that as the power exchange active in both conservative politics and conservative media, it only stands to reason that a "terrible," "horrible" candidate such as Moore would go so far and create so much noise standing on their shoulders.
Both candidates are pretty popular among trick or treaters this year. Display and Costume in Seattle sold out of Donald Trump masks a few days ago. They only have a few Hillary Clinton masks left. KING 5’s Ted Land visited the packed store on Sunday as last-minute shoppers looked for political costumes.
CNNs Don Lemon called President Trump a liar, petty, and devoid of the facts after he held a rally Tuesday night in Phoenix. Lemon also questioned Trumps fitness for office and if he is "stable." " Hes unhinged, its embarrassing and I dont mean for us, the media because he went after us, but for the country," Lemon said. " His speech was without thought, it was without reason, it was devoid of facts, it was devoid of wisdom. DON LEMON, CNN: Well, what do you say to that? Im just going to speak from the heart here. What we have witnessed is a total eclipse of the facts. Someone who came out on stage and lied directly the American people and left things out that he said in an attempt to rewrite history, especially when it comes to Charlottesville. This is who we elected president of the United States. A man who is so petty that he has to go after people who he deems to be his enemy, like an imaginary friend of a 6-year-old. He was like a child blaming a sibling on something else. He certainly opened up the race wound from Charlottesville. A man backed into a corner it seems by circumstances beyond his control and beyond his understanding. If you watch that speech as an American, you had to be thinking what in the world is going on? This petty, this small, a person who is supposed to pull the country together?
President Trump’s approval ratings continue to lag behind those of past presidents at the same point in their first terms. In the video above, see why his approval rating is lower than even President Ford’s.
Mini Dizi veya Televizyon Filmi Dalında En İyi Erkek Oyuncu Benedict Cumberbatch, Sherlock: The Abominable Bride Televizyonun Oscarları sahiplerini buldu.
2008 Election 2010 Election 2010 Elections 2012 Election Big Media BP Bush Cartoon Christopublicans Democrats Dick Cheney Economy Fox News Glenn Beck GOP Health Care Reform Humor Hypocrisy Junior Bush Karl Rove Lies Media Media Matters MSNBC Neocons Obama Politics President Obama Quote Quotes Racism Republican Party Republicans Republican Scam Right-Wing Media RS Janes Rush Limbaugh Sarah Palin Satire Tattlesnake Teabaggers The News Pauper Torture W.B. Dunne Wingnuts
A new undercover video shows New York Times audience strategy editor Nick Dudich bragging about his anti-Trump bias and his history as a former antifa member. Conservative activist group Project Veritas released the video on Tuesday, showing Dudich joking about being objective, before saying: No, I’m not. Dudich emphasized his influence within the Times newsroom, saying that his imprint is on every video we do. The editor also claimed to be a former antifa member who frequently assaulted alleged neo-Nazis. Yeah, I used to be an antifa punk once upon a time, Dudich says, referring to the militant far-left movement that has repeatedly attacked conservatives and Trump supporters.
Why Did Mayor Petty Hire Well Known Communist Dan Margolis To Run His Campaign Smear Team And Serve On The Library Board? Email us at Turtleboysports@gmail.com for more information. In 2006 he was chair of the New York State Communist Party USA. Naturally Dan is not a fan of Boris Yeltsin. Just a Google away for any responsible leader. He also knows that Red Danny is OBSESSED with Councilor Michael Gaffney. And together Turtleboy and Gaffney are a HUGE threat to Petty’s grip on the taxpayer’s money. There’s a good chance he actually HIRED Dan to write his silly little blogs. Here’s the best part – he voted for his buddy Red Danny to be appointed to the Library Board on May 31 when he thought no one was looking: The City Council Tuesday night elected Daniel M. Margolis of 15 Rugby St. to the Worcester Public Library Board of Directors. Mr. Margolis was one of three candidates who sought to fill a vacancy on the library for for a term that expires on Dec. 31, 2019. Because this is how they gain legitimacy in our government. They knew EXACTLY who they were voting for. People like Etel Haxhiaj get appointed to the CAC under Petty’s watch, and deny ANYONE who supports Turtleboy Sports a job they are overly qualified for on city boards. This is what a vote for Mayor Moron is a vote for in November. We urge you to support the following local businesses.
President Trump issued a stern warning to John McCain after the Senator bashed the Commander-in-Chief’s unabashed nationalism. People have to careful, because at some point I fight back, Trump told WMAL radio host Chris Plante. But at some point I fight back, and it won’t be pretty. McCain responded to Trump’s comments moments later, saying that he has faced far greater challenges than this, according to CNN. Speaking at an award ceremony in Philadelphia Monday night, McCain warned against  spurious nationalism and the dangers of the U.S. abdicating its global leadership responsibilities. To fear the world we have organized and led for three-quarters of a century, to abandon the ideals we have advanced around the globe, to refuse the obligations of international leadership and our duty to remain ‘the last best hope of Earth’ for the sake of some half-baked, spurious nationalism cooked up by people who would rather find scapegoats than solve problems is as unpatriotic as an attachment to any other tired dogma of the past that Americans consigned to the ash heap of history, John McCain said at the National Constitution Center. Senator Bob Corker is relishing his lame-duck status, using it as an opportunity to bash President Trump without fear of political retribution. After last night’s speech by Senator McCain, where the Senior lawmaker ripped President Trump’s nationalistic agenda, Corker says he loved the speech — so much so that he gave the ailing military veteran a ‘big hug,’ on the Senate floor. on Tuesday praised the speech Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) gave a day earlier, in which the Arizona Republican blasted half-baked, spurious nationalism. The pieces that I saw, I loved, and I gave him a big hug on the [Senate] floor, Corker told reporters when asked about the speech, according to CNN. McCain delivered the emotional speech Monday evening after receiving the National Constitution Center’s Liberty Medal. During the address, he said that we live in a land made of ideals, not blood and soil and called Americans the custodians of those ideals at home, and their champion abroad.
Police in Dubai reopened streets near one of the worlds tallest residential skyscrapers after firefighters successfully extinguished a Friday blaze, forcing residents to evacuate in the middle of night. No injuries have been reported, but a few people were treated for smoke inhalation. This isnt the first time the 86-story building caught fire, having done so just 2.5 years earlier. The cause of Fridays fire wasnt immediately known, but, in the past, infernos in Dubai have been linked with highly flammable building cladding. " You never think its going to happen to you. I had cash in there, furniture, paintings. . Many things that are very valuable to me." The Associated Press contributed to this report. Firefighting squads from four Civil Defence stations have been deployed to bring the fire under control, a spokesman said. Some Twitter users on Thursday voiced shock at the fire burning at the Torch, which is the world’s fifth largest residential building at 1,105 ft. Other people on the social media platform noted that hundreds of people evacuated the same building during a February 2015 fire. People across multiple social media outlets ranging from Facebook to Instagram, meanwhile, shared video footage of the rare event. Civil Defence officials told the Sun that they had successfully evacuated the Torch while fire fighters tried stopping the blaze. A Dubai Police spokesperson told the Gulf News that the fire broke out on the tower’s ninth floor before spreading four floors higher. The BBC reported that the Torch boasts 676 apartments, with a two-bedroom flat starting at more than $500,0.
And now a twitpic featuring a photo of the two most powerful men in Washington, D.C. Good conversation with @BarackObama Wise words, &amp; much appreciated 5ulp So what were the "wise words" in said "good conversation?" According to The Washington Times, Griffin said President Obama spoke to him about "protecting myself." Griffin and Obama both were in the Verizon Center in Washington, D.C. for the NCAA Tournament matchup between Syracuse and Marquette. Obamas concerns are in lock-step with Washington Redskins coach Mike Shanahan, who spoke of the need for Griffin to protect himself better following a spectacular rookie season that ended with a wrecked knee. The evolution of the NFL: Take a look at how the NFL has evolved from its humble roots, and the efforts being made to ensure it continues to grow. As for Obama, this isnt the first time hes given safety advice to a prominent NFC East quarterback. At a fundraiser in Oakland last year, Obama had a message for Michael Vick during a conversation with former Eagles cornerback Nnamdi Asomugha. " This is the same Obama who said in December that if he had a son, hes not sure hed let him play football. Its safe to say any football being played on White House grounds is of the two-hand touch variety.
At the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and Culture, thousands of great Americans are represented by priceless family heirlooms, donated to help them museum to share their experiences. Among them is the freedom paper donated by 83-year-old Elaine Thompson. It belonged to her great, great, great grandfather, Joseph Trammell of Loudon County, Virginia, reports CBS News correspondent Jericka Duncan. As long as he had this, they could not enslave him, Thompson said. His freedom paper, Thompson said, offers an image of who Joseph Trammel was during a time when photos were rare. The one thing I was curious about is about the scars that they mention. During our interview, founding director Lonnie Bunch came by to personally show his appreciation. To Gardullo, each of the personal heirlooms are treasures. These are things that are irreplaceable and priceless, Gardullo said. But many of these cherished keepsakes have a way of churning up old wounds. Rosemary Crockett donated her father’s jacket. My dad flew 149 missions during World War II. When they came back from overseas, they came off the Liberty ship. For people who look at some of these artifacts or even these very painful times and say, ‘slavery is over, we should move forward, why do we have to keep talking about it,’ what do you say to that? The National Museum of African American History and Culture will open to the public on Saturday, Sept. 24.
When it comes to illegal smuggling, criminals will try to push anything for a profit. Unfortunately, much of the time, living things are the cargo. In certain areas of the world, particular species sell for extraordinary prices on the black market, as immoral as it may seem to traffic them. This was on the minds of officials who recently stopped a large truck carrying freight at the Chinese border. After becoming suspicious about what was on board, they decided to take a look inside. TheMuuj / Flickr Each and every day, literally tons of products are shipped from place to place in huge cargo trucks. These drugs can be molded into various shapes resembling actual legitimate items to throw off the police. Still, the strange things they uncover might surprise you. Times Asi / Flickr In one instance, a large cargo truck was stopped by officials at the Chinese border. The paperwork that the driver gave to border patrol was slightly inaccurate, which instantly raised suspicions. He wasn’t the only one involved, however, and police wanted to get to the bottom of this operation… Victor / Flickr Most people probably wouldn’t believe what terrifying items that the border patrol officials finally uncovered in the back of the truck. It’s a good thing that they put a stop to this before it was too late! The illegal transporting of animals needs to stop. Hopefully, authorities will continue to crack down on this practice so we can put an end to it once and for all. Share this alarming story with your friends below.
Las Vegas Metro Police hold a press conference to discuss the . Lombardo also asked anyone with more information about the attack to come forward. He said that he believed that someone must have seen something that was out of place, whether it was suspicious activity, or someone who seemed to be acting strangely. The girlfriend of the man behind a recent mass shooting in Las Vegas told investigators he displayed mental health symptoms before the attack, according to NBC News. NBC News on Friday reported that one former FBI official briefed on the matter confirmed that Marilou Danley recently made the remark about Stephen Paddock. [ Danley] said he would lie in bed, just moaning and screaming, ‘Oh, my God,’ another former FBI official aware of the situation said. NBC News’s sources said Paddock may have been in mental or physical anguish before committing the worst mass shooting in modern U.S. history last Sunday. Accusations of fake news are everywhere lately. How well can you tell apart the actual fake headlines from the real ones in this quiz? The sources added, however, that the FBI has not yet identified what motivated Paddock to open fire upon an outdoor concert. The FBI also does not believe Paddock’s mental health had eroded to a point that would have triggered him to begin his rampage, according to NBC’s sources. Some Twitter users on Friday speculated about Danley and her reported remarks to investigators about her boyfriend. The search includes an inquiry into Paddock’s web browsing history before he began shooting at a country music event last weekend. Responding police found Paddock dead inside his hotel room on the 32nd floor of the nearby Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino. The shooting killed at least 58 people and wounded more than 527 others, sparking renewed national debate over gun control.
The history of a great nation is a history of the people who have shaped it. Read about the men and women who have made the United States of America what it is today We have extensive information prepared for the following people: George Washington Brief and partial Biographies: John Armstrong Benedict Arnold Commodore John Barry Josiah Bartlett Carter Braxton John Cadwalader William Ellery Samuel Huntington Thomas Jefferson Thomas Nelson Jr. Philip Syng Physick Edward Rutledge William Strickland Joseph Townsend
In an interview with Fancast in 2010, Elisabeth said (via The Huffington Post), "I am not ultra-ultra-conservative on every issue. She reiterated that stance on The View in July 2011, calling demonstrations against same-sex marriage "uncalled for and tasteless," adding, "If you think anything is killing heterosexual marriage, the only thing thats killing heterosexual marriage is heterosexual marriage."
Liberals have used Hurricane Harvey to their advantage in almost everything: climate change, abortions and now DACA. ABC’s Martha Raddatz exploited the hurricane in a desperate argument to keep DACA. The American people have spoken, and we want Obama’s Dreamers out of here, PERIOD! For that matter, fake Republicans (like Paul Ryan and Marco Rubio) who want these illegal alien anchor babies to stay also need to shut their yap, because they’re directly going against the will of the American people. We are concerned for the future of AMERICAN children, not illegal alien anchor babies.
Members of law enforcement stage near the area where a suspect in a series of bombing attacks in Austin blew himself up as authorities closed in, Wednesday, March 21, 2018, in Round Rock, Texas. ( AP Gay) People have been quick to point out how a bombing in Austin, Texas is reported in the wider media. The suspect was killed after detonating a device when officers approached his car. Four bomb attacks took place in Austin, the state capital, and one in Schertz. The bombings killed two people and left the Texas capital terrorised with fear for 19 days. The Austin bomber, a 24 year old white male (therefore not classified as a terrorist ) will no longer TERRORIZE Austin residents. # AustinBombing— Brian Krassenstein🐬 (@krassenstein) March 21, 2018 Imagine if the Austin bomber was a Mexican or Muslim. When the Austin Police chief announce that the bombing suspect was found, Trump would had been calling for a ban of immigrants or the immediate building of his stupid wall. I am sure he will be described as a sick individual instead of terrorist. # AustinBombing #DomesticTerrorism— Naturalclone (@naturalclone) March 21, 2018 #AustinBombing.24 year old white male suspect killed after detonating last bomb as police closed in. Or, as the rest of the world sees it, American Terrorist kills himself with own device. If you still believe terrorists are only Muslims with a backpack, I truly pity you.— ❄ (@gnomes_77) March 21, 2018 Some were a little blunt than others. This shit is fucking terrorism, stop being fucking dumb. but no it can’t possibly be terrorism if they’re not a muslim. #
Their ideological vanities are under threat as never before. The Eurocrats and their Remain cheerleaders in Britain were only too thrilled when President Obama arrogantly warned that, in the event of Brexit, we would have to get to the back of the queue for any future trade deal with the US. He is far closer to Britain than to Brussels. As one European diplomat admitted at the weekend: We would never have held a similar dinner if Hillary Clinton had been elected. Sensibly our own Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson refused to attend this self-indulgent feast of grief. On the contrary, they will just use Trump’s success to push for more central power, more integration, more unity. The EU will this week discuss plans to impose a European defence strategy, complete with its own EU army and military headquarters. Ever since Trump first became a contender for the US presidency there has been a fashionable narrative which paints him as a dangerous, ignorant clown who could blow up the western world with his reckless inexperience. The president-elect has a chance of establishing peace with Russia It was the EU, filled with an imperialist ambition to expand its territory, that provoked an incendiary confrontation with Russia over Ukraine, whereas Trump wants co-operation with Putin. It is because the pathetic, supine ruling classes of Europe have allowed our enemies to flourish in our midst. They are destroying our civilisation from within. Trump wants to challenge the jihadists: figures such as Mogherini, a Communist in her youth, just want to surrender to them. Islam is a victim and belongs in Europe, she proclaims. Trump has a mandate from the American people. The entire EU project has been a catastrophic failure.
Image via Getty UPDATED 10/18/17, 2:45 p.m. ET: NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell held a press conference on Wednesday and spoke about how the NFL wants players to stand during the national anthem. However, he also reemphasized that the league will not try to force players to stand at this point. " We just had two days of conversation of which this was a fair amount of dialogue and I think we all see this the same way," Goodell said. " Our focus is on the opportunity we have to make our communities better through these efforts with our players. We’ll deal with these issues as they come up." Goodell steered clear of directly addressing the tweet Donald Trump sent out on Wednesday about the NFLs decision not to force players to stand. Goodell: "were focusing on what we should be doing as the NFL," in response to more questions about Trumps Tweets — Jason La Canfora (@JasonLaCanfora) October 18, 2017 Additionally, Goodell said he wants the league to "stay out of politics" and talked about how he hopes that there will eventually be "zero" players kneeling during the anthem. As per usual, Donald Trumps using his personal Twitter account to spew garbage takes about shit he doesnt truly understand. The NFL has decided that it will not force players to stand for the playing of our National Anthem. Total disrespect for our great country! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 18, 2017 "The NFL has decided that it will not force players to stand for the playing of our National Anthem," Trump tweeted. " This is no doubt in response to the NFL saying they would not prohibit players from protesting the anthem late last week. If Trump was so concerned about players protesting the national anthem—which, again is a part of the First Amendment—why doesnt he stop the police from murdering black people? You know, what these fucking protests are actually about. Oh right, because while he spews a hatred for "fake news," he has no problem feeding the fuckery.
Now that a federal judge has held Obamas illegal "executive amnesty" unconstitutional, perhaps U.S. senators will remember that they swore to uphold the Constitution, too. And Brat did it by an astonishing 55.5 percent to 45.5 percent. Again, the voters seemed to be expressing disquiet with amnesty. was denouncing Obamas executive amnesty. " In other words, Obamacare is more popular than amnesty. Seemingly bulletproof Republican congressmen have lost their seats over amnesty. What else do we have to do to convince you we dont want amnesty, Republicans? Before the election, then-Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell complained that Obamas decision to delay his executive amnesty until after the election was a ploy to prevent Americans from "hold(ing) his party accountable in the November elections." Now McConnell is Senate majority leader -- and he claims his hands are tied. Wheres that promised aggression on amnesty? Republicans and George Will tell us they cant stand up to Obamas executive amnesty because the media are unfair. The media have blamed the GOP for every failure of Republicans and Democrats to reach an agreement since the Hoover administration. By "government shutdown," the media mean: "some secretaries will not go to work." In fact, it kind of looks like theyre intentionally throwing the fight on amnesty. COPYRIGHT 2015 ANN COULTER DISTRIBUTED BY UNIVERSAL UCLICK
Many of you have probably heard Donald Trump’s ignorant comments about NFL players protesting injustices against African Americans by now. But in case you haven’t, we’ll get right to it. On Friday, Trump held a rally in Alabama and gave his true thoughts about the mostly African American NFL players, who take a knee in protest of the mass murders and injustices of Black people by police. 4EH3lNoY — Washington Examiner (@dcexaminer) September 23, 2017 Wouldn’t you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, ‘Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out, he’s fired. They’ll be the most popular person, for a week. Here are the messages Diddy posted in response: @diddy:THE LINE HAS BEEN CROSSED! Time to show them #blackexcellence LETS GO! # This is what the NFL protests were about from the start. Not about disrespecting the flag or anthem. # me (@destro1979) September 23, 2017 ** IM a vet taking a knee. I didnt fight for your right to be a racist who equates white supremacy with military service. # We support your FIRST Amendment right to protest. TakeAKnee pic.twitter.com/0aONI66gJF — NYCLU (@NYCLU) September 23, 2017 ** Whys it OK for our President to #TakeAKnee to Vladimir Putin, but not for a Football player to do so in peaceful protest? — Ed Krassenstein (@EdKrassen) September 23, 2017 ** If you are still on the fence, remember this: Trump attacked Colin Kaepernick with more conviction than he has NAZIS #TakeAKnee — The NFL Boycott (@TheNFLBoycott) September 23, 2017 Trump’s Contradictions As is usually the case, Trump has yet again contradicted himself. Well thats interesting, #dotard is fine burning the flag but not #TakeAKnee?
About "Boobs Are Back" Article refers to a controversial article re-published by The New York Post newspaper about female celebrities embracing their chest cleavage as a fashion statement. The article became the subject of mockery on the internet. On July 31st, 2017, The Sun [1] newspaper published an article "Curve Your Enthusiasm," which posits a celebrity trend of female stars embracing their chest cleavage, pointing to several prominent celebrities, like Rihanna, as examples. The following day, The New York Post [2] newspaper republished the article under the headline "Boobs Are Back in a Big Way." When they shared the article on Twitter that day, the post (shown below) received more than 700 retweets and 3,700 likes. Boobs are back in a big way, Spread That day, the article became the subject of controversy. Shortly after the article posted, many started reacting to the article with sarcasm, disgust and confusion (examples below). The central theme of the complaints centered around the question "were boobs ever out?" Several media outlets covered the article and the reaction, including Allure, [3] Someecards, [4] Cosmopolitan [5] and more. Twitter [6] published a Moments page to archive the article and the reaction. Various Examples Search Interest External References
Obtain Quest: Talk to the hooded old man near the bridge again. Prerequisites (As Far As I’m Aware): Completion of Making A Lord (May have to talk to Mohawk groupie in slums) Guide Talk to the old man again and this time he’ll complain about Captain Mohawk stealing his pickles. During the cutscene with the mayor, you are presented a choice to stop the old man, kill him, or do nothing. I choose to do nothing which led to the old man being banished.
The Bataclan theatre, which reopened over the weekend, saw the worst of the attacks. CBS Boston confirms Trump wasnt lying about getting a letter from Bill Belichick, but was he right about getting Tom Bradys vote? He could also possibly be the "man in the hat" in the Brussels airport bombing. PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo 43Photos PlayVideo PlayVideo
Its a British magazine that focuses on economic matters. Its also a journal of opinion disguised, and my memory is that The Economist -- and Im talking 20 years ago, now, 25 years. The Economists argument, the point is Trumps tough talk is encouraging and emboldening the street gang MS-13. Tough talk at the North Korean lunatic dictator? Let me ask you a question: What is the status of illegal immigration in the country today versus when Trump was inaugurated? In fact, lets just measure it year over year. Has there been any comprehensive or otherwise immigration reform or new legislation? There hasnt been any substantive change whatsoever. Hes been telling people if theyre here illegally and we find them were going to deport them. The number of people trying to get into the country illegally is way, way down. It is causing there to be a massive, major reduction in the numbers of people attempting to get into the country illegally. Theres documented evidence that tough talk is working. Same thing with MS-13, according to The Economist. Donald Trump is making life for these gang members easier and easier. Hes talking tough and hes just helping them recruit more members.
Joe Arpaio, the 85-year-old disgraced former Arizona sheriff who recently announced his candidacy for a Senate seat in the same state, spewed the false and racist assertion on CNN that former President Barack Obamas birth certificate is fabricated and that he wasnt born in the United States. " No doubt about it," Arpaio told CNNs Chris Cuomo after being asked if the birth certificate was a phony. " I’m not going to go into all the detail, but yes, it’s a phony document." Of course, President Donald Trump endlessly promulgated the debunked conspiracy for years, even accrediting Arpaio, and only recently said in 2016 that he believed Obama was truly born in Hawaii and not Kenya. An extremely credible source has called my office and told me that @BarackObamas birth certificate is a fraud. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 29, 2014 The president pardoned Arpaio on Aug. 25 — a Friday night, when most of the nations attention had been focused on the arrival of Hurricane Harvey. In his pardon, Trump praised Arpaio as a lifelong public servant who enforced the rule of law. " Arpaio’s life and career, which began at the age of 18 when he enlisted in the military after the outbreak of the Korean War, exemplify selfless public service," the statement said. " Throughout his time as Sheriff, Arpaio continued his life’s work of protecting the public from the scourges of crime and illegal immigration. Sheriff Joe Arpaio is now 85 years old, and after more than fifty years of admirable service to our Nation, he is worthy candidate for a Presidential pardon." The former Maricopa County sheriff was convicted of criminal contempt of court in July, after a judge found that Arpaio had violated court orders to stop detaining undocumented immigrants, as Salon has previously reported. Arpaio has a long and well documented history of abusive and racist law enforcement tactics and violated a court order "to temporarily cease making immigration-related arrests after he was sued for racial profiling." We’ve sued Joe Arpaio for denying women prisoners access to abortion, for victimizing people with disabilities, and for racially profiling Latinos. ACLU (@ACLU) January 9, 2018 Coincidentally, Trump has repeatedly praised himself as the law and order candidate, while often demonstrating the opposite. Arpaio announced a bid for Sen. Jeff Flakes Arizona Senate seat and is the perfect fit for the presidents hardline immigration agenda and widespread federal crackdowns.
Justice Department began investigation of police departments patterns, practices after 2015 death of Freddie Gray The U.S. Justice Department unloaded on Baltimores police department Wednesday, accusing officers of routinely targeting African Americans. Federal and local officials are now demanding change. The Justice Department has released a scathing report on the Baltimore Police Department, highlighting routine violations of civil rights and discrimination towards African-Americans. CBS News justice reporter Paula Reid joins CBSN with details. Grays neck was mysteriously broken in a police van. Brian Rice, the highest ranking of the six officers charged in the death of Freddie Gray, was found not guilty Monday. CBS News Paula Reid breaks down the acquittal of Lt. Gray sustained fatal injuries in police custody last year, spurring violence across Baltimore. Its been a year since the death of Freddie Gray in police custody sent Baltimore into riots. The man who was in charge, former police commissioner Anthony Batts, was fired in the fallout. Since that moment Batts has maintained his silence -- until he spoke with Jeff Pegues. When the 25-year-old died April 19, 2015, and riots erupted, Baltimore and its residents were forced to confront old, painful issues Its been one year since the death of Freddie Gray, a black man who died while in police custody. Grays death led to violent clashes and a national debate over the relationship between police and the black community. Deray McKesson is an activist and Baltimore mayoral candidate, and joins CBSN to discuss what has changed in the city since last year. Court rules that Officer William Porter must testify against co-defendants charged in case of 25-year-old who died in police custody Baltimore judge ruled that Officer William Porter, whose trial ended in a hung jury, does not have to testify against three fellow officers PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo PlayVideo
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. -- Officials are calling it animal cruelty like theyve never seen before. As Hurricane Irma’s outer bands inch closer to Florida, animal control officers said they are hustling to rescue abandoned animals. RELATED: Florida preps for storm as Hurricane Irma | Football games in Florida canceled ahead of Hurricane Irma | Florida air travel shuts down ahead of Hurricane Irma | This is what Hurricane Irma looks like from space And these arent pets who are just being left inside, Director of Animal Care Diane Suave said. They are left in a yard, in a pen they cannot escape from or tethered to trees or poles, she said. Palm Beach County Animal Care reports animal control officers have rescued 49 dogs and two cats in the last 48 hours. Even a tiny bit of sand can hurt an animal when it’s traveling through 100-plus mph winds, Sauve said. Animal control officers were slowly pulled off the road at 2:30 p.m. Saturday. Sauve said once winds reach a sustained 35 mph, no officers will be permitted to rescue animals. Both Sauve and State Attorney Dave Aronberg said they promise to prosecute anyone who left their animals outside to fend for themselves during Hurricane Irma. This is a prime example of animal cruelty, Aronberg said. We will find you, and we will prosecute you. Sauve said officials will use every paper trail imaginable to track down animal cruelty offenders. We will not stand for it here in Palm Beach County. HURRICANE IRMA | Real-time tracking maps, Hurricane supply kit info &amp; Hurricane Center IMPORTANT LINKS Hurricane Supply Kit Checklist | Things to know before the storm | Preparations for your pets | Power outage maps &amp; resources | Know your evacuation zone | Price gouging: How to protect yourself and report it | Insurance protection: Video tape home inventory | Tampa Bay sandbag locations | Find a hurricane shelter near you | Hurricane Irma Emergency Phone Numbers | Evacuations underway | Closures and Alerts | Storm Surge Map Copyright 2017 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
There was a break-in at Stephen Paddock’s Reno home on Sunday. Local police say they were called to the home by a neighbor who says they saw the lights on. Reno police officer Tim Broadway told The Associated Press, Nobody really saw anything, just a light was on with nobody in the residence. Police are not aware of any damages or anything that was stolen. According to KOLOtv investigators searched Paddock’s Reno home on October 3rd and found firearms. At a news conference Tuesday afternoon, Investigators said they found five handguns, two shotguns and a plethora of ammunition and electronics. The house is being treated as a potential crime scene. We can’t even trust the FBI at this point so who knows what really happened with this ‘break-in’. But the major question that everyone wanted to know was – why did the killer do it? This directly contradicts with the earlier report that the security guard found the room of the killer and stopped him from shooting on the crowd. In a significant timeline change, Sheriff Lombardo reveals Mandalay Bay security guard, Jesus Campos, was shot BEFORE the Las Vegas attack started. Las Vegas sheriff says Mandalay Bay security guard was shot 6 minutes before first shots were fired at crowd., I could feel them (bullets) pass right behind my head, engineer Stephen Schuck told NBC News’ Today on Wednesday. Schuck was on a higher level of the Las Vegas hotel on Oct. 1 when he got a call to look at a fire exit door that wouldn’t open on the 32nd floor. Why is the information only coming out now?
Let’s face facts: Our president holds racist views. Todays top news by email The local news you need to start your day Recaptcha requires verification. protected by reCAPTCHA Privacy - Terms Privacy - Terms It should have been obvious from the despicable things he said about Mexican immigrants. It should have been clear from his anti-Muslim rants. And now it’s emerging again in the debate over Dreamers and Salvadorans who have been protected from deportation. Trump says he wants to put America First in all matters. Advocacy groups for immigrants condemned what Trump reportedly said, and Democrats plan to introduce a censure resolutionnext week. Rep. Cedric Richmond of Louisiana, chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, tweeted that the president’s comments are further proof that his Make America Great Again agenda is really a Make America White Again agenda. What was really tough was the outlandish proposal made – a big setback for DACA! He refused to answer questions about the uproar, including whether he was racist. Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California said Trump’s vile comments only make the jobs of Americans stationed all over the world harder – soldiers, diplomats and businesses. For me, however, the conclusion is inescapable. And he very well could be a full-on racist. But it would be even worse if we ignore it. Read the influential voices on California and national politics and issues.
A federal judge dismissed a lawsuit families of Pulse victims filed against several social media companies alleging they didn’t do enough to stop ISIS propaganda that radicalized gunman Omar Mateen. The order to dismiss the lawsuit was filed Friday, the same day a jury of 12 acquitted Mateen’s widow Noor Salman, who was charged with aiding and abetting a foreign terror organization and obstruction of justice. Family members of nine victims and four survivors of the nightclub shooting sued Twitter, Facebook and Google on December 19, 2016, claiming that the online platforms aided and abetted and conspired with the Islamic State, an international terrorist organization, to commit the June 12, 2016 attack. The lawsuit alleged that the companies knew that ISIS members and its official news outlets use numerous accounts on the social media platforms to publish the organization’s messages and to recruit and ‘radicalize’ persons such as Mateen. They argued that because Mateen was able to access videos of beheadings and other jihadist material through their platforms, they contributed to his self-radicalization. But the Michigan court ruled that the Orlando shooting was not directly committed by ISIS, nor did the companies do anything to support Mateen. U.S. District Judge David M. Lawson wrote in his dismissal that there is no definitive evidence suggesting that the material Mateen saw online directly led to the attack, other than that the principles espoused in them motivated Mateen to carry out the dreadful act. The only conduct involved with the attacks that is described with any particularity is Mateen’s, Lawson wrote, which suggests that he planned and conducted the shooting in isolation, when he ‘self-radicalized’ by perusing Internet postings, and then acted on his self-informed radical sentiments. During the Salman trial in Orlando, prosecutors released Mateen’s web activity in the weeks leading up to the attack, including Google and Twitter searches related to ISIS, terrorism, and FBI surveillance. bpadro@orlandosentinel.com or 407-232-0202 or follow me on Twitter @BiancaJoanie
When the discussion of gun control rears its ugly head, some well-meaning proponent of common sense gun measures invariably tells us that no one wants to take our guns. They swear that they only want the bad guns. No one wants to do anything about those, he’ll say. The Democratic gun control strategy fails because it is defined by this poverty of ambition—the determination never to look beyond fear of political repercussions. Universal background checks and a ban on high-capacity magazines are good ideas and we should seize the opportunity to enact them if it presents itself. But they won’t come anywhere close to making gun violence in America a tolerable problem. Tracking and limiting purchases of ammunition. A national gun buyback program similar to the one Australia instituted after a mass shooting that killed 35 people. Again, Democrats presume their hand is the weaker of the two. Democrats were concerned that Pelosi had handed the NRA a political cudgel the group would brandish against every one of them. But Pelosi was right, and I would like to see more Democrats find her courage, because the alternative is to surrender our ideals, and the moral high ground, for no discernible upside. Written by former Obama staffer Dan Pfeiffer who seems absolutely in love with gun control. Not that it matters to someone like Pfeiffer. All that matters is that Democrats aren’t being honest about coming after all of our guns. Especially since none of his proposals would have stopped Las Vegas.
President Trump has issued an order banning the Saturday Night Live television show. In April 2017, the St. George Gazette web site published an article positing that President Trump had signed an executive order forcing NBC’s popular and long-running Saturday Night Live sketch comedy TV program off the air: Today President Donald Trump made what could very well prove to be the most controversial move of his presidency by signing Executive Order 14838, which cancels the television show Saturday Night Live, or SNL. Under the new order, it is now illegal for any private or federally funded agency to air or show footage of the popular television show in any format. Any company or individual who violates this order can now face fines of up to $250,0 and five years in federal prison. During the press conference today, Trump explained that his decision was based on a personal belief that the show is divisive and contrary to America’s deepest held values. Saturday Night Live is the definition of fake news and that is why it is now gone forever, Trump told reporters. It mocks the very beliefs that keep this great country running smoothly. I’ve never found the show to be humorous and I don’t know how it stayed on the air as long as it did, but I made sure to put an end to that today. I know some actions that I take are questioned by those who don’t want or understand freedom; these are people who hate America, but I know my true supporters are with me on this decision to cancel SNL, just like all my other brilliant ideas. Trump’s signing of Executive Order 14838 comes after more than two seasons of Saturday Night Live attacking the current President. There was no truth to this story (the premise of which would clearly constitute a violation of the First Amendment right to free speech). This item originated with the St. George Gazette, one of many fake news web sites which masquerade as the online arms of (non-existent) newspapers. Snopes.com has long been engaged in the battle against misinformation, an effort we could not sustain without the support of our readers. If youd like to learn more about how you can support us, click here.
There are not many newspapers that have published positive views on Donald Trump, but the GOP nominee rejected the praise of this one outright. The Crusader, the official newspaper of the Ku Klux Klan, leapt to defend Trump in its quarterly issue with a front-page banner headline, Make America Great Again. Pastor Thomas Robb, the Klan’s national director, wrote,Can America really be great again? In an interview with the Washington Post, Robb embraced Trump’s campaign, but he denied that his opinion piece amounted to a formal endorsement Overall, we do like his nationalist views and his words about shutting down the border to illegal aliens. It’s not an endorsement because, like anybody, there’s things you disagree with, Robb said. But he kind of reflects what’s happening throughout the world. There seems to be a surge of nationalism worldwide as nationals reclaim their borders. The paper quotes Trump’s slogan and features a large photo of Trump wearing the hat, but it does read more like an essay on the nationalist strain of the GOP nominee’s campaign slogan than a traditional endorsement. While Trump wants to make America great again, we have to ask ourselves, ‘What made America great in the first place?’ America was great not because of what our forefathers did — but because of who our forefathers were. America was founded as a White Christian Republic. And as a White Christian Republic it became great. The Trump campaign was quick to denounce the publication, issuing this statement Tuesday night: Mr. Trump and the campaign denounces hate in any form. This publication is repulsive and their views do not represent the tens of millions of Americans who are uniting behind our campaign. White nationalist and former Klansman David Duke announced his support for Trump in February, and initially, Trump was slow to reject it when asked about it by CNN, saying he didn’t know anything about him.
Internet censorship is hurting conservative websites like DC Clothesline. If you enjoy our articles please consider making a small donation today. Thank YOU! ******************************************************************************** Nine years ago, Christopher Mirasolo, 27, raped a woman. The man who made a child through rape, was convicted of rape, and served time for rape, will now be granted joint custody of the child born from rape. He was never properly charged and should still be sitting behind bars somewhere, but the system is victimizing my client, who was a child herself when this all happened. An assistant prosecutor on this, Eric Scott, told me she had granted her consent, which was a lie — she has never been asked to do this and certainly never signed anything In granting parental rights to Mirasolo, Ross has prevented the woman from fleeing the presence of her alleged attacker. And in a bizarre and some would say ironic turn of events, the rape victim may, in fact, go to jail if she does not comply with the court’s demands. Kiessling remarked that her client is, not allowed to move 100 miles from where she had been living when the case was filed, without court consent. She, her 13-year-old sister and a friend all slipped out of their house one night to meet a boy and the boy’s older friend, Mirasolo, showed up and asked if they wanted to go for a ride…They thought they were going to McDonald’s or somewhere…Instead, he tossed their cellphones away, drove to Detroit where he stole gas from a station and then drove back to Sanilac County, where he kept them captive for two days in a vacant house near a relative, finally releasing the older sister in a park. He went on to commit another rape on a young teenager in 2010 and served only four years for the second rape. Yockey said the paternity test and subsequent custody proceedings were initiated after the other parent applied for state services. The Detroit News also spoke with the mother. Yes, America, this is the judicial state of affairs in which many of our residents currently endure. Jack Burns is an educator, journalist, investigative reporter, and advocate of natural medicine.
After only nine months in office, President Trump and family had already spent $147 million on personal travel, amounting to one-and-a-half times as much as President Obama and family spent in the eight years of the latters presidency. The expenses incurred by United States presidents and their families on vacation trips and other travel away from the White House are an evergreen topic of partisan debate, given that much of those, including the requisite round-the-clock Secret Service protection and use of military aircraft for travel, are footed by the federal government. ( By longstanding convention, even presidential vacation travel is categorized as official business for accounting purposes, since it is assumed, the Congressional Research Service tells us, that the president is always on duty.) This is the text: As of October 14, 2017 Taxpayer dollars spend on vacations, golf and personal security while not at the White house for Barack, Michelle, Malia and Sasha $98,0,0.00 over 8 years or $1,020,833.33 per month Taxpayer dollars spend on vacations, golf and personal security while not at the White house for Donald, Melania and Barron $147,0,0.00 over 9 months or $16,3,3.33 per month Not a peep from Conservatives. If accurate, the comparison is all the more striking in that Trump was an inveterate critic of President Obama’s travel and vacation expenses for years: The Obama’s Spain vacation cost taxpayers over $476K 6kIpd5x They love to spend money. I would not be a president who took vacations. I’m not going to have time to go play golf. The rest entailed trips to his nearby golf clubs. Although it’s too soon as of October 2017, just nine months into his presidency, to render even a semi-complete portrait of the Trump family’s travel expenses (such details are rarely released except in response to Freedom of Information Act inquiries, and sometimes not even then), preliminary indications are that Trump’s past criticisms of Obama will come back to haunt him. Turning to Trump, the alleged $147 million already spent on travel by the president and his family during his first nine months in office wildly exceeds anything supported by actual data. That having been said, it does appear, based on the information available, that Trump and family have indeed likely outstripped the Obamas in terms of monthly travel costs, albeit by a smaller margin than claimed. by the president, first lady, and vice president during February and March. Also indicative is a USA Today report that in addition to his Mar-a-Lago residencies, as of 21 August Trump had racked up five visits to his private golf club in New Jersey. If that pattern continues, American taxpayers can expect to be dinged for as much as $103,0 per year in golf cart rentals alone. If youd like to learn more about how you can support us, click here.
Damon New York Times Donald Trump has virtually stopped trying to win this election by any conventional metric and is instead stacking logs of grievance on the funeral pyre with the great anticipation of setting it ablaze if current polls turn out to be predictive. As his path to victory grows narrower, his desperation grows more pronounced. Last week a steady stream of women stepped forward to accuse Trump of some form of sexual assault, abuse or inappropriate behavior. On Thursday, Trump said of the People magazine reporter who accused him of forcibly kissing her: Look at her. He has mocked, whined, chided, bemoaned and belittled. He has dispensed with all semblances of wanting to appear presidential and embraced what seems to be most natural to him: acting like a pig. Furthermore, everything is rigged against him, from the media to the election itself. He’s threatening to sue The New York Times. He is a ball of contradictions that together form a bully, a man who has built a menacing wall around the hollow of his self. But in a way, Trump was authentically made in America. He is the logical extension of rampant racism. Furthermore, Trump is what happens when you wear your Christian conservative values like a cardigan to conveniently slip off when the heat rises. Trump is fundamentally altering American politics — coarsening them, corrupting them, cratering them. And America, particularly conservative America, has only itself to blame. Republicans sowed intolerance and in its shadow, Trump sprang up like toxic fungi.
Only 9% of America Chose Trumpand Clinton as the Nominees By ALICIA PARLAPIANO and ADAM PEARCE While Donald J. Trump or Hillary Clinton will represent the entire country, the Americans who selected them are a small part of it. The United States is home to 324 million people. Each square here represents 1 million people. 103 million of them are children, noncitizens or ineligible felons, and they do not have the right to vote. Estimates for ineligible felons are from 2010. 88 million eligible adults do not vote at all, even in general elections. Based on the share of eligible adults who voted in the 2012 general election. An additional 73 million did not vote in the primaries this year, but will most likely vote in the general election. Does not include people who voted in caucuses, which have less reliable turnout numbers. A small percentage of people vote in primaries but not in general elections, and they are also not included. The remaining 60 million people voted in the primaries: about 30 million each for Republicans and Democrats. But half of the primary voters chose other candidates. The overall shares were about the same in 2008, the last cycle without an incumbent president running. Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton will be working to win the votes of these three groups. Polls suggest they will be separated by just a handful of squares.
Web hosting company GoDaddy on Monday tweeted that it has given the Daily Stormer, a neo-Nazi website, 24 hours to find another internet service provider. A GoDaddy spokesman told the New York Daily News that the Daily Stormer violated its terms of service by posting a blog deriding a woman killed in Charlottesville, Virginia, on Saturday. Heather Heyer, 32, died when a man drove his car into a crowd of people protesting a white nationalist rally there Saturday. Daily Stormer founder Andrew Anglin on Sunday posted an article characterizing Heyer as fat and childless. Given this latest article comes on the immediate heels of a violent attack, we believe this type of article could incite additional violence, which violates our terms of service, GoDaddy spokesman Dan Race said in an email to the Daily News. Some Twitter users on Monday praised GoDaddy for taking a stand against the Daily Stormer following Anglin’s controversial blog. Other people on the social media platform criticized GoDaddy for hosting the Daily Stormer for as long as it did before Monday’s announcement. GoDaddy’s decision will reportedly force the Daily Stormer’s operators to transfer dailystormer.com to another internet provider. The hacking collective Anonymous also took credit Monday for targeting the Daily Stormer following Anglin’s blog. This site is now under the control of Anonymous, a post on the Daily Stormer’s front page said. For too long the Daily Stormer and Andrew Anglin have spewed their putrid hate on this site, it added. The post did not mention GoDaddy’s message to the Daily Stormer, and the article about Heyer was not taken down. The so-called Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville last Saturday turned violent when white nationalists and anti-fascist demonstrators broke into violence. James Alex Fields Jr., 20, ultimately drove a car into counter-protesters there, killing Heyer and injuring more than a dozen others. Two Virginia State Police officers additionally died Saturday following a helicopter crash authorities linked to the Charlottesville rally.
TIL: Police departments will literally do anything to get us to stop killing each other on the road, even succumbing to meme culture… — Big Uzi Vert (@BlvckGrip) August 21, 2017 The NSW Police Force is Australia’s oldest and largest police organization, and serves a population of seven million citizens in New South Wales. Also, they’re apparently into browsing Reddit, because they just used the Man Looking at Woman meme to promote safer driving… app-facebook about a year ago 11K 1.7K 718 Keep your eyes on the road #yourhappinessisrighthere This isn’t the first time a police department has tried to promote public safety via hip means, and it surely won’t be the last. But are memes an effective way to get people to stop texting and driving? Probably not, because until they finally start using that tax money to hire legitimate graphic designers who up their font game, we’re going to continue to refuse to care about our safety on the road. What do you think of the NSW Police Force using the Man Looking at Woman meme to promote road safety? Do you think this is a good way to get people to be more conscious of their driving habits?
The rapidly-evolving story concerning the FBI’s renewed interest in Hillary Clinton’s email sever has a number of players. Here are some people involved in the latest political drama. Comey had sent him and other Republican committee chairmen on Capitol Hill a vague letter about the discovery. Chaffetz said that the case had been reopened. Cameron - RTS29RH Before the development, Chaffetz told The Washington Post last week that he planned to spend years investigating Clinton. JILL MCCABE Despite never running for office before, McCabe launched a campaign last year to run for a state Senate seat in Virginia. Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe, a former top aide to the Clintons, reportedly recruited McCabe for the seat in an effort to tip the balance of the state Senate. Chaffetz asked Andrew McCabe last week to provide documents about his wife’s Senate campaign amid questions about a possible conflict of interest. Abedin was deputy chief of staff for Clinton but served in the capacity of a consultant, rather than as State Department staff. She was born in Michigan to Saudi intellectuals and was subsequently raised in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. According to The Wall Street Journal, McCabe oversaw the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state. At the same time, the Virginia Democratic Party contributed another $207,778 in the form of mailers to McCabe. I think we’re in silly season, he told WTVR last week. FILE - In this Jan. 13, 2016 file photo, Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe gestures as he delivers his State of the Commonwealth Address before a joint session of the 2016 Virginia Assembly at the Capitol in Richmond, Va. The FBI is also investigating the propriety of some donations to McAuliffe’s own 2013 gubernatorial campaign, including one by Chinese businessman, Wang Wenliang, CNN reported. McAuliffe’s friendship with both Clintons goes back to Bill Clinton’s presidency -- he was one of Clinton’s top fundraisers and later went on to chair the DNC.
Talk show host Jimmy Kimmel stepped right into it on Thursday evening. While Kimmel has spent a lot of the week calling out President Donald Trump and the NRA, this time he decided to take his attacks to a whole new level. Instead of going after the president or an organization, he attacked millions of Americans who dont support gun control. Kimmel tweeted: Dear crazies: it is fascinating that 500 innocent people get shot and your anger is directed at me. Think about that Kimmel calling gun owners crazies backfired on the celebrity big time: Its fascinating that Stephen Paddock shot over 500 people and you are blaming guns and politicians. Stopped that when u became not funny, &amp; think your celeb status can use it for Your political agenda. Im a longtime fan jimmy, sometimes it seems like you are talking down to us and or lecturing. Oh sweetie, it might be a good idea to do some research prior to assigning blame to the wrong people. A DISNEY SHAREHOLDER WHO IS ABOUT TO START COMPLAINING ABOUT YOU. Politics is NOT your forte So only you have compassion. But 100 million who support their rights are crazies. Its crazy to hop on your platform to cudgel &amp; shame innocent people for an act by a madman, then call them crazy when they get mad at you. Kimmel hasnt issued an apology for his statement. But it appears that fans would appreciate it he stayed out politics and stuck to comedy. Their fiery response to his remark really says it all.
Its hard to stay away from strong opinions surrounding the election, even from those not allowed to vote. Apparently, even from kids not big enough to ride Splash Mountain. Jimmy Kimmel, megaphone for children everywhere, took to the streets to ask some kids about their feelings on President-elect Trump. One kid thinks hes going to be "HUUUUUGE!" One Canadian kid is less than thrilled about a potential mass exodus to his home country, but will welcome Snoop Dogg with open arms. At least he didnt steal their Halloween candy!
Donald Trumps campaign manager Kellyanne Conway reacted to Trumps debate performance and the fact he held a press availability with four women who have accused the Clintons of misconduct. " These women want to be heard," Conway said of Kathleen Willey, Kathy Shelton, Juanita Broaddrick and Paula Corbin Jones. " Im really proud of Donald Trump for raising it in exactly the right way," she told Megyn Kelly on The Kelly File, " How does Hillary Clinton treat these women after the fact?" Conway was referring to Clintons statement that alleged victims of sexual assault "deserve to be heard". " Or, are we excluding those who have had contact with her husband?" Juanita Broaddrick in the pre-debate press availability said Bill Clinton raped me and Hillary Clinton attacked me. be some Joan of Arc for women.she totally ignored all four of the women tonight." Clinton, then Hillary Rodham, represented the accused rapist of then-12-year old Shelton, and reportedly laughed about the case after the suspect was vindicated. Willey and Jones have accused Bill Clinton of assault and have insinuated that Hillary Clinton enabled him and attacked them. Regarding Trumps vulgar recorded discussion with Billy Bush, Conway said it was "disgusting [and] offensive, and Im not going to excuse what he said." Overdoses Suspected After Little Girl Alerts Bus Driver About Unresponsive Parents
Commentary It’s suddenly big news that there are perverts in Hollywood. If they get nuclear weapons, that’s a game changer and that’s why it’s so important the president decertified the Iran deal. All of this benefited the Muslim Brotherhood. PSD-11, which is still secret, should be released by the Trump Administration and declared exhibit number one in a criminal investigation of Barack Hussein Obama. Trump was supposed to turn things around. In Afghanistan, Gorka tells WND that Trump’s speech sending more American soldiers to their deaths in an endless conflict didn’t use the words radical Islamic terrorism. Domestically, Sebastian Gorka mentions in the WND interview the influence of Obama associates Bill Ayers and Bernardine Dohrn in academia, but ignores how their communist terrorist networks spawned the Obama candidacy and presidency. But he stands out during his eight years in office as the real Russian agent, who was passive when Russia invaded Ukraine and Syria, gave Russia a nuclear weapons advantage over the U.S., and awarded the Russians special trading privileges. China may be our long term enemy, but they don’t a war in their back doorstep either. Working through the U.N. is a dangerous dead end. Drifting away from or betraying Marxism will lead to the Party’s losing its soul and direction as it moves forward, Xi added. Marxism is unsurpassed in achieving great heights and having a huge influence, he said. The key failure involves the inability or unwillingness to investigate Obama’s global network and what his anti-American policies were designed to do. Some May 19 members committed acts of violence and terrorism, such as the 1981 Nanuet Brinks robbery and murders, the bombing of South African offices in 1981, and the U.S. Capital bombing in 1983, notes Gilbert. Cliff can be reached at Kincaid@comcast.net View View View
Maxwell Tani Reporter Maxwell Tani Maxwell is a politics reporter for Business Insider. He previously wrote for the Huffington Post and helped produce the Working podcast for Slate. He has also written about music and film for Washington City Paper.
FILE PICTURE: Acting National Police Commissioner Lesetja Mothiba. Picture: Alaister Russell It is alleged Mokushane has a criminal record and runs his own business from work. Acting head of crime intelligence Major-General Pat Mokushane has been axed from his position. This comes after reports that he has a criminal record and that he is being investigated for running his business from work. News24 reports that Mokushane’s termination was signed by acting national commissioner Lesetja Mothiba on August 17. This letter serves to inform you that the acting appointment of Major-General PM Mokushane as the Divisional Commissioner: Crime Intelligence has been terminated with immediate effect, the letter reads. Earlier this month, City Press reported that Mokushane has a criminal record and that he had an affair with another officer’s wife. The report stated he was arrested in 1993 for possession of suspected stolen property. News24 further reported the police portfolio committee was told Mokushane had suspended a police officer who revealed that Mothiba was misled about Mokushane’s clearance.
